Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
A human race
Do more, feel better, live longerCorporate Responsibility Report of 2006
INTRODUCTION
Introduction 3-6
Corporate responsibility at GSK 7-17
Access to medicine 18-25
Research 26-33
Ethical conduct 34-39
Employment practices 40-49
Supply Chain 50-51
Environmental management 52-74
Our work with communities 75-80
Data summary 81
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
2Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Introduction
Welcome to GlaxoSmithKline’s Corporate Responsibility Report 2006. This report explains
our approach to the wide range of social, ethical and environmental issues associated with
our business and our performance in 2006.
About GSK About our report Medicines
We are a research-based pharmaceutical This report covers our corporate responsibility Our key pharmaceutical products
company. Our mission is to improve the activity and performance during 2006. It updates target serious diseases including:
quality of human life by enabling people our last corporate responsibility report published in • Asthma and chronic
to do more, feel better and live longer. Our business March 2005. obstructive pulmonary disease
employs over 100,000 people in 116 countries. Our • Epilepsy, depression and other
Data relate to the calendar year 2006, except where
consumer healthcare business includes dental health diseases of the central nervous
stated.
products, over-the-counter medicines and system
nutritional drinks. The environmental data cover the calendar year • HIV/AIDS, herpes and other
2006. Data are collected from all of our viral diseases
Key statistics 80 pharmaceutical and consumer manufacturing
• Infections
sites, 11 of our 13 biologicals manufacturing sites
(£bn,except • Diabetes
that are in operation, 18 of 22 pharmaceutical and
for employees) 2006 2005 2004
consumer research and development sites and 6 of • Cancer
Turnover – total 23.2 21.7 20.0 8 major office locations. We include available data • Heart disease and other
for sites that were in operation for all or part of the cardiovascular diseases
pharmaceuticals 20.1 18.7 18.1
year. We do not require environmental data from
• Urogenital diseases
consumer healthcare 3.1 3.0 2.9 small offices and distribution centres. Notes
attached to the charts explain the scope and data
Profit before taxation 7.8 6.7 5.8
collection process for each parameter in more detail. Vaccines
Number of Unless specified as being per unit of sales, figures GSK makes vaccines that protect
employees 102,695 100,728 100,019 are absolute numbers, i.e. total consumption of against diseases including:
energy, water etc. Data in the environment, health • Hepatitis A and B
and safety sections of this report are externally • Diphtheria
Turnover by location of customer 2006 verified, see Verification.
• Influenza
0% The scope of other data relate to our worldwide • Polio
00% operations except where indicated.
• Rotavirus
£5.0bn
We use external guidelines and frameworks to
• Tetanus
inform our reporting where relevant. We do not
00% • Typhoid
base our report on the Global Reporting Initiative
£11.2bn guidelines but we have produced a GRI indexto • Whooping cough
show which elements of the guidelines we cover
and to aid comparison with other company reports.
£7.0bn
Consumer healthcare brands
More background information on our policies and Our brands include:
approach to CR is available on our website:
• Over-the-counter medicines –
www.gsk.com/responsibility. Beechams, Contac,
Nicorette/Niquitin, Panadol,
We also publish a Corporate Responsibility Review
Tums, Zovirax
USA £11.2bn which provides an overview of our approach to
• Dental health – Aquafresh,
corporate responsibility. It is available in print and
Europe £7.0bn Macleans, Polident, Sensodyne
on our website.
• Nutritional drinks – Horlicks,
International £5.0bn
Our 2005 CR report was one of the top 50 reports Lucozade, Ribena
(ranked 17th) in the 2006 SustainAbility, United
Nations Environment Programme and Standard &
Poor’s Global Reporters Survey – an international
benchmark survey of non-financial reporting.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
3Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
CEO/Chairman’s letter
We believe that a healthcare company isn’t sustainable if it is only concerned about the
20 percent of the world’s population lucky enough to have the resources to pay for new
treatments. We believe that Access to medicines is essential to our vision for GSK.
Improving people’s health is what drives us and what makes talented scientists want to work here.
Our commitment to the poorest countries is integral to this. These countries may not represent a
viable commercial market for some new medicines but there is still a need for people to have
medicines they cannot afford. Yet pure philanthropy is not the right solution either – the needs are
too great.
We look for new ways to tackle these problems. GSK is involved in over ten public private partnership
projects – researching new medicines and vaccines for diseases disproportionately affecting
developing countries, including HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB. We are also making key medicines and
vaccines more accessible through discounted prices and have negotiated eight licences for third-party
manufacturers to produce generic versions of our key HIV medicines.
As this Report shows, our efforts are starting to bear fruit. Preferential pricing and voluntary licences
are helping to increase the supply of HIV/AIDS medicines to sub-Saharan Africa. In 2006, seven
countries completed their five-year programmes to eliminate lymphatic filariasis using our
albendazole treatment. We will continue donating our tablets until this disabling and incurable
disease is completely wiped out.
Vaccines are another exciting area. In 2006, 75 percent of all the vaccine doses we produced were
sold at preferential prices for immunisation campaigns in the developing world. These will save
millions of lives. We expect to launch our vaccine for cervical cancer in 2007. This disease affects
women in all countries but has the greatest impact in the developing world where there are few
screening programmes to catch early cases.
There is no room for complacency – much more effort is needed from all stakeholders to resolve
the healthcare problems of developing countries. But we are proud of the contribution we are
making.
We know that our efforts on access to medicine must be based on a solid foundation. Our industry
is high profile and often the subject of criticism. Good medicines can make a big difference to the
quality and length of life for all of us and it is rightly expected that we should meet the highest
standards of integrity in all aspects of our work.
This Report gives a snapshot of our approach to embedding an ethical culture across GSK. This
includes applying the highest standards of behaviour and transparency in our R&D and promotion
of medicines, treating our people well, and minimising the impact of our business on the
environment. We also need to play our part in tackling major global issues such as climate change.
We value the input of our stakeholders and would welcome your views on this Report or any aspects
of corporate responsibility at GSK.
Sir Christopher Gent JP Garnier
Chairman Chief Executive Officer
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
4Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Q&A
Duncan Learmouth was appointed Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications and
Community Partnerships in 2006. Here he sets out his vision for CR at GSK.
The complete Q&A is available in our full CR Report at www.gsk.com/responsibility.
What is your vision for CR at GSK? Are GSK’s programmes for the developing
There are three elements. We want to achieve high world philanthropy or are they part of
standards of behaviour in everything that we do, in your business?
all parts of the company. And we want to be known There’s no doubt that they are part of the business.
for that. We’ve adopted the theme ‘performance The need for our medicines will not go away so we
with integrity’ which has been very successful in need to make sure that our programmes are
engaging our employees. Secondly, we need to sustainable, and the best way to do this is make
bring the outside world into our decision making. sure they are part of our day-to-day business. A
Only through a full understanding of stakeholder great example of this is our long-term commitment
views will we make the best decisions. The third to providing not-for-profit HIV medicines in the
element is our desire to be a real member of the world’s poorest countries. There is also such
local community everywhere that we operate. That immense stakeholder pressure on this subject that
includes playing our part in the wider global it would be impossible to turn a blind eye. But it’s
community by contributing to better healthcare. not just about responding to pressure from the
outside. Our 100,000 employees want to work for
Where do you think GSK is doing well?
a company that is addressing these challenges. We
We are very engaged on issues of the developing
have a duty to use our scientific know-how and
world – and in my experience this is quite unusual
human capital to make a difference where we can
for a public company. I believe that we lead our
– it’s essential to our own sense of integrity.
industry on R&D for neglected diseases, preferential
pricing and voluntary licensing and are well ahead Why haven’t you reduced the price of
of most other sectors. We take a long-term your products in all markets?
approach and our programmes involve a high To be a sustainable business we have to make an
degree of partnership and dialogue with NGOs, adequate return or we won’t be able to discover
governments, and organisations such as the World new medicines. We’re under immense pressure
Health Organisation and the Gates Foundation. from competitors and investors. Nevertheless we
are looking at the issue of pricing beyond the world’s
Where should GSK be doing more?
poorest countries.
Sales and marketing practices are always a hot topic
for the pharmaceutical industry. We need to ensure Are you researching new medicines that
that we keep up with public and regulatory are really needed or just looking for ‘me-
expectations of how we market our products, and too’ drugs?
ensure GSK policies meet or exceed these changing In many cases the drugs that are really needed will
expectations. However, being the first to change be the most profitable because that’s where the
commercial practices runs the risk of reducing our demand is. New drugs for cancer or Alzheimer’s will
competitiveness, so we must also be proactive in be meeting a huge unmet medical need and will be
encouraging others in our industry to follow suit. profitable too. The problem is that these diseases
tend to present extreme scientific challenges and
What is the biggest challenge?
require novel scientific approaches which carry a
The most difficult task is finding a balance between
greater risk of failure. Diseases of the developing
the needs of different stakeholders. Our investors
world present a different problem – there is great
are concerned primarily with profit. CR is important
need but no viable commercial market for new
to them because it affects the long-term success of
products. We get round this problem by working
the company but the next quarter’s earnings are
through public private partnerships and are very
often a more pressing priority. On the other hand,
active on R&D for neglected tropical diseases. I think
NGOs and others in society would like us to be more
the debate about me-too drugs has been taken too
concerned with solving society’s healthcare
far. If a new drug enables patients to take fewer
problems.
doses each day or reduces side effects then it may
seem like only a small improvement but it can make
a very big difference to the treatment outcome.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
5Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
The pharmaceutical industry has been What role is GSK playing in addressing
criticised for lack of transparency over climate change?
clinical trial results. Are you doing We have targets for reducing energy usage. I
anything to address this concern? believe we’ve adopted a sustainable approach that
There is a perception that the pharmaceutical is linked to our business. Because of our position
industry is less than transparent and I think this is as a company that addresses healthcare needs,
partly because we haven’t done a very good job of and the relatively small footprint we have
communicating the challenges we face. I believe compared to other sectors, there are other issues
that our online Clinical Trial Register has gone some that are a higher priority to address. Nevertheless
way to addressing these concerns. But the climate change is an important issue for GSK and
communication of data from clinical trials for our stakeholders and we need to play our part
is a tough area. Weighing up the balance of risks in tackling it.
and benefits from a medicine is rarely
straightforward. Data isn’t black and white – it
requires interpretation and judgement. This
inevitably means that people will have different
views and that our knowledge will change over time
as new drugs are tested and used. So actually
talking about medicines to doctors is not
straightforward. This communication is very
important but very challenging.
Is the pharmaceutical industry
sustainable?
We have a ‘contract with society’ – in return for
investing in new drugs we generally have around
ten years of intellectual property protection on our
products before generics can be made. R&D is
uncertain and unpredictable so in some periods we
are more successful at this than in others. But I
believe that the basic model is still a good one
because it fosters a high level of innovation. Of
course there are challenges and the industry must
continually look for ways to improve R&D
productivity. We have a unique type of product that
plays a very personal role in people’s lives. Nowadays
good health is seen as a right but it’s also a business
and for some people this is uncomfortable.
Generally, though, I believe people accept the need
for a trade-off – they may not like us making a profit
from health but they accept it because it’s the best
way to encourage the discovery of new medicines.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
6Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Corporate responsibility at GSK
Why is CR important to GSK? Our strategy
Corporate responsibility is about how we GSK is committed to addressing two key challenges
achieve our goals and implement our facing the pharmaceutical industry and society as a
business strategy. We aim to operate in a way whole. These are:
that reflects our values, while understanding and
• Improving productivity in research and
responding to stakeholder views and connecting
development
business decisions to ethical, social and
environmental concerns. • Doing our part to support patient access to new
medicines
Corporate responsibility helps to achieve our
business goals by: To do this we focus on four business strategies. We
have structured this report around these strategies
• Supporting our relationships with key
to show how corporate responsibility is integrated
stakeholders including patients and consumers,
into our business.
doctors and governments
• Protecting and enhancing our reputation and
therefore trust in our products
• Improving our ability to attract, retain and
motivate the best people
• Strengthening our risk management processes
We believe that our business makes a valuable
contribution to society by developing and marketing
medicines which improve people’s lives. However
we know that the research, development,
manufacture and sale of medicines raise ethical
issues. We seek to minimise the negative impacts of
our business and maximise the positive benefits of
our products and operations.
Build the best product pipeline in the industry for Maximise the potential of our current product
the benefit of patients,consumers and society portfolio
Relevant responsibility issues include: Relevant responsibility issues include:
• Animal research • Ethical conduct
• Conduct of clinical trials • Standards in our supply chain
• Patient safety • Environmental impact
• Interactions with patient groups
Improve access to medicines in the developed Be the best place for the best people to do their
and developing world best work
Relevant responsibility issues include: Relevant responsibility issues include:
• R&D for diseases of the developing world • Employment practices
• Preferential pricing • Diversity
• Voluntary licensing • Human rights of employees and in our supply chain
• Access to medicines in middle income and developed • Health and safety
countries
• Resilience and well being
• Community investment
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
7Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Our most important corporate responsibility • DTC advertising
issues
• Consistency of commercial practices codes
Corporate responsibility is a broad subject which
covers a very wide range of issues. We need to The Committee also reviews and signs off our
prioritise these issues in order to manage them annual CR report.
effectively and report clearly on our performance.
CR risks
We identify the most important (material) issues for Management of significant business risks is
GSK through engagement with stakeholders, our coordinated by the Risk Oversight and Compliance
risk management processes and our knowledge of Council (ROCC). The ROCC also considers
our business and the pharmaceutical industry. reputational and corporate responsibility risks.
These inputs have led us to identify four CR issues For more background information on the ROCC,
that are particularly relevant and significant for GSK. see Risk management and compliance on
These are: gsk.com.
• Research and innovation – contributing to Management structure
healthcare by developing medicines and Duncan Learmouth, Senior Vice President Corporate
vaccines that meet the needs of patients Communications and Community Partnerships, and
Rupert Bondy, General Counsel, are our executive
• Access to medicines in developed and
team members with responsibility for CR.
developing countries
We believe that day-to-day management of CR
• Ethical conduct including sales and marketing
issues is done most effectively within our business
practices
operations, where experts on all our CR issues work.
• Environment, including climate change and the Coordination is provided by a cross-functional team,
impact of pharmaceuticals in the environment made up of representatives from key business areas.
These representatives are senior managers and have
direct access to the appropriate executive team
member. Their role is to oversee development,
MANAGING CR implementation and communication of CR policy
across GSK. This ensures a comprehensive and
Our Corporate Responsibility Statement and
consistent approach is taken throughout the
Principles define our approach to our key CR issues
organisation.
and provide guidance for employees on the
standards to which the company is committed. You We also have a small CR team that co-ordinates
can view the Principlesin the background section policy development, reporting and communication
of our website. with socially responsible investment analysts.
CR governance For details of our environment health and safety
We have a Corporate Responsibility Committee management see EHS management.
(CRC) of non-executive board directors that provides
Assurance
high-level guidance on our approach to CR. The
The environment, health and safety sections of this
CEO and members of the corporate executive team
report are externally verified by environmental
are actively involved in CR and participate in CRC
assurance consultancy, SGS. The purpose of their
meetings.
assessment is to:
The committee members are Sir Christopher Gent
• check that the EHS data presented are accurate
(Chair), Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Daniel Podolsky and Tom
and that they represent GSK’s performance
de Swaan. You can find more information on the
fairly
CRC members and Terms of Reference in the
background sectionof our website. • critically review the completeness and relevance
of the information presented
The Committee meets four times a year to review
our policies and progress on our CR Principles. Four • assess the effectiveness of GSK’s data
Principles – access to medicines, standards of ethical management and reporting systems
conduct, research and innovation and global
You can find SGS’s verification statement and our
community partnerships – are reviewed annually.
response on page 70.
Other Principles are discussed at least once every
two years. The Committee’s findings are reported to Other sections of the report are not externally
the Board. verified. However GSK has an extensive internal
audit programme that covers all aspects of our
During 2006 the Committee reviewed our activity
business.
in a number of areas including:
Internal communication and awareness
• Access to medicines
We keep employees informed about corporate
• Community investment responsibility. During 2006, 34,000 copies of our
CR Overview brochure were distributed to
• Reputation management
employees directly and through Spirit, our internal
• Caring for the environment magazine. Spirit also features regular articles on
CR related topics.
• Standards of ethical conduct
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
8Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
We also surveyed a random selection of It is difficult to quantify the extent of our
1000 employees on their awareness of corporate engagements, since this activity is embedded in our
responsibility and which issues they consider the business operations, but we have included examples
most important. 369 employees from across the in this section and throughout this report. These are
world and in all the different areas of the business some of the ways we engaged with our
responded to the survey. stakeholders in 2006.
• 80 percent have heard of corporate Investors and benchmarking organisations
responsibility We held 18 meetings with investors in 2006, to
discuss CR issues.
• 78 percent recognised it was the responsibility
of themselves and other employees These included one-to-one meetings to discuss key
issues as well as educational visits and meetings. In
• Ethical business conduct, access to medicines
January we hosted a meeting for 17 investors at our
and health and safety were the three areas
vaccines facility in Belgium. Investors were shown a
identified as most important
presentation on the science of vaccines and visited
• These are also the areas that employees believe the site’s research and production areas. In October,
that the company is doing most to address eight investors visited our manufacturing plant in
Dartford, England. Investors were shown the
process for making the active ingredients in our
products and the environmental management
facilities at the plant. On both occasions investors
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
had the opportunity to meet and question senior
Stakeholder engagement is an important GSK staff.
component of our approach to managing our
In December, GSK and Dresdner Bank ran an
business responsibly. It helps us to identify the
educational seminar on patient safety for
important CR issues for our business, understand
16 investors. Our senior physician in charge of
stakeholder views and expectations and to build
global patient safety explained our current drug
trust with key audiences. We also engage with our
safety monitoring procedures and how GSK plans
stakeholders to tell them about our work and to
to further develop these, and answered questions
learn from their expertise. GSK interacts with a wide
from investors.
range of stakeholders including:
Investors raise questions and issues throughout the
• Patients
year. In 2006, the main issues raised related to sales
• Doctors and marketing practices, climate change, access to
medicines and clinical trials ethics, particularly in the
• Governments and regulators
developing world. Our approach to all these issues
• Public and private health providers can be found in this report.
• NGOs
• Multilateral organisations
• Employees
• Investors
• Local communities
• Suppliers
• The scientific community
• Peer companies
Most of this discussion takes place in the normal
course of business. For example our scientists meet
regularly with academics, researchers and other
pharmaceutical companies.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
9Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
GSK received the following ratings from agencies:
Organisation Rating
Association of British Insurers GSK was given a ‘full’ rating for its disclosure of Board
responsibilities and policies relating to social,ethical and
environmental issues.This is the highest possible rating.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index GSK was included in this year’s index.Individual company
scores and rankings are no longer published.
FTSE4Good Index GSK was included in the FTSE4Good Index.
Innovest Strategic Value Advisors We were rated 3rd out of 44 companies in Innovest’s
Global Pharmaceutical Sector Report.GSK was rated
particularly highly in the area of strategic governance.
Claremont McKenna GSK received a B+ in a rating of pharmaceutical
sustainability reporting,carried out by Claremont-
McKenna,a US college that evaluates companies on
corporate responsibility issues.GSK was 7thout of the
25 companies evaluated
GSK reported its greenhouse gas emissions through thought-out and well managed. We were rated
the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). You can read most highly for our programmes to increase access
our response on the CDP website at to medicines in the developing world.
www.cdproject.net.
Opinion leaders made suggestions for how we
CR benchmark studies should improve in a number of areas. These
We co-sponsored a benchmarking study by the included:
consultancy and think-tank SustainAbility into non-
• GSK should demonstrate its commitment to
financial reporting in the pharmaceutical industry.
improving health globally beyond selling
GSK was rated highest overall compared to 12 other
pharmaceuticals (e.g. through disease
companies in the sector.
prevention)
We were also ranked 17th out of the top
• We should do more to embed CR throughout
50 companies in the SustainAbility/UNEP Global
the company and should set targets to improve
Reporters study of best practice in sustainability
our performance
reporting. GSK was one of only two pharmaceutical
companies in the top 50. • GSK should spend more time listening to
stakeholders
We retained our position in the Premier League
(companies scoring above 95 percent) of Business • We should develop a strategy for reducing our
in the Community’s Environment index. impact on climate change
EHS • We should focus on improving access to
We have established a stakeholder panel to inform medicines in middle-income countries
our approach to EHS management. This is made up
Reporting
of ten external stakeholders representing customers,
The opinion leaders felt GSK’s CR report covered
suppliers, regulators, public interest groups and
the right issues, but the report was too long overall,
investors, as well as four senior GSK EHS
reducing readability. GSK scored points for
representatives.
improving the transparency of its reporting over the
Opinion leaders last three years. But stakeholders expected further
Opinion leaders are influential individuals or disclosure on GSK’s work with patient advocacy
organisations with expertise in corporate groups, ethics, management of the supply chain
responsibility. These include NGOs, government and our approach to human rights issues.
representatives, investors, journalists, academics and
Other stakeholders
consumer and industry organisations.
The following table summarises our interaction with
We held two discussions, one each in the US and other groups and shows where further information
UK, to gather feedback from 18 opinion leaders on can be found.
our CR performance and reporting.
Performance
Participants mostly agreed that GSK’s approach to
corporate responsibility is comprehensive, well
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
10Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Stakeholder Engagement
NGOs We engage with international and community NGOs through our access,education
and public health programmes.Read more in Investment in Public Health Initiatives
on page 76 and Community Investmenton page 75.
We also engage regularly with animal welfare organisations.
Read more in Animal Researchon page 26.
Employees We seek feedback from our employees through regular employee surveys.
See Employmenton page 40 for a summary of the results from our latest survey.
We also consult employees on changes that affect them and discuss business
developments through our Works Councils and European Employee Forum.For more
information see Internal Communicationson page 44.
Governments and We engage in debate on legislation and seek to influence policy decisions that affect GSK.
regulators We also engage with governments to advance our corporate responsibility objectives.
See Government and External Affairson page 12
Multi-lateral agencies We engage with multi-lateral agencies through our access and public health initiatives.
See Access to Medicineson page 18.
Doctors We engage with doctors in many ways including through our medical representatives
and when running clinical trials.See Researchand Ethical Conduct for information on how
we manage the issues this engagement raises.
Patients GSK researchers and scientists meet with patients as part of our Focus on the
Patient initiative.This engagement influences our understanding of diseases and our
research priorities.
We also engage with patient groups directly and through Patient Advocacy Leaders’
Summits.Read more in Patient Advocacy.
We also conduct market research via third parties to understand patient needs.
Local communities Our interactions with local communities are managed by individual GSK sites.
See Working with Communitiesfor examples of our initiatives.
Suppliers We hold global and regional supplier review meetings where senior GSK managers
address and interact with suppliers on key issues.For more information see Supply Chain
on page 50.
The scientific It is important for GSK to be part of scientific and academic debates.This report contains
community and examples of some of these interactions.For a discussion of how we manage such
academic partnerships relationships see Research.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
11Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
GOVERNMENT AND
EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated and • A common European regulatory system that
these regulations can have a significant impact on offers rapid approval of new products
our business. So it is essential that we engage in
• Intellectual property incentives to promote
debate on legislation and seek to influence policy
research on orphan medicines, paediatric
decisions that affect GSK. In fact, as a major
medicines and medicines for the developing
multinational corporation we are often approached
world
by governments to give our views, along with other
stakeholders such as NGOs. • Implementation of clinical trial regulations that
promote safety and good clinical practice
Our size and global reach give us access to
governments and policy makers. We need to use • Appropriate use of health technology
this access responsibly to benefit patients and our assessments (HTAs). We believe HTAs should be
business. We believe that by being transparent independent, transparent and scientifically
about our lobbying and public policy work we can robust – they should be a means of ensuring
increase stakeholder trust and confidence in GSK. the right medicines reach the right people,
rather than be used as a rationing tool
We have policies governing our interactions with
important stakeholders. This section covers our • Increased individual involvement and
interaction with governments and other external responsibility for personal healthcare, including
groups, including patient advocacy groups. improved access to information about
Information on our approach to working with medicines from pharmaceutical companies
doctors and healthcare professionals is available in
• An environment which promotes research and
the Research sectionof this report.
development, and encourages informed debate
More background information on our approach to on the benefits and challenges of new research
public policy is available in the external affairs technologies
sectionof gsk.com.
Advocacy on CR issues in 2006
Our approach to external affairs We engage with governments and other
GSK’s external affairs teams monitor changes and stakeholders to advance our corporate responsibility
proposed reforms to legislation and meet regularly objectives. For example, in 2006 GSK:
with government officials to explain our views on a
• Advocated for improvements to healthcare in
range of public policy issues. Lobbying on issues
the developing world through discussions with
affecting the whole pharmaceutical industry is
the UK and US governments, multilateral
sometimes conducted through trade associations.
agencies and NGOs, see Access to medicines
We may also hire professional lobbyists to support
our public policy work. • Participated in the World AIDS conference held
in Toronto, Canada. See Access to medicines
Our public policy work is governed by our External
Affairs Code of Conduct, and is backed up by • Supported Mobilising for Malaria, an advocacy
factual research and analysis. See policy on initiative to generate political commitment and
background site. sustained funding to combat malaria, see
Community Investment
GSK believes that, where legally and culturally
appropriate, political donations are a legitimate way • Worked with regulators to encourage
of supporting the political process. Information on acceptance of alternatives to animal testing, see
donations is given both in this report and in the Animal research
Annual Report and Accounts. We have a Political
• Participated in developing the World Health
Donations Policygoverning our contributions to
Organization’s International Clinical Trials
political candidates.
Registry Platform, an initiative to standardise
Public policy activity in 2006 the way information on medical studies is
In 2006 we engaged with governments on a wide made available to the public
range of issues that affect our industry. In particular
• Encouraged more consistent approaches to
we advocated for policies that will deliver:
patient safety and the reporting of side effects,
• Strong intellectual property rights and data see Patient Safety
exclusivity protection to encourage the research
• Led efforts to develop industry codes of conduct
and development of new medicines and
for marketing ethics in several Asian countries.
vaccines
See Marketing Codes of Practice
• Pricing and reimbursement systems that
support innovative medicines and provide
greater predictability and transparency. We
believe there should be greater liberalisation in
pharmaceutical pricing, especially for medicines
that are not paid for by governments
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
12Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Our position on key issues
We publish our position on many key issues in the GSK does not make donations to political parties or
background sectionof our website. We are happy other political organisations in the European Union.
to discuss our position on these or any other issues See our Annual Reportfor more information.
with legitimate parties. Contact our corporate
Contributions in the United States
responsibility team at csr.contact@gsk.com
In the US, candidates are financed primarily by
The current position statements published on contributions from companies, individuals, NGOs
www.gsk.com/responsibilityinclude: and other parties. Corporate contributions are an
accepted and important way for companies to
• Clinical trials in developing countries
engage in the political debate.
• Counterfeit medicines
Corporate contributions to national political parties
• Developing world challenges and access to and candidates running for federal office are
medicines prohibited by US law.
• Importation of medicines Contributions to state candidates
GSK corporate funds are only given to candidates
• Intellectual property and the TRIPS agreement
at state level, in states where this is permitted by
• Product diversion law. In 2006, we donated $536,000 (approximately
£290,000) to candidates for state-held offices. This
• Preparations for a flu pandemic
was split between Republicans (approx 55 percent)
Membership of trade associations and Democrats (approx 45 percent).
GSK is a member of trade organisations including:
Our contributions are not made on the basis of
• Association of the British Pharmaceutical political party. GSK supports candidates who seek
Industry (ABPI) an environment that appropriately rewards high-
risk, high-investment industries and believes in free
• Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO)
market principles and intellectual property rights.
• European Federation of Pharmaceutical All states publish information about political
Industries (EFPIA) donations.
• Intellectual Property Owners Association (IPO) Political Action Committee contributions
In accordance with the Federal Election Campaign
• Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers
Act, there is a GSK Political Action Committee (PAC)
Association (JPMA)
that facilitates voluntary political contributions by
• The Swedish Association of the Pharmaceutical eligible employees. The PAC is not controlled by GSK
Industry (LIF) but by our participating employees, who have the
legal right to make contributions to candidates and
• Organization For International Investment (OFII)
political parties at the federal and state levels. All
• Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of PAC contributions are voluntary and donations are
America (PhRMA) subject to strict limitations. For example, the GSK
PAC may not contribute in excess of $5,000 to a
• International Federation of Pharmaceutical
candidate for federal office per election.
Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA)
PAC contributions are determined by a governing
US lobbying expenditures
board of PAC-participating GSK employees from
GSK spent $5.14m on federal lobbying activities in
across the company. As required by law, PAC
the US during 2006. This information is reported to
contributions are reported to the Federal Elections
the US Congress in accordance with the Lobbying
Commission (FEC). In 2006, the second half of the
Disclosure Act of 1995. It includes the costs of
two-year federal election cycle, the GSK employees’
salaries and benefits for all employees registered to
PAC contributed $1.36m to candidates for state and
lobby the US government; hiring outside lobbying
federal offices.
consultants; support for lobbying contacts such as
planning activities, research and other background; Contributions in Canada
running the GSK Washington DC government In 2006, GSK donated $CAD 56,000 (approximately
affairs office; support staff; and the portion of trade £27,000) in Canada to political candidates in those
association fees associated with federal lobbying. provinces where it is legal.
In other countries we do not collect separate data Contributions in other countries
on lobbying expenditure. In 2006, GSK donated $AUS6,000 (approx £2,000)
in Australia.
Political donations
GSK makes political donations with corporate funds Patient advocacy
where these are authorised by law and are culturally Patient advocacy groups provide their members
appropriate. with support and information on how to live with
their condition, represent patient views and
In 2006 we contributed £319,000 to political
advocate on issues affecting patients’ interests. They
organisations in the US, Canada and Australia. All
are an important stakeholder for GSK and we
donations are covered by the GSK policy on
engage with them as part of our aim to be a patient-
political donations.
focused company.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
13Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Our principles for working with Across the world we work with a wide range of Work with patient groups in 2006
patient groups patient groups in a variety of different disease areas Patient Advocacy Leaders’ Summits (PALS) are one
• The independence of such as cancer, asthma, diabetes and HIV/AIDS. Our of the ways we engage with patient groups. In 2006
patient associations, of
interest in patient advocacy is about understanding we held summits in the US, Japan and in many
their political judgement
patient needs and their illness. Our aim is to support European countries including Poland, Netherlands,
and of their activities shall
be assured. the voice of patients and thus encourage a Romania and Latvia. These meetings give patient
constructive healthcare debate for all stakeholders. groups the opportunity to learn about GSK, tell the
• In all co-operative matters,
company how it can better support their work, and
transparency is vital. We believe that patient groups are playing an
discuss and debate key issues relating to patient
• Any joint policies increasingly valuable role in improving healthcare. To
advocacy and healthcare policy. There is typically a
undertaken between protect their independence and credibility patient
range of workshops for attendees, including
patients associations and groups should be encouraged to obtain support,
GlaxoSmithKline shall be sessions on media training and sharing best practice.
financial and non-financial, from diverse multiple
based on mutual respect
sources – private, public and through individual We have a European patient group advisory board
and trust.
donations. that we consult on GSK policies and thus work with
• GlaxoSmithKline shall
to make the company as patient-centric as possible.
refrain from using undue Our approach
The board has an independent chair, and is made up
influence to promote its We are committed to ensuring that we work with
specific medicines or patient groups at the highest levels of ethical of representatives from a series of European groups,
services. many from disease areas where GSK has no direct
standards and transparency, and have established
therapeutic interest.
• When working with strong global principles.
patient associations
GlaxoSmithKline will As part of GSK’s commitment to working ethically
always comply with local with patient groups, all employees involved receive
laws/governance. formal training on our global principles and work
CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY
within a framework set by our Standard Operating
Procedures. In addition employees have access to a We believe that our business adds social and
patient advocacy resource intranet site. economic values to society through the contribution
our products make to healthcare and through the
In the UK GSK’s advocacy work is governed by the
jobs and wealth we generate.
Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry
(ABPI) Code of Practice. This states that there must Contribution to healthcare
be a written agreement between the company and Our medicines and vaccines enable people to live
the patient group, and that companies must publish longer and enjoy a better quality of life.
a list of all patient groups that they fund.
Healthcare is expensive – especially when patients
We list all UK patient groups receiving funding from need to make frequent visits to the doctor or spend
GSK. In 2007 we have gone further towards greater time in hospital. For example in the US, $3 of every
transparency and extended the list to include all $4 spent on healthcare goes to treating people with
patient groups in Europethat receive funding chronic diseases. Healthcare costs are also likely to
from GSK and have given full details of that funding. rise further in many countries as the population
In Europe GSK developed a Standard Operating ages. Vaccines and medicines reduce the burden on
Procedure (SOP) for working with patient groups. healthcare systems by preventing diseases, enabling
This initiative is being extended to the other GSK people with chronic diseases to work and helping
regions in 2007. The SOP covers a variety of areas patients to control their symptoms and make fewer
concerning GSK’s work with patient groups. It states visits to hospital.
that GSK will not seek a patient group’s GSK contributes to healthcare in three ways:
endorsement of any medicine, and that we will not
• Disease prevention
provide more than 50 percent of a patient group’s
overall funding. In 2007 this will become no more • Effective intervention – medicines to treat
than 25 percent funding. In the vast majority of diseases
instances the actual percentage is much lower.
• Innovation – investment in R&D to discover new
Additionally all activities are accompanied by a
medicines and vaccines to meet future
written agreement.
healthcare needs
GSK is working with many pharmaceutical company
representative bodies to encourage industry-wide
transparent and ethical approaches to working with
patient groups.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
14Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Disease prevention
Preventing disease is better for the potential patient, Community investment – We support several major
who avoids illness, pain and suffering; and better disease prevention programmes in developing
for society because it reduces healthcare costs. We countries through our community investment.
support disease prevention efforts in several ways: These include:
Vaccines • the Global Alliance that plans to completely
We make vaccines that protect against crippling and eliminate LF (a disfiguring disease that is one of
fatal diseases including hepatitis A and B, diphtheria, the world’s leading causes of permanent
seasonal flu, polio, tetanus and whooping cough. disability) by 2020. See Community Investment,
We currently supply 22 vaccines against 17 diseases. page 75.
Global immunisation efforts have led to the • PHASE, our programme to reduce diarrhoea-
eradication of smallpox, the potential eradication of related disease by encouraging school children
polio, and are estimated to save the lives of up to in developing countries to wash their hands.
three million people world-wide each year. See Community Investment, page 75.
Vaccination has a longer term benefit and is more
Intervention
cost effective than treating people after they
Our key pharmaceutical products target serious
become sick. It can also reduce healthcare costs by:
diseases including:
• preventing disease outbreaks
• Asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary
• reducing the need for expensive treatments and disease
hospitalisations
• Epilepsy, depression and other diseases of the
• reducing permanent disabilities and the long- central nervous system
term effects of disease
• HIV/AIDS, herpes and other viral diseases
• preventing loss of productivity from illness
• Infections
GSK Vaccines
• Diabetes
We distributed 1.1 billion vaccine doses in 2006 to
169 countries in both the developed and the • Cancer
developing world – an average of 3 million doses a
• Heart disease and other cardiovascular diseases
day. We invested £348 million in vaccine research in
2006 and had 1,500 scientists working at our • Urogenital diseases
vaccine research centres.
These make a major contribution to healthcare in
We make our vaccines available in developing several ways:
countries through an innovative tiered pricing
• Prolonging life – GSK is a pioneer in treatments
model. In 2006, 75 percent of the 1.1 billion
for HIV/AIDS. Our antiretrovirals (ARVs) such as
vaccines we produced went to the developing
Combivirhelp patients to control the effects of
world. We are currently researching new vaccines
HIV infection for many years. We sell our ARVs
for more than 15 diseases including several that are
to countries in sub-Saharan Africa at not-for-
particularly relevant for developing countries. See
profit prices. See Access to Medicines.
Access to medicinespage 18.
• Preventing complications – Many diseases such
Patient education – We support patient education
as diabetes are progressive – if patients don’t
and disease prevention initiatives. These include
receive the right treatment they can suffer
working with patient advocacy groups,
severe side effects. Every day in the US diabetes
producing patient information leaflets for medicine
is the cause of an estimated 225 amputations,
packs and doctors’ surgeries and publishing
around 50 cases of blindness, and 117 people
information on disease preventionon our website.
experiencing kidney failure. Avandia, our
Anti-smoking – It is estimated that around five diabetes treatment, helps patients to control
million people die prematurely each year as a result their symptoms, delays the progression of the
of smoking. This makes smoking cessation one of disease and prevents complications. Avandia
the most effective ways to improve health. GSK’s has now been used by more than seven million
nicotine replacement therapy brands such as people worldwide.
NicoDerm and Nicorette have helped more than
• Improving quality of life – Many of our
five million smokers quit since 1996, making a
medicines such as those for asthma and
significant contribution to public health.
diabetes help patients with chronic diseases live
full and productive lives. GSK preventative
treatments for asthma such as Seretide/Advair
control the symptoms of asthma and prevent
asthma attacks.
• Curing infection – We produce antibiotics that
treat respiratory tract and other infections. In
2006, we donated antibiotics to help relief
efforts in disaster areas. See communityon
page 75.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
15Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Value to UK economy Innovation
In 2006, the British Pharma Despite revolutionary advances in healthcare there Health Organization has predicted that COPD will
Group (comprising the two are still many diseases for which there is no cure or be the third leading cause of death by 2020. The
UK-based companies, GSK and
for which treatments could be improved. So GSK study will involve more than 2,000 patients
AstraZeneca) commissioned a
continued research and innovation is essential. over three years and identify relevant markers that
report by the Office of Health
Economics (OHE), an indepen- may help predict disease progression.
We believe that R&D into new medicines is the most
dent research organisation, into
important element of corporate responsibility for Many diseases are caused by genetic factors which
the companies’ value to the UK
economy. our company. GSK invested £3.46 billion and makes them difficult to cure or prevent. Our
employed over 15,000 people in R&D in 2006. research into the body’s immune system will also
The report used the concept of
enable us to develop safer, more effective and more
‘economic rent’ – the net Our pipeline
additional income and wealth We have 159 prescription medicines and vaccines targeted vaccines to protect against a greater
brought to the UK by a number of diseases.
in clinical development. Current projects include
company, in excess of the income
research into asthma, cancer, depression, diabetes, Economic value
that would be generated if the
labour and capital were put to epilepsy, heart disease, HIV/AIDS, influenza, irritable We contribute to the countries in which we operate
the next best alternative use. bowel syndrome, osteoporosis, schizophrenia, through creating wealth and employment, paying
stroke and TB. taxes and purchasing products and services. As well
The OHE stated that the
estimated net economic rent as these direct financial contributions our products
We expect to launch five major new vaccines within
earned by many enterprises in also contribute indirectly to economic growth by
the next five years:
any economy can be expected preventing and treating disease.
to be close to zero i.e. they yield • a human papilloma virus vaccine preventing
as much economic value as, but Detailed financial information is available in our
cervical cancer
not significantly more than, the Annual Report. However, some of the key figures
next best alternative uses of the • the USA launch of a vaccine against rotavirus for our global business are:
capital and labour they employ.
induced gastroenteritis and the strengthening
Global figures (£m) 2004 2005 2006
GSK’s and AstraZeneca’s of rotavirus vaccine uptake in Europe and in the
economic rent from manufact- international markets Sales 19,986 21,660 23,225
uring, R&D and other activities in
the UK was estimated to be at • a vaccine against pneumococcal disease and R&D investment 2,904 3,136 3,457
least £1 billion annually, and non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae
possibly much higher. infections causing otitis media Payments to:
GSK contributes approximately
• Employees 5,054 5,254 5,495
60 percent of this figure. • a number of vaccines against both seasonal and
You can read a copy of the avian flu based on GSK’s unique expertise in • Suppliers n/a n/a 8,107
report in the background section adjuvant technology including, a new
• Government (taxation) 1,757 1,916 2,301
of our website. generation adjuvanted seasonal flu vaccine for
Other studies have also ranked elderly people • Community investment 328 380 302
GSK’s value to the UK economy
• vaccine combinations against meningitis n\a = not available
highly:
The UK Government Department Experts are predicting there may be a major flu
of Trade and Industry (DTI) 2006 pandemic in the next decade caused by the H5N1
Value Added Scoreboard lists the strain of bird flu. GSK is actively preparing for this
companies making the largest potential crisis. In a pivotal clinical trial of GSK’s new HUMAN RIGHTS
contributions to value added in
generation H5N1 influenza vaccine carried out in
the UK and in Europe. GSK was
2006 in Belgium, it was shown that very low doses Human rights is a broad subject that is relevant to
ranked 6thin the UK and 19thin
Europe (the highest pharma- of antigen (3.8µg) combined with GSK’s novel GSK in a number of different contexts.
ceutical company). Our value adjuvant system elicited a strong seroprotective
We are committed to upholding human rights in
added was calculated as response. As GSK’s vaccine is also believed to have
our sphere of influence. We have greater control
£11.8 billion or £118,500 per the potential to offer a protection against ‘drifted’
employee. over human rights in our own operations but can
variants of the H5N1 virus, it could be used as part
also influence human rights among our suppliers
Investment in R&D stimulates of a proactive pre-pandemic vaccination campaign.
and wider society.
economic growth. GSK is ranked In addition we also increased production of Relenza,
10thin the UK DTI’s R&D
our treatment for influenza. For a full review of our GSK’s sphere of influence
Scoreboard which ranks the top
pipeline please see our Annual Report. There are several reasons why we take human rights
global companies by the value of
their R&D investment. We are We have an extensive R&D programme into diseases seriously:
the highest ranked UK company.
disproportionately affecting developing countries. • Achieving high standards on human rights
See www.dti.gov.uk/innovation
We believe GSK is the only company researching supports our reputation and our goal of
both new vaccines and treatments for HIV/AIDS, TB operational excellence
and malaria – the World Health Organization’s three
• It helps us to get the best from our employees
priority diseases.
• By working with suppliers that match our
Research into the causes of disease
standards, we help ensure the smooth
As well as researching potential new medicines we
operation of supplier contracts and therefore a
also invest in research to increase understanding of
reliable supply of high quality products
the human body and the causes of disease.
• It supports good relationships with the
For example, in 2006 we launched ECLIPSE, a non-
communities near our sites
drug study to improve understanding of chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The World
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
16Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Our approach to human rights is guided by the UN A wide variety of biological materials is used in
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD biomedical research. These include human
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the core materials, non-human materials found in humans
labour standards set out by the International Labour (such as bacteria and viruses), animals and plants.
Organisation. They are obtained from various sources. Sometimes
they will be indigenous and unique to a country or
Our employees
community. More commonly, they will be cultivated
Most of our direct employees are well educated and
or bred as staple commercial products and obtained
skilled people so the risk of human rights issues
through ordinary commercial channels.
occurring is relatively low. We believe that our
employment standards on issues such as diversity, Today most of GSK’s pharmaceutical research is
equal opportunities and health and safety provide based on screening of large numbers of synthetic
adequate safeguards on human rights for our chemical compounds, rather than natural resources.
employees. For more information see Employment We do not currently have any access and benefit
Practiceson page 40. sharing agreements in place. However, if GSK were
to undertake development work using indigenous
Suppliers
genetic resources and associated traditional
We expect our suppliers, contractors and business
knowledge arising from any GSK natural product
partners to meet the same standards on human
collection programmes, access to those resources
rights as GSK but we recognise that some suppliers
would be obtained in accordance with local laws.
may not. We seek to influence our suppliers to
Contracts would be negotiated as required with the
adopt high standards on human rights by adding
appropriate authority and we would thereby ensure
human rights clauses to our contracts and
that a clear benefit was returned to the country of
auditing suppliers. For more information see Supply
origin, for example through royalties or a share of
Chainon page 50.
net profits. See our policy on Biodiversity.
Communities
Society
Human rights are relevant to our relationships with
Improving healthcare, particularly in the developing
a wider community of stakeholders. Here are a few
world, is one of the greatest challenges the world
examples:
faces. GSK is committed to playing its part in
Countries with poor human rights records improving access to medicines. We contribute to
Some of our stakeholders are concerned about our healthcare in the developing world through our
presence in countries which have a poor human research into new treatments and vaccines, by
rights record such as Sudan, North Korea and making our medicines available at affordable
Burma. While we respect these concerns, our preferential prices, by negotiating voluntary licences
medicines and vaccines are needed by local with generic manufacturers and through our
populations. Our products need to be registered community investment. For more information see
with governments before they can be sold, which Access to Medicineson page 18 and Community
almost always requires interaction with some aspect Investmenton page 75.
of government. We believe, along with the UN, that
We engage with governments, multilateral agencies
people should not be denied access to medicines
and NGOs to help improve access to medicines. We
because of the regime operating in their country.
have developed a seven point plan for use in our
See UN document.
advocacy efforts. For more information see page
Local communities 19.
We seek to reduce the environmental impacts of
our sites, operate them safely and foster good
relationships with local communities.
Indigenous material and traditional
knowledge
As one of the world’s leading pharmaceutical
companies, GSK fully supports the Convention on
Biological Diversity’s role in providing a framework
for the conservation of biological diversity, the
sustainable use of its components and respect for
traditional knowledge. We also support the CBD
objective “to provide fair and equitable sharing of
the benefits arising from the use of genetic
resources”.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
17Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Access to medicines
Millions of poor people in both developed and developing countries struggle to get the
medicines they need.
We are supporting efforts to improve access healthcare workers. The AIDS pandemic is making
to medicines. This section explains our: the situation even worse, depriving communities of
their greatest asset – healthy and productive people.
• Contribution to the developing world through Tackling this crisis is a complex challenge, requiring
research, preferential pricing, partnerships and visionary leadership. Poverty is a huge barrier to
voluntary licences, and community investment progress. Significant political will and extra resources
in important public health initiatives are needed to aid development and build healthcare
infrastructure. Disease programmes need to be well
• Pricing arrangements and discount cards for
co-ordinated to ensure that health systems as a
middle-income countries
whole benefit.
• Patient Assistance Programs and discount cards
We believe that it is the responsibility of
to help uninsured patients in the US
governments and intergovernmental agencies,
We believe that our response is not only the right supplemented by the work of NGOs, to deliver
thing to do but makes good business sense. healthcare in these countries. However, the
Companies that adapt their business practices to pharmaceutical industry can play a significant role
address such challenges will be the leaders of the in supporting their efforts.
future. In the competitive market for talented
We make an important contribution through:
people this also helps us to attract and retain the
best people. • Research and development into diseases
disproportionately affecting developing
Differential pricing increases affordability for patients
countries. We believe GSK is currently the only
whilst maintaining support for the intellectual
company researching both new vaccines and
property system. Intellectual property rights are
treatments for HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria – the
essential to the pharmaceutical industry because
World Health Organization’s three priority
without them we would not be able to invest in
diseases. Much of this research is conducted
R&D for new medicines and vaccines.
through public private partnerships
By finding innovative ways to help poor people in
• Preferential pricing; specially reduced prices for
developed and developing countries access our
anti-retrovirals (ARVs), anti-malarials and
medicines, we are addressing ethical, reputational
vaccines. In 2006, we shipped more than
and commercial imperatives. For these reasons
86 million Combivirand Epivirtablets at not-
access to medicines is a strategic business driver of
for-profit prices for the treatment of HIV/AIDS
GSK.
to the poorest countries of the world
We also support under-served communities
• Seeking innovative partnerships; GSK has
worldwide through donations, funding and
granted eight voluntary licences for the
practical support. See community investment.
manufacture and supply of generic versions of
Developing world our leading ARVs for treating HIV/AIDS in Africa,
Poverty has caused a healthcare crisis in many parts and is active in other partnerships such as Roll
of the developing world. Millions of people do not Back Malaria and Stop TB
have access to reliable food and clean water, never
• Community investment in public health
mind adequate healthcare. Despite unprecedented
initiatives and partnerships that foster effective
resources being made available for public health,
healthcare including major programmes to
many governments are unable to fund the clinics
tackle lymphatic filariasis, malaria, HIV/AIDS and
and staff needed to deliver basic healthcare.
diarrhoeal disease. See community investment.
The World Bank estimates that $14 per person per
Research and development
year is needed to provide the most basic health
The research and development (R&D) of new drugs
services. Yet the average spend in sub-Saharan
and vaccines is an essential element in improving
Africa is just $6. The African Region of the WHO
health in the developing world. There are still no
suffers more than 24 percent of the global burden
effective treatments for some widespread and life-
of disease, but has only 3 percent of the world’s
threatening diseases. Many existing treatments for
health workers. Migration of African health workers
diseases such as malaria are becoming less effective
to wealthier markets is exacerbating this situation.
due to drug resistance.
Globally, there is a shortage of well over 4 million
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
18Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
For HIV/AIDS which affects both developed and diseases of the developing world (DDW). This Access to healthcare – whose
developing countries, there is a commercial market includes a DDW drug discovery centre at our Tres responsibility?
for new treatments. This encourages investment Cantos R&D site in Spain where over 100 scientists Access to healthcare in the
developing world remains a
into the required R&D. GSK is an industry leader in are based, and clinical development experts in the
complex issue. We believe that
research into HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention. UK and US. DDW projects are prioritised according
only a holistic approach
to their social and public health benefits rather than embracing prevention and
However, for many diseases that disproportionately
their commercial returns. A similar group exists in treatment will work. All
affect the developing world, the lack of resources
our vaccines organisation based in Belgium. stakeholders have a role to play.
for healthcare means there is often no viable
Pharmaceutical companies must
commercial market for new treatments. Public In total GSK is conducting R&D into 11 diseases of
make their medicines affordable
private partnerships (PPPs) are helping to address particular relevance to developing world1. This
to developing countries and
this problem. includes 14 clinical programmes for medicines and invest in research into diseases
vaccines against these diseases. Seven of these of the developing world – new
GSK collaborates with several PPPs including the
projects are for diseases that disproportionately treatments are urgently needed.
Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV), the Global
Alliance for TB Drug Development (TB Alliance), the affect developing countries. Some of these are Wealthy nations must give more.
summarised below. Welcome new funding is coming
Aeras Global TB Vaccine Foundation (Aeras), the
through from the Global Fund to
Malaria Vaccine Initiative (MVI) and the International
Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria, the
AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI). Gates Foundation, PEPFAR (The
1 HIV/AIDS, malaria, leishmaniasis, dengue fever, hepatitis C, US President’s Emergency Plan
GSK has created a dedicated group in our
hepatitis E, N. meningitis, cervical cancer, TB, chlamydia and for Aids Relief) and others – but
pharmaceutical R&D organisation to focus on pneumococcal disease funds are still inadequate.
Resources are needed to fund
research, purchase medicines
Development pipeline at end of 2006 for diseases relevant to the developing world* and to discourage the export of
trained healthcare workers from
Focus Pre-clinical activity Phase I Phase II Phase III Marketed developing countries.
Developing countries must show
✓
HIV integrase inhibitor Retrovir, Epivir, genuine political commitment
HIV-1 entry inhibitor Combivir,Ziagen, to addressing stigma, removing
NNRTI Trizivir, Agenerase, import tariffs and prioritising
Kivexa,Telzir healthcare in national budgets.
✓ Middle-income countries must
Vaccines HIV Malaria Synflorix Rotarix–
accept their responsibilities and
Malaria HIV (DNA- (P. falciparum) (pneumococcus (rotavirus) not seek the lowest prices
(P. vivax) antiviral TB disease) Havrix– offered to the world’s poorest
HIV vaccine) Hepatitis E Cervarix (Hepatitis A) countries.
Chlamydia Dengue Fever (Cervical cancer) Engerix-B –
We have developed a Seven
N.meningitis (Hepatitis B)
Point Planfor a sustainable
combinations Twinrix–
approach to improving
(Hep A&B)
healthcare in the developing
Infanrix/Tritanrix
world, which we use in
– DPT family
our advocacy efforts. In 2006
(Diptheria,Tetanus, these included:
Pertussis)
Boostrix– • Submissions to the UK
Department for International
(DTP acellular)
Development’s (DfID)
Polio Sabin –
consultations on its White
(Polio)
Paper ‘Eliminating world
Priorix–
poverty: Making governance
(Measles,Mumps
work for the poor’, and also
and Rubella)
to health strategy
Typherix– (Typhoid)
Hiberix– • Submissions to the G8
(Haemophilus influenzae governments ahead of the
St Petersburg summit
type b)
MencevaxACW – • Face-to-face meetings with
(meningitis) Hilary Benn, UK International
✓ Development Secretary, UN
Malaria tefenoquine CDA Lapdap,Halfan, Secretary General KofiAnnan,
Malarone UK Government officials,
✓ White House officials, EU
TB officials and NGO
✓ representatives
Other sitamaquine Zentel
Hepatitis C (visceral (de-worming agent) • Interactions with UNAIDS,
leishmaniasis) Pentostam UNITAID (the new
(visceral leishmaniasis) international drug purchase
Banocide facility) and the World Health
(lymphatic filariasis Organization
– GSK India)
* more detailed information on our product pipeline can be found in the Annual Report
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
19Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
What’s different about R&D for PROGRESS IN 2006 HIV/AIDS
medicines for the developing Vaccines
world? Malaria GSK is a leader in the global effort to develop an
GSK scientists working on Vaccines AIDS vaccine. We have been involved in AIDS
treatment projects for diseases
GSK has been working on a malaria vaccine for over vaccine research for more than two decades and
disproportionately affecting
developing countries make 20 years. In 2005 clinical trials of our malaria vaccine today we are pursuing four separate vaccine
access to medicines a priority for children showed that the vaccine remained technologies. A successful AIDS vaccine might need
right from the start of the R&D efficacious over 18 months in reducing severe to combine several of these approaches.
process. malaria by 49 percent in children. Several more years
When researching new of clinical investigation are needed but these results GSK and the Institut Pasteur are working together
treatments we produce a Target indicate it has the potential to help save millions of to develop an AIDS vaccine by fusing genes from the
Product Profile (TPP) – outlining children’s lives. In 2006 additional phase II clinical HIV virus onto an existing measles vaccine. The
the characteristics we are trials of the vaccine were initiated in Mozambique, project is being supported by a Euro 5.5 million
looking for in any new molecule. Kenya, Tanzania, Gabon and Ghana. These are (£3.7 million) grant from the European Union.
As well as safety and efficacy, a
TPP for a new DDW treatment supported by a grant from the Malaria Vaccine We are part of a public private partnership with the
emphasises factors such as: Initiative at PATHfunded by the Bill & Melinda International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI) to
Gates Foundation, and will further evaluate the develop an AIDS vaccine using nonhuman primate
• Heat and humidity
resistance – the product vaccine in different settings and with younger adenovirus vector technology. The collaboration –
must be able to survive in a children. If these trials are successful, the partners the first ever in AIDS vaccine research between IAVI
hot climate where there will initiate a large-scale phase III clinical trial. If the and a major vaccine company – will facilitate
may not be refrigeration results continue to be positive the vaccine could be research into vaccines against types of HIV that
facilities submitted for regulatory approval as early as 2010. circulate predominantly in Africa.
• Ease of use – it must be easy
to use in settings where Treatments GSK Biologicals also has an in-house AIDS vaccine
there are limited healthcare We are working closely with the Medicines for development project using the company’s prop-
facilities. For example once- Malaria Venture, which subsidises 30 scientists at rietary adjuvant system technology. Two phase I
a-day tablets that can be our Tres Cantos facility, the World Health clinical trials have been conducted with this vaccine,
taken at home are Organization (WHO) and academic partners to in the United States in partnership with the US
preferable to an injectable develop CDA, an affordable fixed-dose artemisinin National Institutes of Health’s HIV Vaccine Trials
medicine that must be
administered in a hospital or combination treatment for drug-resistant malaria in Network, and the other in Belgium at Ghent
clinic Africa. In 2006 phase III clinical trials were initiated University. These trials, completed in 2003 and 2005
at several sites across Africa. An additional phase III respectively, demonstrated that the vaccine is safe
• Affordability – price is one
of the most important study is planned for 2007 involving infants between and produces a strong immune response. A third
factors. We look for the ages of three months and one year. We aim to phase I trial in 20 HIV-infected volunteers was
molecules and formulations submit CDA for regulatory approval in early 2008. initiated in late 2005 in collaboration with the
that are straightforward to In March 2006, we identified a lead candidate Partners AIDS Research Center at Massachusetts
manufacture and therefore
inexpensive to produce (GW308678) to take forward into development General Hospital in Boston, and the results are
from our pyridones project, along with a backup currently being analysed. A follow-up approach
candidate (GW308121). These drugs have the explores a similar strategy using a new antigen
potential to be highly active against drug-resistant named F4. A phase I clinical trial of the F4 vaccine
strains of malaria and show none of the toxicity candidate is scheduled to begin in the near future
issues that affected a previous candidate in this class. in Belgium.
Significant chemical and pharmaceutical develop- Our fourth approach aims to develop an improved
ment was undertaken on the anti-malarial drug adjuvanted envelope (Env) protein vaccine able to
GSK369796 (n-tert butyl isoquine) and we plan to produce neutralising antibodies that will provide
start clinical studies in humans when partner lasting protection against infection with HIV. This
funding becomes available. The drug is relatively approach is currently under preclinical evaluation.
straightforward to synthesise and manufacture, and Treatments
therefore has the potential to be relatively In December 2006 we discontinued the clinical
inexpensive. development of brecanavir, our protease inhibitor
Clinical data for tafenoquine, a new antimalarial for patients with multi-drug resistant HIV infection.
being developed in partnership with the US Military, We were unable to develop an oral dosage
have shown that a tafenoquine-containing formulation that could consistently deliver the
combination regimen may work faster than existing correct dosage of brecanavir to the patient.
therapies in the treatment of P. vivaxmalaria and Our scientists are working on new HIV medicines in
may also help to address concerns about emerging several different drug classes. Our integrase inhibitor
resistance to existing treatments. We are in discovery programme is very active and the lead
discussions regarding the funding of additional candidate 364735C, which is being developed in
development work for the treatment of P. vivax partnership with Shionogi, is currently in phase II
malaria and we plan to proceed with clinical development. New HIV-1 entry inhibitor and non-
development in 2007. nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)
candidates are entering the pipeline.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
20Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Experts at WHO and UNICEF have stated that access In partnership with Stellenbosch University in South
to appropriate ARV tablets (as opposed to ARV Africa, GSK is supporting grant applications to fund
liquid formulations) would facilitate the treatment of a programme to identify “biomarkers” in people
children old enough to be able to swallow tablets. who may respond to specific treatments. Such
We are developing scored tablets for our key ARVs biomarkers can be used to predict whether or not
(Epivir, Ziagen, and Combivir) so they can be broken patients will respond quickly to treatment or if TB is
into two smaller doses suitable for the treatment of likely to recur.
children. This will simplify treatment and help
Rotavirus
physicians and carers administer the right dose
Rotavirus infection is the leading cause of severe
efficiently and safely to children. We expect to
diarrhoea and vomiting (gastroenteritis) in children
submit the scored tablets for registration in 2007.
under two and kills around 600,000 children each
We want to continue to play an important role year – one child every minute – mostly in developing
in the treatment of HIV in children and we support countries. Our vaccine, Rotarix, for the prevention of
four paediatric clinical studies involving 2,400 rotavirus induced gastroenteritis, was launched in
children in five resource-poor countries. Mexico in January 2005 and has now been
approved in 89 countries and is being registered in
We provide ARVs through our international HIV
a further 26. Most registrations have been in the
Collaborative Research Trial programme to support
developing world. The vaccine is now part of
clinical studies run by third parties. We are currently
national immunisation programmes for all new-
supporting 21 clinical studies involving 19,500
born babies in eight developing countries including
patients, of which 16 studies are taking place in sub-
Brazil, El Salvador, Mexico, Panama and Venezuela.
Saharan Africa. These include eight studies on
We have distributed 12.5 million doses since launch.
prevention of mother-to-child transmission, one on
Early in 2007, GSK received prequalification status
prophylactic properties, the four studies on children
for its rotavirus vaccine from the World Health
mentioned above, four on HIV-TB co-infection, and
Organization (WHO). This is required before UN
four on adult treatment strategies. These studies are
organisations and GAVI(formerly known as the
intended to advance knowledge about the use of
Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation) can
ARVs in resource-poor settings and also help to
purchase a vaccine. This was timely as it
increase access to ARVs.
complemented the decision by GAVI in late 2006 to
Tuberculosis (TB) provide funding to support the introduction of
TB kills two million people a year and is a leading rotavirus vaccines in developing countries.
cause of death among people with AIDS in the
Cervical cancer
developing world. But no new drugs against TB
Cervical cancer is the most common cause of cancer
have been discovered in more than 40 years.
deaths in women in the developing world. Current
Vaccines published data suggest that our Cervarix vaccine
GSK and the Aeras Global TB Vaccine could reduce by 70 percent a woman’s lifetime risk
Foundationare developing GSK’s TB candidate of developing cervical cancer. We applied for
vaccine. Early-stage clinical trials in the US and registration of the vaccine in Europe as well as
Belgium showed that the vaccine is safe and well- 28 countries in our International region during
tolerated and produces a strong immune response. 2006. We are on track to file for regulatory approval
In 2006 we began additional trials involving adults in the US by April 2007. We are committed to
previously infected with TB or vaccinated with making Cervarixwidely available, and will make it
Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG). We plan to conduct available to low-income countries at preferential
further studies in Africa and other locations to test prices through GSK’s tiered pricing model for
the safety and efficacy of the vaccine candidate in vaccines.
populations highly affected by TB.
We are conducting clinical studies on the use of the
Treatments vaccine in low income settings.
In 2005 we launched a joint drug discovery
Leishmaniasis
partnership with the Global Alliance for TB Drug
Sitamaquine is our potential new once-a-day oral
Development(TB Alliance). The TB Alliance aims to
treatment for visceral leishmaniasis. This disease
accelerate the development of affordable drugs that
affects half a million people a year in the developing
will shorten treatment and be effective against
world and is usually fatal if untreated. GSK is
multi-drug-resistant strains of TB. All compounds
providing all the funding for this project. A new
will be screened to ensure they can be taken with
treatment for visceral leishmaniasis is urgently
HIV treatments. The TB Alliance is supporting
needed, since current medicines are either
25 full-time scientists working exclusively on the TB
impractical or becoming ineffective due to drug
drug programme at Tres Cantos. GSK is contributing
resistance or are simply unaffordable. Sitamaquine
a matching number of staff and all remaining
has shown good efficacy in phase II trials. The trials
overhead costs. Around 1.5 million compounds
also suggest that a shorter treatment period can be
have now been tested for anti-TB activity and we
achieved – perhaps up to half of the four weeks
have four pre-clinical TB projects underway.
needed for current treatments. The low cost
suggests that sitamaquine could be the first truly
accessible treatment for visceral leishmaniasis which
affects the poorest of the poor.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
21Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Public private partnerships (PPPs) PREFERENTIAL PRICING
What is a PPP?
In a PPP, companies such as GSK Poverty, lack of political will and insufficient medical supply. In 2006 our licencees supplied over
provide the R&D, technology, infrastructure (hospitals, clinics and health workers) 120 million tablets of their versions of Epivirand
manufacturing and distribution
are the biggest barriers to accessing healthcare in Combivirto Africa.
expertise. Academic institutions
developing countries.
may also provide research and We will continue to look for new customers for our
disease area knowledge. Public The affordability of medicines is also important and nfp ARVs in these countries and to regularly review
sector partners, governments,
there are two elements to this: our nfp prices. However, it may well be that our
or organisations such as the
licencees are able to produce first-line ARVs at lower
Gates Foundation, help fund the • The ability of governments or patients to pay
development and delivery costs costs and will increase their share of the business.
for medicines. Governments and inter-
and ensure that medicines get
governmental agencies must make significant A massive scale-up in treatment for HIV/AIDS is
to the people who need them.
Funds are usually channelled additional financial resources available to solve planned by the global community in the next five
through organisations such as this problem. years. We are negotiating agreements with contract
the Medicines for Malaria manufacturers to ensure we have the capacity to
• The price at which medicines are sold – an area
Venture. contribute to meeting this demand.
GSK can help to address.
Why are PPPs needed?
The WHO published new treatment guidelines for
GSK wants to invest in research We are making ARVs and anti-malarials available to
to tackle diseases that blight the developing countries at more affordable prices. This patients with HIV. Our ARV abacavir is now
developing world. However, recommended as a first-line treatment option. In
is a major commitment that we call ‘preferential
there is a dilemma. We must be May we reduced the nfp price of abacavir-
pricing’. It includes not-for-profit (nfp) prices for the
profitable to sustain our business containing ARVs by 30 percent and made our two
and to continue to develop new world’s poorest countries, and discounted prices for
new ARVs – Kivexaand Telzir -– available at nfp
medicines. This business model wealthier developing and middle-income countries,
prices.
does not work in cases where see page 23.
there is no prospect of a There have been concerns that pharmaceutical
commercial return. Other factors in the supply chain such as taxes,
companies are not doing enough to register
Unfortunately, lack of resources tariffs and distributor mark-ups can significantly
essential medicines in developing countries and that
means there is limited market increase the price of medicines. These factors are
for new treatments for diseases this prevents these countries from taking advantage
out of our control and should be addressed by
that disproportionately affect of preferential pricing offers. We continue to review
governments.
developing countries. The PPP the registration needs for our key ARVs in our
model, in which business and For middle-income developing countries we 64 target developing countries to ensure that Epivir,
the public sector work together,
continue to negotiate public sector prices on a case- Retrovirand Combivirare available as widely as
offers a solution.
by-case basis to improve affordability, see page 23. necessary and possible.
How does the partnership work
in practice? GSK vaccines are also available at preferential prices. A current focus is to also make abacavir and
Drug discovery takes place at We use a tiered pricing structure for vaccines – prices abacavir-containing ARVs available in these
our dedicated diseases of the for the developing world can be as little as a tenth locations. We will prioritise our efforts where there
developing world Discovery
of those for developed countries. We work with is the greatest medical need – in particular the
Centre at Tres Cantos. GSK
multinational organisations such as UNICEF, the 15 PEPFAR countries and other developing countries
provides the facilities and meets
all the running costs. There are World Health Organization and the Pan American with a significant HIV burden where high-quality
over 100 GSK scientists at Tres Health Organisation, governments and non- alternatives to abacavir are not available.
Cantos, half of whom are governmental organisations, to provide appropriate
Product diversion, where not-for-profit medicines
subsidised by our partner and affordable vaccines for developing countries.
organisations – the Medicines are illegally shipped back for sale in wealthier
This includes basic polio vaccines as well as specially
for Malaria Venture (MMV) and countries, denies treatment to patients in poorer
developed combination vaccines that target several
the Global Alliance for TB Drug countries. Our anti-diversion measures include
Development (TB Alliance). diseases. In 2006, of the 1.1 billion vaccines we access packs (such as red rather than white tablets)
shipped, around 75 percent went to the developing
As compounds move into clinical for Combivir, Epivirtablets, Epivirsolution, Trizivir
world. This is lower than in previous years due to the
development, GSK provides the and Retrovirsolution which are now registered in
clinical, regulatory and timing of some significant tenders. more than 50 countries. GSK was the first company
manufacturing expertise and
Progress in 2006 to receive a Positive Opinion (for Epivir and Combivir
resources through our global
We shipped 27 million tablets of nfp Combivirand red coloured tablets) from the European Medicines
R&D and supply network.
Partners help fund the cost of 59 million tablets of nfp Epivirto the developing Evaluation Agency (EMEA) via the Article
running clinical trials and address world compared with 45 million and 81 million 58 regulatory procedure for medicines intended for
issues of access and distribution. tablets respectively in 2004 and 2005. use outside of the EU. This should serve to speed up
This reduces the costs of registration of red coloured tablets in developing
development and gets new This decrease was expected and is primarily due to
countries.
products to patients faster. more customers purchasing ARVs from generic
Research programmes are manufacturers including those licensed by GSK. This
overseen by joint steering
is a positive indication that our licensing policy is
committees with representatives
working.
from GSK and our partners.
Does this affect the price of In the last year generic manufacturers licensed by
new treatments? GSK have significantly increased their
Importantly, under the terms manufacturing capacity and ability to supply larger
of our agreement, we are
quantities of ARVs at lower prices. We welcome this
committed to make any new
trend as it gives customers in sub-Saharan Africa
treatments resulting from PPPs
accessible to the developing greater choice and contributes to better security of
world at affordable prices.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
22Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
A report from the UN-led Accelerating Access
Initiative (AAI), suggests that by September 2006
more than 738,000 people living with HIV/AIDS in
developing countries were receiving treatment with
at least one ARV supplied by the seven
pharmaceutical companies in the AAI (compared
with 221,000 people on treatment in 2004). This
includes 424,000 patients in Africa.
Extending preferential pricing
We are considering extending our preferential prices
in Africa to a wider range of products. However, a
number of commercial factors and the overall
market environment must be considered. The
findings from our five country pilot study are
informing this evaluation.
VOLUNTARY LICENSING AND
PARTNERSHIPS
GSK wants to play its part in the global response to
the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Our preferential pricing
arrangements enable us to supply highly
discounted, safe and quality products for as long as
they are needed. In some situations voluntary
licences also help to increase the supply of
medicines.
Voluntary licences (VL) enable local manufacturers
to produce and sell generic versions of our products.
We granted our first VL in 2001 and have now
negotiated eight licencing agreements for our ARVs
in Africa. This includes a new licence agreed in 2006
with a South Africa company. Some of our VLs cover
individual countries or trade blocks whilst others
cover all of sub-Saharan Africa. VLs are not a
universal solution to HIV/AIDS but a specific
response to a particular set of circumstances.
A decision to grant a VL depends on a number of
factors including the severity of the HIV/AIDS
epidemic in that country, local healthcare provision
and the economic and manufacturing environment.
Selecting the most appropriate licensee is key. We
need to be sure that the manufacturer will be able
to provide a long-term supply of good quality
medicines and will implement safeguards to prevent
the diversion of medicines to wealthier markets.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
23
)noillim(
stelbat
fo
rebmuN
Our not-for-profit prices in
Supply of preferentially priced There has been much discussion about the use of
summary
Combivirand Epivirtablets compulsory licences, under which intellectual
property rights are taken away from rights holders. Which medicines?
Compulsory licenses are one of the flexibilities in the All our HIV/AIDS (ARVs) and
World Trade Organisation’s TRIPs agreement on malaria treatments.
225500
GSK licencees
intellectual property. GSK believes that widespread Which customers?
use of compulsory licences will undermine the Public sector customers and not-
220000
intellectual property framework and be counter- for-profit organisations in all
productive in the long term. R&D into new eligible countries and private
115500 120 employers in sub-Saharan Africa
126.3 treatments, especially where commercial markets
who provide treatment for non-
exist, such as for HIV/AIDS, depends on protection
insured staff.
110000 for intellectual property.
66.4 Which countries?
All the Least Developed
50 86.3
Countries and sub-Saharan
16.2
7.7 Africa, as well as countries with
00 eligible Global Fund and PEPFAR
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES
projects – over 100 countries in
total. See eligibility for not-for-
Middle-income countries are more economically
profit prices in the background
developed but often have healthcare demands that section of our website for more
outstrip their available resources. These challenges details.
are made worse by a growing AIDS epidemic in
What does it cost?
many middle-income countries. Combivir, our leading ARV, is
available at $0.65 a day. Our nfp
We can only afford to supply products at low prices
prices also include delivery and
in the world’s poorest countries if we can still make
insurance costs.
an adequate return on them in wealthier markets.
How much?
Nevertheless, we recognise that many middle-
Our nfp prices are applicable to
income countries need assistance.
orders of any size and are not
dependent on large order
We negotiate preferential pricing arrangements
quantities.
with middle-income countries on a case-by-case
basis. This is done bilaterally through dialogue with For how long?
Our nfp prices are sustainable –
governments. We believe this is the best approach
we do not make a profit on
since the disease burden, and resources available to
them, but we do cover our
address, it vary significantly from country to country manufacturing and distribution
and also within countries. These arrangements costs. Therefore we can continue
combine a viable and sustainable commercial return to supply them in the long-term.
for GSK with improved affordability for the
healthcare systems concerned.
For several more developed countries we are also
introducing discount cards for senior citizens, see
developed world.
Activity in 2006
Russia
We announced an agreement to supply ARVs to
the Russian Government at discounted prices. This
is the first direct, federal purchase of anti-retroviral
medicines in Russia. During 2006 GSK supplied over
90,000 treatment packs to the Russian Government
of its HIV medicines, Combivir, Epivirand Ziagen
which were dispensed by hospital centres across the
country. This agreement will contribute to the
Russian Government’s target of reaching 15,000
patients by the end of 2006. This target has been
doubled to 30,000 in 2007.
China
In September 2006, we signed a voluntary licence
with Simcere, a Chinese manufacturer, granting
them the right to manufacture and sell zanamivir
(Relenza) containing products in China, Indonesia,
Thailand, Vietnam and all LDCs. Relenzais an anti-
viral which can help treat influenza. More than half
of all human cases of flu caused by the H5N1 virus
have occurred in the Asia-Pacific region.Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Intellectual property rights in India
India has developed a large generics industry partly This is a significant reduction from last year and
as a result of national legislation that did not permit reflects the introduction of a new drug benefit as
patent protection for pharmaceutical products. In part of the US Medicare programme– known as
2005, to comply with the WTO Trade Related Medicare Part D. Prior to this, Medicare patients did
Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs) not have prescription coverage for most medicines.
agreement, India introduced legislation that allowed Once a patient had enrolled in a Medicare Part D
for the patenting of pharmaceutical products. In the Plan, they became ineligible for our existing patient
context of the access to medicines debate, some assistance programmes (Bridge to Access and
argue that this obligation on India will result in an Commitment to Access). However we still recognise
end to the provision of cheap generics and that, even with this drug coverage, these patients
undermine the future availability of affordable may still need assistance. A new programme GSK
innovative products. Accessprovides the extra help some low income
senior and disabled Medicare Part D patients need
GSK believes that the intellectual property
in getting their medicines. This programme allows
protection provisions set out in TRIPs are vital to the
those who spend $600 out of pocket in 2007 for
development of medicines to meet unmet medical
prescription medicines, and whose incomes are
needs around the world. A robust IP system is
between 135 percent to 250 percent, (up to 350
essential to encourage research-based companies
percent for Oncology products) of the Federal
to undertake risky and hugely expensive R&D to
Poverty Level to apply and if eligible obtain GSK
discover new and better medicines and vaccines.
medicine for free for the remainder of 2007. See
Most of the generic medicines already on the
www.gsk-access.comfor more information. We
market in India will not be affected by the
expect this new programme to increase the number
introduction of patent protection. They will continue
of patients in our assistance programmes during
to be available in India and elsewhere in the same
2007.
way as they are today. We also believe that the
public health safeguards in the TRIPS agreement will In January 2005, GSK and nine other pharma-
prevent access problems in the future. ceutical companies created a discount savings
programme to improve access to medicines for
The root cause of developing countries’ inability to
uninsured Americans who are not eligible for
address their healthcare problems does not lie with
Medicare. The Together Rx Accesscard provides
the patenting system but with a lack of funding, a
savings of 25-40 percent on more than
lack of political will and inadequate healthcare
300 medicines. Approximately 37 million people,
infrastructure. None of these factors is affected by
around 80 percent of the people in the US without
intellectual property rights or by full implementation
prescription insurance, are eligible to enroll. The
of TRIPs in India or elsewhere.
participating companies enrolled 469,888 people in
2006, who received 1.6 million 30-day prescriptions
saving $24million (based on WAC). Of these, GSK
provided discounts of $3.1 million to 98,955
DEVELOPED WORLD
patients through 31,737 30-day prescriptions.
Access to medicines is not just an issue for the
Orange Cardsin middle income countries
developing world. Even in developed countries
Our Orange Cardin the Ukraine gives all asthma
some patients cannot afford the medicines they
and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients
need. This is a particular problem in the US where
who are under 25 or over 50, an average discount
many people do not have health insurance. GSK
of 19 percent on the most popular presentations of
has developed Patient Assistance Programs and a
GSK’s Seretide asthma medicine. Asthma patients of
discount savings card in the US to help patients
any age who suffer disabilities or who are affected
without insurance.
by the Chernobyl nuclear disaster are also eligible.
We are also introducing discount savings cards in Eligibility is assessed by the patient’s doctor and
several middle-income countries to enable patients can receive the medicine at participating
qualifying patients to obtain prescription medicines pharmacies. A hotline number has been set up to
at a discount price. help patients find their nearest pharmacy. In 2006
Orange Card discounts totalled $119,722
Programmes in the US
(£65,000).
Patient Assistance Programs provide prescription
medicines to low-income, uninsured patients free In Lithuania, our Orange Card gives senior citizens
or at minimal cost. GSK operates several and the disabled an average discount of 40 percent
programmes, including Commitment to Access on the patient co-payment on all GSK prescription
which covers cancer treatments and Bridges to medicines. So far more than 25,000 patients
Access which covers other medicines for out- have applied for an Orange Card and over
patients. Patients are registered through one phone 200 pharmacies (20 percent of the pharmacies in
call from a patient advocate and receive medicine at Lithuania) are registered to participate. In 2006,
their local pharmacy or by mail order. In 2006, 25,000 patients received discounts worth
402,000 patients received GSK medicines worth £150,000.
$370 million through these programmes, compared
with $464 million in 2005. The value of the
medicines is calculated using the wholesale
acquisition cost (WAC).
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
24Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
GSK’s Orange Cardin Bulgaria provides low-income
patients with a discount on GSK medicines to treat
chronic diseases such as asthma, chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease and diabetes. We broadened the
scope of our Orange Cardin 2006 in response to
changes in the Bulgarian reimbursement system
which meant that 50,000 patients with chronic
diseases could no longer access state assistance for
their currently prescribed medicines. The Orange
Cardprovides direct benefits (in the form of subsidy)
to patients suffering from three important chronic
diseases in Bulgaria – asthma, diabetes and benign
prostate hyperplasia. The 2006 GSK investment in
the Orange Cardin Bulgaria is now Euro 4.5 million
(£3.1million).
Summary of GSK discount programmes
Country GSK programme Number of patients Value of benefit
to patients
US Patient Assistance Programs – Free or
minimal cost medicines for low-income, 402,000 received $370 million
uninsured patients prescriptions (£200 million)
US Together Rx Access – Discounts for all
low-income uninsured patients. 98,955 received $3.1 million
Joint industry programme prescriptions (£1.6 million)
Bulgaria Orange Card – Discounts for low-income Euro 4.5 million
patients with chronic diseases 50,000 approx (£3.1 million)
Lithuania Orange Card – Discounts for senior
citizens and disabled people 25,000 £150,000
Ukraine Orange Card – Discounts on asthma and $120,000
COPD medicine for patients under 25 or over 50 not available (£65,000)
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
25Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Research
Research and development (R&D) of new medicines and vaccines is at the core of our
business and makes a significant contribution to society.
Our product pipeline New medicines and vaccines have brought ANIMAL RESEARCH
GSK’s R&D pipeline includes
huge benefits to the health and quality of life
potential new treatments and Animal research and testing is an essential
of millions of people over the last 100 years.
vaccines for many serious and component of understanding disease and
debilitating conditions But continued R&D remains as important as ever.
evaluating safety and effectiveness of new vaccines
including: There are still many serious, debilitating and life-
and prescription and over-the-counter medicines.
threatening illnesses for which there are no effective
• Alzheimer’s disease
treatments or where treatments could be Safety regulations require us to test all new
• Asthma
significantly improved. medicines on animals before they are tested in
• Atherosclerosis clinical trials using humans. Most vaccines have to
Our goal is to build the best product pipeline in
• Cancer the industry. In 2006 we invested £3.5 billion be tested on animals each time a new batch is
produced.
• Depression ($6.4 billion) and employed over 15,000 people in
• Diabetes R&D. GSK has 17 animal research laboratories in Europe,
Asia and the US. Some animal research is conducted
• Heart disease Our research aims to address unmet medical needs.
by external contractors on our behalf. This
Our pipeline includes compounds with the potential
• HIV/AIDS represents an additional 9 percent of animals1. We
to make a major contribution to healthcare in
• Influenza estimate that animal research accounts for around
developing countries, see Access to medicines.
5 percent of all GSK research expenditure.
• Malaria Throughout the R&D process we seek the views of
• Rheumatoid arthritis patients to inform our research. Focusing on patient Around 99 percent of the animals used by GSK are
needs drives innovation which brings commercial rodents (such as rats, mice, guinea pigs) and rabbits.
• TB
success. The remaining 1 percent includes fish, ferrets, pigs,
dogs, cats and primates.
We recognise that biomedical and pharmaceutical
research raises ethical concerns – from the use of
Animals used by GSK in 2006 %
new technologies to the objective reporting of
clinical trial results. We are committed to attaining
mouse 67.7
high ethical and scientific standards in all our R&D
work. This section explains our approach to: rat 25.0
• Animal research, and our efforts to reduce, guinea pig 5.2
refine and replace animal testing
other rodent 0.1
• The conduct of clinical trials. How we ensure
rabbit 0.8
GSK sponsored clinical trials are carried out to
the same high ethical standards irrespective of other 1.2
where they are conducted
Ultimately GSK would like to see the important
• Training and auditing for clinical trials. How we benefits of research being achieved without the use
train GSK employees involved in clinical trials of experimentation which has the potential to cause
and how we check that trials are carried out to pain or distress to animals. We do not believe this
Good Clinical Practice (GCP) standards can be achieved in the foreseeable future, therefore
GSK is committed to the 3Rs – reduction,
• Clinical trial information and results. How we
refinement and replacement of animals in research
publicly disclose trial information and results
– and to achieving high standards of animal welfare.
through journal articles, the GSK Clinical Trial
Our goal is to use animals only when scientifically
Register and other public databases
necessary, use as few as scientifically feasible and to
• Patient safety. How we monitor the safety of minimise pain and distress.
our medicines
This approach continues to have an impact. In 2006
Background information on our approach to new there was a small increase in the absolute numbers
technologies, including pharmacogenetic of animals used from a baseline in 19942, however
researchand the use of transgenic animals, is the growth in R&D activity continues to greatly
available on our website. exceed any increase in animal use.
1 We started estimating our external animal use in 2002,and to 2006 have recorded external animal use as representing 3.3%,4.5%,7.1%,
6.7%,8.9% of the total animal use in our own laboratories.This change may both represent a rise but also improvement in reporting of
data from our diverse external collaborations.
2 We use 1994 as a baseline for comparison as this was the first year we were able to collect reliable data.The increased use in 2006 was
due to more mice being used,especially for vaccines testing.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
26Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Change in R&D activity compared to change in number of
animals used in GSK research laboratories*
300
250 R&D activity
Animal used
200
150
100
50
0
1994 1995 1964 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
*These data do not include animal research conducted by external contractors on our behalf.R&D activity combines our R&D
budget and our vaccine sales,the two main drivers of animal use.Vaccine sales are included since most vaccines have to be
tested on animals each time a new batch is produced.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
27
4991
ecnis
egnahc
%
Change in R&D activity compared to change in number of
animals used in GSK research laboratories*
Year Animals used R&D activity
1994 100.0% 100.0%
1995 85.9% 120.4%
1996 83.1% 128.8%
1997 86.5% 135.2%
1998 95.5% 140.7%
1999 92.5% 154.0%
2000 92.8% 168.6%
2001 92.4% 176.2%
2002 103.3% 191.8%
2003 105.0% 195.8%
2004 103.9% 203.0%
2005 102.3% 227.6%
2006 109.8% 259.0%Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Recent GSK advances in the 3Rs: Regulation and internal controls
• We replaced all wild-caught Our animal research laboratories comply with Our Animal Welfare Awards recognise employees
primates used for safety national laws on animal welfare. Regulators carry who have made outstanding advances in
testing of oral polio vaccines
out regular unannounced inspections of our sites. implementing the 3Rs. In 2006 a research team
with primates bred in
looking at smoking cessation products, received the
captivity. In 2006 we also All proposed research and testing using animals is
reduced the number of award for reducing by 40 percent the number of
considered by GSK ethical review committees. GSK
primates used for this rats used in studies into the addictive properties of
laboratories, and any external laboratories
purpose by 58 percent smoking products.
compared to 2005. We are conducting research on our behalf, must follow our
progressing the replacement code of practice on animal research which Sharing best practice
of all primates used for includes best practice standards for animal care and We fund the UK National Centre for the 3Rs’
safety testing of oral polio use. (NC3Rs) prize which recognises the best new
vaccines with genetically
techniques for implementing the 3Rs. In 2006, the
modified mice; the date to Independent accreditation by the Association for
£10,000 prize money was won for a technique that
achieve this remains subject the Accreditation and Assessment of Laboratory
to regulatory approval. Animal Care (AAALAC) International is one way reduced the number of mice subjected to an
invasive procedure used in bacterial disease
• We replaced rats used to laboratories can demonstrate that they meet best
research.
supply brain tissue with a practice standards. Ten of our animal laboratories
rat stem cell culture. This are accredited by AAALAC. These are located in Together with industry partners in the Association of
continuously produces more
Belgium, Italy, Spain, the UK and the US and this the British Pharmaceutical Industry, we are funding
cells without the need to
accreditation now covers more than 91 percent of a three-year job post at the NC3Rs to encourage
use animals, avoiding the
use of 2,000 rats each year. the animals used in GSK-owned laboratories. Our sharing of best practice.
aim is to achieve AAALAC accreditation for all our
• We have increased the In 2006, we donated our internal guide to refining
number of macaque
laboratories1.
the collection of blood samples from laboratory
monkeys housed in pairs
As we expand our business into new markets, animals. This is now available for free on the NC3Rs
allowing more social
increase vaccine production and work with more website.
interaction which improves
animal wellbeing. external partners to develop new medicines, we will We are involved in many other initiatives to
also conduct animal research and testing in more
• We introduced use of encourage research into the 3Rs and to stimulate
countries worldwide. We are assessing the impact
catheters and automated the sharing of best practice on animal research. In
blood collection systems to of these changes on our programme of animal 2006, GSK:
significantly reduce the research and in 2006 we updated our policy on the
number of rats used in review of studies we sponsor externally. • Took part in working groups run by the NC3Rs
pharmacokinetic studies on replacing and reducing the use of primates
(studies into the absorption, The three Rs
in research
distribution, metabolism Implementing the 3Rs commits us to:
and excretion of medicines). • Supported the Universities Federation for
The new approach • replacing animal studies with alternative Animal Welfare’s projects to improve housing
significantly reduces animal methods wherever possible
and husbandry for laboratory animals
use by 60 percent in this
• reducingthe number of animals used in each
commonly used type of • Participated in the European RSPCA, FRAME
study. study
and industry initiative to reduce the use of dogs
More information on how we • refiningstudies to minimise pain and maximise in safety testing
implement the 3Rs is available the information obtained from each animal
on our website. • Supported the National Academy’s Institute of
For example, we are currently replacing the use of Laboratory Animal Research and the Johns
primates with mice in vaccine batch testing. Beyond Hopkins Center for Alternatives to Animal
this we are looking at ways to use the advances in Testing in the US
quality control processes for vaccine production to
Advocacy
change testing requirements so that eventually it
We work with stakeholders to encourage reduction,
will not be necessary to test each batch of vaccines
refinement and replacement of animal research and
on animals.
testing. In 2006 we:
Training and awareness
• Joined the European Partnership for Alternatives
We provide training on the 3Rs to all staff who are
to Animal Testing, which is a collaboration
involved in the care and use of animals and publish
between the European Commission and major
quarterly news bulletins on the 3Rs to raise
companies from seven industry sectors
awarness.
• Worked with a range of stakeholders to ensure
Our ethical review committees of GSK scientists,
the impact on animals of the REACH chemicals
statisticians, senior managers, animal technicians
initiative were addressed. We believe that
and veterinarians encourages a 3Rs culture at GSK
existing data records, long-term human
through seminars and ‘Recommended Practice’
exposure records, and modern techniques that
guidelines for scientific procedures and animal
do not use animals can provide most of, if not
welfare.
all, the data required for product testing of
many of the established products that have
been in use for some time
1 In 2006 we closed a laboratory in Japan,acquired laboratories
in Croatia and Canada, and established GSK-managed
laboratories in Singapore and the US,giving a current total of
17 GSK laboratories where we use animals.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
28Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
• Gave evidence to the UK Academy of Medical CONDUCT OF CLINICAL Our policy on Payments to
Sciences study on the use of non-human Healthcare Practitioners and
TRIALS
primates in research. This confirmed that a Institutions Conducting GSK-
Sponsored or GSK-Supported
strong justification is essential for any such use. The safety and effectiveness of new medicines and
Clinical Studies
However it concluded that where there are no vaccines must be evaluated in human clinical trials • All clinical trial investigators
other means to address clearly defined before they can be approved for marketing. are selected solely on their
questions of particular biological or medical Regulators will only give approval if trials qualifications to conduct
importance, there is a strong scientific and demonstrate that a product is safe and effective and clinical research. Their history
moral case for the carefully regulated use of that its benefits outweigh any risks from potential of using GSK products is not
taken into account.
non-human primates side effects.
• Payments to practitioners
• Participated in a study on animal pain and A new product will typically be tested through three reflect fair market value for
distress in research. The study conducted by the stages of clinical trials. These involve both healthy the work performed.
Laboratory Animal Science Association and the individuals and patients with the relevant disease. • No payments are offered or
Animal Procedures Committee assessed made that could influence
In 2006 there were 159 projects in clinical
whether the severity of pain and distress could their judgement on whether
development.
be retrospectively reported. The study found to enrol or maintain a
that most research institutions already keep a Standards for clinical trials participant in a clinical study.
record of pain or distress experienced by All GSK clinical trials, wherever they are carried out,
individual animals. It concluded that making this are conducted according to the Good Clinical
information public would be useful and would Practice (GCP) guidelines developed by the
increase transparency. The study is now looking International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH)
at ways this could be done without introducing and the principles contained in the World Medical
excessive bureaucracy Association Declaration of Helsinki on the ‘Ethical
Principles for Medical Research Involving
Communicating our approach
Human Subjects (2004)’.
Some people hold strong views on animal research
and testing. We believe it is important to explain the The ICH guidelines provide an internationally
need for animal research and testing and to be open accepted ethical and scientific quality standard for
about what we do. designing, conducting, recording and reporting
trials. They cover issues such as the selection and
Our laboratories host visits from schools, colleges,
training of trial investigators, gaining informed
animal welfare organisations and others. In 2006,
consent from trial participants, monitoring and
we made over 28 visits to UK schools and hosted
quality assurance.
4 site visits. In the US we host regular Science
Literacy teacher workshops on animal research with Trial protocols (the plan for how a clinical trial will be
the Pennsylvania and North Carolina Associations conducted) are reviewed by external regulatory
for Biomedical Research. Over 1,000 teachers have agencies in the relevant countries when required,
taken part since 1994. and all protocols are considered by the relevant
ethical review committees which cover the sites
We engage regularly with animal welfare
where studies will take place.
organisations and our investors, as well as
contributing to the debate in the media. An article An ethics review committee is composed of lay
on animal research in the UK Times (29thApril 2006) people, medical professionals and scientists. They
followed a visit to a GSK UK animal laboratory. assess whether a trial is justified and whether it is
designed and will be conducted according to
In 2006, SustainAbility, the corporate responsibility
appropriate ethical standards. Ethics committees
consultancy and think-tank, benchmarked our
have the power to reject or stop a clinical trial.
reporting on animal research. They concluded it was
“Overall, the most comprehensive discussion of Safety data are routinely collected throughout
animals in research in the industry’s reporting” and development programmes and are reported to
that “animal welfare concerns are integrated into regulators in line with applicable regulations. Data
GSK’s operations and contracting”. are also reviewed by GSK on an ongoing basis for
any safety signals (events not necessarily caused by
Protest
the treatment that require further exploration). GSK
We accept the right of lawful protest against animal
has a Global Safety Board (GSB) led by the Chief
research as a part of a free society, but condemn
Medical Officer and composed of senior physicians
the use of violence and intimidation by some who
and scientists. The GSB oversees the safety of all
are opposed to animal use. Our public stance
investigational and marketed compounds,
against extremism has been complimented in the
approving the adminis-tration of investigational
media (UK Guardian 9thMay 2006), and by the UK
compounds to humans and defining the doses and
Prime Minister (UK Sunday Telegraph 14th May
duration of treatment that are considered safe. The
2006) for its robustness and openness. We welcome
GSK Global Safety Board is responsible both for
the apparent shift in the UK away from extremism
approval of pivotal protocols (pivotal trials are those
to debate, and the passage of new legislation
which provide the primary data on which regulatory
against animal extremism in the United States.
approval is based) and internal assessment of any
issues related to patient safety that arise during the
product development programme or when it is
marketed.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
29Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
We audit clinical trials to ensure they are conducted TRAINING AND AUDITING FOR
to the appropriate standards. See Training and
CLINICAL TRIALS
Auditing for Clinical Trials.
We provide training to ensure that clinical trials are
Clinical trials outside Western Europe and
performed to high ethical and quality standards. We
North America
audit the conduct of clinical trials to ensure they are
Most clinical trials take place in Western Europe and
carried out according to the study protocol, GSK
North America but GSK is starting to perform more
Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Good
trials in regions such as Central and Eastern Europe,
Clinical Practice (GCP), current regulatory directives,
South Africa, Latin America and parts of Asia.
laws, guidelines and the ethical considerations of
We seek to conduct clinical trials where: the Declaration of Helsinki.
• The population is relevant to the scientific All employees involved in designing, conducting and
question and where the results can be monitoring GSK-sponsored trials are trained in GCP.
generalised to broader populations Training is mandatory and employees must have
completed the required training before starting or
• There are qualified investigators capable of
changing jobs.
carrying out the research
In 2006 there were 14,988 training activities related
• There are people who qualify for participation
to GCP. Each ‘training activity’ represents a
in the research
successful completion of an e-learning module or
• The research can be carried out as quickly and instructor-led course related to GCP by one of our
efficiently as possible employees or contractors.
All GSK-sponsored clinical trials are conducted to We keep detailed training records which are
the same ethical standards irrespective of the routinely requested by regulatory authorities when
location. All studies meet international and national undertaking an inspection to assess the competence
regulatory and legislative requirements and are of employees undertaking clinical trials.
conducted in accordance with the principles of
GSK’s internal audit department audits GSK systems
Good Clinical Practice (GCP) standards, the
and processes involved in the conduct of trials, as
principles contained in the World Medical
well as auditing external clinical research
Association Declaration of Helsinki on the ‘Ethical
organisations and investigators performing clinical
Principles for Medical Research Involving Human
research on our behalf. A risk management
Subjects’ (2004) and GSK’s own policies.
approach is used to determine which trials are
GSK is committed to investing in R&D for diseases audited. Risk factors evaluated include the
disproportionately affecting developing countries, complexity of the study, the patient population, the
see Access to Medicines. These compounds must location of the study, previous audit history and any
usually be tested through clinical trials in developing unusual findings during the conduct of the study.
countries where the disease is prevalent and the
In 2006, 213 audits were conducted:
medicine is relevant for the local population.
• 132 audits of investigator sites conducting GSK-
In some of the least-developed countries additional
sponsored trials. This represents approximately
safeguards may be needed. For example, in some
5 percent of investigator sites participating in
cultures, while still complying with normal ethical
pivotal clinical trials
and legal requirements, additional steps are taken
to match the objectives of informed consent to local • 22 audits of internal GSK systems and processes
culture. So for example local leaders and/or family used in managing clinical trials and data
members may need to be involved in the consent
• 29 audits of clinical research organisations
process.
carrying out clinical trials on GSK’s behalf
You can read our position on clinical trials in the
• 13 audits of GSK local operating companies,
developing worldin the background section of
including the medical departments managing
our website.
the clinical research in those countries
• 17 “For Cause” audits were conducted in
response to suspected irregularities and six
investigators were reported to regulatory
agencies
Audit results are reported quarterly to the R&D Risk
Management & Compliance Board, and annually to
the GSK Audit Committee. Any concerns or issues
identified during audits are fully investigated and
appropriate action taken. This may include
retraining or, in severe cases, dismissal for the
individuals concerned as well as development of
new training programmes or procedures to prevent
a reoccurrence. Trial data may also be re-analysed.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
30Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Inspections of investigators, clinical research GSK follows the PhRMA Principles on the
organisations, Independent Ethics Committees Conduct of Clinical Trials and the
/Institutional Review Boards and sponsors of clinical Communication of Clinical Trial Resultsand is
trials are also carried out by regulatory authorities to committed to timely communication of results for
ensure the safety of trial participants, the quality of all products approved for marketing. Wherever
data, and that trials are conducted according to possible we publish our trial results in peer-reviewed
GCP. During 2006 there were more than 30 such scientific and medical journals, or in conference
inspections of GSK and investigators used by GSK abstracts and proceedings. These are used by
to conduct clinical studies. research and healthcare communities to obtain the
latest information on treatments.
GSK cannot guarantee publication by these
methods since this is at the discretion of journal
CLINICAL TRIAL INFORMATION editors and conference organisers. For this reason,
AND RESULTS we launched the GSK online Clinical Trial Register
in 2004, to supplement prescribing information and
We make the results of our clinical trials widely publications in the scientific literature.
available to healthcare practitioners and others who
The Register contains results and protocol
use or evaluate the use of our medicines. We also
information from GSK-sponsored trials of marketed
publicly disclose information about ongoing trials.
medicines. It also provides references to publications
Ongoing clinical trials that have appeared in medical journals. Anyone can
Publicly available internet-based registration of use the internet to access the register.
ongoing clinical trials can provide a stimulus for
Activity in 2006
increased participation in clinical research. It also
At the end of 2006 there were 2,760 clinical trial
provides an important reference point so interested
summaries on the GSK Clinical Trial Register
parties can track the subsequent disclosure of clinical (http://ctr.gsk.co.uk/welcome.asp). This includes
trial results.
all clinical trials of our major marketed products
GSK is legally required to post summary protocol which have been completed since the formation of
information for ongoing studies of treatments for GSK in 2000, or that were completed before this
serious or life-threatening diseases conducted under and are likely to inform medical judgement.
a US Investigational New Drug Application on the
We have continued to populate the register with
National Institutes of Health website
clinical trials that relate to our other marketed
www.ClinicalTrials.gov.
medicines and this was largely completed in 2006.
In addition, GSK is posting protocol summaries of all
clinical trials, irrespective of the countries involved,
to ClinicalTrials.gov.
At the end of 2006 there were 223 protocol
summaries of actively recruiting clinical trials on
ClinicalTrials.gov. These meet the requirements of
such postings as set out by the International 2760
Committee of Medical Journal editors. For non-
phase III trials, our policy is to delay the posting on 2125
the website of certain data elements on an
exceptional basis when they are competitively
sensitive.
Clinical trial results
Pharmaceutical companies are legally required to
disclose all relevant data from clinical trials to the
143
appropriate regulatory authorities when seeking
approval for a new product.
After approval, sponsors have a continuing
obligation to provide regulatory authorities with Number of summaries of GSK clinical trials on
updated safety information from clinical trials, see the GSK Clinical Trial Register (cumulative total)
patient safety. Safety and efficacy information is
provided to doctors through prescribing information Year Summaries
which is approved by regulators. 2004 143
In addition there is a need to use other ways to 2005 2,125
communicate the results of our clinical trials to
healthcare practitioners and others who use or 2006 2,760
evaluate the use of our medicines.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
31
seirammus
fo
rebmuN
Our approach to authorship of
journal articles
There have been concerns about
“ghost writing” of journal
articles, where doctors put their
names to articles written by
pharmaceutical companies. GSK’s
policy is that:
• Authorship and
acknowledgements for articles
must be consistent with
journal guidelines and be
determined on the level of
contribution to study design,
data acquisition, analysis and
interpretation and writing or
revising the manuscript.
• The named senior author for a
paper must actively
participate in the drafting
process, lead the content
development, and retain final
approval authority for the
manuscript.
• Any GSK staff or contractors
who contribute to the
development of manuscripts
for external authors must be
named in the article.
Read our Public Policy on
Disclosure of Clinical Trial
Information Authorship of
Journal Articles.
NNuummbbeerr ooff ssuummmmaarriieess ooff GGSSKK cclliinniiccaall
ttrriiaallss oonn tthhee GGSSKK CClliinniiccaall TTrriiaall RReeggiisstteerr
((ccuummuullaattiivvee ttoottaall))
3000
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
0
2004 2005 2006Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Genetic research and patient Our objective is to disclose on the Clinical Trial How do we monitor safety?
safety Register the trial results for all new products within An efficient, fully operational, worldwide system for
Pharmacogenetic research is the 10 months of the product reaching the market and pharmacovigilance is maintained within our
study of genetic variations that
to disclose the results of trials completed after a company. We have dedicated teams of scientists
predispose individuals to respond
product is approved for marketing within one year and healthcare professionals across the world who
differently to medicines. It is a
research area with the potential of trial completion. In 2006 a small number of monitor, review, evaluate and communicate safety
to improve the effectiveness of postings were delayed for various reasons, including issues with our medicines.
medicines and patient safety, by so that publication in scientific journals was not
identifying which patients are jeopardised. The safety of our products is assessed in clinical
more likely to benefit from a trials before a product can be approved for
medicine and which may be An independent assessment of documentation marketing. Sometimes adverse events occur after
susceptible to side-effects. processes and procedures used by GSK in approval when a product is being used by large
Pharmacogenetics relies on populating the Clinical Trial Register has been numbers of patients. We have policies and a
analysing the DNA of participants conducted by an external organisation. We will governance framework in place to help us detect
in clinical trials against the results continue to engage the services of this organisation and act on any adverse events reasonably
from their treatment. We collect
to ensure that GSK complies with the policies and associated with our products. See drug safety
blood samples for potential DNA
procedures that we have established to fulfil our governance framework.
analysis in the majority of
our phase I, II and III drug commitment to make information from our clinical Adverse events are recorded on our global safety
development trials. This includes research activities available to the public.
database and clinical trial database and investigated
with ethics committee reviews and
by our clinical and pharmacovigilance teams. This
approval and informed patient
consent. helps us to monitor the balance between benefits
and risks. Seebenefit-risk management.
PATIENT SAFETY
When appropriate, we respond to safety issues by
Ensuring patient safety is extremely important and changing product labelling and communicating
we take the safety of all our medicines, vaccines and with doctors. In most cases these actions are
medical devices very seriously. sufficient; in a small number of cases we conduct
risk minimisation activities, such as further clinical
Safety of medicines
trials. In certain cases it may also be appropriate to
Medicines are a part of modern life. In an ideal
stop clinical trials or to withdraw the medicine from
world, a medicine would target only the disease or
the market. See collecting and reporting safety
disorder it’s meant to and never do anything else.
data.
Unfortunately, despite the best efforts of scientists,
such a medicine does not yet exist. GSK is investing in a number of areas of emerging
science that have the potential to improve patient
All medicines have potential risks as well as benefits
safety, for example, pharmacogenetic research, see
although not everyone who takes a medicine will
sidebar.
experience side effects. It is important that we
identify, evaluate and minimise safety concerns to Enhancing the pharmacovigilance system
ensure that the overall benefits of a medicine The science of pharmacogivilance is continually
outweigh any risks. This is known as evolving, providing new ways of enhancing the
pharmacovigilance. pharmacovigilance framework to the benefit of
industry, regulators, healthcare professionals and
Monitoring the safety of medicines
most importantly patients. To enhance
The pharmaceutical industry has two major roles in
pharmacovigilance GSK recommends that:
managing the safety of medicines:
• Initiatives are undertaken to increase the
1. To collect, investigate and proactively evaluate
quantity and quality of the reporting of possible
information relating to side effects of medicines
side effects of medicines by healthcare
for the purpose of protecting patients and
professionals and patients
advising on drug safety
• There is a focus on the development of
2. To fulfil its legal obligations to the regulatory
electronic patient records which would permit
authorities by reporting individual adverse
“real time” access to anonymised data for the
events (AEs) on an expedited basis and/or
detection and evaluation of possible side effects
periodically, according to the drug safety
regulations of each country • Pregnancy registries are established by health
care systems to enable the rapid collection and
We strive to ensure patient interest is served through
evaluation of data related to possible adverse
the prompt detection of a potential safety issue with
events, including birth defects
one of our drugs so that appropriate communi-
cation with regulators occurs. Following evaluation, • Research is undertaken to establish the most
decisions can then be made and action taken. See effective ways to minimise the risks of medicines
collecting and reporting safety data. including effective ways of communicating the
benefits and risks of medicines to healthcare
professionals and patients
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
32Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
• There is increased harmonisation of
pharmacovigilance rules through the rapid and
consistent implementation of ICH guidelines by
the EU, US and Japan
• An EU Pharmacovigilance Regulation is
introduced to streamline and simplify
pharmacovigilance reporting requirements in
Europe
In order to achieve this it is necessary for the industry
and regulators to work together. Safety monitoring
is not considered to be a competitive area, since it
benefits all parties if carried out to the highest
standards. GSK makes new ideas and technology
available to other pharmaceutical companies and
regulators by presenting at scientific conferences
and also by working with third party software
suppliers to make new advances accessible to all.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
33Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Ethical conduct
GSK is committed to business practices that meet high standards of ethical and legal
compliance and to ensuring that our employees behave with honesty and integrity.
Getting this right requires a combination of effective systems and an ethical corporate
culture, in which it is understood that everyone is required to conduct business with
honesty and integrity and in compliance with applicable legal requirements.
Find out more Patients, consumers, doctors and governments Management certification on business ethics
In our report: want to use medicines from companies that Commitment to our Code of Conduct is reinforced
• Ethical issues in R&D, they trust. Our reputation with these by an annual management certification programme
including our policies on stakeholders is therefore critical to our business. that requires managers to confirm that they comply
relationships with doctors Meeting high ethical standards enables us to with our ethics policies. The programme covers over
involved in clinical trials, maintain their support and retain our ‘licence to 12,000 managers worldwide. Eligible managers
disclosure of clinical trial
operate’. It also helps us to attract, retain and from all business units completed the certification in
results and writing of
motivate the best people. 2006.
articles for medical
journals Unethical conduct could have serious legal and Certification is managed electronically and non-
• Our relationships with financial consequences for the company. So our certification is tracked and followed up. Non-
governments and patient ethics programmes are also an important element certification is typically due to extended leave of
groups of risk management and good stewardship of absence, such as maternity leave or long-term sick
• Supply chain standards corporate assets. leave.
• Our access to medicines This section explains our approach to business and The full certification statementis reproduced in
policies
marketing ethics and our progress in embedding an the background section of our website.
On our website: ethical culture at GSK. It covers:
Business ethics and our suppliers
• More background • GSK’s Code of Conduct and management We expect our suppliers to operate to the same high
information on our ethics
certification on business ethics ethical standards as our own employees. See
policies
Supply chainpage 50.
• Our Code of Conduct • Marketing ethics, including our codes of
practice and policy on direct-to-consumer
• Our European Marketing
advertising
Code of Practice
• Ethical training and awareness programmes
MARKETING ETHICS
• Monitoring and compliance systems, including
GSK markets its medicines to doctors, hospitals and
channels for reporting cases of misconduct
governments. In some countries, such as the US,
• Data on the number of employees dismissed or we also advertise medicines directly to consumers.
disciplined for violating company policies
Our specialist sales representatives meet regularly
with doctors and pharmacists to inform them about
our medicines and their approved uses.
CODE OF CONDUCT We believe that sales representatives play an
important role in providing up-to-date information
Our Employee Guide to Business Conduct requires to doctors on our products and their benefits to
all employees to act with integrity, comply with the patients. However, we recognise that the marketing
law, avoid conflicts of interest and report any of pharmaceutical products raises some challenging
violations of the law or GSK’s policies or any issues.
unethical behaviour. It provides guidance, including
In particular, some people are concerned that
specific examples, on what constitutes acceptable or
marketing by pharmaceutical companies exerts
unacceptable behaviour.
undue influence on doctors, that sales
Employees learn about our standards during their representatives do not always give doctors full
induction and can access the guide via the company information about potential side effects, or that
intranet. promotion for unapproved uses may be common
despite increased training, monitoring and
Read our Code of Conductand Employee Guide
oversight.
to Business Conduct.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
34Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
The promotion of pharmaceutical products is highly US Our Marketing Codes of
regulated and several governments are extending We strengthened our policy on Grants for Practice in summary
legislation in this area. For instance, six US states Independent Medical Education. All grants will now • Full and accurate information
– information can only be
require pharmaceutical companies to restrict or be made by the new Center for Medical Education
provided on approved uses
report their interactions with doctors. Requirements within our Corporate Ethics & Compliance
for a medicine. It must be
vary from prohibiting companies from providing department. Grants to medical education based on valid scientific
meals to setting annual spending limits or requiring companies (MECs), hospitals, medical associations, evidence, and must be
transparent reporting. Similar legislation is being and patient groups must not account for more than accurate, balanced, fair,
considered in many other states. The American 25 percent of that organisation’s annual budget. objective, unambiguous and
up-to-date
Medical Association now enables doctors to request Sales staff are not permitted to deal with MECs or
that their prescribing activity is not shared with other providers of independent medical education • Promotional Items to
pharmaceutical companies. or to recommend speakers for education healthcare professionals –
promotional items must be
programmes.
Our approach to addressing these issues includes given only occasionally and
the following: International region must be relevant to the
practice of medicine. Their
We revised the Marketing Code for our
• All GSK employees must comply with our nominal value must be no
international region to ensure it meets new IFPMA
marketing codes of practice – revised and more than $10 (less than £6).
strengthened in 2006 – and our policies standards and added a comprehensive Q&A to help Items cannot be made as an
employees understand our requirements. We inducement to prescribe any
governing consumer advertising
provided more guidance to employees on the use of our medicines or to medical
• Sales and marketing employees receive training of healthcare professionals as consultants and professionals retained as
consultants to GSK
to ensure they have a good understanding of sponsorship of healthcare professionals to attend
our marketing policies and the legal framework conferences. • Appropriate hospitality for
governing their sales activities meetings – no entertainment
Europe is permitted. Hospitality (such
• We have programmes to monitor compliance We updated the GSK European Promotion of as travel costs or food) may
including, in some regions, feedback from Medicines Code of Practice in March 2006 to ensure only be provided for meetings
doctors on our sales practices alignment with the updated EFPIA Code. The major with an educational purpose.
The level of hospitality must
changes include:
Marketing codes of practice be appropriate to the
Our Pharmaceutical Marketing and Promotional • New sections on distributing product occasion and must only
be provided for relevant
Activity policy applies to all employees and agents. information to healthcare professionals via
healthcare professionals,
It commits us to promotional practices that are email or the internet
not spouses, children, office
ethical, responsible, principled and patient-centred. • Prohibiting the use of competitions with prizes personnel, or any other
It prohibits kickbacks, bribery or other inducements guests. Travel costs are not
to promote our medicines
to doctors, and any promotion for unapproved uses provided in the US
of our medicines. We established a new procedure on relationships • Decisions about grants for
with patient groups and committed to publishing medical education are
This policy is supported by regional marketing
GSK funding for these groups. See patient reviewed by qualified medical
practices codes in Europe, our International region,
advocacyon page 13. or scientific personnel within
Japan and the US. These codes apply the same our compliance function
ethical standards but reflect differences in market R&D
structures, national healthcare systems and We strengthened our R&D policy on gifts and
regulations. They incorporate the principles of entertainment. This policy states that the primary
industry codes of practice such as the EFPIA, IFPMA, purpose of a meeting must be to facilitate
JPMA, and PhRMA marketing codes. substantial discussion of a medical or scientific topic.
Meals may be provided during such meetings only
Our codes are available in many languages and
if they are incidental to the meeting. The meal must
employees can access them via the intranet.
be modest in value and GSK personnel must be
A copy of the GSK European Promotion of present.
Medicines Code of Practiceis available on our
Consumer advertising
website.
This section explains our approach to advertising
Progress in 2006 our prescription medicines in the US and our
We revised our procedure for making charitable consumer healthcare products in other markets.
donations to health-related organisations and
Direct-to-consumer advertising
funding external science and medical programmes
In the US we advertise our prescription medicines to
in all our regions. Decisions about these grants must
consumers through TV and print advertisements.
now be made by relevant medical and/or
This is known as direct-to-consumer (DTC)
compliance personnel and not by sales and
advertising. New Zealand, Bangladesh and Korea
marketing departments.
also allow limited DTC advertising. DTC advertising
of prescription medicines is not permitted in other
markets.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
35Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Supporting industry In the US, we implemented a policy incorporating We belong to the Consumer Healthcare Products
codes of conduct the new PhRMA Guiding Principles on DTC Association in the US and comply with its Code of
GSK supports efforts to advertising for prescription medicines. This states Advertising Practices for Non-prescription
strengthen marketing standards
that DTC advertising should: Medicines. This states that advertising should not
across the pharmaceutical
imply a casual attitude towards using medicines or
industry. In 2006 this included: • Only begin after we have spent an appropriate
suggest that an over-the-counter medicine can
Global– We helped revise the amount of time educating doctors and
prevent or cure a serious disease that must be
International Federation of healthcare professionals about new medicines
treated by a licensed practitioner. In addition GSK
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers
and Association’s (IFPMA) Code • Be designed to educate consumers about the policies require that all claims in advertisements are
of Pharmaceutical Marketing medicine and the condition for which it is consistent with product labelling. Advertising that
Practices. GSK is a member of prescribed compares a GSK product to a competitor’s must be
the newly formed Code supported by adequate data.
Compliance Network that will • Be accurate and supported by evidence
support implementation of the GSK Consumer Healthcare advertising is reviewed
• Include information on the risks and benefits of
IFPMA standards through by Copy Review Committees (in our larger markets)
training and education. GSK treatments
or medical and legal personnel (in our smaller
helped revise the European
• Provide information on other treatment options markets) before publication to ensure it meets our
Federation of Pharmaceutical
Industries Associations (EFPIA) (such as diet and lifestyle changes), where these standards.
Code of Practice for Promotion are referenced in the prescribing information
Our over-the-counter medicines are also promoted
of Medicines for a product.
to pharmacists, doctors and dentists by our sales
Greece– GSK Greece is leading ‘Reminder’ advertisements – short advertisements teams. In 2006 a prescription weight loss medicine
the local industry body working
that mention the pharmaceutical brand name but was promoted in preparation for its approval as an
group set up to improve their
not the medical condition it is designed to treat – are over-the-counter medicine. Our US Consumer
local code of practice
not permitted. Healthcare medical sales team completed online
Korea– GSK led efforts to
training on our Marketing Codes of Practice prior to
improve the Korean Research- All DTC television advertisements (including audio
promoting this product.
based Pharmaceutical Industry and visual components) are submitted to the US
Association’s Code of Conduct
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for review at Advertising to children
and to have this endorsed by
least 30 days in advance. No problems with GSK Our guidelines for advertising to children meet or
the Korea Fair Trade Commission
DTC advertising were identified by the FDA during exceed local laws and codes of practice. They
Japan– GSK joined the Executive
2006. prohibit advertising designed to appeal to, or
Steering Committee of the Fair
targeted at, children below the legally mandated
Trade Council of the Ethical Members of the public and healthcare professionals
Pharmaceutical Drug can send comments on DTC advertising to PhRMA’s minimum age. For example, in the UK we do not
Manufacturing Industry that buy advertising space in children’s media and we do
Office of Accountability established in 2006. These
seeks to strengthen compliance not supply vending machines to primary schools.
are forwarded to the relevant company. The Office
with marketing codes
of Accountability reports periodically on the Sports star sponsorship is important to brands such
Slovakia– GSK’s General
comments and the companies’ response to the as Lucozade Sport. Our guidelines state that only
Manager in Slovakia helped
FDA. In 2006, GSK did not receive any comments people who set an appropriate example should be
found the recently formed local
industry association and now from the Office of Accountability regarding its DTC used for sponsorship, and they should have an
leads this group advertising. appeal that is not solely to children below the age
of 13.
Sri Lanka– GSK led efforts to In 2006, our employees involved in DTC marketing
create the first marketing code
attended training on our new policy and the PhRMA
for the Sri Lanka Chamber of the
Principles. We also developed a DTC e-Learning
Pharmaceutical Industry based
on the IFPMA Code module for future training.
Disease awareness campaigns
We fund disease awareness campaigns which are
designed to increase understanding of a specific
disease but are not linked to the promotion of GSK
products. We revised our policies in 2006 to make
clear that disease awareness campaigns must not
imply endorsement by a government agency,
professional body or patient advocacy group
without consent. Campaigns cannot include links
to third party websites without permission or to any
websites which contain information about uses of
our products outside of their licence.
Non-prescription products
We advertise over-the-counter medicines, oral
healthcare and nutritional products directly to
consumers. This is governed by national regulations
or codes of practice for advertising. These are
generally less stringent than the requirements for
prescription medicines.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
36Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
TRAINING AND AWARENESS US Our view on direct-to-consumer
In 2006, all new sales and marketing staff in the US advertising
Training and awareness programmes help completed training and more than 9,000 existing Promoting the use of prescrip-
employees understand and comply with our ethics staff received two hours of annual refresher training. tion medicines directly to
consumers can be controversial.
policies.
In the US, compliance is a formal performance Critics believe that it encourages
In our global leadership survey, over 91 percent of objective for sales and marketing employees. They people to request unnecessary
managers said they believe that people in their are appraised against the following objective: treatment, adding to the burden
on healthcare systems.
department show commitment to performance
with integrity. “Consistently follow company policies and We believe that responsible
procedures, take and complete required compliance pharmaceutical advertising is
Specialised training is provided for employees training in a timely manner, and report compliance a useful source of health
working in R&D, manufacturing and sales and issues to manager, Legal or Compliance.” information for patients. It
marketing where there are additional regulatory helps to increase knowledge
requirements. In addition, managers are evaluated against the of conditions and educates
following objective: patients about treatment
We monitor the success of our training through options.
regular employee surveys. In 2006 we surveyed our “Ensure that supervised employees are trained on In countries such as the US
US district sales managers (DSMs) who play an company policies and procedures and have taken all where DTC advertising is
important role in helping sales representatives required training, and provide oversight and common industry practice, we
resolve compliance questions. This showed that a direction to supervised employees so that they are need to ensure that our products
substantial majority of DSMs have a good in compliance with company policies and are also promoted in this way.
understanding of compliance issues and are procedures.” If we do not, GSK would be at a
disadvantage against our
confident that they can help representatives resolve We will launch a Compliance University in 2007 for competitors.
‘grey’ areas. The survey identified opportunities to US sales managers. This is a one day programme Patients must still consult with
enhance our training and resource materials. For designed to improve understanding of our policies their physicians about their
instance, we will provide managers with additional and the ability of managers to guide staff, reduce condition, the appropriateness
training and materials to increase their expertise and the number of breaches of our policies, and increase of a prescription medicine, and
for providing more effective guidance to their staff. managers’ expertise in detecting compliance issues obtain his or her consent before
receiving such medicines.
Ethics training so that corrective actions can be taken early.
New employees in the UK and the US complete International
induction training on our Code of Conduct. This In 2006, all sales and marketing staff continued to
ensures that they understand the importance of receive training in the Pharmaceuticals International
ethical conduct from day one, know how to deal Promotion and Marketing Code. This involves initial
with dilemmas and where to seek help. awareness sessions at induction courses and regular
We ran an Ethical Decision Making workshop for reminders and refreshers, facilitated by medical staff,
managers as part of our ‘Hot Topics’ training at sales conferences.
programme. Follow up emails were sent to In addition a number of supplemental policies were
encourage managers to review the key points with implemented in 2006 and these have been added
their teams. We piloted three e-Learning modules to an internal intranet community which supports
on ethical leadership within our Corporate HR and visibility by all International staff. Training of sales
Corporate Ethics and Compliance teams before they and marketing staff will be delivered in the first half
are rolled out to all managers worldwide during of 2007 regarding the updated International Code.
2007.
Europe
Training and awareness for sales and All pharmaceuticals sales and marketing staff in
marketing Europe were trained in the updated Promotion of
Employees working in sales and marketing receive Medicines Code of Practice and certified that they
extensive training on ethics and our marketing understood the revised Code.
policies. This includes:
Ethics training for R&D
• Induction training for new employees on our We updated our ‘Performance with Integrity’ face-
marketing codes of practice to-face induction training for R&D employees which
• Sales employees are required to pass a test on was completed by over 11,500 new and existing
our marketing code before starting their sales employees worldwide in 2006. This mandatory
role course – offered in 12 languages – includes training
on the Code of Conduct, conflicts of interest,
• Detailed training for sales representatives on the acceptance of gifts and entertainment by
medicines they promote and the diseases they employees and external professional activities.
are designed to treat
• Regular refresher courses held at least once a
year
• A yearly bulletin on the major types of unethical
conduct detected and the actions taken, for
employees in the US
• Senior managers within our European region
receive a quarterly update on the number and
types of disciplinary actions for policy breaches
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
37Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
We launched additional training for R&D employees MONITORING AND
on our policies governing;
COMPLIANCE
• Collection, use and storage of protected
We recognise that strong policies, codes of practice,
medical information (information held on
and good training do not guarantee that all
clinical trial participants relating to their health
employees will meet our standards. Our internal
status and medical conditions)
compliance systems are designed to identify and
• Collection and use of human biological address breaches of our codes.
samples, data integrity management of human
This section covers:
safety information
• The role of our Corporate Ethics and
• Public disclosure of clinical trial results
Compliance department
• Post-trial treatment for participants in GSK-
• Channels for employees to report concerns or
sponsored clinical trials
suspected cases of misconduct
Ethics training in practice
• How we address misconduct
Ethics training is designed to help employees apply
our policies in real life situations and make the right • The number of employees dismissed or
decisions in their work. disciplined for misconduct
For example, employees are encouraged to ask Corporate ethics and compliance function
themselves the following questions before making Our corporate ethics and compliance department
a decision: promotes effective compliance programmes,
addresses compliance issues, and reports problems
• Would I be embarrassed if my friends or family
and progress to senior management and the Board.
knew what decision I have made?
We have a dedicated compliance officer in each of
• How would my decision look to a cynic?
our eight business units – R&D, Manufacturing,
• What could the newspaper headline look like? Biologicals, Pharma Europe, International Pharma,
Consumer Healthcare, Japan Pharma and US
• Am I still confident that this is the right decision
Pharma, in addition to the corporate compliance
for GSK?
officer, who reports directly to the CEO.
During training employees explore ethical dilemmas
Compliance officers are senior managers with direct
they may face in their work and receive guidance to
access to the leadership teams of GSK functions.
help them understand the appropriate response.
They are a source of expertise for anyone with a
This is one example from a recent training session:
question on ethics or GSK policies. In our European
Scenario:you are at a trade conference and put and International regions they are supported by a
your business card in a prize draw. You win the network of regional and country compliance officers
grand prize, which is a set of golf clubs worth and local compliance champions. We will further
£1,000. You enjoy golf and would like a new set of strengthen these networks in 2007, particularly in
clubs. The draw is sponsored by an exhibitor with eastern Europe.
whom GSK does business. Should you keep the
Sales representatives are supervised by their
clubs?
managers who regularly monitor educational
Guidance: taking into account the GSK policy, events, visits to doctors and expenses. We also have
acceptance of entertainment and gifts by GSK independent monitors to review records in a
employees, the clubs must not be accepted and it number of key risk areas in the US. Our internal
would be better not to put your business card in audit department regularly audits our sales and
the draw. marketing practices globally.
Objectives for 2007 GSK requires each business or functional unit to
• Translate 20 key policies and the Employee identify all significant risks, implement effective
Guide to Business Conduct into 12 languages controls to manage those risks, periodically review
to improve understanding across the business those risks and provide upward communication of
any significant issues that arise.
• Create company wide compliance training on
our Employee Guide to Business Conduct to US
supplement local training and to reinforce our In the US we have four sales and marketing
annual Management Certification in Business compliance advisers who provide feedback on
Ethics infractions, conduct customised training and
recommend process improvements. They are an
important link between our compliance department
and commercial units. Our compliance data analysis
and reporting function coordinates monitoring,
reporting and targeting of our compliance efforts.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
38Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
In 2006 we set up a Strategic Tracking, Analysis & Addressing misconduct
Reporting (STAR) System. This gives senior managers Our Corporate Ethics and Compliance department
access to comprehensive compliance information monitors and tracks allegations and suspected cases
and makes it easier to identify instances of non- of legal, ethical or policy infractions. It ensures that
compliance in their area and take appropriate all such allegations are appropriately investigated.
action. Disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal, is
taken where necessary.
Europe
The European Code of Marketing Practice includes Our discipline reporting process was changed in
a quarterly reporting mechanism where the markets 2006 in order to provide GSK with the ability to
confirm whether any breaches of the code of better identify issues resulting in formal HR
practice have occurred, the severity of any breaches disciplinary action. Significant changes include: new
and what actions have been taken to prevent category sections; more precise reporting directions;
recurrence. These reports are reviewed by senior and interactive training sessions conducted with
managers. Expenses and payments to doctors (for appropriate personnel. Because of these
example for speaker fees) are monitored locally and improvements, the information for 2006 policy
a summary report for each market is reviewed by discipline cases differs from the information
our european compliance officer each quarter. reported in previous years. The overall level of
dismissals collected is similar to previous years, but
International
is not directly comparable. In future reports, GSK
We established a monthly review system in our
will be using 2006 HR policy discipline numbers as
International region. During 2006 senior managers
the baseline against which to compare policy
reviewed and resolved a number of compliance
discipline trends.
issues through this mechanism. Many other minor
issues were resolved at a local level. In 2006:
Reporting channels • 1,089 employees were disciplined for policy
Employees are encouraged to seek help and to violations
report any concerns or suspected cases of
• Of these, 284 were dismissed or agreed to leave
misconduct. They can do this through their line
the company voluntarily (known as separation)
management, a compliance officer, or through our
confidential Integrity Helplines or offsite post office • Other disciplinary actions included documented
box (in the US). warnings (805 instances) and financial penalties
Reporting channels are promoted through the • Employees staying with the company received
Employee Guide to Business Conduct, on the GSK retraining and increased monitoring
intranet and during training.
The 1,089 disciplinary actions included 381 cases of
In 2006 there were: employees breaching sales and marketing codes.
These 381 cases resulted in 49 dismissals or
• 5,363 contacts with the compliance functions.
separations from the company. All the other
This is an increase from 3,644 in 2005, and
332 cases resulted in documented warnings.
2,593 in 2004
We will these data to analyse compliance trends and
• Of these, 81percent were from employees
regional differences, and to identify appropriate
seeking advice or information; 19 percent were
corrective actions.
from employees reporting suspected cases of
misconduct
The compliance group continues to make efforts to
promote high standards of legal compliance and
ethical behaviour, as well as the use of the Integrity
Helpline as a compliance resource. The year-on-year
growth (41 percent in 2005; 47 percent in 2006)
seen in the contact figures above may be due to a
greater awareness and sensitivity to these standards.
Doctors can raise any concerns or report unethical
conduct by GSK sales representatives through our
customer response centres, during our market
research or via industry associations such as PhRMA
and the ABPI. Staff are trained to deal with concerns
about marketing practices that might be raised by
healthcare professionals, patients or the public. They
redirect calls to appropriate senior management or
a compliance officer if necessary.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
39Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Employment practices
Our goal ‘to be the best place for the best people to do their best work’ is central to our
business strategy and underpins our success. Our people are our greatest source of
competitive advantage. Their skills and intellect are essential to GSK discovering and
delivering the best new medicines and vaccines, and successfully marketing and selling
our prescription and consumer healthcare products.
Some of the employment GSK employs over 100,000 people in GSK SPIRIT
awards won by GSK in 2006
116 countries. Our goal is to be a company
• Working Mother’s Top 100 We expect employees to meet high standards in the
where talented people apply their energy
Best Places to Work in the US way they carry out their work for GSK. The GSK
and passion to make a difference in the world.
• Britain’s Top Employers 2007, Spirit defines our culture and the principles we
Competitive reward is important but not the only
independent survey run by expect employees to work by. These include:
factor that influences our ability to recruit and retain
Corporate Research
Foundation and the Guardian talented employees. • Performance with integrity
newspaper – ranked 4th
This section explains our approach to employment • Innovation and entrepreneurial spirit
• Britain’s Most Admired and our performance in 2006 including:
Companies 2006, • Accountability for achievement
Management Today – ranked • Initiatives to increase diversity and inclusion
• Passion and a sense of urgency
4th
• Training, development and talent management
• Best Companies to Work • Continuous learning and development
for Awards in Germany; • Internal communication – how we communi-
Regular performance appraisals assess whether
Hungary; Ireland; Mexico and cate with employees and get their feedback
Russia employees have upheld these principles and the
• Flexible working arrangements, wellbeing and requirements of our Code of Conduct in their work
• Human Rights Campaign’s
resilience programmes that support a healthy (see Ethical Conduct for more on our Code). The
Best Places to Work for Gay,
Lesbian, Bisexual and workforce results affect bonuses and career progression.
Transgender Employees – GSK
Breakdown of global employment by business (end
received a perfect score
December 2006):
EMPLOYEE SURVEYS
Business or Number of
function employees
Regular employee surveys help us to monitor GSK’s
Maufacturing 33,235 culture, gauge employee satisfaction and assess the
effectiveness of our employment policies.
Selling 44,484
Our Global Leadership Survey (GLS) is sent to GSK
R&D 15,952
managers every two years and is available in nine
Adminisration 9,024 languages. In 2006, over 10,000 managers took
part, a 78 percent response rate. The survey tracked
Total 102,695
their views against our previous two surveys and
against findings from other global companies
through a cross-company database. This database
includes 42 top-ranked companies from several
industries including pharmaceuticals, automotive,
banking, energy and IT. The normative database has
responses from around three million employees in
139 countries.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
40Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Key survey findings
The survey showed that managers in GSK are more
satisfied with their company than managers in the
other companies that took part. GSK participants
were also more satisfied than they were in 2004,
with overall responses on average 4 percent higher.
Industry 2006 GSK 2006 (%) GSK 2004 (%) GSK 2002 (%)
Benchmark Favourable Favourable Favourable
Overall satisfaction with GSK 65 85 73 67
People in my department show
commitment to performance with
integrity N/A 91 91 88
I am proud to be part of GSK 84 90 83 78
People in my department are
committed and enabled to make
meaningful contributions N/A 84 82 76
I can report unethical practices
without fear of reprisal 68 82 76 70
The amount of work I am expected
to do is about right 53 42 45 42
GSK is a company where great people
can do their best work N/A 62 52 46
I am satisfied with the recognition
I receive for doing a good job 54 59 57 56
Sufficient effort is made to get the
opinions and thinking of people who
work here 55 65 59 51
Leaders in my department act as
teachers,coaches and champions
of development N/A 60 59 54
I receive ongoing feedback that helps
me improve my performance 54 61 61 57
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
Improvement plans
Survey results are reviewed by our corporate We aim to create an inclusive working environment
executive team which has identified two key areas at GSK where employees from diverse backgrounds
of focus can flourish.
• Reducing unnecessary bureaucracy within and Diversity benefits our business. A workforce with
across our businesses diverse backgrounds, cultures and outlooks helps
us to better understand the needs of different
• Leadership visibility, defined as the drive for
patients and customers. Only by delivering genuine
managers to spend more time with their teams
equality of opportunity can we be sure that we have
and to be more visible in their respective
the best people in the right jobs.
businesses
We reinforce our commitment to diversity and
Each business unit and function has developed an
inclusion (D&I) through:
action plan to address these and other areas for
improvement. • Our corporate executive team which endorses
a global policy for D&I and support activities and
initiatives such as the annual Multicultural
Marketing and Diversity Awards
• Our company-wide D&I policy and practices are
available to view by employees through our
intranet
• Monitoring and reporting data on gender
diversity by management grade worldwide and
on ethnicity in the US and UK
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
41Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
• Reinforcing the GSK Spirit which states that we Ethnic diversity
will value and draw on the differing knowledge, In the US, minorities (defined as Blacks, Hispanics,
perspectives, experiences and styles resident in Asians, Pacific Islanders, American Indians and
our global community Alaskan natives) made up 19.8 percent of our
workforce, compared with 19.6 percent in 2005
• D&I steering teams in the UK and US that run
and 19.5 percent in 2004. This is above the average
awareness campaigns and training for
in our closest comparator, the US chemical industry.
employees
• Diversity champions in each business unit and
among our field staff
1199..88%%
• Employee networks that provide insight and
support for diversity objectives
More background information on our approach to
D&I is available on our website.
In the US we conduct an annual survey of
1,000 employees selected at random to gauge
progress on inclusion and resilience. In the 2006
survey where we achieved a 41 percent response
rate, 76 percent agreed that ‘my workgroup has a
climate in which diverse perspectives are valued’ and
79 percent agreed that ‘my manager demonstrates
the ability to manage a diverse workforce.’ %% UUSS mmiinnoorriittyy
Gender diversity
In the UK, ethnic minorities, as defined by the UK
Gender diversity in management
Commission for Racial Equality (CRE), accounted for
2006 (worldwide)
18.3 percent of employees (compared with 16.8
Women in % of positions percent in 2005 and 15.5 percent in 2004). The CRE
management grades held by women defines ethnic minorities as anyone not identifying
themselves as ‘White British’. Figures from the 2001
2006 2005 2004 2003
census show that 12.5 percent of the population of
A&B Bands* 22 21 19 20 England and Wales were from an ethnic minority.
C01 – C03** 34 33 33 31
C04 – C05*** 39 38 38 37
18.3%
Total for all
management
grades 36 35 35 34
* Corporate Executive Team,Senior Vice Presidents,
Vice Presidents
** Director grade
*** Manager grade
This positive trend of increased female
representation in management positions reflects the
impact of GSK’s D&I strategy across the businesses
and the effect of our flexible working policies in % UK ethnic minorities
attracting and retaining women. This is further
supported by the 2006 US D&I survey where
79 percent of employees agreed that ‘my manager An alternative measure of diversity is the number
enables flexible and innovative solutions for of employees who define themselves as ‘non-
managing work and personal life’. white’. In 2006 11.6 percent of GSK UK employees
defined themselves as non-white (compared to
For more than 12 years, the annual Women in
11.0 percent in 2005 and 10.4 percent in 2004).
Science event in the US has fostered positive,
mentoring relationships between GSK female Age
scientists and female students aspiring to enter In advance of new age discrimination regulations in
science fields. It also exposes students to hands-on, the UK, we carried out a comprehensive review of
real-life laboratory and research environments and our policies and practices and consulted our UK
further enhances GSK’s ability to attract and retain Information and Consultation Forum. As a result a
women in the fields of science. number of policies were amended and updated.
Extensive training was provided for HR professionals
and the changes were communicated to managers
and employees to ensure they understand the
implications of the new law.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
42Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Disability
We are committed to offering people with Leadership training in 2006 included:
disabilities access to the full range of recruitment
• 108 managers attended four Leadership Edge
and career opportunities at GSK. In the UK we were
programmes
awarded the two ticks symbolfrom Jobcentre Plus
and we partner with the Employers Forum on • 77 managers attended six Inspirational
Disability and other interest groups to ensure we are Leadership Workshops that focused on inspiring
a Disability Confidentorganisation. and motivating people to high performance
Multicultural Marketing and Diversity • 407 managers attended new manager /
Awards experienced manager training
Our annual Multi-Cultural Marketing and Diversity
• 692 managers attended ‘Hot Topics –
Awards (now in their fifth year) inspire staff to find
Harnessing the Power of Real Conversations’
creative ways to reach a wider audience of
employees, customers and communities. • 678 managers attended ‘Hot Topics – The Art
of Self Leadership’
Awards are given in several categories including
Employee Attraction, Development or Retention, Development
Multicultural Marketing and Sales, Community Regular performance appraisals reward strong
Outreach and Diversity Ambassador. There have performance, identify training needs and help
been 289 entries to the awards since 2001 and 21 employees set objectives that are aligned with our
employees have received the GSK Diversity business priorities. More than two-thirds of GSK
Ambassador Award for leading diversity efforts with employees receive an annual performance appraisal
passion, innovation, and impact. through our Performance and Development
Planning (PDP) programmes.
Employee networks
Employee networks are an integral part of our D&I PDP includes an assessment of how well employees
programme. Networks support professional growth have implemented the GSK Spirit – the principles
for participating employees and provide a forum for we use to define our culture. It can have an impact
employees with similar backgrounds to meet and on bonus payments and affect future career
discuss issues of shared concern. development.
Several networks have a particular diversity focus, Employee turnover
including our networks for Asian, African American, We have a number of teams that focus on issues
Hispanic, Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual or Transgender affecting employee retention, for example the
employees. As well as benefiting the participants, management of people in different age groups and
the networks act as a source of expertise on diversity development and promotion for female and
issues for other people at GSK. minority employees.
Each employee network has an executive sponsor Rewarding strong performance
who helps in setting and achieving goals, obtaining Performance related pay and share ownership
resources, and promoting network objectives schemes help us attract and retain the best people
among senior management. GSK-sponsored and generate a culture of ownership among
networks, regardless of affiliation, are open to all employees. In countries where employee share
GSK employees. ownership schemes exist the level of participation is
high.
Talent management
Our talent management processes help us identify
EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT and develop leadership candidates. We identify the
AND TALENT MANAGEMENT highest performing employees in each business and
function through our annual talent management
GSK invests in training and development to enable cycle. Talented individuals take part in our leadership
all employees to perform to the best of their ability programmes and are exposed to top management
and to support their career progression. We work through programmes such as the Chief Executive
hard to attract and retain the best and the brightest Forum.
people at GSK and to help them develop their
potential.
Training
We provide job-related training courses for all
employees and leadership training for managers.
Employees can enrol in training programmes
through our myLearning intranet site available in
the UK, US and other countries. During 2006, we
registered on the system over 638,000 course
completions.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
43Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
INTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS
Good internal communication is important in We have similar forums in other countries where
achieving our business objectives as well as creating this is national practice.
an open and inclusive work environment. We have
Communicating corporate responsibility
a range of communications channels to keep
It is through our employees that we put our
employees up to date with company news and
responsible business policies into practice and
enable them to give feedback.
communicate this to the outside world. Employees
These include: are also important stakeholders in their own right
and want to know about our progress on
• myGSK, our global intranet site, provides news
responsibility issues.
and updates and a Q&A section where
employees can put questions directly to the We keep employees informed about corporate
CEO and senior executives. In 2006 JP Garnier, responsibility through regular news articles on the
GSK‘s Chief Executive, answered 341 questions GSK intranet, through articles in Spirit magazine and
from employees. Behind the News, a section of by presentations to departmental groups. During
the GSK intranet, gives the company’s position 2006, a summary of our CR report was distributed
on important issues linked to press stories about to 34,000 employees.
GSK
• Web-broadcasts from GSK senior manage-
ment, including 16 during 2006 from executive
team members, for employees at our major EMPLOYEE HEALTH
sites
Protection and promotion of the wellbeing of our
• Spirit, our internal magazine, reaches around employees is an ethical obligation and an important
34,000 employees throughout the company contributor to our goal to be an employer of choice.
four times a year. Many sites also produce local This philosophy also supports our business strategy
newsletters because a healthy and resilient workforce drives
• Confidential feedback mechanisms enable positive business performance by increasing
employees to raise concerns. These include our employee productivity and attendance. Healthy
Integrity Helpline. See Ethical conduct workers also reduce health care and insurance costs.
• Regular employee surveys, see page 40. Healthy High Performance
Healthy Culture
• 44 ‘townhall’ sessions during 2006 for We consider four dimensions of health to be vitally
employees at all levels of the company were important to high performance: physical, emotional,
hosted by senior management. Employees have mental and spiritual. People need to be physically
the opportunity to discuss the progress of the energised, emotionally connected, mentally focused
business, raise questions and give feedback. and ‘spiritually aligned’(meaning they have a sense
We track the effectiveness of communications of purpose). Linked to these four dimensions are
through employee surveys. We monitor the 16 factors that enable high performance. The
questions employees put to senior managers factors range from fitness and nutrition to self-
through the Q&A pages on myGSK to ensure we awareness and time management. We deliver
pick up potential areas of concern. We also track programmes such as the Corporate Athlete and the
readership of news stories on myGSK to help Health Risk Assessment (HRA) that are directed at
improve the relevance and interest of the content. improving these 16 factors and measuring our risk
reduction and health impacts.
Employee consultation
We consult employees on changes that affect them. Driving a healthy culture through all of GSK starts
In Europe we discuss business developments with the leadership. We want the company’s leaders
through our European Employee Consultation to be committed to the continuous development of
Forum (EECF). In 2006 the EECF received updates their physical and psychological well being so that
from GSK’s global business leaders and reviewed they can be effective leaders and role models to their
proposals and progress reports on a number of employees.
European initiatives in IT, distribution and medical. Resilience
We also have national consultation forums and in We use the term ‘resilience’ to describe the skills
2006 we established a UK Information and and behaviours needed to be successful in a highly
Consultation Forum to provide information about pressured environment. It is the same set of skills
the company’s progress and plans and to help that helps to prevent work-related mental illness,
stimulate constructive dialogue with employee which is a leading cause of ill-health leading to time
representatives within the UK. The Forum is made away from work. Resilient employees can manage
up of 15 elected employee representatives and work and home demands effectively and minimise
seven managers. It meets three times a year and, to the adverse health affects of stress.
date, has reviewed areas such as employment policy
changes, UK pension arrangements and
preparations for supporting employees in the event
of a flu pandemic.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
44Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
We identify and manage the challenges to We have developed a new global management role
employee resilience and mental well being, in focused on improving the health of employees
accordance with GSK’s Global Resilience and Mental around the world by developing health and well-
Well Being Standard. The majority of GSK sites have being resources and sharing best practice. In 2006,
programmes to reduce workplace pressures and we:
help employees achieve a good work-life balance,
• developed a Health Risk Appraisal tool that can
such as time management training, flexible working
be used at all our sites
options and health awareness. Since 2002, work-
related mental ill-health is down by 57 percent. • worked with the World Heart Federation on a
joint project at two of our sites in India. This
Our Team Resilience programme is now available in
ground breaking three-year study will look at
11 languages. It helps GSK teams to take control of
two different interventions aimed at reducing
their work and avoid excessive pressure which can
the effects of chronic disease, identifying the
lead to stress. The first step is to assess seven sources
most effective interventions that are sustainable
of pressure that can impact performance and
and transferable to other companies and
health, and identify the extent of pressure the team
community programmes
is facing. Team members then consider the issues
that are creating excessive pressures and how they • began global health education webinars (web-
can be managed more effectively. The objective is based seminars)
not to avoid any pressure – which can help to
Ergonomics
achieve high performance – but to avoid becoming
The reduction of musculoskeletal illness and injury
strained or overwhelmed due to excessive work
continues to be a key area of focus, because it is
demands.
one of the leading causes of time away from work.
By the end of 2006 more than 12,000 people from We have set a target to reduce the number of these
over 1,000 teams had gone through the prog- illnesses and injuries by 5 percent each year through
ramme. The results show significant improvements. to 2010. Better workplace and job design, a science
In the first two years of the programme: called ‘ergonomics’, will prevent musculoskeletal
injuries and illnesses as well as increase efficiency
• Reported pressure due to work/life conflicts fell
and productivity.
by 25 percent
Ergonomics improvement teams include cross-
• Participating staff satisfaction increased by
functional team members who impact how work
21 percent
and the work environment is designed and
• 14 percent increase in willingness among staff implemented. We now have established
to experiment with new work practices ergonomics improvement teams at manufacturing
sites around the world. In 2006, ergonomics
• Teams that have taken the profile for a second
workshops were provided to regions in the US, UK,
time are showing improvement in the seven
France, India and Malaysia to increase in-house
sources of pressure of between 30 percent and
ergonomics knowledge and expertise.
70 percent
Sites share good practices for work, ranging from
We also provide a training programme to support
commercial operations to laboratory research to
personal development and help individuals become
manufacturing, via an intranet site called The Global
more resilient. Pre- and post-assessments in a pilot
Ergonomics Community. This intranet site provides
of 500 employees found improvement in 55 of
access to the latest information on ergonomics,
58 elements measured, with the greatest
good practices and validated tools for practitioners,
improvement in employees‘ sense of being relaxed
including our online computer ergonomics risk
and engaged. After two months the number of
assessment tool. The online assessment is used by
people who felt less pressured rose by almost a fifth.
144 GSK sites globally. Over 17,800 employees
Personal health worldwide have used the tool during the past two
Our programmes aim to improve the health of years to assess their computer work and to take
employees and their families, which benefits the steps needed to improve their workstations.
business through increased employee commitment
Ergonomic principles are integrated into designs
and productivity and reduced costs of ill-health.
including major engineering projects, and furniture
Support includes on-site health and fitness centres, procurement takes ergonomics into consideration
flexible working arrangements and family support to ensure that appropriate furniture and equipment
services. Healthcare benefits focus on prevention are selected.
and access to innovative and proven treatments. For
HIV
example, in the US employees receive free
We provide anti-retroviral treatment to all HIV
immunisations, cancer screening, help with smoking
positive GSK employees (full and part-time) and
cessation and regular check ups. We assist
their families in countries where treatment is not
employees suffering from chronic diseases with their
available adequately or consistently through the
medical plans so they can continue with treatments.
local healthcare system. (For more background
information see employee access to anti-retroviral
drugs.)
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
45Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
We have developed awareness-raising material for Our programmes cover a wide range of health and
use by peer educators, in a project funded by safety (H&S) aspects, from providing safety training
Positive Action and delivered by the National AIDS for sales employees to working with all employees
Trust. GSK and other employers use these materials to improve their general health. This section reports
to deliver training in ways that address the problems on specific health and safety issues. See the
of HIV and AIDS-related stigma. Environment section on page 52 for more
information on how we manage environmental and
The materials are based on the experience of GSK
broader EHS issues.
Kenya and adapted versions have now been used
in India and Central America. A French version has
been promoted by the GSK Foundation across
francophone Africa.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Flu Pandemic Preparedness MANAGEMENT
GSK is committed to supporting governments and
health authorities around the world, as well as our We manage health and safety through an
own employees, in minimising the impact of a integrated environment, health and safety (EHS)
global influenza pandemic. management system. The system incorporates our
EHS and Employee Health Policies, EHS Vision and
GSK will play a vital role in providing potentially life-
64 Global EHS Standards. Our EHS Plan for
saving medicines and vaccines for flu, as well as
Excellence sets out our strategy for improving EHS
continuing to produce our other critical medicines.
performance. We renewed the Plan in 2006 and
We have invested more than $2 billion in expanding
extended it to 2015. See more on our EHS
seasonal flu vaccine capacity, developing an avian
Management Systemin our background pages.
flu vaccine, and increasing production capacity for
the anti-viral flu treatment Relenza. See our OHSAS 18001 certification
Contribution to Society. In 2006, one additional site achieved certification
to the international health and safety standard
We have also been developing plans to ensure the
OHSAS 18001. This brings the total number
continuity of critical business operations and
of manufacturing sites certified to 21 out of
processes, and to safeguard the health of the GSK
80 pharmaceutical and consumer manufacturing
employees, their dependents and key contractors
sites. The certified sites are in Argentina, China,
on our sites. Every GSK market is developing a
Egypt, France, Germany, India, Japan, Kenya,
comprehensive country plan which covers all local
Mexico, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, USA and the
business units. The plans include annual seasonal
UK. The voluntary certification process is being
flu vaccine and travel health programmes, measures
replaced with a plan to require all manufacturing
to reduce infection risk at work, management of
sites to be certified by 2010.
sickness absence, and provision of a treatment
course of anti-virals (and possibly vaccine) to all Training and awareness
employees and immediate family members Training is targeted to match employee
worldwide. All markets are expected to have responsibilities. Employees with responsibility for
completed plans by the third quarter of 2007. H&S issues receive regular training about initiatives
in areas such as ergonomics, chemical exposures
and driver safety. This is handled through regional
meetings of H&S staff. They in turn train employees
in manufacturing, research, sales and other
HEALTH AND SAFETY
divisions. Corporate EHS and Employee Health staff
AT WORK arrange annual meetings to determine training
issues and provide training materials.
The health and safety of employees and contractors
is an absolute priority for GSK. We have We also want employees to be aware of health and
programmes to systematically assess the risks safety in their personal lives. Employee bulletins,
associated with our operations. We monitor announcements on the myEHS website, the CEO’s
performance, aiming to learn from the causes of EHS Excellence awards programme and Health and
incidents and take action to protect employees and Safety Week activities aim to raise employee
others in the workplace. awareness of issues such as wearing seat belts,
being careful with electricity and using ladders
Our ultimate aim is to eliminate all work-related
appropriately.
injuries and illnesses (I&I). We are now focusing on
‘reportable’ incidents. These are more serious than We conduct a Health and Safety Week every
first aid but do not necessarily result in time off work October to coincide with the European Health and
(lost time) which was the main measure of Safety week and Fire Safety Awareness Month in
performance we used in the past. We believe that the United States. Information kits are sent to all
addressing causes of these minor events will help to sites to help them develop ideas and plan activities.
eliminate risks and hazards, which should lead to
In 2006, over 20,000 employees from 63 sites in
fewer reportable cases as well as lost-time I&I cases.
38 countries took part in the Health and Safety
Our new target (from 2007) is to reduce reportable Week. Activities included safe driving education,
I&I by 5 percent a year. We will still monitor and training in fire evacuation, ergonomics, first aid,
report ‘lost time’ incidents but we no longer have a awareness-raising on noise, healthy eating and
target for this measure. lifestyles.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
46Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Excellence awards • Risk assessment – the Guideline was revised and Employee health management
The Chief Executive Officer’s Environment, Health aligned with the risk assessment requirement in UK – resilience policy
and Safety (EHS) Excellence Awards recognise and the Quality group Employee Health Management
developed a wide-ranging
reward innovation by GSK sites. The winning entry
• Self audit – training and workshop on self- resilience policy that successfully
in the EHS Initiative health & safety category in 2006
auditing conducted at EHS Network Meetings addresses work-life balance and
is featured on this page. pressure issues, to the benefit of
• Management system elements – agreement of GSK and our employees. We
See CEO’s EHS Excellence Award for more about
Global Manufacturing and Supply to target define resilience as the ability
the awards programme and winners from previous OHSAS 18001 certification (along with ISO to be successful, personally and
years. See Employee Health on page 44 for more on professionally, in a high-
14001 certification) for all pharmaceutical and
resilience. pressured, fast-paced and
consumer manufacturing sites
continuously changing environ-
ment. The policy encompasses
the team resilience process and
personal resilience workshops,
EHS AUDITS
which focus on work and home
INJURY AND ILLNESS RATES balance and fulfillment.
We aim to conduct EHS audits at each operational
AND CAUSES This project has global
site at least once every four years. We carry out more
application, although the focus
frequent visits at selected sites, depending on an
Our main measure of injury and illness is the number in the first year was the UK and
assessment of risk and the issues raised by previous of reportable cases which we require sites to report. US. In the second and third year
audits. We express this as a rate per 100,000 hours worked. of the programme the project
has been offered globally and
Auditors signal ‘critical’ findings if they conclude
Our target is to reduce this reportable injury and is currently active in India, Japan,
that there is a high probability of incidents with illness rate by 5 percent each year to the end of China, Brazil, Argentina, Finland,
potentially serious consequences. They made five Czech Republic, Nigeria and
2010.
such findings in 2006. These involved serious Israel. It has reached more than
deficiencies in: We also measure the number of days lost from 7000 employees.
injuries and illnesses. This provides an indication of This project won first place in
• Controlling exposures to high hazard chemical
the severity of the incidents, although it is only a the EHS initiative – health and
agents rough guide. For example, an illness could lead to safety category of the CEO’s EHS
• Managing dust explosion risks (related to a dust permanent hearing loss or other disability without Excellence Awards.
collector) resulting in significant lost time.
• Managing fire or explosion risks from The main data cover GSK employees and contract
flammable liquids workers who we directly supervise. Separately,
we report data for contractors who work on GSK
• Preventing falls from elevated locations
sites but supervise their own staff. (Contractors’ data
Site actions are monitored to ensure that are not covered by the SGS verification). The data
appropriate actions have been taken to mitigate are collected from all our 80 pharmaceutical
risks and ensure ongoing compliance. None of the and consumer manufacturing sites, 12 of our 13
critical findings have become ‘delinquent’ (greater Biologicals manufacturing sites, all 22 pharma-
than 90 days overdue). ceutical and consumer research and development
sites, all 8 major office locations and 59 smaller
We actively track audit findings and identify
offices.
improvements with follow-up audits. For sites
scoring less than 50 percent, we also provide Causes of injuries and illnesses
increased support from the audit team, including Injuries with and without lost time arise mainly from
follow-up visits to ensure progress, and discussions slips, trips or falls, over-exertions or strains and
with senior business management about increased motor vehicle accidents.
site resources. Many sites require several years to
Lost-time illness stems mainly from mental ill-health
put adequate systems and programmes in place in
and musculoskeletal problems (primarily repetitive
these areas.
strain injury). Musculoskeletal illness is the main
We introduced or continued specific work in the cause of reportable illness which does not lead to
following areas in 2006 to achieve improvements: days off work, accounting for about a third of the
total.
• Chemical agents – monitoring to determine
exposure and ensure adequacy of respiratory 2006 highlights
protective equipment that may be required at At 76 sites in 38 countries, there were no lost-time
unit operations until engineering and other injuries or illnesses during the year. In addition:
controls can be implemented
• one site in India achieved 4 million hours
• Resilience – rollout of the tool for assessing worked without a lost-time injury or illness
team resilience, training during EHS Network
• one site in India achieved 3 million hours
Meetings
worked without a lost-time injury or illness
• Ergonomics – training in ergonomic risk
• one site in the US achieved 2 million hours
assessment during Network Meetings as well
worked without a lost-time injury or illness
as regional training
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
47Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Performance • Fifteen sites in Argentina, Canada, India, Five year trend in employee fatalities:
In 2006 we recorded 995 injuries Philippines, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, UK and
and 376 illnesses (total of 1371 the US achieved 1 million hours worked without Fatalities
incidents), compared to 984 and
a lost-time injury or illness.
344 respectively in 2005. 2002 3
Employees lost working days Reportable injury and illness rate
in 646 (47 percent) of these 2003 5
incidents (624 in 2005).
2004 2
GSK’s injury and illness Target
performance placed us in the 2010
2005 1
third quartile of a benchmark
industry group in 2005 which
means we need to improve. Baseline 2006 3
2006
Working time was lost in
We investigate the circumstances of all fatalities and
552 injuries and 94 illnesses,
a rate of 0.33 lost time injuries other serious incidents and assess what can be
2005
and illnesses per 100,000 hours learned to reduce the risks. We also issue global
worked. alerts (posted on our intranet site) to communicate
There were 443 injuries and Baseline information that could help prevent similar incidents
282 illnesses without lost time, a 2001 at other sites.
rate of 0.37 injuries and illnesses
without lost time per 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2
100,000 hours worked. injuries & illnesses per 100,000 hours worked
Target
There were 11,281 lost calendar
SAFETY PROGRAMMES
days from injuries and 4,386
calendar days lost from illnesses,
We systematically assess risks to anticipate potential
a rate of 8 calendar days lost
per 100,000 hours worked. Reportable injury and illness rate accidents, and put programmes in place to minimise
Year I&I per 100,000 hours them. We learn from investigating the causes of
See data table on page 74for
more details. 2001 1.19 accidents and make improvements accordingly. In
this section we cover four key areas: driver safety,
2005 0.68
process safety, material hazard information and
2006 0.69
chemical exposure.
Driver safety
Our sales representatives drive long distances every
year and are therefore particularly at risk of being
SERIOUS INCIDENTS AND
involved in work-related road traffic incidents. In
FATALITIES 2006, there were 184 driving accidents, 1 resulting
in a fatality and 116 resulting in lost time. These
Fatalities
accounted for 21 percent of lost-time injuries.
In November 2006, two employees of contractors
died as a result of injuries suffered in an explosion Our compliance tool for drivers, called ‘EHS
and fire caused by a ruptured butane cylinder used Essentials’, includes instructions and guidelines on
for cooking in the canteen of the Agbara, Nigeria driver training, vehicle selection, risk assessment and
Consumer Healthcare factory. A thorough accident reporting as well as other information. We
investigation was conducted by the global audit continue to use it as we implement our driver safety
team and improvements identified. Progress in programme around the world.
implementing the improvements will be monitored
Around two thirds of GSK’s commercial businesses
by the audit team and learnings from the incident
have extensive driver safety programmes in place.
will be shared across GSK.
They include driving licence checks, guidance on the
In April, one sales employee in India died as a result use of mobile phones in vehicles, driver safety
of head injuries suffered when his motorbike training, tracking and reporting incidents. We are
collided with another motorbike. working to ensure all sites have the same high
standards in place. In 2006 we have been
Irvine – explosion
concentrating on improving areas such as accident
A serious explosion occurred at the Irvine, UK site in
and injury reporting and driver training.
February 2006, involving a ‘placebo’ batch used to
test plant conditions and controls. Two operators In a few countries we provide motorbikes or
were injured. The event has been thoroughly scooters for employees and have produced a GSK
investigated, learnings shared and improvements motorbike rider safety manual. This has been
made. The UK Regulator, HSE, is considering its translated and distributed to employees in countries
course of action, with prosecution a possibility. such as Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Pakistan and
Vietnam. These countries have now also fully
Amputations
implemented the GSK requirement for every driver
In 2006, there were three incidents involving GSK
of a motorbike to wear a helmet. We will continue
employees that resulted in partial finger
to follow up and monitor the implementation of
amputations caused by work equipment.
the motorbike safety programme.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
48Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Process safety the source for 80 percent of unit operations
Our process safety programme ensures that safety handling high hazard compounds, so that
is built into all manufacturing, research and employees do not need to wear protective
development processes. The programme is based equipment.
on hazard identification, control and risk
There has been substantial progress during 2006:
assessment.
• we have recruited a number of regional
We launched a major review of our process safety
hygienists to deliver an improved occupational
strategy in 2006, following the explosion at our
hygiene service to businesses around the world
Irvine factory. This encompassed:
• we are establishing our baseline performance
• consistency of design standards
and have developed and deployed across the
• evidence for the Basis of Safety, including any business a tracking tool to monitor progress
gaps in documentation and installation checks towards ‘respirator free’ and completion of
Chemical Risk assessments
• skills and competencies in process safety
• we have enhanced collaboration between
• control of change and non-routine operations
engineers and occupational hygienists at all
• culture issues – awareness, attitudes and levels to ensure that control solutions are
behaviour implemented
Material hazard information • we have revised and updated guidelines to the
In 2006 we focused on preparation for new business on control measures
legislation that will have a significant impact on how
• we have begun to build our occupational
we assess and communicate material hazard
hygiene network by bringing specialists
information. We continue to publish EHS
together, and held the first network meeting
information on our key products in safety data
for occupational hygienists to ensure a common
sheets. Some 600 of these for pharmaceutical and
approach and understanding across the
consumer healthcare products that are sold in the
businesses
US or Europe are available on our website – see
safety data sheetsfor more information. • we have engaged with new product
introduction teams to ensure that new
We are using more alternatives to animal testing in
installations meet ‘respirator free’ standards.
our occupational toxicology programme. For
example, in 2006 we assessed 23 chemicals for See more on our approach to Occupational
potential to cause skin and/or eye irritation in our hygiene and control of chemical exposures on our
workforce. All of these assessments were conducted background pages.
without the use of laboratory animals by using
information about chemical structures and novel
human tissue tests. Our occupational toxicologists
used this and other information to establish
workplace exposure limits for 35 unique GSK
materials.
To support our commitment to ensure that our
products do not adversely affect the environment
(see pharmaceuticals in the environment) we
have enhanced our environmental hazard testing
programme to include a number of new studies
aimed at assessing long term effects in aquatic
organisms. In addition, due to new EU technical
guidelines we are conducting more extensive
environmental testing of new drug substances.
Occupational hygiene and control of
chemical exposure
In 2006, exposure to chemicals resulted in
7 respiratory or skin-related lost-time incidents and
98 cases which did not result in lost time. Together,
they accounted for 28 percent of work-related
illnesses.
In 2004 we developed a strategy to control chemical
exposure up to 2010. This sets out a plan to achieve
‘respirator free’ status – having validated control at
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
49Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Supply chain
Our supply chain is complex, with over 75,000 suppliers worldwide. It ranges from major
strategic relationships with suppliers that manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients,
intermediates, raw materials and packaging for GSK medicines through to local contracts
for goods or services such as office equipment, cleaning and security.
GSK’s supply chain We endeavour to ensure that all our Supplier selection
GSK manufactures and sells a suppliers follow the same high standards Critical suppliers must pass detailed assessments
diverse range of products which as GSK with regards to the environment, before they can be selected. As well as looking at
means we source from a wide
health and safety (EHS), loss prevention and human quality, we assess their policies and procedures for
range of suppliers. For example:
rights. Given the size and global scope of our supply health and safety, human rights, and environmental
Products: from agricultural chain this is a challenge and we recognise that some issues. This includes the use of questionnaires, on-
sourced materials such as
suppliers do not meet these standards (see supplier site reviews, quality audits and EHS audits of facilities
blackcurrants and milk, to
performance below). which will directly supply GSK.
petrochemicals for our complex
chemical compounds for the We work with suppliers on these issues. Our All contract manufacturers must also be approved
active ingredients in our
approach includes: by the applicable regulatory authority before they
pharmaceuticals.
can start manufacturing GSK medicines.
Volumes: from high volume • pre-assessments before we start working with
tailor-made packaging and a new supplier
plastics through to lower volume
• inclusion of human rights and EHS requirements
raw materials such as flavours.
in supplier contracts
Services: from suppliers of SUPPLIER CONTRACTS
temporary workers and cleaners, • review of EHS and human rights in routine
to research companies and supplier engagements EHS
professional advisors. We are Our supplier contracts contain requirements based
buying from more service • EHS supplier audits on our Global EHS Standards.
providers as we start to
outsource services previously Our supply base is large and complex so it is not Human rights
managed in-house. possible to engage directly with all our suppliers on Our supplier contracts contain human rights clauses
these issues. We focus on critical suppliers. based on international workplace norms in the
Critical suppliers are contract manufacturers and International Labour Organisation conventions and
those suppliers that present the greatest risk to GSK the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
on one or more of the following issues: You can read the human rights clauses in the
background section of our website.
• threats to continuity of supply
All new local and central supplier contracts
• hazards associated with manufacturing worldwide include human rights clauses and these
processes and materials are added to contracts with existing suppliers as they
• environmental impacts are renewed. Most contracts are renewed on a
three-year cycle so the vast majority of our contracts
• regulatory requirements now include the clauses.
• relevance to the supply of essential medicines Engagement and auditing
These suppliers are based primarily in Europe, North We provide contract manufacturers with
America, and Asia and account for approximately information on the EHS risks associated with the
30 percent of our total supplier spend. GSK materials they are producing or handling.
We expect critical suppliers to work to high We inform suppliers about our ethical requirements
standards and produce an uninterrupted supply of and policies. Our supplier booklet on working with
materials and services to GSK. If they do not, the GSK includes our ethics policies and explains that
safety, effectiveness or availability of our medicines GSK employees are prohibited from accepting gifts
could be affected. For these reasons, it is important and entertainment. Suppliers are asked to respect
that we forge long-term relationships and this position and to apply the same standards in their
undertake regular monitoring to assess progress and business and interactions with GSK. In some
to allow intervention where necessary. countries we send out letters to all suppliers during
the local festival season making them aware of our
policies and asking them to refrain from sending
gifts and providing entertainment.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
50Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
We consider EHS and human rights issues during The EHS acceptability criterion for key suppliers and
our routine interactions with critical suppliers. These contract manufacturers is scoring at least 50 percent
interactions include ongoing supplier reviews as well in the EHS Quantitative Audit scheme. Where EHS
as follow-up visits by procurement, quality and EHS performance is identified as unacceptable (less than
staff. We also hold global and regional supplier 50 percent) progress is required before EHS risks and
review meetings where senior GSK managers impacts can be considered to be managed robustly
address and interact with suppliers on key issues. and sites considered as acceptable suppliers or
contract manufacturers.
During 2006 we started a pilot project to assess the
risk of human rights issues occurring among A wide range of performance was noted for the
suppliers of services. We decided to focus in the sites audited. The range of audit scores for these
following two areas: suppliers was 23 percent to 90 percent. Eleven of
these suppliers failed to meet the 50 percent EHS
Suppliers of outsourced business processes
acceptability criterion, and the companies were
We are starting to work with more suppliers in India.
either not progressed for supply or work is
This includes providers of outsourced services, for
underway to ensure improvements are made.
example our accounts payable department is now
managed by an Indian supplier, as well as providers During these EHS audits no human rights issues of
of technology and professional services. Since this is significant concern were noted.
a growing and important area we are focusing on
Training for GSK procurement teams
ensuring that we select the right suppliers with
It is important that our employees understand our
strong reputations for their Employee Satisfaction.
standards. We provide training for procurement
Our research shows that the suppliers we work with
staff as part of our Sourcing Group Management
typically lead the way in surveys on best Indian
programme. This explains how we develop sourcing
business process outsourcing employers.
strategies and our criteria for supplier selection,
Suppliers of promotional gift items including human rights and EHS. The training is
Many of our gift items sourced from our Indian compulsory for all new procurement staff.
business, are sourced from within India in an
In 2006, we launched new training on Effective
industry with a higher risk of the use of child labour.
Contracting. This explains our requirement for
We have implemented a process of unannounced human rights clauses to be included in all supplier
spot checks for these suppliers, often during the contracts. It will be compulsory for all procurement
night. As a result of these spot checks we have staff and we expect everyone to have completed
agreed corrective actions with some suppliers to the training by the end of 2007.
improve their standards in this area.
Reporting suppliers’ EHS performance
EHS audits We have tried to collect EHS data from key suppliers
We conduct regular environment health and safety over the past five years but have had only limited
audits of critical suppliers and contract manufact- success. Suppliers either do not collect the data and
urers of pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare use it to manage their EHS programmes or they
products. Priority for undertaking audits is based on cannot identify the impacts specific to manufacture
business and EHS risks, including factors related to of GSK products. Data that we have received from
continuity of supply, hazards presented by processes suppliers is often not reliable.
and materials, regulatory regimes and essential
In 2007, we will conduct a survey of suppliers, at the
medicines. We focus on the 150 higher risk
request of both the Corporate Responsibility
suppliers.
Committee and the Audit Committee of the Board,
A quantitative evaluation is made of sites against to determine why the suppliers have not provided
EHS standards and protocols. Acceptance criteria us with this information. We want to understand
are in place and sites will not be used for supply suppliers’ impacts as well to measure the total EHS
unless minimum performance levels are met. footprint of all of the processes that generate our
Recommendations are made following audits and products, ie both GSK and supplier facilities.
progress is monitored with particular focus on
We are working with our Ribenasuppliers and the
poorly performing suppliers. Performance reviews
Wildlife Trust to improve biodiversity on blackcurrant
are undertaken to check progress and to help drive
farms and to understand the overall environmental
continuing improvements. For some sites this
impacts of these operations. See the case study
means, at the least, an annual visit.
section on our website for more details.
Supplier performance
In 2006, 28 assessments were conducted of
suppliers of active pharmaceutical ingredients and
intermediate materials for the global pharmaceutical
supply chain. Of these, ten were in the UK and
Europe and 18 were in the Asia region. Six sites
supplying other products and materials were
audited in the UK, EU and US, one in Asia and one
in South Africa.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
51Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Environmental management
Our vision is to achieve sustainable competitive business advantage and environmental
sustainability through leadership and excellence. We aim to reduce our environmental
impacts and address broader sustainability issues such as climate change, product
stewardship and material and energy efficiency.
Q&A We discover, develop, manufacture and sell THE PLAN FOR EXCELLENCE
pharmaceutical and consumer products.
We launched an EHS Plan for Excellencein 2001
This requires significant resources, so we
James Hagan which set out a strategy to improve EHS
need to understand, address and report on
Vice President, Corporate performance over a ten-year period. In 2006 we
environmental impacts. They include issues
Environment, Health and Safety reviewed the first five years’ performance, renewed
common to all manufacturers, such as the use of
the Plan for the second stage and extended it to
energy and water, and waste handling. We also
2015.
need to consider potential impacts of certain
chemicals which can release volatile organic We began our review of the Plan for Excellence with
compounds (VOCs) and the chemicals in our an extensive consultation with key internal and
inhalers which can damage the ozone layer and external stakeholders, who encouraged us to adopt
contribute to climate change. And our industry can higher aspirations and align EHS objectives more
have specific impacts through the release of closely with the business strategy.
pharmaceuticals into the environment after use by
The first five years of the plan established
patients.
fundamental programmes that protect employees,
What is the top environmental A systematic approach to management of these our communities and the environment. The
priority for GSK? issues is crucial because control needs to be renewed plan includes a commitment to
The priority is to manage all the
consistent over the long term. This is important as stakeholder engagement and strengthens the focus
issues properly, looking at people,
we move away from controlling emissions from our on sustainable environmental practices through
plant and processes, in the context
of a long-term strategic plan. processes to developing and implementing new operational efficiency. This requires a new approach
processes that are more efficient and therefore use to manufacturing processes and means we will
We have been working on that
less raw material and produce less waste. This is one move to incorporating environmental performance
since GSK was formed. In 2001
and 2002 I asked all operations of the first steps toward environmental sustainability in process design, moving from compliance and risk
worldwide to contribute to the which is our long term goal. management to adding value and creating new
creation of a self-regulating opportunities. For example, we want to move from
Overall responsibility for environmental issues
framework of programmes having to treat a hazardous waste stream to
(i.e. policies, standards, guidance, rests with the Corporate Executive Team and the
choosing processes that do not produce hazardous
audits, etc.) that defines how we Board. The Board champion for Environment,
waste.
believe we should operate, with Health and Safety (EHS) is JP Garnier, the Chief
legal compliance as the basic Executive Officer. Rupert Bondy, General Counsel, is The renewed plan is designed to complement the
foundation. In 2003, we identified
the operational champion of EHS on the corporate business strategies and contains three EHS
the key risks to GSK as employee
chemical exposure, process safety, executive team. We have a Corporate Responsibility Aspirations for GSK by 2015:
ergonomics, and driver safety, Committee and Corporate EHS department.
• EHS fundamentals embedded in the
which we will continue to work
Environmental issues are managed together with business – we believe that to produce and
on for some years to come.
health and safety through an integrated EHS sustain high EHS performance we need to
In 2004, in discussions with our
system that aims to ensure issues and risks are combine structured EHS systems with the
external stakeholders about
identified, standards are established and adhered attitudes and values that create a positive EHS
EHS issues, they said that climate
change and energy conservation, to, training is provided, targets set and audits culture. To achieve this we need to embed EHS
pharmaceuticals in the conducted. awareness and systems in all GSK activities
environment and the use of
hazardous/toxic chemicals were Our EHS Policy, Vision and 64 Global EHS • Environmental sustainability– we believe we
our key external challenges. In Standardsset the overall framework. We provide need to embrace environmental sustainability
2005, we worked to complete core sites with an EHS management toolkit which as a driver for competitive advantage. To do this
programmes and EHS contains instructions and descriptions of appropriate we have to define the principles of
management systems and achieve procedures to help them comply with the standards. environmental sustainability and progressively
our improvement targets. Now it’s
integrate them into the business, translating
time to move to the next stage. Further background information on our approach to
them into practical action in line with advancing
Q&A continues on next page managing environmental issues is available in the
knowledge
Environment, Health and Safetysection of our
website.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
52Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
• Open and transparent EHS external Each business sector will develop its own objectives The next step is to expand our
relations – we believe that external to support the corporate targets and will develop focus by improving our use of
stakeholders who have a legitimate interest in specific short and medium-term plans to achieve natural resources as a step
towards sustainability. That’s
the company’s EHS affairs should have ready them. Individual sites may also set local targets to
complex.
access to relevant information and the contribute to the business target.
opportunity for dialogue about issues that We are working on material
We use annual action plans to focus our efforts on efficiency in our production
concern them. We also believe that building
selected priority issues. The theme for 2006 was (see page 57). Energy is also a
open relationships and partnerships can lead to
‘Embedding EHS in the Business’ following the initial critical component and in 2006
business opportunities, while failure to engage GSK adopted a life cycle
focus on fundamentals in the first 5 years of the
may damage our reputation approach to investing in energy
Plan.
efficiency and renewable energy.
Each of these aspirations is supported by strategic The theme for 2007is ‘EHS Stewardship’, which (see page 60). In fact our CEO
objectives with performance targets in some areas. has requested a further review in
means caring for the present and thinking to the
2007 of energy saving measures
Progress and targets future when we make decisions, building excellence
and use of renewable energy.
Our EHS Plan for Excellence initially set out targets over time and maintaining the highest possible Product stewardship is another
in 10 areas, with interim targets for 2005. standards in everything we do. Each business sector aspect of sustainability and we
will encourage a culture that accepts this will need to focus on the issue
See 2005 report for progress against these responsibility by incorporating EHS into their of pharmaceuticals in the
targets. environment (see page 59).
planning and business processes.
The plan for the next 10 years is aligned with the What is the highlight of 2006?
GSK business drivers and with our desire to move Corporate EHS will work with businesses to: Approval of the second stage of
our Plan for Excellence, up to
towards environmental sustainability. We have • determine which elements of environmental
2015 (see page 52). In the first
introduced these new targets: sustainability we need to focus on and begin to
stage of the plan, since 2001, we
promote environmental sustainability principles focused on the fundamentals
• Material efficiency – by targeting efficiency we
throughout the business and improved our performance
simultaneously target resource consumption, air
in many areas, but we need to
emissions, water pollution, waste disposal and • continue the pilot programme of developing do more. In the second stage of
safety concerns and distributing product stewardship guides for the plan, we will keep a keen
marketed products focus on maintaining
• EHS audit scores – these are a measure of the
improvements, based on that
success of our management systems approach • expand our programme of discussions with EHS foundation and on new annual
external stakeholders beyond the UK to the rest improvement targets. In 2006,
These are the improvement targets across the
of Europe and into the US. we established improvement
company up to 2010, with 2006 as the new targets for manufacturing new
baseline: See more in the Product Stewardshipsection and medicines which will move us
our background web pages. toward our goal of sustainability.
From a tangible standpoint, our
Annual reductions per £ of sales manufacturing function (GMS)
has accepted the challenge from
Energy 1% the Board of Directors to be ISO
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 14001/ OHSAS 18001 certified,
Solid waste 1%
which will embed management
Water 2% Stakeholder engagement plays an important role in systems into the business. We
how we manage EHS. This section reports have also created new EHS
Air emissions (volatile engagement specifically on EHS issues. See Director positions in GMS and
organic emissions) 2% engagement with stakeholders in the Managing Biologicals who sit on the
executive teams and will help
CR section for details of engagement on other
Wastewater (chemical EHS to be integral to all business
corporate responsibility issues.
oxygen demand) 3% decisions.
In addition to inclusion in the Dow Jones Q&A continues on next page
Material efficiency
Sustainability Index and the UK FTSE4Good,
Achieve average 2% material efficiency of GlaxoSmithKline is rated by Business in the
manufacturing processes for new products introduced Environment (BiE), in the ‘premier league’ in a field
between 2006 and 2010 of 145 participating companies. This rating indicates
the extent to which we interpret environmental
Cumulative targets for 2010
responsibility into the way we manage our business
Ozone depletion 100% elimination and in our environmental performance.
EHS audit scores We have frequently engaged through ad hoc
meetings with a range of external stakeholders to
– Average 82%
help us understand their views and identify
– Minimum 70% emerging issues. In 2005 we stepped up our
internal and external engagement on EHS issues
We no longer have targets in these areas: and created a formal stakeholder panel in the UK to
provide a perspective on our EHS performance. The
• global warming potential – we have replaced panel is facilitated by The Environment Council, an
this with a target on energy efficiency independent charity, and the 10 members represent
• hazardous waste – we are now addressing our customers, suppliers, regulators, public interest
hazardous waste through the new material groups and investors, plus four senior EHS
efficiency target representatives from GSK.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
53Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Plans and systems aren’t It provides an opportunity for EHS experts from Engagement with EHS professionals helps us to
enough, are they? across GSK’s businesses to meet stakeholders and work out details of programmes such as energy
No, they’re not. First, we need discuss emerging EHS issues. Feedback has been initiatives.
to have great people, with the
used in developing the EHS Plan for Excellence.
right qualifications and training, In 2006, we surveyed staff who are involved in EHS
working on these issues. We also The panel meets every six months. In 2006 to assess the success of our communications and
have to have the right culture,
discussions covered: to identify areas for improvement. We also
with senior management
completed an internal review of Corporate
support to promote the right • our engagement strategy
behaviour and investment. We Environment Health and Safety (CEHS)
are taking the position that we • the need for public position papers on climate communications.
won’t compromise on change/energy management, the management
The EHS Framework documents received high
environmental protection or of hazardous chemicals, and pharmaceuticals
employee safety.We are seeing marks for usefulness as a source of information, as
in the environment (the final versions, approved
consciousness about environ- did the EHS Communitywebpage. But the web
by GSK management, are published on
ment, health and safety really page needs to be more user-friendly and we will
becoming embedded in the gsk.com) relaunch the site in 2007.
business. This was our theme
• a serious process safety incident at our Irvine
for 2006 and we have seen it We found that there was high awareness of the EHS
site (see the Health and Safetysection)
reflected in enhanced attitudes Plan for Excellence, of EHS programmes on chemical
in the business on EHS. We are
• the strategic plan for EHS agents and process safety, of EHS reward and
moving from bolting on controls
recognition programmes, and of the theme of
for existing processes to building • EHS performance in 2005
them in so they are central to sustainability. But people said we needed to be
the operation. This culture • how EHS aligns with GSK’s business direction clearer about our messages, especially priorities and
change is central to the second their relationships to the overall mission of the
Stakeholders have repeatedly highlighted their view
stage of our 10-year plan. It corporate EHS department and GSK. We will
means that we need to have that it is important for GSK to address broader issues
address this in 2007.
addressed issues with our people such as climate change and sustainable
(qualified, trained and aligned), development. We are beginning to address broader In 2006, we also took feedback from company wide
our plants(our infrastructure is aspects of sustainability, for example in our work on GSK employees to develop the 2006-2015 EHS
properly designed, installed and
material efficiency. Strategic Plan.
maintained) and our processes
and systems (our management We plan to extend our stakeholder engagement Engagement with regulators
approach identifies the risks and
activities to the US, Europe, and beyond over the GSK is keen to see proper measures in place to
develops programmes to
next few years, beginning in the US in 2007. (See protect the environment and safeguard the
manage these risks).
Stakeholder engagementbackground pages.) development and launch of new medicines. At the
What is your priority for 2007?
same time, regulations need to be workable for
Our theme for 2007 is EHS Local engagement
industry to avoid unnecessary cost and bureaucracy.
stewardship. That means we Many of our sites also engage with stakeholders
want to do more to embed the locally, through activities such as open days, We collaborate with regulators to help them
new culture in the business, so develop effective controls.
newsletters and community projects. For example,
that people really understand
our Dresden site conducted intensive In 2006 we engaged with regulators in the UK on
that this is not a short-term
exercise and they need to have a communications with the local community ahead of the government’s work to improve regulation of
vision and an understanding of doubling the manufacturing capacity for its flu business. We submitted comments on 14 EHS
the long-term impact of vaccines. The construction activity was particularly regulations which we consider should be reviewed
everything that we do. And we sensitive because the site is in a residential area. This for practicability, and hosted a visit from the Better
need to think about
work won third place in our CEO’s EHS Excellence Regulation Commission to one of our pilot plants to
environmental impacts such as
Awards for community projects. demonstrate some of the issues. We also
climate change and embed
inherent safety over the whole participated in the House of Commons Select
In 2006, we conducted a survey of EHS stakeholder
life cycle of our products, from Committee Inquiry into the work of the
engagement at 52 GSK sites around the world. This
raw material to waste. This Environment Agency.
change will reflect not only how found that our sites engage most frequently with
GSK manages EHS but how EHS local government, the emergency services, We worked with trade associations, including the
benefits GSK. For example, neighbours/resident associations, local environ- British, European and US pharmaceutical industry
addressing climate change mental and advocacy groups, and local business EHS groups.
through improved energy
partners. Our sites reported that open dialogue with
efficiency benefits not only We engaged in the consultation process for the
communities helps to build strong relationships and
the environment but also has European Union’s Regulation on the Registration
a financial benefit for GSK. to dispel preconceptions. In particular they reported Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals (REACH)
that it is beneficial to involve local communities in
Q&A continues on next page and the Globally Harmonised System (GHS) for the
environmental risk assessments and the develop-
classification and labelling of chemicals. GSK
ment of emergency response plans and site waste
supports the aims of both these initiatives to protect
management plans.
human health and the environment. We are pleased
Internal engagement by the outcomes and by the efforts made by all
We engage with our GSK staff throughout the parties to achieve workable regulation. We continue
business in several ways. This includes discussions to play our part in the development of supporting
with business leaders to debate and agree the way guidance for REACH.
forward for EHS at GSK, especially to agree the
annual action plan and position papers on specific
issues such as energy.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
54Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
We welcome the introduction of formal guidelines Awareness How is GSK planning to move
for the conduct of environmental risk assessment We raise the profile of environmental issues through beyond basic environmental
established under the EU’s New Medicines a variety of means, including the EHS framework, protection to address
sustainability more broadly?
Legislation. GSK has lobbied for the environmental the Plan for Excellence and the Chief Executive
As I mentioned before, our
impacts of pharmaceuticals to be regulated solely Officer’s EHS Excellence Awardsscheme. (See side
first step toward sustainability
through the European Agency for the Evaluation of bars on the next two pages for the 2006 first place concerns the efficiency with
Medical Products, and not also through the winners.) which we use materials and
proposed REACH framework which would lead to energy in manufacturing
duplication of effort and place an unnecessary We also run an Earthweek every June (to coincide processes. We have a new
with the World Environment Day) and send target to double the efficiency
burden on the pharmaceutical industry.
information kits to all sites to help them develop for manufacturing new
For more details on Public Policy see the Managing ideas and plan activities. In 2006, 74 sites from products introduced up to
2010. After that date we hope
CR section, see page 7. 34 countries celebrated Earthweek with activities
we will be starting to use raw
involving over 80,000 employees.
materials from renewable
Examples of activities in 2006 are: resources rather than
petrochemicals. And in the
• The GSK site in Mississauga, Canada celebrated more distant future we will
TRAINING AND AWARENESS
Earthweek by planting 2,000 seedlings or small want to be using biological
transformations rather than
Raising employees’ awareness of environment, trees which are indigenous to the local area,
chemical synthesis. All of this
health and safety issues and improving their skills involving 350 employees needs to happen with inherent
through training are key parts of our EHS • 160 GSK employees from the Civac Consumer safety built in to all that we do.
programme. This is critical to embedding our Healthcare site in Mexico raised the
framework and building an EHS culture throughout environmental awareness of a group of local
the business. Employees at all levels need to school children by showing them how to
understand the EHS issues in their working separate household waste for recycling.
environment. For example, employees need to
understand the properties, hazards and necessary We cover EHS issues regularly through EHS bulletins,
precautions associated with the chemicals they and articles in GSK’s internal magazines (GSK Spirit,
handle. Those who handle waste need to know its e-Spirit). We encourage employees to consider
properties, the regulations that govern its disposal, environmental issues outside the workplace, such
and which materials can be recycled. as minimising household waste, saving energy and
water.
We help employees deal with these issues through
meetings, bulletins and information on our intranet For more information see EHS Communicationon
site, as well as specific training events. We have an the background pages.
EHS standard on training.
The intranet site, myEHS Community, contains
links to a range of programmes, including the
EHS Managerinformation system which contains
policies, standards, guidelines, tools, training
materials, examples of best practice and news. It
also provides customised management reports on
EHS performance by site.
Training
Training takes place at site level and programmes
are routinely included in induction training for new
employees. EHS training is also accessible through
myLearning, GSK’s online training service.
In 2006 we carried out additional EHS manage-
ment training for our Consumer Healthcare and
Regional Pharma Supply organisations. We made
site visits for one-on-one training on the use of the
EHS Managersoftware system.
EHS managers are encouraged to attend
conferences and training programmes sponsored
by local environmental organisations and academic
institutions.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
55Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Barnard Castle, UK EHS EXCELLENCE AWARDS
This site has made huge progress
in reducing its environmental The CEO’s EHS Excellence Awards recognise and weaknesses identified in the audit and auditors
impacts over several years – reward GSK sites that show leadership in EHS. In monitor sites’ progress in implementing the plans.
cutting electricity use by
2006 the programme was expanded to include Internal auditors are certified as lead auditors
22 percent, gas by 23 percent
aspects of sustainability. The awards recognise against the international environment, health and
and water consumption by
25 percent. people who have done exceptional work in safety management standards: ISO 14001 and
promoting and implementing EHS projects. They OHSAS18001. Sites are also expected to conduct
The site used energy audits to
highlight innovation and examples of good practice routine self audits of their EHS programmes.
identify potential savings such
as improvements to heating in EHS management to share with other sites. Each In 2006 the majority of audits were conducted using
and cooling equipment, winner receives a trophy and selects a charity to
a new risk-based process that focused on significant
installing automatic light receive a donation from GSK.
operational EHS risks and environmental impacts,
controllers and optimising boiler
controls. The winners of our 2006 Excellence Awards rather than the full range of applicable EHS
demonstrate once again that many projects which Standards. The audit frequency was determined by
Posters and special events
improve environmental performance also save considering key site risks and the demonstrated
encourage employees to play
their part. Employee ‘energy money. performance in managing them effectively.
wardens’ have also been
In 2006 – the fifth year of the awards – there were We conducted corporate audits of 32 sites,
assigned to each department to
help limit energy use in their 95 entries from 25 countries. There were including 2 office locations. The average score was
area. These wardens are trained applications from all GSK’s business sectors: R&D, 74 percent (compared to 77 percent in 2005). No
to identify potential energy manufacturing and commercial, and from facilities site achieved a score below 50 percent, which we
savings, to make sure equipment management teams. regard as unacceptable. We aim to correct
is being used efficiently and to
unacceptable performance and continue to pursue
raise awareness among their The winners were chosen by a panel that included
further improvements to achieve best practice.
colleagues. experts from academia, government and public
The site has also installed two interest groups. In 2006, 12 projects representing A good level of performance was found at most
250 kW wind turbines to reduce Europe, North America, Central America, the sites, especially in areas covered by GSK
the amount of energy used from Middle East and Asia received top honours. environmental standards. But several aspects were
fossil fuel sources. This earned identified for improvement, especially safety issues,
the site four regional awards Three of the 2006 first place award winners are
see Health and Safetypage 46.
and has acted as an example for featured on these pages. See further details on
other local industrial complexes the CEO’s EHS Excellence Award background In 2006, two sites achieved ‘leadership’ scores
– two of which have installed
pages. above 90 percent (two in 2005), while a further
similar turbines.
10 achieved scores over 80 percent (seven in 2005).
Since 2001, Barnard Castle’s
energy initiatives have reduced The best performance on environmental issues
CO2emissions by a total of about was in
12,500 tonnes and have saved AUDITS AND COMPLIANCE
more than £3 million. • management of solid wastes
This project won first place in At the request of the Audit Committee of the Board • air emissions
the EHS Initiative – Environment of Directors, GSK has embarked on a programme
category. to achieve ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 • emergency planning
Poznan, Poland certification. Sites were generally weakest on
Our Poznan site founded the
GSK Science and Public Centre In 2006, the leadership of GSK’s manufacturing • self auditing and inspection
division (GMS) approved a four-year programme to
in 2004. The Centre has become
a meeting venue for community certify all remaining GMS sites to ISO 14001/OHSAS • risk assessment processes
education events about public 18001. This programme began early in 2007 and • biodiversity
healthcare and disease will be completed in 2010. Some sites had already
prevention through community achieved certification and in 2006, one additional Compliance
education. It is run by GSK site was certified to ISO14001 and OHSAS 18001, As a minimum, our policy is to comply with all legal
employees who organise bringing the total of dual certified sites to 21. This requirements. There were no fines or penalties
activities that have included:
means that 27 of our 80 pharmaceutical and reported in 2006. We regret that in 2006 we were
• helping teachers to promote consumer manufacturing sites are now certified in breach of regulations in three cases, prompting
healthy behaviour among (6 sites are certified to ISO 14001 only). the US Federal Aviation Administration to issue
their students
warning letters without penalties regarding non-
• workshops teaching We carry out regular EHS audits of GSK compliance with shipping regulations. Deficiencies
1,000 pupils from operations, contract manufacturers and key were:
60 Poznan high schools suppliers. The aim is to assess how well they control
how to deal with threats risks and comply with key legislation, and the extent • Non-compliance with marking, labelling and
such as drugs, HIV/AIDS, to which management systems and standards are documentation of a shipment of inhalation
aggressive behaviour and
being implemented to improve performance and aerosols
alcohol
maintain compliance. See supply chainpage 50 • Inoperative emergency number for hazard
• helping people with
disabilities to put on for more information, including human rights information
audits.
theatre performances
• Undeclared dangerous goods (flammable
for the local community
Our audit programme requires all manufacturing liquid) shipped via inter-office mail
This project won first place in and R&D sites to undergo EHS audits by our internal
the EHS Community Partnership audit team. Audits occur every one to four years,
category.
depending on our assessment of risks. Sites are
required to develop plans to address any
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
56Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
MATERIAL EFFICIENCY
We aim to improve the efficiency with which we • vastly reduces the use of solvent and therefore
convert raw materials to finished product, as part of waste – a 70 percent reduction in the mass of
our drive for environmental sustainability. It will help waste, which avoids up to 80 tonnes of waste
us to reduce our consumption of resources, the per annum
waste we generate and the cost of production.
• is more robust than the previous process,
We have set a target to double the average material resulting in less waste through failed batches
efficiency of manufacturing processes for new
• reduces exposure of employees to hazardous products introduced between 2006 and 2010. This
materials.
will achieve material efficiencies of 2 percent for
these new processes i.e. two tonnes of active The chart shows the extent to which we are
pharmaceutical ingredient (API) for every 100 improving material efficiency as compounds move
tonnes of input chemicals. through development stages. These data relate to
compounds in development in 2006.
Pharmaceutical processes are typically very complex,
often requiring large amounts of solvent. Typically,
the industry uses about 100 tonnes of material for
every tonne of API produced. That 1 percent Mass productivity distribution
material efficiency compares to about 20 percent
for fine chemicals and 50 percent for bulk 100%
chemicals. It represents a waste of valuable
resources, with financial as well as environmental
consequences. 80%
Our approach to addressing EHS issues already
includes minimising the amount of material used – 40%
for example, through the eco-design toolkit (see
page 58). We are now placing a higher priority on
improving our use of materials and are bringing
together R&D and manufacturing teams to increase
material efficiency in the product development
stage, as well as for selected existing products.
Our key measure of material efficiency is ‘mass
productivity’. This is the mass of all materials (except
water but including solvents) used in the process
compared to the mass of product produced. Our
new 2 percent target applies to this measure.
In early development almost all compounds have a
We are already making improvements to material mass productivity less than 1 percent. But the
efficiency. For example, a research and development proportion with this low level efficiency falls in each
team at our Stevenage, UK R&D site, worked with stage. By the last stage of development, before
our Cork, Ireland site to achieve substantial transfer to manufacturing, the majority achieved
environmental benefits by developing a simplified productivity of more than 2 percent and some are
process for manufacturing dutasteride, a treatment above 3 percent, with one process achieving
for benign prostate hyperplasia. The project will productivity of 4.9 percent.
continue to deliver benefits to at least 2015.
This work won third place in the Green Chemistry
category of the Chief Executive Officer’s EHS
Excellence Awards in 2006.
The new process:
• produces 40 percent more drug substance from
the same amount of starting material, saving
up to £5.7 million/year
• saves energy – the chemical reaction now
requires only four hours at 86°C compared to
22 hours at 100°C previously
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
57
tnecreP
Stevenage, UK
Our R&D site in Stevenage
reduced the environmental
impacts of manufacturing a
compound which was in the
development stage.
The original process for
manufacturing the drug
involved the use of seven
different solvents and a number
of hazardous chemicals. It
produced low yields and high
waste volumes.
The team at Stevenage
developed a new technique
that tripled material efficiency
from 0.7 percent to 2.0 percent,
which will reduce waste by
68 percent, using less organic
solvent and hazardous chemicals.
It also required less energy and
the majority of waste could be
handled on site.
This project won first place in
the Green Chemistry/Technology
category.
20%
0%
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4
Mass productivity % > 3 Mass productivity % 1 to 2
Mass productivity % 2 to 3 Mass productivity % 0 to 1Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
We address environmental issues associated with Each module was designed to ensure that all EHS
our products throughout their life cycle. This begins impacts of materials, processes and services are
with product design and continues through considered, from the manufacture of the raw
manufacturing to eventual disposal. We refer to this materials through to the ultimate fate of products
as product stewardship. and wastes in the environment.
This section covers product design (including See more on the toolkit and our approach to
packaging) and the impacts of pharmaceuticals in product designin the background pages.
the environment. The research and development
section of this report covers our approach to animal
testing.Read more about environmental issues
associated with our products on our
PACKAGING
background pages.
We are working to improve the environmental
Product design
performance of our packaging across several areas.
Environment and health and safety staff work with
product development teams to incorporate EHS Our Green Packaging Guide provides guidance and
considerations into the design of products and a business process for evaluating and selecting
sourcing materials, and to identify residual EHS risks packaging options. It includes an interactive
as products move from R&D to manufacturing. “wizard” known as WRAP – Wizard for the Rapid
Assessment of Packaging – which helps packaging
Eco-design toolkit
designers and managers to benchmark new and
We have developed an eco-design toolkit which
existing packaging designs, considering five metrics
scientists and engineers use to identify process
over the product life cycle:
improvements and address EHS issues early in the
development process. The toolkit is available on the • manufacture of the material
GSK intranet and consists of five modules:
• mass of the material
• a Green Chemistry/Technology Guide, which
• biodegradability
helps GSK scientists and engineers apply Green
Chemistry concepts to achieve more efficient • PVC content
use of resources, reduce EHS impacts and
• resource depletion
minimise costs
The example of bottles for consumer products such
• Materials Guides, containing information on
as Lucozade illustrates the range of work on
a range of materials used within GSK
packaging:
operations, including solvents that should be
avoided. One guide covers solvent selection • reducing the amount of packaging – we moved
while a second deals with chemical base from glass to a plastic bottle, making a huge
selection saving in weight, energy and transport costs
Then we progressively reduced the weight of
• a Green Packaging Guide– an assessment
the plastic bottle by 14 percent
tool which includes guidance and a business
process for evaluating and selecting packaging • increasing the use of recycled material – bottles
options (see Packaging next) currently contain between 20-30 percent of
recycled material and we intend to increase this
• FLASC(Fast Lifecycle Assessment for Synthetic
to 100 percent as soon as we can develop a
Chemistry) – a web-based tool and process that
reliable supply
allows bench chemists to perform a streamlined
life cycle evaluation of the environmental • improving design to facilitate recycling of our
impacts of new or existing processes based on bottles – recycling is easiest from clear bottles
the materials used. FLASChelps scientists and with no contaminating residues. We have
managers to rapidly identify the ‘greenest’ changed from coloured to clear bottles and
materials option by comparing and have developed shrink sleeves which do not
benchmarking processes. It identifies the need adhesive and can easily be separated
materials that have the most significant life cycle
• promoting recycling in the community – we are
environmental impacts and provides guidance
active members of Recoup, which is a charitable
on how to reduce those impacts
organisation promoting plastics recycling in the
• The Chemicals Legislation Guide (CLG) UK (www.recoup.org). Through Recoup, GSK
identifies legislation in various parts of the world was a key contributor to a study on ‘Design for
aimed at phasing out hazardous substances recycling of plastic containers’ and we are
from routine use. The CLG provides risk-based funding another project to promote recycling
guidance, about a variety of chemicals of of plastic containers by providing ‘reverse
concern, in an easily accessible form. vending machines’ in public places
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
58Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
• investigating biodegradable plastics – we are We also engage in joint projects in the pharma-
following developments of materials such as ceutical industry through the Pharmaceutical
polylactic acid (PLA) made from corn starch but Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA).
currently believe return and recycling of In 2006:
conventional (PET) bottles is the best
• a GSK model was used to upgrade the
environmental option
Pharmaceutical Assessment and Transport
• using other packaging types – we aim to use Evaluation (PhATETM) model so it can be used to
the best type of container for each product. For estimate the potential environmental impact of
example, we use cartons from Tetra PakTMfor sewage sludge applied to the land. PhATE™ is
Ribena, which minimises weight and improves used to make risk assessments based on specific
distribution efficiency, although recycling local stream flows and population patterns
systems are still under development
• we contributed to developing a database of
• other packaging impacts – we have invested in scientific literature on the impacts of
a distribution centre that is closer to the bottle pharmaceuticals on aquatic life
supply company, which means we can
• we contributed to an analysis of the impact of
maximise the efficiency of lorry movements
unused medicines on the environment, a report
which is being shared with regulatory agencies
and will be developed into a paper for
publication in the scientific literature
PHARMACEUTICALS IN THE
We also continue our own work in this area. In 2006
ENVIRONMENT we:
Medicines work through active pharmaceutical • conducted chronic ecotoxicity testing on
ingredients (APIs) that are absorbed in the patient’s selected APIs based on new EU guidelines. We
body. These materials – including anything that is now use these guidelines as an integral part of
not absorbed – are eventually excreted through the our environmental risk assessment strategy
body’s normal mechanisms and enter the sewage
• continued comprehensive environmental risk
system. Wastewater treatment plants remove most
assessments for about 40 APIs. We developed
pharmaceutical residues, but small concentrations
‘Allowable Daily Intake’ levels for human
do end up in rivers or in the sea. In areas without
consumption through drinking water and fish
wastewater treatment, higher concentrations enter
consumption, as well as ‘No-Effects Levels’ for
the environment.
aquatic organisms. We make quantitative risk
GSK has developed business processes to ensure assessments by comparing these levels with
that we carry out appropriate environmental tests. predicted environmental concentrations. We
Environmental risk assessments are part of the presented data on selected sets of these
approval process for new medicines in the EU and compounds at scientific meetings
US, so we provide regulatory agencies with
• provided data and risk assessments on more
assessments to evaluate and allow for mitigation of
than 20 GSK APIs to the Swedish Association of
any potential environmental impacts. In 2006 we
the Pharmaceutical Industry (LIF) as part of a
were part of industry groups that met with
voluntary programme to provide data to
regulatory agencies on this issue, including the Food
physicians. GSK is also part of the technical
and Drug Administration and Environmental
team that developed the LIF Guide document
Protection Agency in the US and the Environment
‘Guidance for Pharmaceutical Companies’.
Agency of England and Wales.
Risk assessments indicate that our products do not
appear to pose an appreciable risk for humans or See more on our approach to pharmaceuticals in
the environment based on current methods for the environmenton our background pages.
ascertaining safe levels. But we continue to monitor
the latest scientific studies and findings to improve
our risk assessments in this area.
We work with other pharmaceutical companies,
universities and research groups to develop the
science and methodologies to assess the
environmental risks of pharmaceuticals in the
environment and increase understanding of such
risks. In 2006 we started to investigate the issue of
mixtures of pharmaceuticals, and have established
a relationship with Brunel University in the UK to
develop research plans in addition to our own in-
house programme.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
59Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Environmental performance
In 2006, we continued to improve our use of energy and reduce emissions to the
atmosphere. We used slightly more water than in 2005 and generated more waste but
succeeded in keeping the percentage increase below the percentage rise in sales.
Scope of the data We manufacture pharmaceutical and ENERGY EFFICIENCY
The environmental data covers
consumer products using processes that
the calendar year 2006. They are We need energy to discover, develop, manufacture
involve chemicals, so we need to
collected from all of our and distribute medicines. Most of our energy use is
80 pharmaceutical and consumer understand, address and report on environmental
in our facilities, especially manufacturing, but also
manufacturing sites, 11 of our impacts. They include issues common to all
R&D and office sites. Global Manufacturing and
13 biologicals sites that are in manufacturers, such as the use of energy and water,
operation, 18 of 22 pharma- and waste handling. In common with some other Supply (GMS) and Research and Development
ceutical and consumer research (R&D) accounted for 58 percent and 25 percent
sectors, we also need to consider potential impacts
and development sites and 6 of respectively, of our consumption in 2006 and this is
of certain chemicals which can release volatile
8 major office locations. We where we are concentrating efforts to increase
include available data for sites organic compounds (VOCs). Our manufacture of
energy efficiency. Transport is the main source of
that were in operation for all or asthma inhalers also means we use chemicals which
our remaining energy use.
part of the year. We do not can damage the ozone layer.
require environmental data from Improving energy efficiency will help to reduce our
small offices and distribution In 2006 we reviewed our reporting to consider the
global warming impact. It is now widely accepted
centres. materiality of environmental impacts, in the light of
that the activity of humans is changing our planet’s
pharmaceutical industry practice and the Global
Notes attached to the data table climate. There is a scientific consensus that
on page 72explain the scope Reporting Initiative, as well as inputs from
‘greenhouse gases’ (GHGs) such as carbon dioxide
and data collection process for stakeholders.
and methane are causing the ‘greenhouse effect’ –
each parameter in more detail.
Unless specified as being per unit Stakeholders have told us they want simplicity in trapping heat within the earth’s atmosphere,
of sales, figures are absolute reporting, but they also need an appropriate level of causing a global increase in temperatures. Burning
numbers (i.e. total consumption detail, and we have tried to balance these fossil fuels has greatly increased the presence of
of energy, water etc.) sometimes conflicting requirements. For example, these gases in the atmosphere. Most experts now
we have reduced and simplified the graphs and agree that this increase in GHGs is causing the earth
charts in this report, concentrating on areas with to warm, a process which could bring about
targets. We include a full data table for disastrous changes to our climate.
completeness at the back of the environment
We will continue working to minimise energy use
section on page 72.
and emissions, despite expected growth in new
We concentrate our reporting on: products which will require additional energy. We
expect to continue finding opportunities for greater
• issues with potential financial benefit or impact
efficiencies in new and existing facilities and
for GSK such as material efficiency and energy
operations. As a result, our new target is to reduce
efficiency
energy consumption by 1 percent per unit of sales
• issues directly related to the use of chemicals each year until 2010.
such as volatile organic compounds, chemical
In 2006 we finalised a position paperon our future
oxygen demand of wastewater and hazardous
use of energy, following extensive internal and
waste
external consultation. The position paper sets out a
This is the seventh year that we have reported on strategy for energy efficiency, renewable energy and
GSK’s environmental performance (and the legacy emissions trading. It commits GSK to:
companies reported for several years before the
• reduce our reliance on fossil fuels whenever it
creation of GSK). Copies of these reports are
is technically and economically possible
available on the Corporate Register.
• support effective market-based mechanisms
Verification
such as emissions trading, but seek to reduce
The data in this Environment section and in the
our own emissions first
health and safety pages of the employment section
of this report are externally verified by SGS UK Ltd. • evaluate the use of renewable energy
Details can be found in the verification statement on
• evaluate energy investments over their lifetime
page 70.
rather than over the normal payback period
used by GSK
• encourage suppliers, contractors and
employees to improve their energy
consumption
• report transparently our energy consumption
using internationally recognised protocols
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
60Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Energy performance
Energy consumption
In 2006, we used 19 million
gigajoules of energy, approx-
imately 1.4 percent less than in
2005. We bought 43 percent of
our energy as electricity and
generated most of the rest from
Target
fossil fuels burned at our sites.
2010
The reduction in energy use
came despite an increase in sales.
Energy consumption per £ sales
was 8.1 percent lower than in
2005.
Baseline
2006 We continued to work on energy
efficiency initiatives in 2006, with
active energy teams in manufact-
uring and R&D and energy
managers at many of the larger
sites. Examples include:
2005 • installing energy efficient
lighting and motion sensors
• thermographic surveys to
identify heat losses, resulting
in insulation repairs
Baseline
• ultrasonic surveys to identify
2001
air leaks
• site voltage reduction projects
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 • efficiency improvements to
heating, ventilation and air
gigajoules per £ million (sales) conditioning
Target
• retro-fitting economisers to
steam boilers
• steam trap surveys and
Energy consumption maintenance improvements
Year gjper £ million (sales) • electricity and steam metering
improvements with
2001 1010.6 centralised monitoring and
targeting software systems
2005 887.8
2006 816.2 • refrigeration and chiller
efficiency improvements
The data table on page 72
includes additional details
about energy and greenhouse
gas emissions, such as amounts
Renewable energy of electricity purchased and fuels
We have started to invest in renewable energy installed combustion capacity are required to consumed, and carbon dioxide
projects. For example, Barnard Castle has installed participate and 16 GSK sites are covered. On equivalent emissions from
two wind turbines and other sites are using solar balance GSK had surplus carbon credits. Any energy sources and from inhaler
production and use.
energy to heat water. Some sites purchased some proceeds from the sale of carbon credits are invested
of their electricity from renewable resources. In the in energy efficiency projects.
future we will report the amount of electricity from
Energy investments
renewable sources.
We have adopted an approach to energy
Emissions trading investments which reflects the long-term nature of
A number of UK sites participate in the the projects and the importance of energy supply to
government’s emissions trading scheme (ETS), the business. Instead of applying our normal
helping us to gain experience in carbon trading. The investment criteria we will assess the return on the
UK ETS is a voluntary scheme which rewards investment over the project’s lifetime.
companies with lower energy taxes if they improve
We expect that this will result in approving energy
energy efficiency. Sites that keep emissions below an
efficiency and renewable energy projects which
agreed target can ‘bank’ the spare credits to help
would not qualify under our normal investment
comply with limits in subsequent years, or they can
criteria.
sell the credits to other participants in the scheme.
The first project to be approved was for solar water
In 2006 all GSK sites complied with their Climate
heating at our site at Slough, UK.
Change Agreements.
The European Union trading scheme came into
force at the start of 2005 for an initial three-year
period. Sites with more than 20 megawatts of
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
61Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Transport
We estimate that transport accounts for 340 million We have launched a number of initiatives to reduce
kilograms of CO2, about 20 percent of our global the impact of transporting products. They include
warming impact from energy in 2006. consolidating freight shipments so pharmaceutical
and consumer products are transported together,
Business air travel accounts for almost half
consolidating shipping points, and making more use
(44 percent) of our travel-related CO2emissions. In
of round tripping (managing inbound freight trucks
2006, employees travelled a total of almost
so they do not return empty). We also switch from
900 million kilometres by plane resulting in
air to sea transport where possible.
106 million kg of CO2emissions. Air travel does not
include group travel originating outside the UK. Our We have ‘green travel plans’ at a number of sites to
global sales fleet drove a total of over 1 billion encourage employees to reduce the environmental
kilometres on business travel – resulting in impact of their travel to work. For example, at GSK
136 million kg of CO2. House in Brentford, UK, privileged parking spaces
are given to car-sharers and drivers of fuel efficient
In addition to business travel, we also transport
cars, buses powered by biodiesel run to and from
products from our manufacturing plants to
the local train station, while changing rooms and
distributors. In 2006, GSK products were
showers are provided for cyclists as well as discounts
transported a total of 227 million kilometres – the
for bicycle equipment and repairs. We are beginning
majority (81 percent) by air freight. We estimate that
to use hybrid-engine cars for our chauffeur service.
the air freight resulted in 87 million kg of CO2while
ocean and road freight resulted in an additional We encourage employees to use video and
11 million kg of CO2. teleconferencing where possible to reduce air travel.
Virtual meeting software is available to employees
This year we used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol for
for making presentations and collaborative working.
all of our calculations of CO2emissions. We are also
In 2006, GSK employees conducted over 5,000
now able to obtain more details about freight
video meetings, over 464,000 teleconferences and
shipments. With these details we can be more
over 5,000 web conferences.
precise in our calculations of CO2emissions from
freight transport. Because of these changes we are
unable to compare CO2emissions from transport
with previous years. We are still working on
obtaining the same level of detail from our
passenger air travel.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
62Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Water performance
Water consumption
In 2006, we used 22 million cubic
metres of water, 1.5 percent
more than in 2005. In spite of
the small increase in water
consumption, with the rise in
sales, water consumption per
Target
£ sales was 5.3 percent lower
2010 than in 2005. Our consumption
is about average for the industry,
based on benchmarking with
other major pharmaceutical
companies.
Baseline
Water usage has gone up
2006
mainly due to increased activity
at biologicals sites, especially
higher vaccines production at
Biologicals Belgium. Higher
production at manufacturing
plants in Ireland and the UK
2005 also required more water.
These increases were partly
offset by partial closing of one
site and small improvements at
several sites as a result of water
conservation measures.
Baseline
2001
0 300 600 900 1200 1500
cubic metres per £ million (sales)
Target
Water consumption
Year m3 per £ million (sales)
2001 1310.0
2005 999.6
2006 946.2
WATER USE
GSK uses water in manufacturing (for processes,
products, cooling and cleaning) and for general site
uses including drinking, food services and sanitation.
Primary supply sites – those that manufacture active
pharmaceutical ingredients – are typically heavy
users of water, as are sites that manufacture
vaccines or produce drinks. Those involved in
research and development and commercial activities
typically use less.
Water is a valuable natural resource that needs to
be conserved – especially in areas where there are
shortages – and protected from pollution. The GSK
water standard requires sites to minimise water use,
re-use water whenever feasible and ensure that all
wastewater is treated and discharged in a way that
minimises adverse environmental impacts.
Our target is to reduce water consumption by
2 percent per annum per £ of sales.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
63Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Wastewater performance
Chemical oxygen demand of wastewater
We generated 10 million cubic
metres of wastewater in 2006.
The total volume was 6.4 percent
less than 2005.
This reduction was partly due to
changes at several sites including Target
a new specialised wastewater 2010
treatment facility at a primary
manufacturing plant which
removes solvent from the
wastewater, closure of some
manufacturing operations in
Baseline
another plant and other changes
2006
to wastewater treatment and
product mix.
Total chemical oxygen demand
(COD) discharged after on-site
treatment was 15 million
kilograms which was 15 percent 2005
less than in 2005. The reduction
in COD per £ sales was
21 percent.
Baseline
2001
0 300 600 900 1200 1500
kilograms per £ million (sales)
Target
Chemical oxygen demand of wastewater
Year kgper £ million (sales)
2001 1223.7
2005 802.5
2006 632.8
WASTEWATER
Most sites discharge wastewater to municipal from ‘domestic’ activity (such as washrooms and
treatment facilities. Some large sites, especially canteens). The vast majority of COD comes from
primary manufacturing, have their own on-site manufacturing and the contribution from these
wastewater treatment systems. Some sites are other activities is not sufficiently significant to
permitted to discharge wastewater direct to the sea. warrant the time and effort required to collect the
data. This change may result in a decrease in
We assess the quality of wastewater by measuring
reported COD of up to 5.7 percent. We have
the chemical oxygen demand (COD) – the oxygen
recalculated prior years’ data so that it is
required to chemically oxidise compounds in the
comparable.
water. The lower the COD, the cleaner the water.
Our target from 2006 is to improve COD discharge
by 3 percent a year per £ of sales.
We have changed COD measurement to
concentrate on wastewater from manufacturing
processes and exclude sites whose waste is mainly
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
64Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
WASTE
Our research, production and commercial activities Non-hazardous waste
all produce waste, which we aim to manage safely Most non-hazardous waste is general material such
and responsibly from when it is generated to its final as office waste paper, kitchen waste and non-
disposal. We want to eliminate waste where we hazardous substances used in manufacturing. A
can, reduce it where we cannot, re-use materials if very small part is biological waste that has been
possible, recycle other waste and dispose of any treated so it is not hazardous. We do not include
remaining material sensitively. construction and demolition rubble and similar
material not related to day-to-day operations, which
We generate different kinds of waste in different
we describe separately as non-routine waste.
parts of the business:
We continue to look for ways to reduce waste and
• production – hazardous wastes such as solvents
have undertaken waste management reviews at
and other chemicals
many sites. Our new target is to reduce non-
• R&D and quality laboratories – small amounts hazardous waste per £ of sales by 1 percent per
of chemicals including products and annum.
intermediates, as well as broken glassware and
Hazardous waste
plastics
More than 93 percent of our hazardous waste
• offices – paper and other standard commercial consists of solvents that are used in production
waste processes. We also dispose of some lubricants and
fluorescent lights, while research waste includes
• renovations take place in production, office and
animal carcasses.
lab space which produce non-routine waste
such as obsolete equipment, office furniture Regulations vary widely around the world, but our
and structural materials first choice for solvents is to re-use or recycle
material. When this is not possible the main disposal
Most of the active ingredients in our pharmaceutical
option for solvents is incineration. We aim to recover
products are manufactured using chemical
energy from incineration wherever possible.
processes. This means that a significant proportion
of our waste is classified as hazardous because it
Hazardous waste disposed
contains solvents and chemicals used in these
processes. We classify waste as hazardous, non-
hazardous, and non-routine (for waste such as
construction and demolition rubble).
Baseline
2006
Most production facilities segregate their wastes,
re-use what they can, send what they can for
recycling, and incinerate or landfill anything else.
Incineration is usually the preferred choice for
dealing with solvents that can’t be reused or 2005
recycled. Where practicable, sites use waste
management companies which use incinerators
that recover energy from burning the materials.
We require disposal contractors to comply with our Baseline
2001
EHS requirements and local regulations. Sites audit
their waste contractors or hire consultants to carry
out the audits. 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
kilograms per £ million (sales)
We continue to work on reducing waste, especially Target
hazardous waste. Improving material efficiency will
reduce waste, especially the number and volume of Hazardous waste disposed
solvents. We have set a target to increase material Year kgper £ million (sales)
efficiency of new products going from R&D to 2001 2850.1
manufacturing to 2 percent.
2005 2917.3
In the past, some waste and chemicals handling 2006 2871.1
practices contaminated landand groundwater.
These practices are no longer followed, however we Most hazardous waste comes from primary
are continuing to clean up these sites to deal with production activity, and this is where we concentrate
health and environmental hazards. our efforts. We have stopped collecting hazardous
waste data from consumer manufacturing plants,
GSK and its heritage companies have spent more
laboratories, offices and most secondary manufac-
then £100m cleaning up more than 50 sites in the
turing sites. These sites produced about 3 percent
US over the last 20 years. We are continuing to clean
of our hazardous waste in the past.
up 25 of these sites. Most of them are waste
disposal sites where GSK is one of several We have not set a target for reduction of hazardous
responsible parties. These figures are not included waste. Our target to improve material efficiency is
in the data verification. geared to accomplish reductions in hazardous
waste.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
65Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Waste performance
Non-hazardous waste disposed
In 2006, we generated
234 million kilograms of
hazardous waste and 114 million
kilograms of non-hazardous
waste.
We recycled 244 million Target
kilograms of waste (168 million 2010
kilograms of hazardous and
76 million kilograms of non-
hazardous). That represents
70 percent of the total
generated (excluding non-
Baseline
routine waste.) The proportion
2006
of waste recycled was 2 percent
lower than in 2005.
We disposed (via landfill or
incineration) of 67 million
kilograms of hazardous waste
and 38 million kilograms of 2005
non-hazardous waste.
The total hazardous waste
disposed was 5.5 percent higher
than 2005. Adjusted for the rise
in sales it was 1.6 percent lower.
Baseline
Hazardous waste was mostly
2001
solvents (94 percent), the rest
being general site waste. We
incinerated over 99 percent of
hazardous waste disposed, 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
with energy recovered from
42 percent of this. kilograms per £ million (sales)
Target
Total non-hazardous waste was
8.7 percent lower than in 2005.
The amount disposed per £ of
sales decreased by 15 percent
Non-hazardous waste disposed
over the year. Of the non-
hazardous waste generated, Year kgper £ million (sales)
we sent 19 percent to landfill.
2001 2610.7
2005 1901.8
2006 1620.0
Recycling
We recycle hazardous and non-hazardous waste, Two sites in India have stopped land filling their coal
aiming to minimise environmental impacts as well ash generated on site; instead they sell it as raw
as the cost of materials and waste. material for the production of construction material.
The largest waste component is solvent which has In addition, three nutritional-drink manufacturing
been used in the manufacturing process. Some sites send some of their process wastes (barley husk)
solvent is purified on our sites and reused in the for animal food while others recycle canteen waste
original manufacturing process. Sometimes we sell or effluent treatment plant sludge by converting it
the solvent to commercial reprocessing companies, into bio-compost.
which we also include in the recycling statistics.
The data table on page 72 includes additional
Solvent which is not recycled in this way is usually
details about waste such as amounts of hazardous
incinerated.
and non-hazardous waste that go to recycling,
Recycling non-hazardous waste such as paper, landfill and incineration and the amount of non-
cardboard, glass, plastic or aluminium, usually routine waste.
means sending it for reprocessing so it can be reused
to make new products.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
66Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Ozone depletion performance
Ozone depletion potential
Total ozone depletion potential
(ODP) from production of
inhalers and from equipment
was 23.5 thousand kilograms,
56.5 percent lower than 2005
(based on estimates for
Target
emissions from equipment).
2010 Ozone depletion potential
estimated from equipment and
production losses per £ of sales
was 61.8 percent lower than
2005.
Baseline
CFC 11 and CFC 12 are contained
2006
in 163 pieces of equipment,
amounting to 16,137 kilograms
of CFC. Over 4 thousand items
of equipment contain other
ozone depleting substances
with the ODP of 7,315 kilograms
2005 of CFC 11 equivalent. We
estimate that 2.75 percent or
645 kilograms CFC 11 equivalent
were released from the
equipment (using an estimation
factor from the British
Baseline
Refrigeration Association).
2001
0 2 4 6 8 10
kilograms per £ million (sales)
Target
Ozone depletion potential
Year kgper £ million (sales)
2001 9.2
2005 2.7
2006 1.0
OZONE DEPLETION
The ozone layer is essential to human survival The chart refers to ODS lost from production
because it filters out harmful ultra-violet (UV) rays activities and equipment leakage. See data table on
from the sun. It has been damaged by ozone page 72 for information about patient use of
depleting substances (ODSs), mainly chlorofluoro- inhalers.
carbons (CFCs), hydrochlorofluoro-carbons (HCFCs)
We are installing new equipment which will help us
and halons.
meet our target of eliminating CFCs from
Our main use of ODSs in the past was as the equipment and productuse by 2010, apart from
propellant gas in metered dose inhalers (MDI) for halon fixed fire protection systems and equipment
asthma sufferers. The gas is released when patients containing under one kilogram of CFC.
use the inhalers and a small amount escapes during
In 2006, 186 thousand kilograms of CFC propellant
production. In the past we used CFCs but have been
were released when patients used our products.
switching to hydrofluoro-carbons (HFCs) and dry
A much smaller amount – 22.8 thousand kilograms
powder technology which does not require a
– were released during production of inhalers and
propellant. HFCs do not deplete the ozone layer but
we estimate that 645 kilograms CFC 11 equivalent
do contribute to global warming.
were emitted from equipment.
We also use ODSs in some cooling systems and for
other ancillary uses at GSK facilities. We have
switched to using HFCs, ammonia and
hydrocarbons. Ammonia does not contribute to
either ozone depletion or global warming and
hydrocarbons have a small global warming impact.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
67Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Equipment and production Metered dose inhalers
ODSs – mainly HCFCs – are sealed inside cooling Metered dose inhalers(MDIs) are commonly used
systems and are only released in the event of a leak to deliver the main forms of treatment for asthma
or during maintenance. sufferers. They are pressurised, hand-held devices
that use propellants to deliver doses of medication
The only way to eliminate emissions is to eliminate
to patients’ lungs. They were first introduced in the
CFC and HCFC from cooling systems and that is our
1950s and CFCs were traditionally used as the
new strategy.
propellant because they are non-toxic, non-reactive,
In 2006 we carried out an inventory of all CFC and non-flammable, and do not have any odour or
HCFC containing equipment and will repeat the taste.
exercise in the first quarter of 2007 and annually so
When a patient uses the MDI, the propellant is
we can monitor the decrease in the CFC content. In
released into the atmosphere. The Montreal
2007 we will also collect data on HFCs.
Protocol bans the production of CFCs but it exempts
We recognise that there is also a risk of catastrophic a number of ‘essential uses’ which include MDIs.
failure of equipment and larger releases, until we Nevertheless we plan to eliminate the use of CFCs
eliminate these chemicals. We are focusing from our worldwide product portfolio by 2010.
attention on the larger pieces of equipment to
We have stopped using CFCs in the US and the
remove them from service before the end of 2010.
European Union. We now offer a selection of
We do not intend to replace equipment containing
alternatives to ODS-containing inhalers in most
1 kilogram or less because these are typically
countries. The main alternative propellant we use is
hermetically sealed and less likely to leak.
HFC 134a, which does not affect ozone but does
We no longer collect data on losses from equipment have high global warming potential, although it is
as we are concentrating on eliminating the less than CFCs. We have also invested heavily in dry
equipment rather than controlling the releases. For powder delivery systems that do not use CFCs or
comparison to prior years we have estimated that HFCs.
2.75 percent of the total amount of CFC and HCFC
We will continue to manufacture CFC MDIs in India,
is lost from the remaining equipment. The ODP
China and Pakistan and will use subcontractors to
chart shows the emissions from producing inhalers
produce CFC devices for the Bangladesh and Latin
and the estimated emissions from equipment. Last
America market until 2010. Our target is to
year we reported 2985 kg released based on losses
eliminate all CFCs by then.
during equipment failures and replacements.
Ozone depletion potential from patient use of
metered dose inhalers was 32 percent lower than
in 2005. In previous years we only had this
information from the US and EU. We now have data
from India, Pakistan and China and have calculated
the decrease from all CFC inhalers that we produce.
As production of CFC-containing MDIs decreases,
the amount of CFC lost during production also
declines. Total ozone depletion potential from
production was 55 percent lower than 2005.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
68Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Control of volatile organic
Volatile organic compound emissions
compound emissions at the GSK
Cork site
VOCs arise from many of the
processes at Cork, where we
use solvents such as dichloro-
methane, ethyl acetate and
Target
ethanol.
2010
The introduction of the UK Air
Pollution Act in 1987 led to a
focus on control and elimination
of solvent emissions and we
carried out a complete review
Baseline
of all points of emission.
2006
All solvent emissions from
reactions, vacuum pump
discharges, centrifuges, pressure
filters and tanks are collected
through a site-wide system and
2005 passed into two high temper-
ature incinerators. They operate
at 1100ºC and destroy all organic
vapours with an efficiency
greater than 99.99 percent.
Emissions from the incinerator
Baseline
stacks are continuously
2001
monitored for VOC residues,
carbon monoxide, sulphur
oxides, nitrogen oxides and
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 for hydrogen halides.
This incineration operation is
kilograms per £ million (sales)
regarded as the best available
Target
technology for efficient
destruction of VOCs and
prevention of emissions of
these substances to atmosphere.
Volatile organic compound emissions
Control of VOC at Ulverston
Year kgper £ million (sales)
The manufacture of two
intermediate stages in the
2001 321.3
antibiotic, cefuroxime axetil
2005 231.6 uses solvents including
2006 180.5 dichloromethane (DCM) and
tetrahydrofuran (THF).
In 2006, GSK approved a project
to install a carbon adsorption
unit to remove VOCs from these
process stages. Carbon
adsorption technology was
VOLATILE ORGANIC
selected as the methodology to
COMPOUNDS reduce VOC emissions because
the technology offers a robust,
We use volatile organic compounds (VOCs) mainly Our target from 2006 is to reduce VOCs by industry standard abatement
as solvents in our primary manufacturing operations 2 percent per annum per £ of sales. Improvements solution and represents best
and R&D pilot plants. Solvents are also used to coat in VOC emissions in 2006 were due to several available technology.
some tablets and in cleaning for sterile operations. projects at primary manufacturing sites to capture Existing vents to air will be
We also use small quantities in laboratories but do fugitive emissions, changes in production and redirected to the carbon
not measure emissions from this use. changes in the way VOC emissions are calculated in adsorption Unit where they
will be adsorbed on an activated
alignment with local regulations.
VOCs react with nitrogen oxides in the presence of carbon bed. The system operates
sunlight, creating ozone in the lower atmosphere. Photochemical ozone creation potential was continuously and uses steam
regeneration to remove
This results in smog, which is a factor in human 19.8 percent lower than in 2005.
adsorbed solvents which will be
respiratory illness. Workplace exposure to certain
We have changed the way we measure VOCs to recovered at the site by an
VOCs can also pose a health risk. exclude the small quantities from laboratories, existing solvent recovery unit for
re-use in the process.
In 2006, we released 4.2 million kilograms of VOCs estimated to be 3 percent of total VOC emissions in
to the atmosphere. This was 16 percent lower than prior years. We have recalculated VOC emissions in This project will remove 30 to
in 2005. Emissions per £ of sales were 22 percent prior years to make them comparable. 40 tonnes per annum of DCM
releases to air and 130 to
lower than in 2005.
150 tonnes per annum of THF.
The site will also save an
estimated £100k per annum
from the recovery and re-use
of these solvents.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
69Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Independant verfication/assurance statement
www.sgs.uk.ltd
SGS United Kingdom Ltd’s report on Environment, Health and Safety data in the
GlaxoSmithKline Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Report for 2006.
Nature and Scope of the Verification/Assurance
SGS United Kingdom Ltd was commissioned by GlaxoSmithKline to conduct an independent
assurance of their 2006 EHS Report. The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability
Report Assurance methodology, included 2006 Environment and Health & Safety performance data
and graphs, contained in pages 46 to 49 and 52 to 69 of this report and in the accompanying table
on pages 72 to 74. Data relating to contaminated land pages 65 and health and safety data relating
to non-GSK employees (page 47) were not included in this assurance process. Financial data drawn
directly from independently audited financial accounts has not been checked back to source as part
of this assurance process.
The information in the EHS Report of GlaxoSmithKline and its presentation are the responsibility of
the directors and the management of GlaxoSmithKline. SGS United Kingdom Ltd has not been
involved in the preparation of any of the material included in the EHS Report. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on the data, graphs and relevant statements within the scope of verification.
The SGS Group has developed a set of protocols for the Assurance of Sustainability Reports based
on current best practice guidance provided in the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting
Guidelines (2002) and the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2003). The data in this report has been
assured using our protocol for content veracity. The assurance comprised a combination of interviews
with relevant employees; evaluation of data collection and submission methodologies,
documentation and record review and validation with external bodies and/or stakeholders where
relevant. Six sites were visited (in UK, USA, Belgium, Italy and Singapore) and a further eight sites
were contacted by telephone (in UK, USA, Ireland, India and Australia). The sites selected included
those submitting high proportions of key data and included all parts of the GSK business. Additionally
visits were made to the Corporate Head Quarters and web-conferencing with key individuals was
utilised in order to complete our verification activities.
Statement of Independence and Competence
The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and verification, operating
in more than 140 countries and providing services including management systems and service
certification; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and training; environmental, social
and sustainability report assurance. SGS United Kingdom Ltd affirm our independence from
GlaxoSmithKline, being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the organisation, its subsidiaries
and stakeholders.
The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for
this assignment, and comprised auditors registered with IRCA, IEMA and EMAS Verifiers.
Verification/Assurance Opinion
On the basis of the methodology described and the verification work performed, we are satisfied
that the data contained within the GlaxoSmithKline 2006 EHS Report is reliable and provides a fair
and balanced representation of GlaxoSmithKline’s EHS activities in 2006.
We believe that GlaxoSmithKline has chosen an appropriate level of assurance for this stage in their
reporting.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
70Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Independant verfication/assurance statement
Key areas for improvement to data collection, submission and manipulation were identified as
follows:
• Definitions for data to be submitted were not always fully understood or adhered to consistently
at site level;
• Estimations are used to calculate certain data and further guidance could be provided to sites
to ensure that such calculations are approached consistently;
• Establish a more rigorous process to check entered data for anomalies, such as data entered in
error, or missed data;
• Consider incorporation of an internal audit of data and data management systems alongside
corporate EHS audits;
• Ensure training is undertaken when key individuals are replaced to ensure consistency and full
understanding of systems and requirements;
• Ensure that, when sites submit data, comments are included to explain estimations, calculations
and any significant changes;
• Ensure that the process used to extract data from electronic systems is used consistently and
appropriately to enable the correct values to be obtained by all individuals utilising the system.
Key areas for improvement in data verification process were identified as follows:
• Ensure that all relevant data is available and internally checked in advance of external verification
process.
For and on behalf of SGS United Kingdom Ltd
Pauline Earl
Business Manager
Systems and Services Certification
27 February 2007
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
71Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Global warming potential
1. Global warming potential Metric 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
(GWP) from energy
sources is calculated as CO2
or CO2equivalent using Energy use
the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Energy for operations
Protocol developed by the
(million gigajoules) 19.0 19.2 18.9 20.0 20.0 20.7
World Resources Institute
and the World Business Natural gas 9.00 8.66 8.68 9.44 9.71 9.86
Council for Sustainable Fuels 1.08 1.53 1.53 1.43 1.07 1.42
Development.
Coal 0.47 0.63 0.56 0.64 0.95 1.04
2. GWP from air, land and
Steam imported 0.22 0.19 0.17 0.17 0.06 0.28
sea transport is calculated
using the GHG protocol Electricity imported 8.19 8.21 7.98 8.31 8.27 8.10
from distance travelled,
not directly from fuel
used.
Global Warming Potential (CO2equivalent)
In years before 2006, GWP from operations1
we did not collect all energy(million kilograms) 1,666.1 1,692.5 1,665.5 1,749.8 1,734.0 1,824.5
categories of freight
Natural gas 453.0 435.9 437.1 475.4 488.6 496.5
transport or employee
business travel. Fuels 81.1 114.0 113.0 104.0 76.9 102.0
In 2006 we are missing
Coal 22.0 29.3 25.9 29.8 44.1 48.3
group air travel that
originated outside of UK. Steam imported 15.0 14.3 11.5 11.6 9.4 38.7
Motor vehicle travel Electricity imported 1095.1 1099.5 1078.0 1128.9 1114.5 1138.5
conversion assumes
medium vehicles for sales
employees and heavy GWP from transport2(million kilograms) 339.9 233.0 206.0 178.0 180.0 123.0
diesel vehicles for freight Sales force 136.1 102.0 78.0 70.0 75.0 33.0
transport.
Air travel 105.5 112.0 114.0 95.0 92.0 71.0
3. GWP from refrigerants
Product logistics 98.3 19.0 14.0 13.0 13.0 19.0
released from equipment
is calculated using factors
from the Kyoto protocol. GWP from other production
We have changed from
activities (million kilograms) 400.7 607.8 665.2 723.5 1,082.8 1,385.2
collecting data on releases
of refrigerants to Inhaler production losses 283.4 420.3 491.9 539.1 857.4 1219.0
collecting data on the Equipment containing greater
amount of refrigerant
than 1kg refrigerant3 6.99 46.82 46.66 50.20 64.38 58.43
contained in the
equipment and calculating CO2,Methane and Nitrous Oxide 36.29 48.42 54.64 54.90 71.50 57.13
the releases using a factor Waste treatment 46.40 76.40 56.86 52.56 44.86 47.06
from British Refrigeration
Other sources 27.32 15.86 15.09 26.76 44.61 3.58
Association for probable
leakage. We calculate
releases only from
GWP from use of inhalers
refrigeration equipment
by patients4(million kilograms) 4,335 - - - - -
holding greater than one
kilogram refrigerant. CFC 11 inhalers 197 - - - - -
4. GWP from ozone CFC 12 inhalers 1,083 - - - - -
depleting substances in HFC 134a inhalers 3,055 - - - - -
inhalers uses factors from
the Kyoto protocol. We
did not have enough Water use and discharge
information to calculate
Water (million cubic metres) 22.0 21.6 20.8 23.0 24.2 26.8
GWP from inhaler use in
previous years. Municipal 12.73 12.77 12.72 13.03 14.23 15.12
Wells or boreholes 8.95 8.59 7.96 9.88 9.98 11.60
Water
5. Water from other sources Other Water5 0.302 0.289 0.137 0.072 0.014 0.037
includes recycled sources.
Wastewater volume6
(million cubic metres) 10.2 10.9 11.4 11.5 11.9 13.1
WW to recycling 0.58 0.43 0.91 0.42 0.42 0.20
WW to municipal sewer 3.74 3.85 3.86 3.74 3.65 3.76
WW to water bodies 5.88 6.63 6.62 7.35 7.88 9.17
COD after on-site treatment6,7
(million kilograms) 14.7 17.4 18.9 21.6 22.3 25.1
COD in recycled water <.01 <.01 <.01 0.90 1.98 <.01
COD to sewer 2.93 3.60 4.45 4.77 4.42 3.91
COD to water bodies 11.77 13.80 14.50 16.01 15.94 21.17
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
72Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Wastewater
Metric 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 6. In 2006 we changed the
wastewater calculations
to include wastewater and
Volatile organic compound emissions chemical oxygen demand
only from the major
Volatile organic compound emissions8
contributors; primary
(million kilograms) 4.2 5.0 5.3 6.2 6.4 6.6
operations, pilot plants,
POCP from total VOC emissions9 1.29 1.60 1.74 2.11 2.14 2.10 and coating and sterile
operations. We recalculated
data for previous years so
Top five solvents released (million kilograms) they can be compared.
Acetone 1.02 1.15 1.11 1.30 1.46 1.23 7. Chemical oxygen demand
(COD), a measure of water
Dichloromethane 0.84 0.88 0.95 1.13 1.25 1.72
pollution, from manufact-
Methanol 0.44 0.71 0.66 0.92 0.76 0.73 uring processes is measured
when the wastewater leaves
Ethanol 0.42 0.44 0.51 0.32 0.28 0.26
our sites, following any on-
Isopropanol 0.25 0.18 0.23 0.26 0.22 0.35 site treatment.
Volatile organic compounds
8. In 2006 we changed
Ozone depleting substances10
calculation to include
ODS Releases from VOC only from the major
production (thousand kilograms) 22.8 51.0 59.0 71.5 120.8 183.5 contributors; primary
operations, pilot plants,
CFC11 releases from production 6.9 14.1 12.6 27.0 52.4 88.5 and coating and sterile
operations. We recalcul-
CFC12 releases from production 15.9 36.9 46.3 44.5 68.3 94.9
ated data for previous years
so they can be compared.
ODS Releases from 9. In addition to kilograms of
equipment (thousand kilograms) 0.65 2.99 2.66 2.59 6.81 4.32 VOC emitted, we calculate
photochemical ozone
CFC11 releases from equipment 0.42 1.62 0.93 0.30 2.70 0.56
creation potential (POCP)
CFC12 releases from equipment 0.02 0.21 0.31 0.32 0.40 0.33 in kilograms ethylene
equivalents. Conversion
Other ODS from ancillary equipment 0.20 1.15 1.41 1.97 3.71 3.42
to ethylene equivalents is
based on the European
Chemical Industry Council
ODS Releases from patient use
(CEFIC) “Responsible Care
of inhalers11(thousand kilograms) 185.6 272.5 HSE Reporting Guidelines”
CFC11 from patient use 51.85 76.15 for VOCs (1998).
CFC12 from patient use 133.72 196.38 Ozone depleting substances
10. Ozone depletion potential
(ODP) from ozone depleting
ODS contained in substances is calculated
using factors from the Kyoto
equipment12(thousand kilograms) 23.4
protocol.
11. In previous years we did not
Waste generated and disposed have information about
inhalers produced in Asia for
Hazardous waste generated13,14
emissions from patients’ use.
(million kilograms) 234.3 253.4 251.6 291.0 312.8 345.9
12. In the previous years we did
Hazardous waste recycled 167.65 190.23 182.19 234.86 255.09 287.5 not have information on the
Hazardous waste disposed 66.68 63.19 69.40 56.13 57.74 58.40 ODS amount contained in
equipment.
Hazardous waste incinerated with
Waste
energy recovery15 28.06 28.78 35.47 25.83 27.56 27.76
13. We consider a waste to be
Hazardous waste incinerated with hazardous if it is radioactive,
no energy recovery 38.18 33.41 32.54 28.81 28.06 27.82 bioengineered or
biohazardous, or it has any
Hazardous waste to landfill 0.44 1.00 1.38 1.50 1.93 2.82
of the properties defined by
the 1989 Basel Convention.
This includes flammability,
Non-hazardous waste generated
explosivity, water or air
(million kilograms) 113.7 125.0 149.3 134.6 135.3 132.8 reactivity, corrosivity,
oxidising potential, acute or
Non-hazardous waste recycled 76.06 83.82 103.99 90.63 85.61 79.34
chronic toxicity, ecotoxicity
Non-hazardous waste disposed 37.63 41.19 45.29 43.97 49.66 53.49 or infection. Biological
waste rendered non-
Non-hazardous waste incinerated
hazardous after treatment is
with energy recovery15 8.90 9.18 7.76 8.34 8.43 5.92
considered a non-hazardous
Non-hazardous waste incinerated waste.
with no energy recovery 7.09 8.28 10.07 6.23 9.40 12.05
Non-hazardous waste to landfill 21.64 23.73 27.45 29.40 31.83 35.52
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
73Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
14. In 2006 we changed
calculation to include Metric 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
hazardous waste only
from the major
contributors; primary
Non-routine waste generated16
operations, pilot plants,
and coating and sterile (million kilograms) 34.9 77.5 34.9 26.1 29.8 25.1
operations. We Non-routine waste recycled 16.86 39.97 6.80 2.59 14.17 16.86
recalculated data for
Non-routine waste disposed 18.02 37.54 6.68 23.49 15.66 18.02
previous years so they
can be compared. Non-routine waste incinerated
15. Incineration with energy with energy recovery 2.55 7.46 0.14 0.17 0.03 2.55
recovery means burning Non-routine waste incinerated with
the material and using
no energy recovery 0.66 0.37 0.08 1.88 0.15 0.66
the resulting energy.
Non-routine waste to landfill 14.81 29.71 6.46 21.45 15.49 14.81
16. Non-routine waste
includes construction and
demolition rubble and is Estimated costs and investments
not included in hazardous
Operations and maintenance
or non-hazardous waste
calculation. cost (million £) 33.6 39.1 43.0 39.0 47.3 41.4
Injury & illness Capital investment (million £) 9.7 12.1 9.4 11.0 18.5 24.4
17. The health and safety data
cover both our employees Injury and illness – GSK employees17
and contract workers who
are directly supervised by Hours worked (millions) 194.7 196.6 195.0 201.8 203.7 191.1
GSK employees. We report Fatalities 3 1 2 5 3 5
a snapshot of the injury
Number of injuries with lost time18 552 547 519 567 638 751
and illness performance
for the year. Cases may be Calendar days lost – injuries19 11,281 11,080 12,748 12,344 14,077 16,268
added later but we do not Number of illnesses with lost time18 94 77 91 95 116 133
correct prior years.
Calendar days lost – illnesses19 4386 2518 2959 1377 5342 5304
18. Lost time injuries and
Number of injuries without lost time20 443 437 430 784 955 1079
illnesses are work-related
injuries and illnesses that Number of illnesses without lost time20 282 267 354 529 378 315
are serious enough to
result in one or more days
Injury and illness – non GSK employees (not verified by SGS)
away from work.
Hours worked (millions) 22.8 22.8 20.6 19.8 20.5 17.0
19. Lost calendar days are
Fatalities 0 2 1 4 1 0
the calendar days that
employees could not work Number of injuries and illnesses
because of work-related with lost time 114 100 84 63 71 69
injuries and illnesses,
Calendar days lost 965 1575 1369 883 1069 754
including weekends. This
helps to provide a measure Number of injuries and illnesses
of the severity of injuries without lost time 373 275 293 199 238 1
and illnesses.
20. Reportable injuries and
illnesses without lost time
are reported incidents that
did not result in time away
from work (lost time).
They are more serious
than first aid but generally
less serious than lost time.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
74Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Our work with communities
We make donations of money, medicines, time and equipment to support under-served
communities around the world. The focus of this investment is on programmes that are
relevant to our business and the skills of our people – improving healthcare and
education. Full details of our criteria for giving support are available on gsk.com.
We believe that using some of our profits to Our total community investment also includes Awards in 2006
benefit under-served communities is part £46 million ($86 million) in cash grants and During 2006, we received:
of being a responsible company. It also £15 million ($28 million) in management costs. • A World Business Award
supports our business by: from the International
GSK is a member of the UK’s Percent Club for
Chamber of Commerce,
• demonstrating our commitment to tackling companies which donate at least 1 percent of their the United Nations
healthcare and education challenges pre-tax profits to charitable causes. In 2006 GSK Development Programme
was listed sixth in the UK’s Guardian Giving List and the Prince of Wales
• making our employees feel proud to work for which listed FTSE 100 companies by the percentage International Business Leaders
GSK Forum for our lymphatic
of pre-tax profits contributed to charitable causes
filariasis elimination
• improving our reputation with stakeholders during 2005. For the fifth year in a row we were the programme
biggest overall giver in the value of our donations.
Community investment is not linked to short term • The Excellence in Corporate
business benefits and is not intended to create We belong to the UK’s London Benchmarking Philanthropy Award from
commercial markets for GSK. Group (LBG) and the Committee Encouraging the US based Committee
Corporate Philanthropy (CECP) in the US. We report Encouraging Corporate
Donations are made at group level to support Philanthropy (CECP)
our donations in line with CECP guidelines which
disease prevention and increase healthcare capacity value our medicines at wholesale acquisition cost, as • The Frost and Sullivan 2006
in developing countries, and by individual GSK sites with other pharmaceutical companies. Wholesale Global Excellence Award in
to support local communities. Malaria Prevention and
acquisition cost is the wholesale list price, not
Treatment
In 2006, our total community investment was including discounts.
• The Star Business
valued at £302 million ($558 million), equivalent to
Commitment to Education
3.9 percent of pre-tax profits. Method of giving (£ million) Award from the Philadelphia
Education Fund
Our objective is to ensure that projects are Management Cash 46.2
sustainable in the long term and will continue once costs 15.2 • A Global Health Award for
our funding comes to an end. Most of our Leadership and Scientific
Inkind 3.0 Excellence from the New York
community investment is made through non-profit
Academy of Sciences
organisations that are experts in the field of
healthcare and education. This helps ensure our • A ‘Platinum Ounce’ Award
from the Russian pharma-
giving is targeted effectively at the communities that
ceutical industry for GSK
need it most.
Russia leadership in Multi-
Coloured Lives project
VALUE OF COMMUNITY
INVESTMENT Product 237.4
In 2006, GSK donations were valued at £302 million
Breakdown of cash giving (%)
($558 million) compared to £380 million ($691
million) in 2005. This is equivalent to 3.9 percent of Environment 2 Other 12
pre-tax profits compared to 5.6 percent in 2005.
Art and
The introduction of a new Medicare prescription culture 4 Health 44
drug benefit in the US in 2006 meant fewer patients
requested help through our Patient Assistance
Programs. As a result we donated medicines worth
£200 million ($370 million) to low-income patients
in the US compared to £255 million ($464 million)
in 2005. In addition we made £22 million
($41 million) of humanitarian product donations for
under-served communities around the world and
donated albendazole tablets valued at £16 million
($29 million) for the lymphatic filariasis elimination
Education 38
programme.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
75Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
INVESTMENT IN GLOBAL
PUBLIC HEALTH INITIATIVES
The greatest contribution we can make to In 2006, we donated 155 million albendazole
healthcare in developing countries is through treatments (2005: 136 million), worth £16 million
research into new treatments and vaccines and ($29 million) valued at wholesale prices, to
preferential pricing that makes life-saving medicines 34 countries. We have donated almost 600 million
more affordable. treatments since 1998. Two new countries joined
the programme in 2006.
However, we can also help to address barriers to
access to medicines through our investment in In 2006, we also gave £1.0 million ($1.9 million) in
community health programmes. grants to support the Global Alliance to Eliminate LF.
We donate money, medicines and expertise to Several countries are starting to integrate the LF
support initiatives to improve healthcare and to raise programme with other neglected tropical disease
awareness about disease prevention in developing prevention initiatives, extending the benefits for
countries. public health. Zanzibar, for example, is taking an
integrated approach by distributing treatments for
We focus on five major programmes in the
two other parasitic diseases schistosomiasis
developing world:
(bilharzia) and onchocerciasis (river blindness)
• We are a founding member of the Global alongside LF treatments.
Alliance to eliminate lymphatic filariasis (LF or
Each country aiming to eliminate LF must treat all at-
elephantiasis)
risk people with two drugs (albendazole and
• Positive Action is our programme to reduce diethylcarbamazine or Mectizan®) once a year for
stigma and improve capacity for HIV and AIDS at least five years. So far, Egypt, several Pacific Island
prevention and treatment countries, Sri Lanka, Zanzibar and Togo have
completed five annual mass drug administrations.
• Our African Malaria Partnership is supporting
Mobilising for Malaria, an advocacy initiative to Now these countries will monitor their populations
generate political commitment and funding to and evaluate the impact of the programme on the
combat malaria, in addition to behaviour disease. In 2006, the Bill and Melinda Gates
change initiatives Foundation donated $11.7 million for operational
research to help them do this evaluation. An
• PHASE is our education programme to prevent
assessment conducted in Egypt showed that LF has
diarrhoea-related disease through hand
been eliminated in most areas of the country.
washing
In 2006, GSK and the Global Alliance received a
• We also donate essential antibiotics and other
World Business Award from the International
products in response to humanitarian disasters
Chamber of Commerce for the LF programme.
and to support basic healthcare provision in
impoverished communities (Mectizan is a registered trademark of Merck & Co.)
These initiatives are all delivered in partnership with Future challenges
non-profit organisations, in 2006 we made the Sub-Saharan Africa presents a significant challenge
following progress. as many countries have yet to commence LF
elimination programmes due to lack of funding and
Eliminating lymphatic filariasis (LF)
health infrastructure. Those countries that have
We are donating our medicine albendazole for
started LF programmes need additional resources
the global programme to eliminate LF
to enable them to scale up to reach their full at-risk
(www.filariasis.org). LF is a disfiguring disease
populations. An additional challenge will be the
prevalent in tropical countries, which is transmitted
integration of LF programmes with interventions for
by mosquitoes. It can lead to severe swelling of the
other neglected tropical diseases which may involve
arms, legs, breasts and genitals and thickening of
co-administration of albendazole with other
the skin. LF is one of the world’s leading causes of
medicines.
permanent disability with more than one billion
people in 80 countries (over 15 percent of the Positive Action on HIV and AIDS
world’s population) at risk of infection. Our Positive Action programme, set up in 1992,
supports the communities most affected by HIV and
The global programme led by the World Health
AIDS. It aims to strengthen the capacity of
Organization (WHO) and the governments of the
community organisations providing HIV and AIDS
endemic countries aims to eliminate LF by 2020 by
prevention, education and healthcare services. A key
treating the one billion people at risk. We have
area of focus is to reduce stigma and discrimination
committed to donate free of charge as many doses
(a major barrier to controlling HIV and AIDS) and to
of albendazole, our anti-parasitic drug used to
increase the number of people coming forward for
prevent transmission of LF, as are needed to do this.
testing and treatment. It recognises that involving
We expect this to require billions of tablets. A team
people affected by HIV and AIDS is key to controlling
of GSK employees helps the Global Alliance in its
the HIV pandemic.
advocacy, research, community mobilisation and
education initiatives. During 2006 we supported 19 Positive Action
programmes running in 17 countries.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
76Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Activities in 2006 included: will scale up national HIV prevention efforts. This is
Asia operating in ten countries, with high HIV prevalence
Asia is at tipping point – research suggests there – Ukraine, Russia, China, India, Kenya, Nigeria,
may be a catastrophic HIV and AIDS epidemic in the Botswana, Rwanda, Belize and Jamaica.
region if disease prevention and treatment efforts
For information on our preferential pricing
do not improve. Access to HIV therapies and
arrangements for HIV and AIDS medicines, see page
knowledge about how to use them correctly is
22.
critical to effective treatment. In partnership with
the American Foundation for AIDS Research GSK’s African Malaria Partnership
(amfAR), Positive Action is supporting TREAT Asia, Our African Malaria Partnership has supported
a network of clinics, hospitals, research institutions education and behaviour change initiatives in eight
and patient support organisations helping African countries, through partnerships with NGOs
communities prepare for new treatment such as Freedom from Hunger, the African Medical
programmes being launched in the region. This and Research Foundation (AMREF) and Plan
includes community projects in China, Cambodia, International. Since 2003, we have invested
Thailand and Vietnam and the creation of a regional £0.9 million ($1.7 million) targeting approximately
advocacy network. two million people. We have fostered effective
prevention and prompt treatment, particularly
India has surpassed South Africa as the country with
among young children and pregnant women, who
the most HIV infections in the world. Positive Action
are the most vulnerable to malaria. Our funding for
is supporting Freedom from Hunger’s Reach India
these initiatives has now come to an end, but our
project which aims to tackle cultural and social
support will have a long-term positive impact in the
factors that expose women in rural India to HIV.
target communities.
Reach India is using self help groups (an established
and respected means for women to access However the scale of the malaria problem requires
information and support) to educate women about a significantly bigger response. We have given a
HIV and AIDS. It will reach 500,000 women and £0.9 million ($1.7 million) grant, over three years, to
their three million family members over three years, support Mobilising for Malaria, an advocacy
and train local organisations in delivering education initiative to generate greater awareness, political
projects. commitment and sustained funding to combat the
disease. In 2006, national Coalitions Against Malaria
Mexico
were launched in the UK, Belgium, France, Ethiopia
2006 was the second year of our project with the
and Cameroon bringing together advocates and
International HIV and AIDS Alliance and Colectivo
activists from the public sector, NGOs, the media,
Sol in Mexico, to reduce stigma and discrimination
the private sector and the political, academic and
associated with HIV and AIDS. Thirteen community
scientific communities.
organisations which help people living with HIV and
AIDS (including gay men, sex workers and drug GSK won the Frost and Sullivan 2006 Global
users) have joined the project. Colectivo Sol is Excellence Award in Malaria Prevention and
helping them to identify the impact of stigma on Treatment. The judges noted that GSK ‘has made
HIV transmission and access to services, then work facing the challenge of malaria a key corporate
to address this through advocacy with the media, responsibility issue, using its core business skills and
local police and health services and government. resources, as well as philanthropic community
programs, to contribute to global efforts to tackle
Africa
this disease’.
We have committed £1 million ($1.9 million) over
three years to strengthen and integrate HIV and Personal Hygiene And Sanitation
AIDS treatment into general healthcare clinics in Education (PHASE)
Kenya. This will enable patients to avoid the stigma Every year more than two million people die of
of visiting a dedicated HIV clinic and will help diarrhoea-related disease, mostly children in
doctors to provide ongoing services to people developing countries. These deaths can often be
diagnosed with HIV. Positive Action is now working easily prevented through better hand washing and
with 70 clinics (over a third of the sites currently sanitation.
offering ARV treatment in Kenya) to identify the
PHASE is helping to reduce diarrhoea-related
most successful approaches to improving take-up
disease by encouraging school children to wash
of ARV treatment.
their hands. We established PHASE in 1998 and
Global since then we have invested over £1.7 million
We sponsored the Global Village – the community ($ 3.1 million) into the programme.
exhibition and workshop area – at the International
PHASE is run in partnership with AMREF, Plan
AIDS 2006 conference held in Toronto, Canada. This
International and Save the Children – as well as
highlighted key issues for affected communities and
Ministries of Health and Education in each of the
stimulated dialogue and networking among the
countries.
global community. Around 20,000 people
attended.
We are also supporting a project with the
International Council of AIDS Service Organizations
(ICASO) to boost community-based advocacy which
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
77Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Our approach to donations The programme has had impressive results. For OUR INVESTMENT INTO
medicines example, evaluation data from a sample of PHASE
GSK follows the World Health schools in Nicaragua over a four year period show LOCAL PROGRAMMES
Organization Interagency
that the frequency of hand washing after using the
Guidelines for Drug Donations. We support a wide range of health and education
toilet among pupils in participating schools
These state that donations initiatives in the communities where we operate.
should be: increased five-fold, and the proportion of children Donations are made centrally and by our sites in
reporting diarrhoea in a two week period fell from
• made in response to an response to local needs.
over 40 percent to just 13 percent.
expressed need
Below are just a few examples of the many
• sent with prior consent In Bangladesh, which joined in 2005, PHASE has
community partnerships we supported in our major
been implemented in 64 schools reaching 38,000
• labelled correctly regions in 2006:
children so far. It has been integrated into the School
• have a minimum one-year Health and Nutrition Programme of Save the Supporting Health
shelf life
Children (our PHASE partner in Bangladesh). Europe
We do not donate medicines In addition to our long-term support for the ‘Hole
for diseases which require a PHASE was extended to Mexico and Tajikistan in the Wall’ children’s camps in Barretstown, Ireland
continuous, assured supply. during 2006 and now operates in eight countries.
and L’Envol, France we are giving £300,000
The total number of children reached by PHASE is
We are an active member of the ($555,000) each to programmes in five European
Partnership for Quality Medical now estimated to be 375,000. countries to improve children’s healthcare.
Donations (PQMD), an alliance
Future challenges
of pharmaceutical companies The other major country programmes are:
and charities that encourages We plan to launch PHASE in Kibera, Kenya – Africa’s
best practice in the donation largest slum. This will be the first time PHASE has • Italy – Reading for Growing, a reading aloud
and delivery of medicines. operated in an informal settlement, creating a programme for children with neuro-functional
model for improving children’s health in one of the disabilities
hardest urban communities.
• Romania – Beacon of Hope, a palliative care
Humanitarian relief programme for children
Multi-Coloured Lives in Russia
We support Multi-Coloured Lives GSK donates essential products, such as antibiotics, • Slovakia – Change in Advance, a disease
to help improve the quality of to help relief efforts in disaster areas and support
prevention programme for children on urban
life of disabled children in Russia. basic healthcare provision in impoverished
housing estates
The programme brings together communities.
the Regional Charity Community
• Spain – Children’s Shelters, providing healthcare
Foundation, the Government of Donations are made at the request of governments
for homeless and abandoned children
Moscow and GSK Russia. Six and major charitable organisations and may be
thousand children aged 9 to manufactured specifically for these partners. This • Russia – Multi-Coloured Lives. See sidebar.
12 years old with limited health
enables charities to hold a range of medicines in
capabilities are taking part. International
stock so they can respond promptly in an
Multi-Coloured Lives is using We support major public health initiatives to tackle
emergency. We work in partnership with several
community-based communi- HIV and AIDS, lymphatic filariasis, malaria and
relief charities including AmeriCares, Direct Relief,
cations such as TV, magazines, diarrhoea-related diseases in developing countries.
workshops, schools liaison and InterChurch Medical Assistance, MAP International
exhibitions to educate and and Project HOPE. In addition we are funding country-specific
gradually change individuals‘ programmes, each with a grant of £200,000
Activity during 2006
perceptions of disabled people. ($370,000), over three years.
During 2006 we donated life-saving medicines
GSK Russia received a ‘Platinum
worth £22 million ($41 million) valued at wholesale Our other country programmes in our international
Ounce’ Award for its leadership
prices, to support relief efforts and community region include:
in Multi-Coloured Lives from the
Russian pharmaceutical industry. healthcare in 99 countries. • Brazil – Attituda Positiva, uses drama in schools
Requests for our medicines are sometimes made to to educate teenagers about HIV and good
help people affected by conflict. This can be reproductive health
controversial and requires careful management. We
• Philippines – Pinoy Health Pass, Family Health
seek to ensure equitable treatment in our approach,
and Well Being that provides health education
directing our commitment to support health needs
for families on low incomes
and the provision of long term support, and to work
with our partners to get essential drugs to doctors, UK
patients, clinics and hospitals. In 2006 GSK supported over 100 charitable
organisations in the UK. This included over
For example, in 2006 we made four shipments of
£580,000 ($1.1 million) to support medical research
our medicines to support people displaced by the
by Asthma UK, the British Retinitis Pigmentosa
conflict in Lebanon. This was in response to specific
Society, Deafness Research UK and the Muscular
requests by our humanitarian aid partners. We
Dystrophy Campaign.
provided supplies of Augmentin, Amoxil, Zinacef,
Zantac and Lanoxin valued at over £216,000
($400,000), with the products being handled by our
partners, AmeriCares, IMA and Direct Relief.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
78Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Other donations to support health charities Vietnam midwives
included: Since 2004, we have been
• The Princess Royal Trust for Carers ‘Out of Since 1998 the GSK France Foundation has supporting a unique training
programme based in Tu Du
Hospital’ initiative – a donation of £209,000 supported 77 programmes in 13 countries. These
Hospital, Ho Chi Minh City,
($387,000) over 3 years to develop guidelines focus on people living with HIV and AIDS in
Vietnam. The project is training
and support for GPs and hospitals working with developing countries and aim to improve healthcare 500 birth attendants to provide
carers through prevention, education and training. During maternal healthcare services in
2006, 23 new programmes were implemented in rural villages. The project aims to
• Myasthenia Gravis Association – a donation of six countries with grants of £469,000 ($868,000). reduce childbirth complications
£524,000 ($969,000) over three years to and decrease newborn fatality
provide specialist nurses for people suffering The GSK Foundation Canada focuses on hospice from the unacceptably high level
from Myasthenia Gravis, a chronic auto- care, helping terminally ill patients and their families. of 6 percent.
immune neuromuscular disorder The Foundation also supports community Supported by Tu Du medical and
programmes in Africa, including AIDS Orphans nursing staff, and housed within
• The Down’s Syndrome Association ‘Shifting
Uganda, a three-year programme building a residential training centre built
Perspectives’ – £100,000 ($185,000) to support by GSK, the trainees spend four
community support for vulnerable children in the
a photographic exhibition showing that people months gaining practical
Luweero District, working with African Medical
with Down’s Syndrome can lead full, rewarding knowledge of maternal and
and semi-independent lives Research Foundation (AMREF). child healthcare. Over 350
midwives have now graduated
The North Carolina GSK Foundation in the USA is
Our IMPACT Awards recognise community with a government-recognised
an endowed, self-funding organisation. It supports
organisations whose work has significantly qualification. Each midwife has
initiatives in the areas of mathematics, science and been equipped with a medical
improved health. Each year we award £275,000
health education in North Carolina. In 2006, this pack and some are provided
($509,000) to a range of healthcare charities,
Foundation awarded grants totalling £1.4 million with a motor scooter to assist
selected by a panel of judges. In 2006 Hartlepool ($2.5 million). access to remote areas.
Families First was judged the overall winner for its
work in bringing health services to deprived areas of
Crisis Open Christmas
Hartlepool in a refitted double-decker bus. Crisis Open Christmas offers
much needed support for 1,500
US
SUPPORTING EDUCATION homeless people across London
We are increasing our support for the Zone Health
during the festive season. In
School Obesity programme run by the North GSK supports education in the UK and US with a 2006, we supported Crisis in the
Carolina Prevention Partners, following a pilot particular emphasis on making science more following ways:
programme that successfully reached 8,000 relevant to young people and supporting • Donations of food and
children. professional development for science teachers. clothing from GSK employees
The programme provides elementary, middle and Our education programmes help to increase the • A donation to the Christmas
high schools in North Carolina and Philadelphia with pool of potential future employees by encouraging card challenge campaign,
instead of sending corporate
a learning model to encourage healthy weight young people to pursue science careers.
Christmas cards
through nutrition, education and exercise. A new
component of the programme will include distance Science education in the UK • A donation of £24,000 to
learning.
Puppets: Talking Science•Engaging Scienceis a new cover the operating costs of
initiative launched in 2006 and sponsored by GSK, their mobile medical service
The other programmes we support in the US which uses puppets to increase children’s that visits the Crisis centres
include: understanding of science.
• The Children’s Health Fund’s Referral Research by the Nuffield Foundation found that
Management Initiative (RMI) which helps high- when teachers used puppets in science lessons the
risk and homeless children receive the specialist children treated them as if they were real characters.
medical care they need The puppets engaged the pupils in helping them to
solve science problems. As a result the children
• We recognise excellence in community
talked more about science which increased their
healthcare in the Philadelphia area through our
understanding of the subject. This was particularly
US GlaxoSmithKline IMPACT Awards. Each year
noticeable among low achieving children and those
up to ten non-profit organisations receive
who did not normally speak in lessons. Typical
£22,000 ($40,000) each to help them continue
remarks included ‘It’s like talking to a group of
their work
friends not a teacher’ and ‘I understand much better
Foundations with the puppets’.
GSK does not operate a single charitable foundation
We have invested over £480,000 ($888,000) to
for its community investment programmes, but has
train 9,000 teachers in 4,500 UK primary schools to
country-based foundations in Canada, Czech
use the puppets effectively in science lessons.
Republic, France, Italy, Romania, Spain and North
Schools will also receive a book of science based
Carolina in the US. Our local foundations support a
stories, an animated CD and two hand held
wide range of charities and healthcare initiatives.
puppets. In each story the two puppets are faced
with a problem with a science theme, and ask the
children to help them solve it.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
79Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
In 2006 we announced funding for the CREST (cid:2) EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
Investigators education project. This programme will
be run in partnership with the British Association We encourage employees to contribute to their
for the Advancement of Science to provide science local communities as volunteers. This benefits the
activities and awards for after school clubs in community and our employees who gain new
primary schools. By 2010, we aim for 5,000 schools experiences and skills.
and 55,000 children to be taking part. Hundreds of employees give their time to good
Our support for INSPIRE (INnovative Scheme for causes through our Days of Caring in the US, and
Post-doctoral researchers In Research and to support school science education through our
Education), enables post-doctoral researchers to UK Science and Engineering Ambassador Scheme
spend half their time in specialist science schools and US Partnership for Educational Discovery.
and to gain a Post-Graduate Certificate in Education In the UK and US we make cash donations to
(PGCE). charities where employees have done voluntary
Education in the US work. In 2006:
We are a founding partner of the Institute for a • The GSK Investment in Volunteer Excellence
Competitive Workforce, a business coalition run by (GIVE) programme gave £183,000 ($339,000)
the US Chamber of Commerce to improve to 365 charities in the US where employees or
educational standards through partnerships their partners volunteered at least 50 hours
between business and education providers.
• Our Making a Difference programme
We are working with the National Board of provided grants of £225,000 ($416,000) to
Professional Teaching Standards (NBPTS) by over 380 charities where employees
providing scholarships and an endowment of volunteered
£541,000 ($1.0 million) to increase the number of
science teachers who are National Board Certified. In many countries we encourage employees to
So far we have focussed on North Carolina donate money to charity by matching the money
and Philadelphia but will now be expanded to all they give or by providing tax-efficient ways for them
50 states. to make a donation, in accordance with local
taxation guidelines.
We support a range of local education initiatives in
the US to help engage young students in science. In 2006 in the US, GSK matched donations
Examples include: by employees and retirees at a value of £2.7 million
($5 million). In addition, GSK gave £703,000
• Science in the Summer, a free ($1.3 million) to match donations by GSK
programme in Philadelphia, giving employees through the annual GSK and United
children the chance to participate in Way campaign.
hands-on experiments and science
courses
• We have been a major sponsor of the University
of North Carolina’s travelling science laboratory,
Destiny, since its inception in 1999. Destiny
serves approximately 100 under-served
secondary schools and reaches 4,000 students
per year
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
80Corporate Responsibility Report of 2006
Data summary
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
Access to medicines
Number of countries supplied with preferentially priced ARVs1 50 56 57 56 51
Number of preferentially priced Combivirand Epivirtablets shipped (millions)1 7.9 15.9 67.1 126.3 86.3
Number of generic ARVs supplied by GSK licencees (millions) – – – – 120
GSK Combivirnot-for-profit price ($ per day)2 1.7 0.65 0.65 0.65
Voluntary licences granted to generic manufacturers for GSK ARVs (cumulative total) 6 7 8
Value of products donated through GSK Patient Assistance Program in the US (£ millions) 112 125 203 255 200
Research and development
Expenditure on R&D (£ billions) 2.9 2.8 2.9 3.1 3.5
GSK animal research facilities accredited by the Association for Assessment 7 7 10 10 103
and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care
Number of trials published on the GSK Clinical Trial Register (cumulative total) – – 143 2,125 2,7604
Ethical conduct
Number of managers completing certification to the GSK Code of Conduct 700 9,000 9,600 >12,000 >12,000
Number of contacts through our ethics compliance channels5 2,580 3,644 5,363
Employment
Women in management grades (%) 32 34 35 35 36
Ethnic diversity – minorities (US, %) 19 19.5 19.5 19.6 19.8
Ethnic diversity – ethnic minorities (UK, %) – – 15.5 16.8 18.3
Lost time injury and illness rate (cases per 100,000 hours worked) 0.34 0.30 0.30 0.30 0.33
Environment
Number of contract manufacturers audited 16 28 35 41 36
Energy consumption (million gigajoules) 20 20 19 19 19
Water consumption (million cubic metres) 24 23 21 21 22
Ozone depletion potential from metered dose inhalers (tonnes CFC-11 equivalent)6 1,500 782 464 273 186
Ozone depletion potential from production (tonnes CFC-11 equivalent) 121 72 59 51 23
Ozone depletion potential from refrigeration and other ancillary uses 7 3 3 3 1
(tonnes CFC-11 equivalent)
Volatile organic compound emissions (thousand tonnes)7 6 6 5 5 4
Global warming potential from energy sources (thousand tonnes CO equivalent)7 1,734 1,750 1,666 1,693 1,666
2
Hazardous waste disposed (thousand tonnes)7 58 56 69 63 67
Community investment
Total community investment expenditure (£ millions) 239 338 328 380 302
Value of humanitarian product donations, including albendazole (£ millions) 24 116 57 41 38
Number of albendazole tablets donated for prevention of lymphatic filariasis (millions) 66 94 67 136 155
1. Includes ARVs sold at not-for-profit and discounted prices. We are unable to collect data for the number of patients treated.
2. Includes delivery costs. The Médecins Sans Frontières pricing report lists the average cost of generic equivalents.
3. This covers 91% of animals used in GSK facilities. In 2005 we had 14 animal research laboratories. In 2006 we closed a laboratory in Japan, aquired laboratories in
Croatia and Canada, and established contracts to use laboratories in Singapore and the US, making a current total of 17 GSK laboratories where we use animals.
4. 98% of trials completed since the merger which created GSK.
5. Includes contacts with line managers, compliance officers, our confidential Integrity Helplines or offsite post office box (in the US).
6. 2002 to 2004 data do not include inhalers made in Asia.
7. We have changed the way we calculate these data and the previous years’ data reflect this change. See full environmental report for details.
Trademarks
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this publication are trademarks either owned
by and/or licensed to GSK or associated companies.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
81