Answering the
Questions that
mAtter
Corporate Responsibility Report 2007
FC1CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Contentsx
Introduction 3
About GSK 3 Research practices 52
Economic value 3 New technologies 53
Our products 3 Animal research 53
About this report 4 Our approach 53
Chairman Q&A 5 Our performance 54
CEO letter 7 Medical governance 55
Clinical trials 56
Corporate responsibility at GSK 8 Our approach 56
The business case for corporate responsibility 8 Our performance 57
Our business strategy 8 Reporting research results 57
Our material issues 9 Our approach 57
Managing corporate responsibility 9 Our performance 58
Assurance 10 Patient safety 58
Human rights 10
Our approach 58
Stakeholder engagement 11
Our performance 59
The future 59
Public policy and external affairs 16
Q&A 61
Our approach to external affairs 16
Trade associations 16
Ethical conduct 62
Public policy activity in 2007 17
Our approach 62
Advocacy on issues relevant to
Our performance 65
corporate responsibility 19
The future 68
Our position on issues relevant to
Q&A 69
corporate responsibility 20
Lobbying expenditures 20
Supply chain 70
Political donations 20
Supply chain standards 70
Patient advocacy 21
Our approach 70
Q&A 23
Our performance 72
Security of supply 73
Contribution to global health 24
Counterfeiting 73
Preventing disease 24
Our approach 73
Treating ill health 26
Our performance 74
Investing in R&D 27
Fair treatment of suppliers 74
Contributing to scientific understanding 28
The future 74
The future 28
Q&A 75
Q&A 31
Environment 76
Access to medicines 32
Environmental management 76
Developing countries 33
Our approach 34 Our approach 76
Our performance 37 Performance 78
Middle-income countries 41 Climate change 79
Our approach 41 Our approach 79
Our performance 43 Our performance 80
Developed countries 45 Product stewardship 83
Our approach 45 Our approach 84
Our performance 45 Our performance 86
The future 46 Water 87
External assurance statement 49 Our approach 87
Q&A 51 Our performance 87
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 INTRODUCTION
Environment continued
Wastewater 87
Our approach 87
Our performance 88
Waste 88
Our approach 88
Our performance 89
Ozone depletion 90
Our approach 90
Our performance 91
Volatile organic compounds 92
Our approach 92
Our performance 92
The future 92
External assurance statement 94
Q&A 96
Data summary table 97
Employment practices 100
Employment policies 100
Our approach 100
Our performance 102
Employee health, safety and wellbeing 105
Our approach 105
Our performance 105
The future 109
Q&A 110
Data summary table 111
Our work with communities 112
Our approach 112
Our performance 113
The future 116
Q&A 117
Data summary 118
Global Compact index 119
GRI index 119
2 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Introduction
Welcome to GlaxoSmithKline’s (GSK’s)
Corporate Responsibility Report 2007.
This report explains our approach to the wide
range of social, ethical and environmental
issues associated with our business and our
performance during 2007.
About GSK
GSK is one of the world’s leading research-based
pharmaceutical and healthcare companies. Our mission is to
improve the quality of human life by enabling people to do
more, feel better and live longer.
We develop, research, produce and market vaccines and
medicines that target serious diseases. Our Consumer
Healthcare business includes over-the-counter medicines,
nutritional and oral healthcare products.
Our business employs over 100,000 people across the world.
Key statistics
£ billion, 2005 2006 2007
Turnover
Total 21.7 23.2 22.7
Pharmaceuticals 18.7 20.1 19.2
Consumer Healthcare 3.0 3.1 3.5
Total profit
before taxation 6.7 7.8 7.5
Turnover by location of customer 2007
International £5.3bn US £10.2bn
Europe £7.2bn
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 
Economic value
We contribute to the countries in which we operate through
creating income and employment, paying taxes and purchasing
products and services. As well as these direct financial
contributions our products contribute indirectly to economies
by preventing and treating disease and promoting health.
Detailed financial information is available in our Annual
Report. However, some of the key figures for our global
business are:
Finance
Global figures (£m) 2004 2005 2006 2007
Sales 19,986 21,660 23,225 22,716
R&D investment 2,904 3,136 3,457 3,327
Payments to:
Employees 5,054 5,254 5,495 5,733
Suppliers n/a n/a 8,107 8,200
Government
(taxation charge) 1,757 1,916 2,301 2,142
Community
investment 328 380 302 282
n\a = not available
Our productsx
Medicines
Our top-selling pharmaceuticals in 2007 included products
to treat:
• Asthma
• Epilepsy
• Diabetes
• Herpes
• Migraine
Vaccines
We make over 30 vaccines that protect against a wide range
of diseases including:
• Cervical cancer
• Chickenpox
• Diphtheria
• Hepatitis A and B
• Influenza
• Meningitis
• Polio
• Rotavirus
• Rubella
• Shingles
• Tetanus
• Whooping coughINTRODUCTION
Consumer Healthcare brands Injury and illness data are collected from all 81 of our
Our leading Consumer Healthcare brands include: Pharmaceutical, Consumer Healthcare and Nutritionals
manufacturing sites, 11 of the 14 vaccines sites (three are
• O ver-the-counter medicines: alli, Beechams, Contac, not yet in operation), all 26 pharmaceutical and Consumer
NicoDerm, Nicorette/NiQuitin CQ, Panadol, Tums, Zovirax Healthcare research and development sites, all three major
offices, all eight main sales groups, all ten offices with more
• Oral healthcare – Aquafresh, Polident, Poligrip,
than one million hours worked and 46 of the smaller offices
Sensodyne
and distribution centres.
• N utritional healthcare – Lucozade, Horlicks, Ribena
Data in the environment and health and safety sections are
independently assured by SGS. See EHS assurance. The access
to medicines section has been subject to independent, third-
About this reportx party assurance from Bureau Veritas. For further information
see the Bureau Veritas assurance statement.
This report covers our corporate responsibility (CR) activity
and performance during 2007. It updates our 2006 corporate We use external guidelines to inform our reporting where
responsibility report, published in March 2007. relevant. We do not base our report on the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) guidelines but we have produced a GRI index
We have provided additional information in a number of areas to show which elements of the guidelines are covered in the
in this year’s report including: report and to aid comparison with other company reports.
This is available on our website. We have also joined the UN
• Our contribution to global health Global Compact and have provided an index on our website
to show how we are reporting in line with Global Compact
• Our public policy activity in 2007
expectations.
• Access to medicines in middle-income countries
Further information on our policies and approach to CR is
• Our response to the Oxfam report on access to medicines
available on our website.
• Our new climate change strategy
We also publish a Corporate Responsibility Review which
We have also included answers to some of the questions provides an overview of our approach to CR. It is available
frequently asked by our stakeholders and provided more details in print and on our website.
of future plans and challenges.
Data relate to worldwide operations for the calendar year
2007, except where stated.
Environmental data are collected from all 81 of our
Pharmaceutical, Consumer Healthcare and Nutritionals
manufacturing sites, 11 of the 14 vaccines sites (three are
not yet in operation), 20 of 26 pharmaceutical and Consumer
Healthcare research and development sites (six are too small
to warrant collection of environmental data), all three major
offices and ten smaller offices and distribution centres.
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Q&A with What’s the Chairman’s role in CR at GSK? How can
you make sure that the values set by the Board are
put into practice day-to-day?
Chairman As Chairman of the company and the Corporate
Responsibility Committee I have an oversight and
governance role, reviewing what we are doing on
the many topics covered by CR. I liaise continually
with senior managers on critical issues that might
Sir Christopher Gent is Non-Executive Chairman
affect our reputation as and when they arise.
of GlaxoSmithKline and Chairman of our
I also have a leadership role to play in promoting
Corporate Responsibility Committee. Here he
performance with integrity and encouraging everyone
answers questions on corporate responsibility at GSK to put the patient first and at all times to do the
at GSK and gives his view on future priorities right thing. I believe it’s essential for all leaders within
GSK to make this a foremost issue and set the right
and challenges for the company.
tone from the top.
How does CR fit into GSK’s business strategy?
What does corporate responsibility mean for GSK?
Our company mission is to make people feel better
Why is it important?
and live longer – the connections to CR are very obvious
Corporate responsibility is about how we engage with
and fundamental. I don’t see a need for a separate CR
society. It’s all- embracing, particularly for GSK as a
strategy because CR is so integrated into the purpose of
pharmaceutical and healthcare company. For us CR
our business and the way we do business. For example,
is ‘built in, not bolt on’. CR concerns issues such as
the issue of access to medicines is one of the four
our ethical conduct, animal research, conducting and
cornerstones of our business strategy.
publishing trials, sales and marketing, employment
What are the most significant CR challenges?
practices, as well as our performance on access to
We made good progress this year on some key
medicines, sustainability and the environment. It
challenges such as R&D into new treatments and
includes our community partnerships, although it is
vaccines with particular benefits for developing
about much more than philanthropy.
countries. Our pre-pandemic vaccine for flu came to
These issues are also critically important because they fruition and we committed to donate 50 million doses
affect our reputation with external stakeholders and to the World Health Organization for use in poor
influence how our employees feel about GSK. We countries. More patients in developing countries were
have to work with society and gain their support, so treated with anti-retrovirals supplied by GSK at not-for-
everything we do must be done in a responsible way. profit prices or by our generic licensees.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 INTRODUCTION
But other significant responsibility challenges remain GSK recently announced a restructuring
unresolved. We are seeing attempts by stakeholders programme. What are the CR implications?
to weaken intellectual property and extend not-for- We operate in a dynamic and challenging environment
profit pricing to a wider range of medicines and to – although we try to manage with foresight sometimes
countries beyond the Least Developed Countries. we have to take difficult decisions. When proposed
On IP we believe that robust protection is essential measures that include job redundancies are brought to
to incentivise much-needed R&D. On pricing, we the Board our first thought is of the potential impact
understand that countries with low healthcare budgets on people within the business. We are focusing on
want breakthrough medicines at the lowest possible communicating and consulting with these employees
cost. But we can’t sustain the R&D necessary to create and their representatives. We have a constructive
medicines if we have to deliver everything at a not-for- relationship with employees and I believe they
profit price. Wealthier countries should not expect to understand the nature of the business environment we
receive the same prices as the world’s poorest. Finding operate in and why these changes are required.
the right balance between access and innovation is very What are the future CR priorities and opportunities
complex and will remain a major challenge, but we are for GSK?
committed to working with governments and other I expect challenges to the intellectual property system
stakeholders to achieve it. and demands to extend preferential prices to middle-
I believe we did better this year at communicating about income countries to remain key issues. We’ll need to
responsibility issues to NGOs and others outside the innovate and test out new solutions to these problems.
company. However, while we made good progress on Partnerships with governments and other stakeholders
enhancing our reputation through greater transparency are likely to play a key role.
and responding to stakeholder needs, there’s no On product safety I expect us to continue to be
doubt that this suffered a setback following the proactive in our communications with patients as well
adverse publicity on Avandia. We remain committed to as regulators. When we identify potential issues with
communicating transparently with stakeholders on this one of our medicines we have to communicate this
and other complex issues. information appropriately.
The pharmaceutical ‘blockbuster’ business We’ve also got to maintain our focus on upholding high
model is being challenged. How do you see standards in sales and marketing.
this affecting CR?
Sustaining our commitment to transparency will remain
There has been a dearth of breakthrough medicines
a priority. We need to build trust by being open about
across the industry in recent years. It’s not enough
what we do. This matters for all businesses but especially
to produce a drug that is slightly better than its
one like ours which has such an integrated role in society.
predecessor. People need to understand that we’re
I anticipate our engagement with stakeholders will
researching drugs that bring major medical advances
intensify and hope this will increase understanding and
or we won’t gain the support of the people who pay
support for what we are trying to achieve.
for our products.
This is a challenge for the whole industry and one that is
causing many companies to think about changes to the
business model, including GSK.
The changes in our R&D organisation are producing a
strong pipeline and I’m confident we will address the
challenge of bringing significant new medicines to
market.
CR is becoming increasingly important to
shareholders and other stakeholders. How is
GSK responding to these changing expectations?
These issues are increasingly on shareholders’ agendas
when they review their investments. We are doing more
to tell investors and others about the kind of company
we are and what we are doing on the issues that matter.
Pressure also comes from inside the company. Our
employees expect us to do the right thing and be seen
to do it. I’m impressed by the degree of energy and
commitment within GSK.
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Letter from the CEO
Despite advances in healthcare, society still faces huge unmet medical needs. R&D into
new vaccines and treatments is essential to benefit patients, families and communities
worldwide. This search is at the core of our business and the central responsibility issue
for GSK. I am pleased at the progress we made in 2007.
Our sustained investment in R&D continued to pay off with the launch of new products that will
make a real difference to global health. Our vaccine Cervarix will help to protect women worldwide
against cervical cancer. We have already submitted the new vaccine for World Health Organization
pre-qualification – meaning it can be used in mass vaccination programmes across the developing
world where 85 per cent of cervical cancer deaths occur. Tykerb, our new breast cancer treatment
holds out new hope for women affected by one of the most aggressive forms of this disease.
There was also exciting news from Phase II trials of our candidate malaria vaccine for African
children. Our commitment to malaria is long-standing – scientists in GSK and our legacy companies
have been working on this vaccine for over 20 years. If results continue to be successful we may see
the submission to regulatory authorities of the world’s first malaria vaccine for children as early as
2011. We will seek to ensure this vaccine is affordable and available to all who need it.
We are celebrating ten years of our involvement in the Global Alliance to Eliminate Lymphatic
Filariasis and 15 years of GSK’s Positive Action programme to help people living with HIV/AIDS.
Both these programmes have had an enormous beneficial impact on some of the world’s most
disadvantaged communities. Several countries have now completed their five year LF elimination
plans, freeing future generations from the threat of this disfiguring and disabling disease.
Our commitment to environmental issues was strengthened with the launch of a new climate
change strategy. We have committed to reducing our climate change impact and energy use by
20 per cent per unit of sales by 2010 and by 45 per cent by 2015. A lot of work is already underway
to make sure we meet these challenging new targets.
Concerns about Avandia proved to be one of the year’s big challenges. We have responded to these
concerns by examining the data in their entirety, and working collaboratively with regulators and
other stakeholders. We strongly defend our product because we believe it is important that Avandia
is available to support effective treatment of type 2 diabetes.
The company restructuring programme announced in 2007 will help us remain a competitive
and sustainable business. These changes are necessary but have inevitably required us to reduce
employee numbers. We aim to treat our employees with dignity and respect and offer a wide range
of support for all affected staff.
It is the way we respond to challenges like these that demonstrates the importance of the strong
value system on which our business is based. Performance with integrity is integral to GSK and is
the foundation of our past and future successes.
I am proud of what GSK has achieved in my time as Chief Executive and confident that our
company will continue to make a major contribution to meeting global healthcare needs now and
well into the future.
JP Garnier
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 7CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Corporate The business case for
corporate responsibilityx
responsibility Demonstrating that our practices are responsible and ethical
benefits the business in the following ways:
• An improved reputation and greater trust in GSK products
at GSK
• The ability to attract, retain and motivate talented people.
This is becoming increasingly important as fewer young
people in our major markets choose science-based careers
Corporate responsibility (CR) is central to our • Constructive engagement with stakeholders. This helps
us to prevent avoidable conflict and identify innovative
business. We aim to operate in a way that
approaches that benefit GSK and wider society
reflects our values, to understand and respond
• Greater access to markets and the ability to influence
to stakeholder views and to connect business
healthcare policy through improved relationships with
decisions to ethical, social and environmental regulators and healthcare payers. Helping governments
concerns. We seek to minimise the negative to increase access to medicines and resolve healthcare
challenges is particularly important
impacts and maximise the positive benefits of
• Greater ability to anticipate and prepare for legislative
our business.
changes and maintain a competitive advantage
• H elping to maintain support for the intellectual property
Our Corporate Responsibility Statement and Principles define system by finding innovative ways to increase access to
our approach to our key responsibility issues and provide medicines
guidance for employees on the standards to which the
• R educed costs and more efficient use of resources through
company is committed. You can view the Principles in the
increased environmental efficiency.
background section of our website.
Our business strategy
Our business makes a valuable contribution to society through
GSK’s overarching objective is to maximise total shareholder
the medicines and vaccines we produce which improve people’s
return. Our business performance and development are driven
lives. However we know that the research, development,
by four strategies. CR is relevant to these strategies in a number
manufacture and sale of medicines and vaccines raise ethical
of ways:
issues. Consequently, the pharmaceutical industry is subject
to a high level of public scrutiny and sometimes critical media
We believe that corporate responsibility should be managed
coverage.
as part of our overall business strategy and through our day-
to-day business operations. For this reason we do not have a
Our approach to CR, our ability to implement high ethical
separate CR strategy at GSK.
standards and the openness with which we report our progress
are all essential to maintaining good relationships with our
stakeholders. These in turn help us to achieve the goals of our
business strategy and underpin the future sustainability of our
business.
Delivering our product pipeline for patients Improving access to medicines
• Contribution to health • R&D for diseases of the developing world
• Access to medicines • Preferential pricing
• Research practices • Voluntary licensing
• Interactions with patient groups • Access to medicines
• Community investment
Optimising the performance of key products
Being the best place for the best people to do
• Ethical conduct
their best work
• Standards in our supply chain
• Environmental impact • Employment practices
• Diversity
• Human rights
• Health and safety
• Resilience and wellbeing
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Our material issues CR risks
Our CR reporting is focused on the most material (significant Our Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC)
and relevant) issues for our business. The following factors coordinates the management of significant business risks.
influence our materiality assessment: The ROCC also considers reputational and corporate
responsibility risks. More information on the ROCC is available
• O ur business strategy on our website, see Risk management and compliance.
• O ur risk management process
Management structure
• S takeholder interest, including investor feedback The Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications and
Community Partnerships, and the General Counsel are the
• C hanges in our business and operations, for example the
types of products we produce or the locations in which we Executive Team members with particular responsibility for CR.
operate
CR covers a very diverse range of issues at GSK so we believe
• E xisting and proposed legislation
it should be managed within our business functions, where
• P ublic opinion and press coverage the relevant subject experts work. We have a cross-functional
team made up of representatives from key business areas
We have identified the following responsibility issues as most
which coordinates CR management. The members are
material to GSK:
senior managers with direct access to our CET. They oversee
• T he contribution our core business makes to health through development, implementation and communication of policies,
research, development, manufacture and the sale of including any responsibility elements, across GSK.
medicines and vaccines
We have a small central CR team to coordinate policy
• I ncreasing access to medicines in under-served communities
development and reporting specifically with respect to CR,
• E thical standards in research, and sales and marketing and to communicate with socially responsible investors.
• O ur environmental impact, particularly climate change
Lines of accountability
Managing corporate responsibility GlaxoSmithKline
CR governance GSK CR
Our Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC) of CEO Board Committee
Non-Executive Directors provides high-level guidance on
our approach to CR. The CEO and members of the Corporate
Executive Team (CET) are actively involved in CR and participate Corporate CR
Executive Strategy &
in CRC meetings. Team Reporting
During 2007 the Committee members were Sir Christopher
Gent (Chair), Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Daniel Podolsky and Tom de
Swaan. In December 2007 Dr Stephanie Burns was appointed
to the Committee.
The Committee meets three times a year to review our policies MAc ec de icss in t eo s ES nta gk ae gh eo mld ee nr t C Ino vm esm tmun enit ty Environment Advocacy
and progress on our CR Principles. The Committee reviews
our performance against four of our CR Principles annually.
These are access to medicines, standards of ethical conduct, Products & Employment Human Research & Ethics &
Customers Practices Rights Innovation Integrity
research and innovation and community investment. Other
Principles are discussed at least once every two years. The
Committee reports its findings to the Board. During 2007 the
CRC reviewed GSK’s activity in a number of areas including
access to medicines, community partnerships, reputation Measuring performance
management, human rights in the supply chain, efficiency of We have established metrics to track our performance on
manufacturing processes, climate change, risk management responsibility issues, see the Key performance indicator
processes in R&D, transparency of clinical trial data, informed table on page 68 of this report.
consent procedures for clinical trials, financial interactions with
healthcare professionals, animal research and testing, ethics Embedding corporate responsibility
and compliance initiatives, policy violations and discipline, use It is important that our employees know about our
of social media tools for marketing, and employment practices. commitment to corporate responsibility, understand their
responsibilities and keep up-to-date with our progress.
The Committee also reviews and signs off our annual CR
Report and CR Review. There is more information on the CRC’s Information about our approach to embedding an ethical
members and Terms of Reference in the background section culture at GSK is included in the Ethical conduct section of
of our website. this report (see page 62).
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
We keep employees informed about corporate responsibility • C ompleteness – that GSK identifies, understands and
through our myGSK intranet site and Spirit, our internal manages its material aspects and reports activities in a
quarterly magazine, which feature regular articles on CR complete and balanced manner
topics. In 2007 at least six articles on responsibility issues were
• R esponsiveness – that GSK responds to stakeholders’
published in Spirit. These included articles on our climate
material concerns. In particular, through performance
change strategy and our efforts to combat diseases of the
targets and indicators, and the systems used to gather
developing world such as malaria. The magazine also featured
relevant information
the work of our Positive Action programme to reduce the
stigma around HIV/AIDS in Africa and Asia. This year we
It includes data verification, site visits and interviews with key
published four editions of Spirit, distributing 33,500 copies of
GSK managers and external stakeholders. The Access to
each edition internally.
medicines assurance statement by Bureau Veritas is on page
49 of this report.
The same number of copies of our CR Review were distributed
with Spirit magazine and directly to the CET and GSK Board,
The environment section and the health and safety
senior managers, site directors and all communications staff.
performance section of the report are assured by SGS, an
Global news articles on myGSK and icons on our intranet site
external assurer. The assurance process includes verification of
were used to guide users directly to the Review. The GSK CR
key environment, health and safety data through site visits and
Report is also distributed internally to the Corporate Executive
telephone calls to EHS professionals and review of systems and
Team and selected communicators.
processes for collecting, collating, analysing and interpreting
the data. The EHS assurance statement is on page 94.
Engaging employees on environment, health and safety
We engage with employees on EHS through a range of
Internal audit
communication channels, including our intranet site, bulletins
GSK has an extensive internal audit programme, including
and articles in Spirit magazine. See the Environment section
specialist audit groups that regularly assess compliance with
of this report, page 76.
our policies in a number of responsibility areas. The frequency
In 2006, we conducted an internal review of Corporate and coverage of audits varies but includes: animal research,
Environment Health and Safety (CEHS) communications. This community investment, conduct of clinical trials, employment
revealed that our EHS intranet site, myEHS, needed to be practices, environment, ethical conduct, health and safety,
more user-friendly. In response to the feedback we completely interactions with patient groups, patient safety and supply
redesigned the site to improve access to information. Changes chain standards.
included listing EHS topics alphabetically, adding a ‘most
viewed pages’ list and providing links tailored to different users.
We also surveyed EHS staff in 2006 to determine the success Human rightsx
of our EHS communications. This indicated that we needed to
be clearer in our messages about our priorities and how they We are committed to upholding the UN Universal Declaration
relate to the overall mission of the corporate EHS department of Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multi-National
and GSK. See the Employment section, page 100 for details of Enterprises and the core labour standards set out by the
how we are responding. International Labour Organization. We are signatories to the
UN Global Compact, a voluntary global standard on human
rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption.
Assurancex High standards on human rights are important to GSK
because they:
External assurance
The information supplied in the Environment, health and • H elp us get the best from our employees
safety and in the Access to medicines sections of this report has
• S upport our relationship with the communities near
been externally assured by independent, third-party assurers.
our sites
External assurance is a time consuming and expensive process.
For this reason we have chosen to focus our efforts this year on • E nsure supplier contracts run smoothly and we have a
these key sections. reliable supply of high quality products through working
with suppliers that meet our human rights requirements
We have been working with Bureau Veritas, the external
• P rotect our reputation
assurers, for the report section on access to medicines in
developing countries. The assurance process assesses:
Human rights are relevant to many of the issues covered in this
report. This section gives an overview of our approach.
• A ccuracy – that all information included in the Access to
medicines section is accurate, reliable, objective and free
GSK’s sphere of influence
from bias
We are committed to upholding human rights in our sphere of
• M ateriality – addresses the material aspects of access influence. We have most direct control over human rights in
to medicines, as required by GSK stakeholders to make our own operations, but can also influence suppliers and wider
informed judgements, decisions and actions society.
0 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Our spheres of influence include: Current natural screening collaborations do not involve
material collected post-1992 and so are not subject to the CBD.
• E mployees However, in the event that GSK undertakes future development
work using genetic resources obtained from source countries
• S uppliers
post-1992, and where local laws stipulate, access to those
• C ommunities resources would be obtained in accordance with those local
laws.
• S ociety
Society
Our employees Improving healthcare, particularly in the developing world, is
We believe our employment standards on issues such as one of the greatest challenges we face. GSK is committed to
diversity, equal opportunities and health and safety provide playing its part in improving access to medicines. We contribute
human rights protection for our employees. For more to healthcare in the developing world through our research into
information see the Employment practices section of this new treatments and vaccines. We also seek to increase access
report, page 100. to a wide range of our products in developing countries by
improving their affordability through preferential pricing and
Suppliers voluntary licence agreements with generic manufacturers and
We require all our suppliers, contractors and business partners through our community investment.
to meet the same standards on human rights as GSK. We
will not knowingly use suppliers who are responsible for We engage with governments, multilateral agencies, NGOs
human rights infringements. We conduct regular audits of and other pharmaceutical companies to help improve access to
existing suppliers and only engage new suppliers that meet medicines. For more information see the Access to medicines
our expectations. Human rights clauses are included in our section of this report on page 32 and the Community
contracts. See the Supply chain section of this report for more investment section on page 112.
details.
Communities
Human rights are relevant to our relationships with the wider Stakeholder engagementx
community. For example:
Stakeholder engagement and dialogue enables us to connect
Countries with poor records on human rights with the views and opinions of the societies in which we
Some of our stakeholders are concerned about GSK’s presence operate. It helps us identify important issues and shape
in countries with poor human rights records, such as Myanmar our responses in the interest of our shareholders and wider
(Burma), North Korea and Sudan. GSK shares the UN’s belief society. Regular engagement means we are better informed
that people should not be denied access to medicines because of emerging and current issues and changing societal
of the regime operating in their country. See the UN High expectations. It provides an opportunity for us to voice our
Commissioner for Human Rights’ statement. We believe it is approach to responsibility issues, obtain important feedback
our responsibility to make our medicines and vaccines available and build trust.
to the people in these countries.
Most of this discussion takes place in the normal course of
Local communities business. For example, our scientists regularly meet academics,
GSK aims to have good relationships with all the communities researchers and other pharmaceutical companies through
around our sites. We seek to minimise our environmental advisory boards and medical conferences.
impacts and operate our sites safely. We aim to bring social and
economic benefits to the areas where we have a presence. See We have included examples of our engagement here and
the Community investment section of this report for more throughout the report.
details (page 112).
How we engage with our stakeholders
The UN Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and Healthcare professionals
indigenous material We engage with healthcare professionals in many ways
GSK supports the CBD’s role in providing a framework for the including through our sales representatives and when running
conservation of biological diversity and the sustainable use clinical trials. See Research practices (page 52) and Ethical
of its components. GSK also supports the CBD objective ‘to conduct (page 62) for our policies governing relationships with
provide fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from healthcare professionals.
the use of genetic resources’. See our policy on Biodiversity in
the background section of our website for more information. Patients
GSK researchers and scientists meet patients as part of our
Techniques such as high-throughput screening of synthetic ‘Focus on the Patient’ initiative. This engagement influences
compounds have historically been considered more effective our understanding of diseases and our research priorities. We
and efficient tools in GSK’s drug discovery programmes than also support the work of patient advocacy groups. Read more
natural product screening. GSK is therefore currently involved in Patient advocacy on page 21. In addition, we conduct
in few natural product projects although this may change. market research via third parties to understand patient needs.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Governments and regulators Engagement with investors
We engage in debate on legislation and seek to influence policy We held 15 meetings with investors in 2007 to discuss
decisions that affect GSK. We also engage with governments responsibility issues. These included one-to-one meetings,
on responsibility related issues. See Public policy on page 16. presentations, a socially responsible investment (SRI) roadshow
and three ‘Lunch and Learn’ sessions.
Healthcare providers
We engage with healthcare providers through our government Lunch and Learn sessions address topical issues and enable
affairs, marketing and access to medicines activities. See Public mainstream and SRI investors to ask questions directly to senior
policy and Access to medicines. GSK executives. Topics covered this year included:
Investors • P atient safety, attended by 16 mainstream and SRI
We meet regularly with investors and socially responsible investors. Our Senior Vice President, Medical Governance,
investors. explained how GSK assesses the safety of products in
clinical trials and after marketing. See the Research section
Employees of this report for more on our approach, page 52
We seek feedback from our employees through regular surveys.
• C linical trials and informed consent in the developing
See the Employment section for examples of survey results
world, attended by 35 investors. Our Vice President,
(page 100). We also consult employees on changes that affect
Pharmaceuticals International Medical, set out the policies
them and discuss business developments through regional and
underpinning our approach to clinical research, and
national consultation forums. See Internal communications
the reasons why we are conducting more trials in the
on page 104.
developing world. See the Research section of this report
for more on our approach, page 52
Local communities
Our interactions with local communities are managed • P atient advocacy and government affairs, attended by
by individual GSK sites. See Community investment 12 investors. Our Programme Leader, Patient Advocacy,
for examples of our financial and practical support for and our Government Affairs Manager explained how
communities, page 112. GSK interacts with patient groups and governments to
find solutions that benefit patients, governments and the
Multilateral agencies company, and the policies underlying this engagement.
We engage with multilateral agencies through our access and See Public policy, page 16, for more information.
public health initiatives. See Public policy on page 16 and
Access to medicines on page 32. We participated in a SRI roadshow in Paris and Zurich, along
with six other companies from a range of sectors. The main
Non-governmental organisations (NGOs) topics covered by GSK included stem cell research, access to
We engage with international and community NGOs through medicines and how we embed CR into the business.
our access, education and public health programmes and as
part of our public policy work. Read more in Public policy on We held one-to-one meetings with a variety of investors.
page 16, Access to medicines on page 32 and Community For example, we engaged with Hermes on clinical trials in the
investment on page 112. developing world and with ABP Investments on transparency
over patient advocacy.
We also engage regularly with animal welfare organisations.
Read more in Animal research on page 53. Details of our greenhouse gas emissions were reported through
the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). You can read our response
Scientific community and academic partnerships on the CDP website at www.cdproject.net.
It is important for GSK to be part of scientific and academic
debates. Examples of our collaborations with academia are Investor questions
included in the Contribution to global health section of this Some of the questions raised by investors about responsibility
report on page 24. issues in 2007 concerned:
Suppliers • A ccess to medicines
We hold global and regional supplier review meetings where
• C linical trial results disclosure. See the Research practices
senior GSK managers address and interact with suppliers on
section of this report, page 56
key issues. We conduct supplier satisfaction surveys. For more
information see Supply chain on page 70. • Clinical trials in the developing world
• P atient safety. See the Research practices section of this
Peer companies
report, page 58
We engage with peer companies through membership of
pharmaceutical industry organisations, for example EFPIA, • O ur operations in Sudan, Myanmar (Burma) and
PhRMA, ICC and IFPMA, and through collaboration on specific North Korea. See Human rights on page 10 of this report
projects.
2 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
• I ntellectual property rights in India. See Access to You can read the findings from these sessions in more detail in
medicines section of this report, page 42 the background section of our website. For more information
on our approach to Access to medicines see pages 32.
• S ales and marketing practices. See the Ethical conduct
section of this report, page 64
Engagement on environment, health and safety
• S tem cell research. See the Research practices section of We have an EHS Stakeholder Panel in the UK which has
this report, page 53 provided independent feedback on our performance since
2005. It has ten members representing customers, suppliers,
Engagement on access to medicines regulators, public interest groups and investors. Four senior
GSK conducted three stakeholder discussions during 2007 to EHS representatives from GSK also regularly participate and
get feedback on our approach to different issues relating to other GSK managers attend discussions on specific topics.
access to medicines. We engaged with influential individuals The panel is facilitated by The Environment Council, an
and organisations with expertise in this area including NGOs, independent charity.
government representatives, journalists, academics, investors
and industry organisations. The panel met in April 2007 to debate a range of issues
including:
The topics covered were:
• H ow GSK manages corporate responsibility
• I ncreasing access to HIV/AIDS medicines in developing
• S ustainability initiatives in our Nutritional Healthcare
countries
business
• E xpanding R&D into diseases of the developing world
• E mployee wellbeing and resilience.
• I ncreasing access to medicines in middle-income countries
The panel was also updated on GSK’s EHS performance and
While we do not necessarily agree with all the comments made on developments in our process safety and climate change
by participants, these sessions provided valuable feedback on programmes.
our approach.
In 2007 we also held an EHS stakeholder engagement
Feedback on GSK’s approach in developing countries workshop in the US. The meeting was chaired by an external
Participants felt that GSK has a moral responsibility to make facilitator and was attended by representatives of retail
its products accessible to poor people and that access to customers, regulators, environmental interest groups, health
medicines is also important to GSK’s long-term business interest groups and academia. Four senior EHS representatives
sustainability. from GSK also participated.
It was felt that GSK’s approach to increasing access in The US stakeholders identified a number of issues they felt that
developing countries (R&D, preferential pricing and voluntary GSK should prioritise. These included:
licensing) is appropriate, although participants would like GSK
to invest more in R&D into diseases of the developing world • P harmaceuticals and products in the environment
and do more to remove obstacles to the supply of generic (including toxic and biological materials)
medicines in these countries.
• A ir pollution and climate change
Participants urged GSK to collaborate more with other • N anotechnology (especially relating to consumer and
pharmaceutical companies to address access issues in worker safety)
developing countries. It was felt that an industry-wide
• W ater (including wastewater treatment and water scarcity)
approach could help to address issues more quickly and
effectively.
The stakeholders urged GSK to adopt a leadership position and
to collaborate with industry organisations on these issues.
Feedback on GSK’s approach in middle-income countries
Participants emphasised the importance of increasing access to
We will use the feedback from the US workshop and UK panel
medicines in middle-income countries (MICs) where there are
to inform our EHS programme.
still large numbers of very poor people. They encouraged GSK
not to treat MICs as we would high-income countries.
Many of our sites also engage with stakeholders locally on EHS
issues, through activities such as open days, newsletters and
Participants felt that GSK does not have a clear strategy
community projects.
on access in MICs. They would like GSK to be clearer on its
approach and objectives, in particular they would like to know
if we regard MICs as significant commercial markets.
It was pointed out that chronic diseases are a growing problem
in MICs. It was suggested that GSK take a broad approach to
access that encompasses all its medicines, not just those for
high-profile diseases such as HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Engagement with opinion leaders
MORI survey
GSK participated in the MORI survey which rates companies Overall, our efforts on corporate responsibility reporting
according to CR experts’ and NGOs’ perception of their CR and our approach to access to medicines met with approval.
performance. This year 78 per cent of the 40 people surveyed Participants felt we should be clearer on our future strategy
thought that GSK took its responsibilities seriously, compared and set challenging CR targets.
to 58 per cent last year. GSK was the sixth highest rated
company on this question (out of 36 companies). They also The participants supported our decision to research into
thought we were better at communicating than last year: diseases of the developing world and our sustainable approach
45 per cent rated GSK communications with them as fairly to preferential pricing. However, several thought we could do
or very good, compared to 33 per cent last year. more to help make medicines affordable. They wanted to know
whether our lobbying activity on intellectual property rights
Focus group and generics is aligned with our efforts to improve access to
We ran an opinion leader focus group in the US to get medicines. Helping to improve the availability of medicines was
feedback on our approach to CR and our reporting. another area where they would like GSK to do more.
The discussion showed that GSK is not well known for its CR Participants felt we had not addressed the effects of climate
performance in the US compared with other pharmaceutical change on health in our report.
companies. Participants encouraged us to increase
communication on CR with US stakeholders. You can read the findings from these sessions in more
detail in the background section of our website. For more
information on our approach to Access to medicines and the
Environment see pages 76.
Benchmarking
GSK received the following ratings from benchmarking organisations:
Organisation Rating
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 was shortlisted for an
ACCA award, which recognises transparency and credibility in
reporting
Dow Jones Sustainability Index GSK was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, which
covers the top ten per cent of sustainable companies in each sector
Financial Times Bowen Craggs Website Index GSK ranked 20th out of the 60 companies assessed on how well
their website served a range of stakeholder groups. GSK ranked
13th in the ‘serving society’ category, which reflects coverage of
corporate responsibility issues
FTSE4Good GSK was included in the FTSE4Good index
Innovest Global Pharmaceutical Sector Report GSK ranked third of 44 pharmaceutical companies analysed in the
2006 report which looks at sustainability risks and opportunities in
the industry
One World Trust GSK was ranked second out of ten multinational companies
assessed for corporate accountability in the One World Trust’s
Global Accountability Report. The report assesses formal policies
that guide transparency, participation, evaluation and response to
complaints
SustainAbility Global Reporters benchmark GSK’s 2006 report scored 54 per cent using this methodology.
The full Global Reporters Survey was not conducted in 2006,
however reports that achieved this score in the 2005 survey were
in the top 30 reports in the survey
Storebrand Investments GSK achieved ‘Best in Class’ status in the 2007 overview of the
pharmaceutical industry, ranking in the top 30 percentile
Business in the Community Environment Index GSK maintained its position in the Platinum League of the 2006
index which assessed 134 companies
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Responding to stakeholders
This table summarises how we are responding to stakeholders on the key responsibility issues for our business.
Interest area Stakeholders Activity this year
Contribution to global health Healthcare professionals, Invested £3,327 million in R&D and launched
Healthcare providers, Investors, important new medicines and vaccines
Multilateral organisations, NGOs, including our cervical cancer vaccine
Patients, Regulators, Scientific community and new breast cancer treatment.
Joined partnerships to increase scientific
understanding in key areas including the
use of imaging technology and genomics.
Supported efforts to prevent chronic disease
and reduce healthcare costs in the US
through the Ten City Challenge.
See Contribution to health page 29.
Access to medicines in developing, Healthcare professionals, Progressed our R&D into new medicines
middle-income and developed countries Healthcare providers, Investors, and vaccines for HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB.
Local communities, Explored new solutions to increasing
Multilateral organisations, NGOs, access in middle-income countries.
Patients, Regulators
Supported the efforts of developing
countries to prepare for a potential flu
pandemic. Contributed to an Oxfam report
on access to medicines. See Access to
medicines page 44.
Research practices including use of Healthcare professionals, Published our position on stem cell research
new technologies, animal research, Investors, NGOs, Patients, Regulators, on our website. Continued to publish the
clinical trials and patient safety Scientific community results of GSK clinical trials on our publicly
available Clinical Trial Register. Joined a
partnership with governments and peer
companies to improve patient safety.
See Research practices page 59.
Ethical conduct, including sales and Healthcare professionals, Carried out a comprehensive review of our
marketing practices Healthcare Providers, Investors, NGOs, ethics policies and practices. We are
Patients, Regulators implementing a range of improvements as
a result. See Ethical conduct page 62.
Environment, including climate change, Employees, Investors, Local communities, Launched a new climate change strategy
materials efficiency and pharmaceuticals NGOs, Regulators, Suppliers which includes increased quantitative
targets to reduce CO emissions.
2
in the environment. See Environment
page 79.
Supply chain Investors, NGOs, Regulators, Suppliers Carried out audits to assess suppliers’
performance on environment, health and
safety and human rights. See Supply chain
page 72.
Employment practices Employees, Investors Responded to feedback from our employee
survey by reducing unnecessary bureaucracy
and increasing management visibility. Put in
place plans to reduce the impact of planned
restructuring on employees. See Employment
practices page 100.
Advocacy on public policy Investors, Regulators Extended our reporting on our lobbying
activity to increase transparency. See
Public policy on page 16.
Community investment Employees, Regulators, Local communities, Invested £282 million in community
Multilateral organisations, NGOs programmes. Major programmes included
those designed to prevent disease, build
community capacity and support
science education. See Community
investment page 112.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 PUBLIC POLICY & EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
Public policy Our approach to external affairs
Employees involved in public policy work must abide by our
and external Employee Guide to Business Conduct which is based on
three principles: partnership, communication and integrity.
Our public policy and lobbying efforts are backed by factual
research and analysis.
affairs
Our external affairs teams in our major regions monitor
changes and proposed legislative reforms and policy
developments. They meet regularly with government officials
and other stakeholders, for example multilateral organisations
and NGOs, to explain our views on a range of public policy
Headlinesx issues. We tailor our approach to suit different cultures and
political traditions in the countries where we engage in the
• Advocated for the creation of a global strategy public policy process. We ensure that the standards set out in
to address pandemic flu our Guide to Business Conduct are applied globally.
• Advocated investment in chronic disease
Lobbying on issues affecting the whole pharmaceutical industry
prevention and treatment
is sometimes conducted through trade associations. We may
• Advocated stronger intellectual property rights
also hire professional lobbyists to support our public policy
and investment in healthcare in India
work.
• Updated our guidelines so that GSK funding
should make up no more than 2 per cent of a We have a Political Donations Policy governing our
patient group’s overall income contributions to political candidates and parties.
• Became the first pharmaceutical company to
publish information on our funding of European Trade associations
GSK is a member of many trade and industry organisations
patient groups
including:
• Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry (ABPI)
The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated. Government
policy and legislation can have a significant impact on our • B ioIndustry Association (BIA)
business so it is important that we engage with governments
• B iotechnology Industry Organization (BIO)
and other stakeholders in the legislative and policy process.
• E uropean Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries (EFPIA)
Through our public policy activity we work towards legislation
• I ntellectual Property Owners Association (IPO)
and policy that encourages scientific innovation and balances
the interests of business with those of other stakeholders. • I nternational Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers
and Associations (IFPMA)
Some stakeholders are concerned that the pharmaceutical
• J apan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (JPMA)
industry has too strong an influence over governments.
However, we believe we must engage with policy makers • O rganisation of Pharmaceutical Producers of India (OPPI)
around the world responsibly to benefit patients and our International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)
business. We aim to increase stakeholder trust in GSK by
• O rganization For International Investment (OFII)
being transparent about our lobbying and public policy work.
• P harmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America
This section covers: (PhRMA)
• T he British Pharma Group (BPG)
• O ur approach to external affairs
• M embership of trade associations It is important that any lobbying conducted through trade
• O ur lobbying activity in 2007 associations reflects our policies and values. We work with
other members to help set policies and may also attend
• L obbying expenditures
lobbying meetings with governments and other stakeholders.
• P olitical contributions
• O ur relationship with patient groups Sometimes we do not share the same views on a particular
issue as other members of a trade association. If a trade
Information on our approach to working with doctors and association adopts a public policy position that we do not agree
healthcare professionals is available in the Research practices with, we will not participate in advocacy activity related to that
and Ethical conduct sections of this report (page 52 and 62). subject. Senior GSK managers sit on the boards of the majority
of industry trade associations of which we are members and
More background information on our approach to public policy raise any concerns we may have about a particular advocacy
is available in the external affairs section of our website. position.
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Public policy activity in 2007 Not withstanding our close involvement in discussions around
an international regime, we believe that once countries have
adopted local laws as envisaged by the CBD, they will receive
We engage governments on a wide range of issues that affect
protection and compensation envisaged under the Convention.
our industry. These are some of the key issues we engaged on
In this respect, we firmly believe that the introduction of a
during 2007:
disclosure obligation, whereby patent applications would have
to disclose the origin of genetic resources used in an invention,
Global
is unnecessary. Further it would create legal and commercial
Preparation for pandemic flu
uncertainties for researchers and companies developing
Organisations engaged: WHO, developed and developing
products using genetic resources. This would discourage
country governments, EU institutions, the Global Influenza
innovation and ultimately mean there are fewer benefits to
Surveillance Network, multilateral donor organisations such
share.
as the World Bank.
For more information see our policy on Biodiversity in the
Industry associations involved: EFPIA, IFPMA
background section of our website for more information.
GSK’s position: An influenza pandemic could affect all
countries. The world’s poorest nations lack the resources to United States
prepare for a pandemic. A new public-private partnership Investment in chronic disease prevention and treatment
is needed between industry, the WHO, and developed and Organisations engaged: US Department of Health and
developing countries to support these nations. A global Human Services, Office of the First Lady, US Congress,
strategy is needed which should include: White House, state legislators, Governors’ Offices, various
state health agencies
• A dvanced market commitments (a financial commitment
to subsidise the future purchase of a vaccine for use in Industry associations involved: PhRMA
developing countries) for pandemic vaccines
GSK position: Chronic diseases such as diabetes, heart disease
• T he creation of a pre-pandemic stockpile of vaccine doses and lung disease account for three-quarters of healthcare
for distribution to developing countries spending. Relatively little is invested in prevention even though
many chronic diseases and their costly complications are
• A n appropriate regulatory framework
preventable and increasingly manageable. We are advocating
• C ontinued free sharing of viruses for vaccine production a three-part approach to achieving lower cost, higher quality
healthcare: increasing prevention, improving treatment, and
• S upport for tiered pricing policies
accelerating research into better treatments for chronic disease.
Healthcare providers need incentives to promote preventive
We have invested more than $2 billion in expanding seasonal
services that address major causes of chronic disease such
flu vaccine capacity, developing an avian flu vaccine, and
as obesity and smoking. Healthcare policy needs reform to
increasing production capacity for the anti-viral flu treatment
better encourage and reward medical research into improved
Relenza.
treatments for costly, unmet medical needs such as Alzheimer’s
disease. Preventing and better managing chronic diseases will
In 2007 we announced our intention to donate 50 million
reduce overall healthcare costs in the long term.
doses of our pre-pandemic H5N1 vaccine to the WHO. In the
event of an outbreak these can be rapidly distributed to the
Legislation on prescription medicine imports
world’s poorest countries. See Access to medicines (page 32).
Organisations engaged: US Department of Health and
Human Services, Food and Drug Administration (FDA),
Access and benefit sharing and a disclosure obligation in
US Congress, state Boards of Pharmacy, state legislators,
patent law Governors’ Offices
Organisations engaged: Secretariat to the Convention
on Biological Diversity (CBD), Ad Hoc Working Group on Industry associations involved: BIO, PhRMA
Access and Benefit Sharing, UK DEFRA, DG Trade (European
GSK position: Current US law prevents prescription medicine
Commission), national European governments, US
imports to the US without safety and cost savings certifications
government, World Intellectual Property Organization.
from the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Pending
legislation would remove the safety and savings certification
Industry associations involved: BIO, BPG, EFPIA, ICC,
requirements, making it easier to legally import medicines. This
IFPMA, PhRMA
would undermine the FDA’s ability to protect the US distribution
GSK position: Benefit sharing means the sharing of benefits system from counterfeit and unsafe medicines that could harm
arising from the use of genetic resources. The proposed patients. There is also no guarantee that consumers would save
International Regime on Access and Benefit Sharing currently any money as the Department of Health and Human Services
under discussion within the Convention on Biological Diversity has found that third- party payers such as insurance companies
(CBD) should be consistent with the CBD treaty. It should are most likely to benefit.
provide guidance on how to achieve access benefit sharing
objectives, rather than prescribing rules. It should apply only to
genetic resources as defined in the CBD, not a broader class of
materials, and should not extend to human genetic resources
or to derivatives.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 7PUBLIC POLICY & EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
GSK supports safer alternatives to help patients afford their Pharmacovigilance (patient safety)
medicines. The Partnership for Prescription Assistance (PPA), Organisations engaged: US Congress
for example, gives access to more than 475 public and
Industry associations involved: BIO, PhRMA
private patient assistance programmes, for patients who lack
prescription drug coverage. See Access to medicines in the GSK position: The US government recently enacted
developed world, on page 45 for more information on GSK’s significant new laws relating to drug safety, through the FDA
Patient Assistance Programs. Amendments Act (FDAAA). The Act’s provisions include:
US patent system reform – Federal legislation • N ew powers for the FDA to require post-marketing studies
Organisations engaged: Patent and Trademark Office, and clinical trials
US Congress
• A new Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS)
infrastructure that will allow the FDA to require additional
Industry associations involved: BIO, Coalition for
communication and reporting on drug safety
21st Century Patent Reform, PhRMA
• D evelopment of a Clinical Trial Registration and Results
GSK position: A patent law framework that provides business
Database
certainty over a long period and promotes investment is
essential to the research-based pharmaceutical industry and a • I ncreased industry funding for drug safety efforts
wide range of other manufacturers that have long lead times
from research to market. The US Congress is considering We support the new provisions and will continue to work
patent reform legislation that could have a negative effect on with the FDA to create a more effective pharmacovigilance
the current framework. Specifically, the proposals fail to strike framework. See the Research practices section of this report,
an appropriate balance in the areas of restricting abuse of the page 57, for information on our long-standing Clinical Trial
inequitable conduct doctrine (which encourages infringers to Register and efforts to improve patient safety.
try to prove in litigation that a patent was improperly obtained
so that a completely valid patent may be held ‘unenforceable’) Europe
and the allocation of damages for infringement. In addition, EU regulation on clinical trials for children
giving the PTO substantive rulemaking authority removes Organisations engaged: DG Enterprise (EU Commission),
responsibility for establishing substantive patent law from EU Parliament, UK Parliament, UK Department of Health, UK
Congress and innovation policy from the public debate. Department of Trade and Industry, Medicines and Healthcare
Products Regulation Agency, various European governments
GSK is working with a coalition of research-based companies,
manufacturers, universities and small inventors to promote Industry associations involved: ABPI, BIA, BPG, EFPIA
US patent reform that stimulates investment in research and
GSK position: Medicines that are safe for adults are not
strengthens the patent system. We support patent reforms
necessarily safe for children. This means additional trials are
that are clear, provide business certainty, improve the quality
required before new medicines can be approved for use
of patents and remove subjectivity in litigation issues.
in children. To support this work, the EU has introduced
a regulation requiring companies applying for marketing
US patent system reform – PTO regulations
authorisation for new products or indications for patented
Organisations engaged: Patent and Trademark Office,
products to conduct studies in children in accordance with
Federal District Court
a Paediatric Investigation Plan (PIP). In return for conducting
these studies, regardless of outcome, companies are granted
Industry associations involved: None
either an extra six months of market exclusivity for non-orphan
GSK position: In August 2007, the US Patent and Trademark products (commercially viable medicines), or an extra two years
Office substantially altered regulations regarding the number of market exclusivity for orphan products (medicines which are
of ‘continuation’ patent applications and patent claims that not considered commercially viable, often for rare diseases).
can be filed. The change would cause a negative effect on
innovation, limit business certainty and retroactively damage If medicines are unlikely to benefit children (for example
millions of pending US patent applications. Alzheimer’s therapies) companies can apply for a ‘waiver’ from
the requirement. When it is too early to start testing medicines
In November 2007 GSK’s request for a preliminary injunction in children, because of lack of appropriate safety data for use in
was granted by the Federal Court on the basis of the company’s adults, companies can be granted a ‘deferral’, excusing them
argument that the new rules are contrary to established from the PIP requirements in the short term.
law and the PTO does not have the authority to enact such
regulations. Furthermore, the court found it in the public GSK welcomes the EU regulation and supports the overall
interest to bar the rules from taking effect until a full trial on the policy objective. We agree that the incentives should not be
merits can be heard. The judge heard arguments in the case in linked to confirmation that a medicine is effective in children.
February 2008, however the outcome of the case is awaited. In many cases negative data will help prescribers understand
paediatric populations or indications in which the product
should not be used. An EU regulation with fixed incentives
and a predictable regulatory framework, together with better
paediatric networks, will benefit children across Europe.
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Similar incentives exist under US legislation, the Best regime to the level provided in the EU and US could further
Pharmaceuticals for Children Act. encourage investment in collaborative R&D. Issues of IP rights
are not the fundamental barrier to access to healthcare and
Health Technology Assessments and pricing we believe that reform and increased investment in the Indian
Organisations engaged: The European Commission; selected healthcare system should be a priority. We want to be active
member states partners in addressing these challenges. We are exploring
differential pricing models to increase access to medicines in
Industry associations involved: EFPIA India. See Access to medicines in middle-income countries
for more information (page 41).
GSK position: Government funding decisions are often based
on an assessment of a medicine’s clinical or cost-effectiveness.
We believe that these value assessments should be conducted
transparently and in a timely manner. The price a government
subsequently agrees to pay for the medicine must reflect the
Advocacy on issues relevant to
result of the value assessment. Governments should allow
corporate responsibility
greater pricing flexibility when the long-term value of a
medicine is not certain at launch.
We engage with governments and other stakeholders to
advance the debate on issues relevant to responsible business
We have worked with EFPIA to agree an industry-wide
practices.
approach to the issue. We aim to establish a broader consensus
among the European Commission and EU member states,
Advocacy for access to medicines
especially within High Level Pharmaceutical Forum discussions.
We advocate for a sustainable approach to improving
healthcare in the developing world. For example in 2007:
Asia
Compulsory licensing in Thailand
• W e urged the G8 to continue making healthcare in the
Organisations engaged: Thai government including the
developing world a major issue
Thai Ministry of Public Health; academics, NGOs and members
of the business community in Thailand; World Health • W e participated in the design of the OECD High Level
Organization; international NGOs; US and EU member state Forum on neglected diseases
governments; European Commission
See the Access to medicines section of this report for more
Industry associations involved: BPG, EFPIA, IFPMA, PhRMA, information.
PReMA,
Advocacy on research practices
GSK position: In late 2006 the Thai government issued
We regularly engage with policy makers and other stakeholders
compulsory licences on three pharmaceutical products.
on issues relating to research practices. For example in 2007:
There have been reports that more may be issued. We
support the Thai government’s public health goals and want
• W e participated in discussions in the US on appropriate
to help improve health outcomes for people in Thailand.
elements of a national registration system for clinical trials
Compulsory licences are a legitimate policy option for the Thai
results. These discussions have informed new legislation in
government but they should not be used as a routine policy
the US.
tool or for commercial purposes. Rather than unilaterally
using compulsory licences to increase access to medicines, we • W e continued to engage in the European Partnership
believe it is more effective to engage in dialogue with industry for Alternatives to Animal Testing (EPAA) with the
and other stakeholders to find sustainable ways to address European Commission and companies from seven industry
healthcare issues. We welcome the establishment of the Joint sectors across Europe
Industry-government committee which will provide a forum
in which to discuss these issues and develop solutions to See the Research practices section of this report for more
Thailand’s healthcare needs together with the information.
Thai government.
Advocacy on malaria
Healthcare and intellectual property in India
We advocate for more resources to be committed to prevention
Organisations engaged: Relevant agencies in the Indian
and control of malaria. Through our advocacy programme,
government; members of the pharmaceutical industry and the
‘Mobilising for Malaria’, we aim to engage politicians, the
wider business community in India; Indian academics and civil
media and the public in tackling the disease. For example in
society representatives; US and EU member state governments;
2007:
European Commission
• W e awarded three ‘Innovation Grants’ in partnership
Industry associations involved: BPG, EFPIA, OPPI, PhRMA
with the Malaria Consortium, to civil society organisations
GSK position: We believe that India’s tremendous strengths in covering twelve African countries
science and pharmaceuticals, coupled with its rapid economic
growth, offer the government an opportunity to tackle some • W e supported national ‘Coalitions Against Malaria’ in
fundamental characteristics of its healthcare system and policy Cameroon, Ethiopia and Benin plus similar coalitions in the
base. Further improvements in India’s intellectual property (IP) UK, France and Belgium
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 PUBLIC POLICY & EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
Corporate contributions to national political parties and
Our position on issues relevant to
candidates running for federal office are prohibited by US law.
corporate responsibility
Contributions to state candidates
We publish our position on key issues relating to corporate
GSK corporate funds are only given to candidates at the state
responsibility in the background section of our website. We are
level, in states where this is permitted by law. In 2007, we
happy to discuss our position on these or any other issues with
donated £249,000 to candidates for state-held offices.
legitimate parties. Contact our corporate responsibility team at
csr.contact@gsk.com.
Our contributions are not made on the basis of political party.
GSK supports candidates who seek an environment that
The current public policies published on www.gsk.com/
appropriately rewards high risk, high-investment industries
reportsandpublications cover the following areas:
and preserves free market principles and intellectual property
rights. During 2007 we made approximately 51 per cent of
• G SK access and developing countries
contributions to Republicans, 47 per cent to Democrats, and
• G SK research and development two per cent to unaffiliated or other party candidates. All states
publish information about political donations.
• G SK and intellectual property
• GSK and the environment Political Action Committee contributions
In accordance with the Federal Election Campaign Act, there
• G SK and public health
is a GSK Political Action Committee (PAC) that facilitates
• G SK and competitiveness voluntary political contributions by eligible employees.
• GSK pricing, reimbursement and market access
The PAC is not controlled by GSK but by our participating
• GSK and other issues employees, who have the legal right to make contributions
to candidates and political parties at the federal and state
levels. All PAC contributions are voluntary and donations are
subject to strict limitations. For example, the GSK PAC may not
Lobbying expendituresx contribute in excess of $5,000 to an individual candidate for
federal office per election.
We report our US lobbying expenditures to the US Congress in
PAC contributions are determined by a governing board of
accordance with the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995.
PAC-participating GSK employees from across the company.
As required by law, PAC contributions are reported to the
We spent $8.24 million in federal lobbying activities in the US
Federal Elections Commission (FEC).
during 2007. This includes the costs of salaries and benefits
for all employees registered to lobby the US government; use
In 2007, the GSK employees’ PAC contributed £522,172 to
of lobbying consultants; support for lobbying contacts such as
candidates for state and federal offices.
planning activities and research; running the GSK Washington
DC government affairs office; support staff; and the portion of
‘527’ organisations
trade association fees associated with federal lobbying.
‘527’ organisations are not regulated by the Federal Electoral
Commission. These organisations cannot expressly advocate
We also report our state lobbying expenses, in line with
the election or defeat of a federal candidate. However they
applicable state laws.
may be involved in political advocacy and voter mobilisation.
In 2007 GSK supported ‘527’ organisations in the US including:
Political donationsx
• D emocratic Legislative Campaign Committee
GSK makes political donations with corporate funds where • D emocratic Governors’ Association
these are authorised by law and are culturally appropriate. • N ew Democratic Network
• R epublican Governors’ Association
In 2007 we contributed £276,000 to political organisations
in the US and Canada. All donations are covered by the GSK • R epublican State Leadership Committee
policy on political donations.
Contributions in Canada
GSK does not make donations to political parties or other In 2007, GSK donated £27,000 in Canada to political
political organisations in the European Union. See our Annual candidates in those provinces where it is legal.
Report for more information.
Contributions in the US
In the US, political candidates are financed primarily by
contributions from companies, individuals, NGOs and other
parties. Corporate contributions are an accepted and important
way for companies to engage in the political debate.
20 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Patient advocacyx
Patient groups are non-profit organisations founded by principles. We require outside agencies working for GSK that are
patients, caregivers, family members and health professionals. likely to interact with patient groups to abide by our guidelines.
They provide their members with information about their
condition and guidance on how to live with their disease. They We have patient advocacy teams in our Europe and
engage with healthcare providers, governments and the media International regions to coordinate interaction with patient
to promote improved treatment and services for patients. groups and adherence with our policies and global principles.
In the US, patient advocacy is decentralised across a number
GSK works with a wide range of patient groups in disease of functions including state government affairs, R&D,
areas such as cancer, asthma, diabetes, Alzheimer’s disease, communications and marketing, but is coordinated by the state
multiple sclerosis and HIV/AIDS. GSK and patient groups share government affairs group.
a common concern that healthcare systems should focus on
preventing, treating and managing disease. Both parties believe Employees in all regions can access our patient advocacy
that patients should have access to quality medicines, services resource intranet site. In Europe, we also publish a newsletter
and information on disease. to raise employee awareness about internal and external
developments relating to patient groups.
Patients groups are important stakeholders for GSK and we
engage with them as part of our commitment to be a patient- In 2007, we conducted a review of departments that have
focused company. Our relationships with patient groups help relationships with patient groups in the US. This will enable us
us to better understand patient needs and their illnesses. We to more effectively raise awareness of our guidelines and SOP.
also support these groups to help give patients the ability to
have their voice heard in the healthcare debate, alongside other Encouraging independence
stakeholders. We believe that patient groups should be independent and we
encourage them to seek financial support from as wide a range
of organisations as possible. We ensure that the funding we
give to patient groups is appropriate to their size.
Our approachx
We updated our guidelines in 2007 to state that GSK funding
should make up no more than 25 per cent of a group’s overall
Our relationship with each patient group is defined by a written
income. In the vast majority of instances the actual percentage
agreement specifying how the group will use our funding to
is much lower. We allow some exemptions to the 25 per cent
benefit its members.
cap as some of the groups supported have limited incomes, so
a small donation (for example £1,000) would exceed the limit,
We support patient groups across the world in a number of
and because some groups have difficulty attracting funding
different ways. These include:
because of the nature of their activity (for example providing
needle exchange for drug users). These cases must be approved
• P roviding core funding to support the day-to-day running
by the general manager of each local operating company.
of the group
• O ne-off donations to help patient groups conduct a specific We also encourage patient groups to seek funding from
event or activity, for example a breast cancer awareness day multiple sources and we hold workshops on how to make
funding applications.
• E ducational support
• T raining staff in management skills and disease education Transparency
We believe that being transparent about our support for
• W orking together on disease awareness/prevention
patient groups helps build trust with our stakeholders,
projects
including the groups themselves.
Some stakeholders are concerned that pharmaceutical
In February 2007 we were the first pharmaceutical company
companies use patient groups as a way of marketing their
to publish information on all our work with European patient
products. Our support for patient groups is about the bigger
groups including details of the funding received. In 2008 we
agendas which dictate whether or not new medicines are
are publishing the same level of information for work with
made available to patients, and whether patients have access
patient groups in the Pharmaceuticals International region.
to the kind of treatments that they need. It can also help
This goes beyond industry codes of practice that at most
raise awareness of prevention and treatment options. We are
require a list of the groups funded. You can read more at
committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards and
www.gsk.com/responsibility.
transparency in this area.
In 2004 we were the first company to establish global principles
for working with patient groups. Since then we have developed
detailed guidance and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP)
for employees in each of our major regions. The principles are
published in the background section of our website. All
relevant employees receive training on our policies and global
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 2PUBLIC POLICY & EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
In the US, this information is publicly reported by the patient
groups themselves as they are required to declare the source
of their funding to the Internal Revenue Service.
Understanding patients
To help us better understand patient needs we have set up
advisory boards in the US and Europe with representatives from
a wide range of patient groups. These have independent chairs,
meet regularly and are attended by senior GSK managers. The
boards enable the voice of patients to be heard at the highest
levels of GSK. They also allow us to access the views of patient
groups and we seek feedback on subjects such as clinical trials,
pharmacogenetics, information provided to patients and
ethical issues.
In all regions we invite speakers from patient groups to
meet GSK employees, including scientists, researchers and
marketers, to discuss issues affecting their members. As well
as improving our understanding of patient needs it shows GSK
employees the difference their work can make to people’s lives.
We also engage with patient groups through Patient Advocacy
Leaders’ Summits (PALS). These bring groups together to
discuss health policy concerns, develop new skills and identify
ways to collaborate to expand their influence. PALS also give
patient groups the opportunity to learn about GSK and tell
the company how it can better support their work. There is
typically a range of workshops for attendees, including sessions
on media training and sharing best practice. In 2007 we held
summits in Canada, Germany, Poland, Latvia, Switzerland and
Japan as well as 17 summits throughout the US. Since 2002,
we have held over 50 PALS attended by around 5,000 leaders
from 2,000 patient groups in 49 countries.
In 2007 we co-sponsored the European Patient Forum’s annual
conference in Brussels with the pharmaceutical company
Pfizer. This brought together 100 patient groups and other
stakeholders to exchange ideas about improving healthcare
and the role of patient organisations.
Developing industry standards
We ware taking a leadership approach in developing industry
standards for engaging with patient groups.
In the US, we are working with the industry trade group,
PhRMA, to develop guidelines for its members when working
with patient groups. We are also working with the National
Health Council to develop guidelines for patient groups to
follow when working with companies.
In Europe, we have been involved in leading the development
of the first EFPIA code of practice on relationships with patient
organisations. The code is closely based on GSK’s SOP for
working with patient groups, and a senior GSK manager
chaired the EFPIA Patient Relations network that developed
the code.
The EFPIA code contains many of the requirements of GSK’s
SOP. It states that companies cannot promote their medicines
to patient groups, there must be written agreements in place
for all interactions with patient groups, and companies must
list all patient groups they work with and describe the nature
of any support. The code will be effective from July 2008.
22 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
When GSK provides funding are you trying to ‘buy’
favours from the patient organisation?
No. We never ask for endorsement of any of our
medicines or a return on investment for our support.
We are careful that our support for an organisation does
not compromise its independence and is based on trust,
mutual respect and complies with the highest standards
of our code of conduct.
How do these groups maintain their independence
if they receive significant funding from companies
such as GSK?
We encourage patient groups to diversify their funding
from sources in both the public and the private sector.
Patient groups should never become dependent on any
one funder from either sector. Our guidelines state that
we should provide no more than 25 per cent of a group’s
overall income, apart from in exceptional circumstances,
see page x.
Linksx
How do you make sure that your lobbying activity
doesn’t contradict or undermine your corporate
In the background section of our website:
responsibility work?
Corporate responsibility is central to our business. We • F ull details of our funding for patient organisations in the
aim to ensure that all our lobbying activity reflects the UK and Europe
values set out in this report as well as being sensitive
• Our current public policies cover the following areas:
to the views of our stakeholders. Employees involved
• G SK access and developing countries
in public policy must abide by our Employee Guide to
Business Conduct which commits them to acting with • G SK research and development
honesty and integrity.
• G SK and intellectual property
We have well-established public policy positions. These
• GSK and the environment
are developed through wide consultation and are
approved by our Corporate Executive Team. Employees • G SK and public health
who lobby for GSK are closely involved in developing • G SK and competitiveness
these positions. We believe transparency is key to
• GSK pricing, reimbursement and market access
building trust with our stakeholders and we disclose our
• GSK and other issues
public policy positions in this report and on our website.
Does GSK make political donations through
so-called ‘27’ organisations?
Yes, we support a number of ‘527’ organisations such
as the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee
and the Republican Governors’ Association
(see page 20).
Isn’t your support for patient groups just another
marketing tool?
Our support for patient groups is primarily about the
bigger agendas which dictate whether new medicines
are made available to patients, and whether patients
have access to the kind of treatments that they need.
It can also help raise awareness of prevention and
treatment options. We do not promote our medicines
to patient groups.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 2CONTRIBUTION TO GLOBAL HEALTH
Contribution Our business makes a significant contribution to society
through the research, development, manufacture and
marketing of products that address the medical needs of
patients. How we respond to society’s healthcare needs is
to global
the most important responsibility issue for GSK. It is also
central to our commercial success. Our portfolio and product
pipeline include medicines and vaccines for serious diseases
health prevalent in developed and developing countries, as well as
health-related consumer products.
This section explains our approach to:
In the last century revolutionary advances in
• P reventing disease: GSK is one of the world’s largest
healthcare have helped to improve health
vaccines businesses
and increase life expectancy. Yet ill health
• T reating ill health: our products treat some of the diseases
and disease continue to place a huge burden that place a high burden on society
on society: from the AIDS epidemic in Africa
• I nvesting in R&D: our pipeline includes new medicines and
and Asia, to the health needs of an ageing vaccines that are needed in developing and developed
countries
population in the developed world and the
huge global growth in chronic diseases such • C ontributing to scientific understanding: we participate in
partnerships that advance scientific knowledge and lay the
as diabetes. Additionally, emerging diseases
ground for future medical advances
such as pandemic flu pose potentially serious
threats. Ill health is also expensive, it can Our products are only beneficial if they are accessible and
affordable to patients. This section of the report should be read
increase healthcare costs and reduce economic
in conjunction with Access to medicines, which explains our
productivity. efforts to increase access to our key products in developing and
developed countries and the Community investment section
(page xx) which summarises our work with communities to
improve healthcare.
Preventing diseasex
Headlinesx
Disease prevention can play a critically important role in
• Supplied . billion vaccine doses, of which reducing the global disease burden and the economic costs
7 per cent were shipped for use in developing of ill health.
countries
• In 2007, GSK had products listed in 7 out of The value of vaccines
27 therapeutic areas on the WHO Essential Vaccines play a major role in preventing disease and are the
cornerstone of public health programmes around the world.
Medicines List
Immunisation is acknowledged by WHO as being ‘among the
• Launched a major new treatment for breast
most cost-effective of health investments’1.
cancer and a vaccine to help prevent cervical
cancer
GSK is among the world’s top vaccine providers. We have
• Invested £,27 million in R&D in 2007 over 30 vaccines approved for marketing and over 20 in
• We have over 0 prescription medicines and our pipeline, one third of which target diseases particularly
vaccines in clinical development prevalent in the developing world. Over 1,500 scientists work
• Created two new research Centres of Excellence in vaccine research at GSK and we believe our vaccine pipeline
• Funded basic medical research to increase is the largest in the industry.
understanding of the human body and the
In 2007 we supplied 1.1 billion vaccine doses. Of these
impact of disease
78 per cent were shipped for use in developing countries. For
more on our tiered pricing system for vaccines, see page 41.
1WHO fact sheet No. 208
2 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Our vaccine portfolio
Our vaccine portfolio addresses the medical
needs of developing and developed countries.
GSK vaccines are included in immunisation cam-
paigns in  countries worldwide.
Our portfolio covers most of the leading causes
of childhood mortality, as defined by the World
Health Organization.
Deaths from infectious diseases in
children under – five 2002
HIV 9% YF, Diphtheria, Polio,
Hepatitis B 0%
Pneumococcus 17%
TB 1% Malaria 29%
Tetanus 5%
Pertussis 7%
Rotavirus 10%
Measles 13%
Meningococcus
Hib 9% A/C, JE <1%
Disease awareness and education healthcare professionals and support for cervical cancer patient
Better disease awareness among healthcare professionals and groups and their activities, such as the European Cervical
the public can help to prevent ill health. We support patient Cancer Prevention Week.
education through our work with patient groups and through
our own disease awareness campaigns. These campaigns Rotarix is our vaccine against rotavirus, a leading cause of
are run around the launch of a new product. This can have a gastroenteritis infection. Rotavirus is associated with 25 million
positive impact on public health and create commercial benefits clinic visits, two million hospitalisations and more than
for GSK. 600,000 deaths worldwide among children under five every
year4. Its launch in Mexico in 2004 and other Latin American
For example, Cervarix is our vaccine against cervical cancer. countries was preceded by a widespread disease awareness
It helps to prevent infection from the most common cancer- campaign. To achieve this, GSK educated journalists about
causing types of the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) which can gastroenteritis infection caused by rotavirus, its causes and how
lead to cervical cancer. A year before we launched Cervarix to prevent it; for example through vaccination and how
in Europe, research in this region showed that as few as to detect its symptoms early. Rotavirus can quickly become fatal
two per cent of women knew of the link between HPV and if a child becomes dehydrated and does not receive treatment.
cervical cancer. We ran disease awareness campaigns across Our educational materials emphasise the importance of
our International Region and in many European countries vaccination and give guidance on prompt detection and
to highlight this link and educate people on the importance treatment methods.
of screening to help prevent cervical cancer. The campaigns
targeted healthcare professionals, media, policy makers 2E hreth J. The Global Value of Vaccination. Vaccine (2003);
and women through press articles, educational events for 21 (7-8):596-600
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 2
Our vaccine range includes products that protect
against the following diseases:
• Cervical cancer
• Chickenpox
• Diphtheria
• Hepatitis A and B
• Influenza
• Measles
• Meningitis
• Mumps
• Polio
• Rotavirus
• Rubella
• Tetanus
• Typhoid
• Whooping cough (Pertussis)
• Pneumonia, otitis media and bacterial
meningitis
Vaccination campaigns can play a very
significant role in reducing ill health. For
example, it is estimated that at least six million
deaths are prevented and 70,000 children are
saved from disability due to vaccines every year2.
The number of deaths in Africa from measles fell
 per cent between 2000 and 200 due to better
coverage of routine immunisation programmes
and targeted campaigns to ensure that children
had a second chance to be vaccinated.
However, despite this progress, it is estimated
that the lives of over two million children could
be saved each year if existing vaccines were
Source: World Health Report 2004: Data are the latest available
(2002), 10.6 million total annual deaths in children under the age made accessible to all who need them.
of five.CONTRIBUTION TO GLOBAL HEALTH
All GSK-led disease awareness activities and campaigns are Avandia, our diabetes treatment, helps patients to control
non-promotional and comply with our ethical marketing codes. their symptoms, delays the progression of the disease
and prevents complications. Avandia has now been used
Other disease prevention work by more than seven million people worldwide. For our
Other areas of our work that contribute to better disease response to questions about Avandia see page 60.
prevention include:
• Improving quality of life – many of our medicines such
as those for asthma and diabetes help patients with chronic
• S moking cessation – smoking is a major public health
diseases live full and productive lives. GSK preventative
problem, contributing to around five million premature
treatments for asthma such as Seretide/Advair control the
deaths every year. Our nicotine replacement brands
symptoms of asthma and prevent asthma attacks
(including NiQuitin CQ/NicoDerm, Commit lozenge and
Nicorette) have helped more than 6.3 million people stop • C uring infection – we produce antibiotics that treat
smoking since 1996. respiratory tract and other infections. We donate antibiotics
to help relief efforts in disaster areas
• C ommunity investment – we are participating in the
Global Alliance to Eliminate Lyphamtic Filariasis, a leading
cause of disability in tropical countries. Our PHASE
hand-washing programme helps to prevent the spread
The cost of diseasex
of diarrhoea-related disease in children in developing
countries. See page 112
Ill health is expensive for the individual and for
• O besity – obesity is a major cause of ill health and diseases society. Ill health is often a result of poverty
such as diabetes. alli is our over-the-counter weight-loss but it is also an important cause of poverty. For
treatment, see page 67.
patients it can mean loss of quality of life, loss of
earnings and shortened life expectancy. It can
place a great burden on families – for instance
the need to care for sick relatives can reduce
Treating ill healthx
attendance at school or work. For governments,
employers and tax payers it can mean increased
Our key products target serious diseases in seven main areas:
healthcare costs and loss of workforce
• A nti-bacterials (antibiotics) and anti-malarials: infections, productivity.
malaria In Africa and parts of Asia, AIDS has had
a serious effect on human and economic
• A nti-virals: HIV/AIDS, herpes and hepatitis B
development, undermining progress towards
• C ardiovascular and urogenital: heart failure, hypertension, the Millennium Development Goals and poverty
deep vein thrombosis, reduction efforts. The World Bank estimates
• C entral nervous system: migraine, epilepsy, depression and that the deaths of working age adults from HIV/
Parkinson’s disease AIDS may subtract one per cent a year from GDP
economic growth in some sub-Saharan African
• M etabolic: diabetes and osteoporosis
countries. In South Africa HIV/AIDS may depress
• O ncology: breast, cervical, lung and ovarian cancer, GDP by as much as 7 per cent over the next
non-Hodgkins lymphoma, leukaemia decade. Malaria is estimated to cost African
• R espiratory: asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary nations about $2 billion a year in lost economic
disease, rhinitis output.
According to the US government’s Centers for
We also make vaccines which prevent serious diseases, see
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) the costs
page xx.
of chronic disease in the US alone include7:
Our products help to improve health in a number of ways: • $2 billion a year in direct and indirect
costs due to diabetes
• P rolonging life – our anti-retrovirals (ARVs) such as
• $22 billion in annual medical care costs for
Combivir help patients to control the effects of HIV
arthritis and total costs (medical care and
infection for many years. We sell our ARVs to the Least
lost productivity) of almost $2 billion
Developed Countries and to countries in sub-Saharan Africa
at not-for-profit prices. See Access to medicines, page 40 • $2 billion in lost productivity due to
cardiovascular disease
• P reventing complications – many diseases such as
diabetes are progressive – if patients do not receive the Vaccines and medicines have direct and indirect
right treatment they can suffer severe complications. For socio-economic values. They help to prevent
example, every day in the US diabetes is the cause of an
estimated 225 lower limb amputations, up to 66 cases of
blindness, and 117 people experiencing kidney failure. Continued on page 27
2 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Approvals were also received for a number of significant new
death, disease and disability, and improve
indications and formulations for marketed products including:
quality of life for patients. They can reduce the
burden on healthcare systems by preventing • A rixtra – for the treatment of unstable angina and
disease and helping patients to control their myocardial infarcts (acute coronary syndrome)
symptoms and make fewer visits to hospital.
• R equip modutab – once-daily controlled release
They can also contribute to better economic formulation for Parkinson’s disease
prosperity by enabling people with chronic
• S eretide TORCH – for use in a broader population of
diseases to work, reducing absence and patients with the lung disease COPD
increasing productivity.
Over 15 first submissions for new products and product line
extensions were made in 2007. Notable first submissions
included:
3P rogress in Global Measles Control and Mortality Reduction,
2000-2006 can be found at www.who.int/wer/2007/en
• P romacta – for the treatment of short-term idiopathic
4P arashar UD, et al – Global illness and deaths caused by rotavirus thrombocytopenia purpura
disease in children. Emerg Infect Dis 2003; 9:565-72
• V olibris – for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension
5S ee WHO www.who.int/trade/glossary/story051/en/index.html.
Accessed at November 2007. • O ral Hycamtin – for second-line treatment of small cell
6S ee www.millenniumpromise.org/site/PageServer?pagename=mala lung cancer
ria_poverty. Accessed at November 2007
• L amictal – oral disintegrating tablets for the treatment of
7S ee CDC, ‘Chronic Disease Overview: Costs of Disease’ available at
epilepsy and bipolar disorder
www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/overview.htm.
Accessed at November 2007 • F lu pandemic and flu pre-pandemic, both prophylactic
vaccines for the prevention of pandemic influenza
• K inrix – a paediatric booster vaccine
Investing in R&Dx
• S ynflorix – a vaccine for the prevention of childhood
infections such as bacterial meningitis, otitis media and
Despite advances in healthcare there are still many diseases pneumonia
for which there is no cure or for which treatments could be
improved. Continued research and innovation is essential. Of course, R&D is an inherently risky venture. Only one in ten
Our investment in R&D into new medicines and vaccines is molecules that start human clinical trials ever reaches regulatory
at the core of our business. approval. Late stage projects terminated during 2007 included
Ariflo for COPD and odiparcil for stroke prevention in atrial
Research and development at GSK fibrilation.
The total R&D spend for GSK in 2007 was £3.3 billion.
£2.8 billion was invested in pharmaceutical R&D with the Late stage pipeline continues to grow
remainder funding vaccine and Consumer Healthcare R&D. In 2007, five products moved into the Medicines Development
Centres from Drug Discovery. All these products have
We have over 150 prescription medicines and vaccines in completed clinical proof of concept studies by this stage;
clinical development (see our Annual report. Our pipeline solabegron for irritable bowel syndrome, totrombopag for
includes research into many diseases including many forms of thrombocytopaenia, darotropium (233705) for chronic
cancer, infections, respiratory diseases, autoimmune disorders, obstructive pulmonary disease, 742457 for dementia and
metabolic and cardiovascular disease, psychiatric disorders and 773812 for schizophrenia. Five further products were in-
neurological diseases. licensed to late-stage development; 1838262 (XP13512) for
restless leg syndrome, otelixizumab (TRX4) for type 1 diabetes,
Product approvals and submissions
elesclomol (STA-4783) for metastatic melanoma, 1363089
New products approved for the first time in 2007 were:
(XL880) for cancer and Lunivia for insomnia.
• A ltabax – topical treatment of bacterial skin infections
Expanding our research capabilities
including impetigo. Altabax represents the first new class
We have created two new research Centres of Excellence
of prescription topical anti-bacterials to be approved by the
for Drug Discovery (CEDD) to focus on areas where there are
FDA in nearly two decades.
emerging scientific opportunities. The Infectious Diseases
• C ervarix – our vaccine to help the prevention of cervical CEDD will help us to build on our long tradition of providing
cancer anti-virals and anti-bacterials. The Immuno-inflammation CEDD
• D aronrix – a flu vaccine for use once a pandemic has will research disease pathways that are common to a number
been declared of auto-immune diseases and may be important in various
other diseases.
• T ykerb – oral treatment for refractory breast cancer
• V eramyst – nasal spray for the treatment of allergic rhinitis
in adults and children
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 27CONTRIBUTION TO GLOBAL HEALTH
We opened a new R&D facility in China which will focus on R&D drug-related side effects. See Research practices for more
into neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson’s disease, information.
multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer’s disease. See page 61.
Academic collaborations
We invest in technology with the potential to extend our We invest in research capabilities at universities, fund leading
research into new areas. For example, in 2007 we acquired a edge academic research projects and support science students.
biopharmaceutical company called Domantis, which is helping We have more academic collaborations than any other UK-
us build the next generation of antibodies called domain based company with support totalling £16 million in 2007.
antibodies. We also acquired Praecis, a small company of
dedicated experts skilled in expanding chemical libraries to Our support benefits the academic institutions through
boost our compound collection. increased funding, technology transfer and access to our
research facilities and expertise. It contributes to better
scientific understanding and a stronger science base in the
countries where we operate. It also benefits GSK by enabling
us to tap into R&D expertise and activity outside the company
Contributing to scientific
and expands our potential recruitment pool through better
understanding
trained scientists.
We fund basic medical research conducted outside GSK to Our support in 2007 included:
increase understanding of the human body and the impact
• A lliances with discovery units at leading universities to help
of disease. This is often the foundation for future advances accelerate drug discovery. For example, we have invested
in the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of disease. Often over £10 million to support research at 14 leading UK
this research is conducted in partnership and uses very new universities
technologies. Recent examples include:
• A partnership with the Wellcome Trust to train clinicians in
Investing in new imaging technology translational medicine (translating basic medical research
findings into treatment advances)
We have invested £46 million in a new Clinical Imaging Centre
(CIC) at Imperial College, London. Modern imaging technology • A collaboration with the UK Engineering and Physical
provides a ‘window’ to study in fine detail disease processes. Sciences Research Council to help researchers acquire
Researchers use the CIC to develop new medicines across advanced chemistry techniques
a broad range of diseases including cancer, cardiovascular
• F inancial support for 300 undergraduate, PhD and post
disease, and psychiatric and neurological disorders. The CIC
doctoral students in the UK
has been established in partnership with the UK government,
Imperial College and the UK Medical Research Council. We will • T raining in GSK laboratories for undergraduates
invest an additional £11 million in the centre every year for the
We also support research in middle-income countries. For
next ten years.
example, the INDOX Cancer Trials Network is a collaboration
between the University of Oxford and India’s top six cancer
Structural Genomics Consortium
centres, supported by an educational grant from GSK. By 2020,
We are a sponsor of the Structural Genomics Consortium
70 per cent of all cancer cases will be in middle-income and
(SGC) – an international public-private partnership established
developing countries and a quarter of these will be in India.
to determine and make freely available the structures of
The collaboration aims to recruit and retain the highest calibre
proteins relevant to human disease. Through the SGC,
medical graduates into oncology research through funding
165 scientists at universities in Oxford, Toronto and Stockholm
research and providing educational opportunities.
have placed more than 500 structures of proteins into the
publicly accessible World Wide Protein Data Bank. This includes The intellectual property rights relating to academic
proteins associated with diabetes, cancer and infectious collaborations are typically held by GSK but our partner
diseases such as malaria. institutions are free to use the outcome of the collaboration
for their own future research. The university also receives a
Stem Cells for Safer Medicines percentage of any financial returns derived from the new
GSK is participating in the Stem Cells for Safer Medicines intellectual property.
public-private collaboration with the UK government and
other pharmaceutical companies. The consortium is
researching the potential for using human stem cells to
evaluate the effect of a potential new medicine in the body The futurex
and accurately predict its safety. This project has the potential
to help scientists determine the safety of new medicines earlier R&D productivity is a major strategic focus for GSK. We
in the research process and reduce the need for animal testing. anticipate a renewed focus in a number of areas, including
oncology (cancer) and vaccines. We have committed to deriving
Serious Adverse Events Consortium (SAEC) 20 per cent of our pipeline from biopharmaceuticals (large
We are members of the newly launched SAEC, an international molecules produced in cells) by 2015 and will continue to focus
partnership of leading pharmaceutical companies, the FDA, on neurosciences, which will become increasingly important as
and academic institutions addressing patient safety and the population ages.
2 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Helping to manage chronic diseases
in the US
Healthcare costs in the US are a concern • Help for participants to set and achieve
for patients, healthcare payers and the nutrition, exercise and weight loss goals
pharmaceutical industry alike. The increase in through printed materials and meetings
prevalence of many chronic diseases such as with pharmacist coaches
asthma, diabetes and heart disease is a major The programme is based on the APhA
contributory factor. Foundation’s Asheville Project, which helped
We are working with governments and reduce healthcare costs for participating
employers to find new ways to address the employees by over  per cent and cut
problem of chronic diseases while reducing absenteeism by 0 per cent on average.
healthcare costs. Our approach, known as the Findings and resources are being shared with
‘triple solution’, has three focus areas: other employers outside the ten cities through
• Prevention – addressing the causes of chronic a dedicated website.
diseases, such as obesity and smoking Working with employers
• Intervention – properly managing chronic In the US, healthcare is a major source of
diseases to prevent complications, avoid expenditure for employers. Absence from
hospitalisation costs and reduce time away work due to ill health can also be a significant
from work cost. We are working closely with many large
• Innovation – developing new treatments employers across the US to help them create
for costly unmet medical needs such as health management programmes that remove
Alzheimer’s disease and stroke (see page x) barriers to healthcare access, reduce healthcare
costs and improve health.
Our current programmes include:
The Diabetes Ten City Challenge Our team has worked with more than
Each day in the US, diabetes causes an 200 employers to:
estimated 22 lower limb amputations and up • Identify diseases that put the greatest
to  people to lose their sight. However with burden on healthcare budgets
the right treatment these complications can be • Encourage employers to provide preventive
prevented. services to workers. For example regular
The Diabetes Ten City Challenge, supported by health screening to detect early signs of
GSK, is a partnership of city governments and disease awareness campaigns and initiatives
private employers in ten cities, the American to help employees adopt a healthy lifestyle
Pharmacist Association (APhA) Foundation, and such as ‘quit smoking’ clinics and gym
pharmacists. It helps employees with diabetes membership
manage their condition through nutrition and • Develop disease management programmes
medication and by adopting a healthy lifestyle. which help employees control their
It aims to prevent serious side-effects and symptoms and stick to their treatment
reduce associated healthcare costs. regimens
Key features include: We may advise employers to create new
• Lower co-pays (the portion of prescription incentives for better health management;
costs paid for by the patient) this makes for example, reducing the co-pay element
medicines more affordable and makes it of prescription medicine charges. This can
more likely that patients will adhere to their increase the total amount employers pay for
prescribed treatment regimen pharmaceuticals in the short term. However,
• Regular meetings between patients and by improving patient medication adherence
pharmacists to discuss symptoms and rates, it can prevent costly complications and
identify any potential complications as early time away from work in the longer term – and
as possible help to lower overall healthcare costs.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 2CONTRIBUTION TO GLOBAL HEALTH
How do you measure R&D productivity?
The ultimate measure of our productivity is the delivery
of new medicines to meet patients’ needs. In 2007,
GSK launched five products based on new chemical
or biological entities and a number of product line
extensions that benefit patients. However, given that
research and development can take longer than ten
years, we measure productivity in a number of ways
during the R&D process, including:
• The number of compounds in our pipeline, and the
emerging risks and benefits of these compounds
• Our success at progressing compounds in our pipeline
through clinical trial Phases I, II and III and to market
registration
• The speed of progress through our pipeline, which is
What factors do you consider when prioritising
your R&D efforts? an indication of the efficiency of our R&D processes.
There are three main interrelated factors – science, Is it true that research productivity is falling in
patient need and commercial potential. large pharmaceutical companies? How is GSK
We assess scientific opportunities to determine how managing this?
advances in scientific and disease understanding may Investment in pharmaceutical R&D has risen while the
lead to innovative new ways to treat or prevent disease. number of new medicines gaining regulatory approval
We continually evaluate the scientific information we has remained relatively constant or decreased. We believe
obtain on our compounds to help us predict whether there are many reasons for this including:
they can be developed into effective and well tolerated • An increasing focus on R&D into chronic degenerative
medicines. diseases such as Alzheimer’s which are scientifically
Assessing patient need is fundamental to R&D at GSK. It challenging, require longer clinical trials and have
ranges from looking for medicines that will treat diseases increased failure rates
for which there are no current effective treatments, to
• Significant investment by industry in new technologies
the development of medicines that improve on existing
which will help deliver innovative medicines in the
treatments in terms of safety, efficacy or ease of use.
longer term, for example systems biology tools,
Our assessment of the commercial potential of possible genome wide association scans, new in vitro and in
new treatments includes: how our product would be vivo models and sophisticated imaging equipment
differentiated from those of our competitors; the size
• More extensive requirements from regulators and
of the potential market for any new treatment; and the
healthcare payers including the need to conduct
range of conditions it may be suitable for treating.
larger clinical studies to evaluate the long term
The better able we are to meet patient needs, the more outcome of treatment with a medicine
likely it is that a product will be commercially successful.
Our approach is to focus on meeting patients’ needs
However, it is not always possible to achieve a return on
and increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of
investment, for example when developing treatments
R&D. For example, we have established a number
for diseases that are prevalent in the developing world.
of Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery (CEDDs)
In some cases, where commercial potential is limited but
and Medicine Development Centres each focused
patient need is high, we may seek ways to share the costs
on discovering innovative medicines for a particular
and risks associated with drug development,
therapeutic area. These organisations combine the
see Access to medicines.
entrepreneurial approach of a small company with the
Are you researching drugs into serious diseases?
resources and reach of a larger organisation. In 2007
Yes. Our pipeline and product range includes products
we established two new CEDDs to focus our work in
against most of the major causes of mortality and
immuno-inflammation and infectious diseases. We take
morbidity (disease).
advantage of scientific excellence and talents outside
Our product launches in 2007 included Tykerb our new
GSK through scientific partnerships and collaborations,
breast cancer treatment, and Cervarix our cervical cancer
such as through the Centre of Excellence for External
vaccine. Our top-selling products in 2007 were designed
Drug Discovery (CEEDD).
to treat asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, epilepsy and bipolar disorder, diabetes, herpes
and migraine. Our vaccines portfolio which includes
vaccines to prevent influenza, hepatitis, rotavirus and
many childhood illnesses such as measles and rubella, is
also growing very strongly.
0 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Linksx
In this report:
• Access to medicines
• Research practices
• Community investment
On our website
• Our products
• Our pipeline
• Our annual report and accounts
Other resources
• Centers for Disease Control and Prevention www.cdc.gov
• Diabetes Ten City Challenge www.aphafoundation.
org/Programs/Diabetes_Ten_City_Challenge/
• GAVI www.gavialliance.org
• World Health Organization www.WHO.int
• UNICEF www.unicef.org/
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ACCESS TO MEDICINES
Access to Increasing access to medicines is important to our business for
ethical, reputational and commercial reasons:
• Helping to increase access to lifesaving medicines is morally
medicines
the right thing to do and is valued by our shareholders,
employees and other stakeholders. Playing our part in the
global response to improving healthcare in the developing
world is aligned to our corporate mission and contributes to
Access to healthcare is one of the world’s our reputation and our ability to attract and retain talented
most pressing social challenges. Countries face employees
differing problems and priorities depending on • As a pharmaceuticals and healthcare company, our
business is not sustainable if we are only concerned with
their economic development. Every year millions
the 20 per cent of the world’s population who currently
of people in Africa die from curable infectious
have access to our medicines. Companies that adapt their
diseases such as malaria and TB because they business practices to address such challenges will be the
leaders of the future
do not have access to basic healthcare services,
including essential medicines. Yet this problem • Other aspects of business sustainability are also affected.
Lack of access to medicines has been blamed by some
is not confined to the developing world. In the
on intellectual property rights. By finding innovative
US, many people suffer unnecessary ill health approaches we can increase availability and affordability
because they do not have healthcare insurance. for patients while maintaining support for the intellectual
property system. Intellectual property rights are essential
to the pharmaceutical industry because they create the
incentives for investment in R&D for new medicines and
Headlinesx vaccines
We believe GSK is making an innovative, responsible
• Conducted R&D into 0 diseases of particular
and, above all, sustainable contribution. However, some
relevance to the developing world
stakeholders believe that the pharmaceutical industry is not
• Successful results reported from Phase II clinical
doing enough to help increase access to medicines. While we
trials of our candidate malaria vaccine for
may not always agree with these stakeholders, we do take their
African children
concerns seriously and consider their views and feedback when
• Approvals granted in the EU for new scored reviewing our access policies.
ARV tablets for treating HIV/AIDS in children
• Committed to donate 0 million doses of pre- During 2007 we held a series of stakeholder workshops to
pandemic HN influenza vaccine to the World help us better understand external views of our approach and
Health Organization’s planned stockpile facility identify areas of concern. Coming out of this dialogue was a
desire from stakeholders to have a better understanding of our
• 2 million ARV tablets supplied to developing
approach to middle-income countries such as Brazil, China,
countries including  million tablets supplied
Thailand and Indonesia and so this is covered in this report.
by generic manufacturers licensed by GSK
A summary of the findings is available in the Stakeholder
• Not-for-profit prices for ARVs reduced in
engagement section, see page 11. We have also had open
February 200 discussions with Oxfam in the development of their report on
• . billion vaccine doses shipped, of which the industry. A commentary on their report is on page 44.
7 per cent went to the developing world
• Explored new approaches to increase access This section explains our approach in two areas:
in middle-income countries
• D eveloping countries – research and development of new
vaccines and medicines for diseases that disproportionately
affect the developing world, preferential pricing, voluntary
licencing and exploring new business models, especially in
We support efforts to improve access to medicines around the
middle-income countries.
world, in both developing and developed countries. In each we
look for innovative solutions to their healthcare challenges and • D eveloped countries – pricing or discount arrangements,
use our influence to press for wider change. such as our Patient Assistance Programs and discount cards
to help uninsured patients in the US and our Orange Card
We believe that governments have the primary responsibility in Bulgaria and Lithuania.
for delivering healthcare, supported by intergovernmental
agencies and non-governmental organisations (NGOs). Through our Global Community Partnership activities we
However, our industry can and should play a significant role. also support under-served communities worldwide through
Indeed access to medicines is one of GSK’s strategic business funding, education, practical support and donations. See the
drivers (see CR at GSK, page 8). Community investment section of this report, page 112.
2 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Access to healthcare in the developing
world – whose responsibility?
Improving access to healthcare in developing Advocacy for access to medicines and vaccines
countries remains a complex challenge. We advocate for a pro-innovation environment
We believe that only a holistic approach and a sustainable approach to improving
embracing prevention and treatment will work. healthcare in the developing world. See more
All stakeholders have a role to play: about our approach in the background section
Pharmaceutical companies must seek to make of our website. www.gsk.com/responsibility/
their medicines as affordable as possible to index.htm
the world’s poorest countries in a sustainable In 2007 this included:
manner and invest in research into diseases of
• Urging the G to continue making healthcare
the developing world – new prevention tools
in the developing world a major agenda item
and treatments are urgently needed
• Supporting the development of a pilot
Wealthy nations must give more. New funding
Advance Market Commitment for a
is coming through from the Global Fund to
pneumococcal vaccine
Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria, the Bill & Melinda
• Working with the UK government on global
Gates Foundation, PEPFAR (The US President’s
health issues and in the development of the
Emergency Plan for Aids Relief), UNITAID
Department for International Development’s
and others – but funds are still inadequate.
(DFID’s) AIDS strategy and its Medicines
Resources are needed to fund research,
Transparency Alliance (MeTA)
strengthen health systems, purchase medicines,
support disease prevention and to discourage • Providing evidence to the EU Parliament’s
the migration of trained healthcare workers Committee on International Trade to
from developing countries. encourage ratification of the WTO
compulsory licensing for export protocol
Developing countries themselves must show
genuine political commitment to prioritising • Participating in the design of the OECD High
healthcare in national budgets, addressing Level Forum on neglected diseases
stigma and improving affordability by removing • Discussing IP and innovation with NGOs and
import tariffs on medicines. other stakeholders
As part of this approach, middle-income • Presenting to the WHO’s Global Partners
countries must accept their responsibilities and Meeting on Neglected Tropical Diseases
not seek the lowest prices offered to the world’s • Contributing to the design of an Affordable
poorest countries. Medicines Facility for Malaria (AMFm)
All countries should provide an environment • Calling for a global pandemic flu
that encourages innovation through support preparedness plan
for intellectual property (IP) rights, and should
• Addressing HIV/AIDS in the EU and
avoid measures such as widespread compulsory
neighbouring countries
licensing, which may negatively impact on
investment in R&D and innovation. They should
also address the risk of product diversion from More information on lobbying and advocacy
patients in poor countries to those in wealthier is included in the Public policy section of this
ones. report (page ).
Developing countriesx The WHO recommends a minimum spend on health of £17 per
person per year to provide the most basic health services. Yet
Poverty is the underlying cause of the healthcare crisis in many the average spend in sub-Saharan Africa is just £51. The African
parts of the developing world. It is a cause of ill-health which Region of the WHO suffers more than 24 per cent of the global
in turn causes poverty creating a downward spiral. It means burden of disease, but has only 3 per cent of the world’s health
that in the world’s poorest countries, millions of people do workers. The AIDS pandemic is depriving communities of their
not have access to reliable food and clean water, never mind greatest asset – healthy and productive people.
adequate healthcare. Despite unprecedented resources being
made available for public health, many governments are unable 1( Source: Department for International Development (DFID),
to fund the clinics, staff and medicines needed to deliver basic IHP launch press release http://www.dfid.gov.uk/news/files/
healthcare. pressreleases/ihp.asp)
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ACCESS TO MEDICINES
Tackling this crisis is a complex challenge, requiring visionary Our approachx
leadership. Significant political will and extra resources are
needed to aid development and build healthcare infrastructure.
Research and development
Disease management programmes need to be well coordinated
There are no effective treatments for a number of diseases
to ensure that health systems as a whole benefit.
affecting developing countries. In other cases, treatments
exist but have become less effective due to drug resistance.
We can make an important contribution by:
Sometimes treatments are not suitable, for example, because
they are difficult to administer in areas with poor healthcare
• Researching new treatments and vaccines for diseases
infrastructure or they are too expensive.
affecting developing countries
• Improving affordability by reducing the price of key We aim to make a major contribution to health in developing
medicines through preferential pricing arrangements and countries by researching and developing affordable new
granting voluntary licences to generic companies, where vaccines and treatments for infectious diseases.
appropriate
We believe GSK is currently the only company researching new
vaccines and treatments for all three of the WHO’s priority
infectious diseases, malaria, TB and HIV/AIDS.
GSK has created a dedicated group in our Pharmaceuticals
R&D organisation to focus on diseases of the developing world
Diseases disproportionately affecting
(DDW). This includes a drug discovery centre at our Tres Cantos
developing countries
R&D site in Spain where over 100 scientists focusing primarily
on malaria and TB are based. A similar group exists in our
• Malaria kills over a million people a year,
vaccines organisation based in Belgium.
mostly children under five years old
• Around two billion people worldwide are Usually we cannot expect to make a profit from new treatments
infected with TB and over . million people designed specifically for the world’s poorest countries because
there is no viable market. To ensure that our activities are
die from the disease each year. No new
commercially sustainable we work in partnership with public
treatments for TB have been developed in
bodies and foundations which help to fund the research and
the last 0 years
often subsidise the eventual cost of medicines. In return GSK
• UNAIDS estimates that HIV/AIDS-related agrees to make the resulting products as affordable as possible
illnesses killed 2. million people in 2007 for the world’s poorest. This way of working is known as a
and that over  million people worldwide public-private partnership, see page 36.
are living with HIV
What’s different about R&D for
• Worldwide a woman dies of cervical cancer
every two minutes;  per cent of these are medicines for the developing world?
in the developing world
GSK scientists working on treatment projects
for diseases of the developing world (DDW)
make access to medicines a priority right from
the start of the R&D process.
When researching a new DDW treatment we
emphasise factors such as:
• Heat and humidity resistance – the product
must be able to survive in a hot climate where
there may not be refrigeration facilities
• Ease of use – it must be easy to use in settings
where there are limited healthcare facilities.
For example, once-a-day tablets that can be
taken at home are preferable to an injectable
medicine that must be administered in a
hospital or clinic
• Affordability – price is one of the most
important factors. We look for molecules
and formulations that are straightforward
to manufacture and therefore inexpensive
to produce
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Development pipeline for diseases that disproportionately affect the developing world February 2008*
Focus Pre-clinical activity Phase I Phase II Phase III/filed Marketed
HIV Integrase inhibitor Retrovir, Epivir,
3 Combivir, Ziagen,
Trizivir, Agenerase, Kivexa,
Telzir
Vaccines Chlamydia HIV TB Synflorix Rotarix – (rotavirus)
Malaria (P. vivax) HIV (DNA-antiviral Malaria (P. falciparum) (pneumococcus disease) Havrix – (Hepatitis A)
HIV vaccine) Hepatitis E (filed Jan 2007) Engerix-B – (Hepatitis B)
3 Dengue Fever N.meningitis Twinrix – (Hep A&B)
combinations Infanrix/Tritanrix – DPT
family (Diphtheria, Tetanus,
Pertussis)
Boostrix – (DTP acellular)
Polio Sabin – (Polio)
Priorix – (Measles, Mumps
and Rubella)
Typherix – (Typhoid)
Hiberix – (Haemophilus
influenzae type b)
Mencevax ACW –
(meningitis)
Cervarix (Cervical cancer)
Malaria 369796 isoquine tafenoquine Halfan,
932121 pyridone Malarone
3
TB Mycobacterial Gyrase
Inhibitors
3
Other 3 sitamaquine Zentel (de-worming
(visceral leishmaniasis) agent)
Pentostam (visceral
leishmaniasis)
Banocide (lymphatic
filariasis)
* more detailed information on our product pipeline can be found in
the Annual Report
Product registration
Rapid product registration is important to ensure new both anti-retrovirals (ARVs) to treat HIV/AIDS and anti-malarial
medicines reach patients as quickly as possible. We use treatments in our portfolio. We are committed to increasing
mechanisms such as the European Medicines Agency (EMEA), access by providing these medicines to the Least Developed
Article 58, to help speed up product registration in developing Countries and sub-Saharan Africa at not-for-profit prices.
countries.
We negotiate preferential prices for our HIV/AIDS medicines
There have been concerns that pharmaceutical companies are with middle-income countries on a case-by-case basis, see
not doing enough to register essential medicines in developing page 41.
countries and that this prevents these countries from taking
advantage of preferential pricing offers. We regularly review In addition, we have a well-established tiered pricing model
the registration status of our key anti-retrovirals (ARVs) to for our vaccines, see page 41.
prioritise registration based on the needs for ARVs. This helps
to help make Epivir, Retrovir, Combivir and Ziagen available as Preventing product diversion
widely as necessary and possible. Product diversion, where not-for-profit medicines are illegally
shipped back for sale in wealthier countries, denies treatment
Preferential pricing to patients in poorer countries. Our anti-diversion measures
Pricing is one of many issues which can impact on access to include specially designed access packs for most of our ARVs
medicines and vaccines in developing countries, see page 40. and red rather than white tablets for Epivir and Combivir.
In many developing countries the healthcare crisis is made
worse by the burden of HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria. GSK has
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ACCESS TO MEDICINES
Voluntary licensing
Voluntary licences (VLs) enable local manufacturers to produce In all cases where we consider VLs, we need to be sure that the
and sell generic versions of our products. We do not believe manufacturer can provide a long-term supply of good quality
that VLs are a universal solution to tackling HIV/AIDS or disease medicines and will implement safeguards to prevent
in general. However, they do have a role to play in efforts to the diversion of medicines to wealthier markets.
tackle the HIV/AIDS epidemic in sub-Saharan Africa by helping
to increase the availability of medicines and contribute to better Community investment
security of supply. Many of our community investment programmes support
healthcare in developing countries. See page 112.
A decision to grant a VL depends on a number of factors
including, in the case of HIV/AIDS, the severity of the epidemic
in that country, local healthcare provision and the economic
and manufacturing environment. As noted on page 39 we have
also granted a VL to Simcere, a Chinese manufacturer, granting
them the right to manufacture and sell zanamivir (Relenza)
containing products in China, and to sell in a number of other
countries including all 50 of the Least Developed Countries.
Zanamivir is an antiviral which can help treat influenza and the
VL was driven by a specific concern to help ensure sufficient
supplies in the event of a global flu pandemic.
What is a public-private
partnership (PPP)?x
In a PPP, companies such as GSK provide How does a partnership work in practice?
the R&D, technology, manufacturing and PPPs can work in many different ways. For
distribution expertise. Academic institutions example some of our partnerships are centred
may also provide research and disease around our dedicated diseases of the developing
area knowledge. Public sector partners, world discovery centre at Tres Cantos and
governments, or organisations such as the our global vaccines business headquartered
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, help fund in Belgium. GSK provides the facilities for
the development and delivery costs and ensure medicinal drug discovery and meets all the
that medicines get to the people who need running costs. Of the 00 scientists at Tres
them. Funds are usually channelled through Cantos, half are subsidised by our partner
organisations such as the Medicines for Malaria organisations – MMV and the Global Alliance
Venture (MMV) which also help to coordinate for TB Drug Development (TB Alliance).
global R&D activity. As compounds move into clinical development,
Why are PPPs needed? GSK provides the clinical, regulatory and
GSK must remain profitable to sustain our manufacturing expertise and resources through
business and to provide funds to enable us our global R&D and supply network. Partners
to continue to develop new medicines and help fund the cost of running clinical trials
vaccines. However, there is often limited and address issues of access and distribution.
prospect of a commercial return on R&D into This reduces the costs of development and
diseases of the developing world. PPPs enable gets new products to patients faster. Research
R&D into these diseases by making this work programmes are overseen by joint steering
commercially viable, by sharing the risk and committees with representatives from GSK
costs involved, thereby enabling all partners to and our partners.
do more than each could do on their own. Does this affect the price of new treatments?
Under the terms of our agreements, all new
treatments resulting from PPPs are made
accessible to disease endemic countries at
affordable prices.
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Not-for-profit prices for
medicines – key facts
• GSK has offered sustainable preferential • Combivir, our leading combination ARV is
pricing for our anti-retrovirals since 7 available at $0. a day
• Not-for-profit (nfp) prices apply to GSK’s • Our nfp prices are sustainable – we do not
anti-retrovirals and malaria treatments make a profit on them, but we do cover our
• Nfp prices are available to all the Least costs. This means that we can sustain supply
Developed Countries and sub-Saharan Africa of these high-quality products for as long as
– a total of  countries. Including PEPFAR they are needed
countries and eligible Global Fund projects, • Our nfp prices include insurance and freight
this comes to over 0 countries costs, unlike the prices quoted by most
• Eligible customers include public sector generic companies. They are applicable to
customers and nfp organisations as well orders of any size and are not dependent on
as private employers in sub-Saharan Africa large order quantities
providing treatment to uninsured staff
Our performancex
Research and development Malaria treatment projects include:
We are currently conducting R&D into 10 diseases of particular
• T afenoquine, a potential new treatment for the radical
relevance to the developing world: bacterial meningitis,
cure of P. vivax malaria being developed in partnership with
chlamydia, dengue fever, hepatitis E, HIV/AIDS, leishmaniasis,
MMV and the US Walter Reed Army Institute of Research
malaria, pandemic flu, pneumococcal disease and TB.
• P yridones, a new class of compounds with the potential to
In January 2008, we announced a new collaboration with the be highly effective against drug-sensitive and dug-resistant
Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV) to identify novel drugs strains of both P. falciparum and P. vivax malaria. Pyridone
for the treatment of malaria. Research will focus on macrolide GSK932121 is being developed in partnership with MMV.
antibiotics, based on azithromycin, which may have promise as It is expected to enter ‘First Time in Human’ clinical trials in
an anti-malarial treatment. Under the new agreement, MMV October 2008. A back-up programme included in the GSK/
will provide funding for research to be performed at GSK. MMV agreement is now well advanced and a candidate for
development is expected by late 2008
Macrolide antibiotics are a well-established class of
• N ovel antimalarial macrolides, are effective against P.
antimicrobial agents that have a significant role in the
falciparum and multi-drug resistant (MDR) strains. This
treatment of infectious diseases. The macrolide azithromycin is
project is being developed by a joint team at GSK Zagreb
known to have antibacterial activity, but it has also shown some
and Tres Cantos. An agreement with MMV was announced
activity against malaria. The research collaboration between
in January 2008 to include this project in the GSK/MMV
GSK and MMV will investigate the potential of azithromycin-
agreement
based drugs to treat drug resistant malaria.
• O ngoing work on falcipain inhibitors, compounds which
Examples of R&D projects underway include: prevent the malaria parasite from developing
Malaria
In February 2008, GSK and MMV received data from two
Our candidate malaria vaccine for children is currently in Phase
Phase III clinical trials assessing use of the artemisinin-based
II clinical trials. We have been working on this vaccine for over
combination therapy Dacart we were developing together.
20 years and have invested more than $300 million to date. In
One trial was primarily designed to establish the efficacy of
October the medical journal, the Lancet published results of a
Dacart versus Coartem™, currently the first-line anti-malarial
study in infants, the most vulnerable age group for malaria in
therapy in many endemic countries. The second trial was
Africa. The study results demonstrated for the first time that
African infants exposed to malaria transmission (P. falciparum) designed to establish the efficacy of Dacart versus Lapdap
can be protected by a vaccine. Our candidate malaria vaccine (chlorproguanil and dapsone), another anti-malarial product
showed 65 per cent efficacy against infection for three months GSK had developed in a partnership including the World Health
following the third and final dose, and 35 per cent efficacy Organization (WHO) and the UK’s Department for International
against clinical disease when measured over a six-month period Development.
following the first dose. These landmark results substantially
advance the vision of a vaccine capable of protecting young
African children against malaria. A pivotal Phase III trial is
planned, which if successful could result in submission to
regulatory authorities in 2011.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 7ACCESS TO MEDICINES
A key safety finding from these trials was that patients with HIV/AIDS:
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency were We have been involved in AIDS vaccine research for over
found to be more at risk of anaemia after taking either Dacart two decades. We are now pursuing four separate vaccine
or Lapdap. Consequently, given the haematological profile of technologies. A successful AIDS vaccine might combine several
Dacart, and the fact that 10-25 per cent of the population in of these approaches:
sub-Saharan Africa is G6PD deficient, GSK and MMV decided
to terminate the further development of Dacart. For the same • G ene fusion – the measles vaccine is one of the most
reasons, GSK also decided to withdraw Lapdap from the powerful, providing life-long protection against the disease.
market. We are working with the Pasteur Institute in Paris to
develop an AIDS vaccine by fusing genes from the HIV virus
This disappointment highlights the highly risky and complex onto a measles vaccine
nature of pharmaceutical research and development. However,
• A denovirus vector – a project with the International AIDS
GSK remains committed to working with partners such
Vaccine Initiative
as MMV to seek solutions for patients suffering from this
devastating disease. • F 4co, our own candidate vaccine currently in Phase I clinical
trials
At the time of the announcement Tim Wells, Chief
• A n adjuvanted envelope protein vaccine capable of
Scientific Officer of MMV, said ‘The tough decision to halt
producing neutralising antibodies against HIV infection
the development of Dacart was driven by quality data
demonstrating that the MMV-GSK partnership puts patients
We are working on new HIV medicines in several different
first. We are proud of the professionalism and dedication of
drug classes, including an integrase inhibitor in phase 1, and
the project team, investigators and their teams and grateful
a number of pre-clinical projects. Integrase inhibitors are a
to all the patients who participated in the study.’ clinically proven class of compounds which have been shown to
result in rapid and profound viral suppression. We are currently
Dr Arata Kochi, Director Global Malaria Programme, WHO evaluating several candidates which may have once-daily
commented: ‘GSK has acted with responsibility in taking action dosing potential and better resistance profiles.
to withdraw Lapdap from the market and to discontinue any
further development of medicines based on this compound. In 2007, there were 2.5 million children living with HIV
We therefore commend the display of integrity on the part of worldwide – nearly 90 per cent of them in sub-Saharan Africa.
GSK, an important pharmaceutical collaborator, and its partner We are committed to improving the treatment of children living
organisation MMV, and welcome this spirit of honesty and with HIV/AIDS by developing products designed for use in
transparency as a foundation for future collaboration for the children and developing scored tablets that simplify treatment.
development of products to fight malaria.’
In 2007 we gained approval from the European Commission
Tuberculosis: for new scored tablets for Epivir, Combivir and Ziagen. This
Our tuberculosis medicines research is conducted in partnership will enable children above 14kg weight to benefit from a solid
with the Global Alliance for TB Drug Development (TB Alliance). dosage form.
In January 2008 we announced a renewal, for a further three
years, of our joint research programme with the TB Alliance. Scored tablets enable our ARVs to be broken into two smaller
Speaking at the time of the announcement, Dr. Mel Spigelman, doses which simplifies treatment for children. WHO and
TB Alliance Director of Research and Development, said ‘We are UNICEF have stated that access to a tablet form of ARVs
encouraged by the success of our pioneering work with GSK, could improve treatment options for children able to swallow
which has nearly doubled the number of TB drug discovery tablets. Tablets are often easier to store and distribute, and also
projects in our pipeline. This collaboration is advancing the less complicated to administer than the liquid formulations
TB Alliance’s mission to develop revolutionary, faster and better currently available – particularly when two or three medicines
TB treatment regimens by exploring new ways to attack the are combined in one pill.
disease.’
The new tablets can make treatment easier for children. For
Our lead TB project on mycobacterium gyrase inhibitors expects example, a child weighing 20 kg can now take half a tablet
to select a candidate for development in the first half of 2009. of Combivir in the morning and the second half in the evening
in combination with another ARV, instead of requiring 8 ml of
Other TB partnership projects underway include: Epivir solution twice a day plus 12 ml of Retrovir solution three
times daily.
• Research into biomarkers. Currently, the effectiveness of
a new TB drug cannot be determined until 18-24 months We have also committed to support four paediatric clinical
after completion of treatment. Biomarkers that enable us to studies in resource-poor countries to determine the best ways
predict at an early stage how patients are responding could to expand access to HIV/AIDS treatment.
significantly speed up TB research
• M tb72f, our TB candidate vaccine, being developed with
the Aeras Global TB Vaccine Foundation. Early results are
positive, suggesting that the vaccine is safe and produces
a strong immune reaction. Trials are now planned for TB
endemic regions
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL)
Sitamaquine is our new oral, once-a-day treatment for visceral Additionally, we have granted a voluntary licence to Simcere, a
leishmaniasis (VL) a potentially fatal disease spread by parasites. Chinese manufacturer, granting them the right to manufacture
Data from two Phase II proof-of-concept studies in Kenya and sell zanamivir (Relenza) containing products in China, and
and India are encouraging overall. After a 28-day course, to sell in a number of other countries including all 50 of the
85 per cent of patients remained cured at six months. Least Developed Countries.
Sitamaquine was generally well tolerated by patients in these Developing a comprehensive, effective and sustainable
studies. However, there were some concerns regarding renal solution to global pandemic preparedness requires a genuine
adverse events seen in a few subjects, some of which appear public-private partnership with all countries and organisations
to be treatment-related. working together on a common strategy.
Interpretation of these data is complicated, in particular We are working with the International Federation of
because VL itself is associated with renal impairment. Before Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA),
proceeding to Phase III trials, we set up a Phase IIb study to the WHO, the UN and major governments around the world,
compare the safety and tolerability of a 21 day course of to ensure that a robust pandemic plan is put in place to help
sitamaquine with that of intravenous amphotericin B. developing countries, especially the poorest. We believe this
Early results showed comparable efficacy to previous studies, should include:
despite the shorter course, and sitamaquine was very much • Stockpiling of pre-pandemic H5N1 vaccines by the WHO
better tolerated than amphotericin. A small number of patients for developing countries
had mild, reversible renal side effects.
• Putting in place Advanced Purchase Agreements to
guarantee developing countries have access to pandemic
Pandemic flu
vaccine in the event of a pandemic
If it happens, an influenza pandemic could have a devastating
• Assessing partnership opportunities in developing countries
effect on developing countries, particularly the poorest who
for technical assistance to ensure rapid access to vaccines in
have the least resources and capacity to prepare. GSK has
the event of a pandemic.
invested more than $2bn in developing and expanding vaccine
and antiviral capacity including the production of so-called See case study on page 47.
pre-pandemic vaccines – vaccines which are based on currently
circulating strains and can be produced and stockpiled
Product registration
now, before a pandemic. They should not be confused with
Cervical cancer and rotavirus
pandemic vaccines, which will be matched to the strain
In October 2007 we submitted Cervarix, our cervical cancer
identified at the outset of a pandemic. In February 2008 GSK’s
vaccine, to the WHO for pre-qualification. Products with
pre-pandemic H5N1 vaccine was the first to receive a positive
prequalification status may be used by UN agencies and the
opinion from Europe’s Committee for Medicinal Products for
GAVI Alliance, as well as in mass vaccination programmes
Human Use (CHMP). across the developing world. By submitting Cervarix for
prequalification as early as possible, we are working to
The advantage of pre-pandemic vaccines is that they can be eliminate the historical 15-20 year delay for new vaccines
used as soon as, or before, a pandemic has started whereas to become available in developing countries.
pandemic vaccines will only become available four to six
months after the start of a pandemic due to the production Early in 2007, we received prequalification status for our
lead time from strain identification. It will then take 12 to rotavirus vaccine, Rotarix, from the WHO.
18 months to complete global supply and vaccination – too
late to protect against the first pandemic wave, which is likely We concluded a deal with the Brazilian government institute,
to occur in the first three to six months. Fiocruz, to supply enough Rotarix to protect every baby in
Brazil against rotavirus for the next five years. This includes
We are playing a leading role in global efforts to help the world a technology transfer agreement under which Fiocruz will
prepare for a flu pandemic. For developing countries we have produce Rotarix for the domestic market and manufacture
announced our intention to; Rotarix for GSK under contract for export to other developing
countries. This is similar to existing arrangements in Brazil for
• Donate 50 million doses of pre-pandemic vaccine to the our oral polio vaccine, Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib)
WHO’s planned stockpile facility vaccine and measles, mumps and rubella vaccine.
• Ensure developing countries have access to our vaccines
at tiered prices which reflect their ability to pay (prices are HIV/AIDS
linked to Gross National Income as defined by the World Our access packs for Combivir, Epivir tablets, Epivir solution,
Bank) and Trizivir are now registered in at least 30 countries. This
means that including those countries which do not have formal
• Provide additional doses of our pre-pandemic vaccine to
regulatory approval processes, these products are available for
the WHO at a highly preferential price
sale in over 50 out of our target 64 countries. Our second line
• Sell our adjuvant, which increases the immunoresponse
ARV, Ziagen is formally registered in tablet form in 26 countries
of vaccines, to governments
and as oral solution in 23 of our target 64 countries. Ziagen
• Work with the international community to develop a global access packs are registered in some of these countries and we
preparedness plan are in the process of seeking registration in the others.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ACCESS TO MEDICINES
Preferential pricing
As described in the feature box on page 37, we offer our anti- an increase of three quarters over two years. Overall shipments
retrovirals (ARVs) and anti-malarials at not-for-profit (nfp) prices and patient numbers are still low given the scale of the AIDS
to public sector customers and not-for-profit organisations in epidemic in Africa but the growth is encouraging. Sales of
64 countries - all the Least Developed Countries (LDCs) and all ARVs by our licencees are not included in this analysis.
of sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). In February 2008, we announced
significant new price reductions for our ARVs offered on a Voluntary licensing
nfp basis to these countries. This reduction was the fifth time We granted our first VL in 2001 and have now negotiated eight
we have reduced prices as part of our pioneering preferential licensing agreements for our ARVs in Africa. Some of our VLs
pricing policy originally introduced in 1997. cover individual countries or trade blocs while others cover all
of sub-Saharan Africa.
The most significant reduction, of almost 40 per cent, was
In August 2007 we gave consent to enable a Canadian
on Ziagen oral solution (abacavir), which is recommended
company, Apotex, to manufacture a generic fixed dose
by the World Health Organization (WHO) for use in first-line
combination ARV, containing two molecules over which GSK
and second-line regimens within resource-limited settings,
has patent rights, for the treatment of HIV/AIDS in Rwanda.
particularly for children. A number of factors enabled us to
This consent was granted under Canada’s Access to Medicines
implement these price changes, including improvements and
Regime which reflects the WTO ‘31f’ agreement. This enables
efficiencies in manufacturing and supply, and reductions in the
governments to authorise the production of certain patented
costs of active ingredients.
medicines for export. GSK agreed to waive royalties on the
basis that Apotex’s triple combination generic ARV will be
The 2007 prices of our leading ARVs and the new prices are
supplied on a not-for-profit basis.
given below:
Our licencees supplied 183 million tablets of their versions of
Epivir and Combivir to Africa in 2007. This represents more
Anti- 2007 price Price from % change than 50 per cent growth over 2006. We welcome this trend
retroviral per day US$ Feb 2008 as it gives customers in sub-Saharan Africa greater choice and
contributes to better security of supply.
Combivir 0.65 0.54 -17.0%
Epivir 0.19 0.17 -8.2%
Ziagen 1.74 1.20 -31.3%
Supply of Combivir and Epivir tablets by GSK*
These prices include insurance and freight costs.
Number of tablets shipped 2007 85.0 183
In 2007, we shipped 13 million tablets of nfp Combivir and
72 million tablets of nfp Epivir to the developing world, 2006 86.3 120
compared with 27 million and 59 million last year. The decline
in Combivir is more than outweighed by a growth in volumes 2005 126.3
from our licencees. In 2007 our licencees supplied 183 million
tablets of their versions of Epivir and Combivir to African 2004 66.4
countries. During 2007 GSK supplied ARVs at nfp prices to
2003 16.2
31 countries, down from 51 in 2006. This reflects fewer
orders from PEPFAR as well as a reduced number of Latin
2002 7.7
American and African countries. We will continue to look for
new customers for our nfp ARVs in these countries and to 0 50 100 150 200 250 300
regularly review our nfp prices. However, it may well be that our
Number of tablets (million)
licencees are able to produce first-line ARVs at lower costs and
will continue to increase their share of the business.
Key:
Patients receiving treatment n GSK n GSK licencees
It is difficult to estimate the number of patients treated as a
result of our preferential pricing agreements, since we do not *This includes preferentially priced tablets supplied by GSK and
control healthcare provision. However, the WHO estimates that tablets supplied by our licencees.
two million people in the developing world were treated with
ARVs at the end of 2006.
A report from the Accelerating Access Initiative (AAI),
suggests that by June 2007, some 694,400 patients in
developing countries were receiving at least one ARV treatment
supplied by the eight R&D based pharmaceutical companies in
the AAI. The total number of patients in developing countries
receiving treatment from the AAI companies has increased by a
third from June 2005. This includes 458,700 patients in Africa,
0 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Vaccines – our tiered pricing modelx
Vaccines can make a significant contribution This includes basic polio vaccines as well as
to public health, helping to prevent many specially developed combination vaccines that
potentially fatal infectious diseases (see page target several diseases. In 2007, of the . billion
2). Immunisation is acknowledged by WHO as vaccines we shipped, 7 per cent went to the
being ‘among the most cost-effective of health developing world.
investments’2.
Many of our vaccines are included in government
We make our vaccine portfolio available at vaccination programmes in middle-income
preferential prices to developing countries, countries. For example, Rotarix, our rotavirus
using a tiered pricing system. Prices are linked vaccine, is now included in government
to gross national incomes as defined by the vaccination programmes for new-born babies
World Bank as well as the size of an order and in Brazil, El Salvador, Mexico, Panama and
length of a particular supply contract. For the Venezuela. In 2007 we supplied  million
developing world prices can be as little as a doses of this vaccine, the vast majority went to
tenth of those for developed countries. developing or middle-income countries.
We work with multinational organisations such In addition to tiered pricing, we are looking
as GAVI, UNICEF, the World Health Organization for innovative ways to increase access to
and the Pan American Health Organization, vaccines in poorer countries. One option being
governments and non-governmental explored for Cervarix, our cervical cancer
organisations, to provide appropriate and vaccine, is to partner with a major international
affordable vaccines for developing countries. non-governmental organisation. Through
By selling our vaccines in large volumes this partnership we will be able to use this
through longer-term contracts we are able to organisation’s distribution networks to increase
significantly reduce the price of each individual supply of our vaccine in developing countries
dose. where most deaths from cervical cancer occur.
2 WHO Fact Sheet No. 208
Middle-income countries
Middle-income countries (MICs), such as Brazil, China, Thailand • S tigma and discrimination associated with certain diseases
and Indonesia, and some low-income countries, such as India,
• U se of traditional medicines
are more economically developed than the world’s poorest
countries, and often have a large and affluent middle-class. • R emote rural populations
They therefore provide greater commercial opportunities than
the world’s poorest countries. Our approachx
However, these countries also have large numbers of people
We recognise that many middle-income countries need
living in extreme poverty and healthcare demands often
assistance. However, we believe a different approach is needed
outstrip available resources. These challenges are made worse
from the one we take in the world’s poorest countries.
by an increasing incidence of chronic diseases, such as asthma
and diabetes.
Our offer to supply medicines at not-for-profit prices and
vaccines at highly preferential prices in the world’s poorest
Increasing access to medicines in middle-income countries
countries is only sustainable if we can continue to make an
within a responsible commercial framework is complex.
adequate return on them in wealthier markets. Many middle-
Challenges include:
income countries are also growing commercial markets for GSK
and represent an important source of future business for our
• R elatively low government healthcare spend in view of their
industry. It is forecast that the growing wealth of Brazil, China,
gross domestic product (GDP). This can be as low as one per
India, Indonesia, Mexico, Russia and Turkey means they could
cent of GDP compared with an average of nine per cent in
account for 20 per cent of the global pharmaceutical market by
the EU
20203. Our response in these markets must therefore balance
• P oor healthcare infrastructure (hospitals, clinics, doctors
our commercial objectives with our global commitment to
and nurses)
work with governments and other stakeholders to support
• A high level of income inequality within countries, which efforts to deliver our medicines and vaccines to as many people
can complicate pricing considerations as possible who need them.
• T he affordability of medicines and vaccines
3 P harma 2020 Report by PriceWaterhouseCoopers, see www.pwc.
• T axes and mark-ups on medicines and vaccines com/pharma (accessed at January 2008)
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ACCESS TO MEDICINES
Pricing in middle-income countries
Our approach to pricing in middle-income markets is constantly It is too early to draw definitive conclusions from these pilot
evolving. It comprises a mixture of long-established practices projects. Not every programme will be suitable for every
and consideration of new approaches: middle-income country. However, we are confident that the
more successful elements of ‘Tearing Down the Barriers’ will
Long established practices be incorporated into our long-term commercial strategy.
Tiered pricing for vaccines
Partnerships and voluntary licensing
Our vaccines are available to 18 GAVI-eligible4 middle-income
We continue to consider the role of voluntary licensing (VL) in
countries, including Indonesia, Sri Lanka and Cuba at highly
helping to increase access to medicines without undermining
discounted prices. Many of our vaccines are also included
our commercial business.
in government vaccination programmes in middle-income
countries, see page 39. While most of our VLs to date have been to supply ARVs
to countries in sub-Saharan Africa, we recently signed a VL
Preferential pricing for HIV/AIDS and malaria medicines with Simcere, a Chinese manufacturer, granting it the right
We negotiate preferential pricing arrangements for HIV/AIDS to manufacture products containing zanamivir (Relenza) in
medicines and anti-malarials with middle-income countries on China, and to sell them in China, Indonesia, Thailand, Vietnam
a case-by-case basis. This is done bilaterally through dialogue and all 50 Least Developed Countries. Relenza is an anti-viral
with governments. We believe this approach is appropriate which can help treat influenza. This decision to grant a VL was
since the disease burden and resources available to address driven by a specific concern to ensure sufficient supplies of the
the burden vary significantly from country to country and treatment in the event of a global flu pandemic.
also within countries. These arrangements combine a viable
Intellectual property rights
and sustainable commercial return for GSK with improved
Strong intellectual property (IP) protection is needed to
affordability for the healthcare systems concerned.
incentivise the high risk and high cost of developing new
pharmaceuticals. It creates the conditions under which industry
Novel approaches to middle-income countries
can generate the returns needed to fund R&D, including R&D
‘Tearing Down the Barriers’
into diseases that directly and disproportionately affect the
We are also developing a more nuanced approach to accessing
developing world. Continued research is much needed – for
private and public sector markets in middle-income countries. example, neither a cure nor a vaccine for HIV/AIDS yet exists.
Our ‘Tearing down the Barriers’ strategy focuses on the The international framework for IP protection, TRIPS,
different socio-economic groups within individual MICs. encourages greater local enterprise and partnerships. GSK
It uses the standard classifications for socio-economic groups; enters into a number of different types of collaborations
the A group being the wealthiest section of society and E through which we share our technology with local partners.
For example, we have a drug discovery and clinical
being the poorest. Typically, a company such as GSK makes a
development collaboration covering a wide range of
disproportionate share of its sales to people in the A/B group
therapeutic areas with Ranbaxy in India.
with sales tailing off quite sharply in the C/D group. Usually we
will be unable to compete with low-cost generic medicines for We acknowledge the public health flexibilities contained in the
sales to the E group. TRIPS agreement, such as the ability of governments to issue
compulsory licences. However, in our view these flexibilities are
We believe the most productive way for us to align our designed to provide exceptions to the rules; they should not
commercial and accessibility goals is to make our products become the rule.
more readily available to the C/D segment of the market. This
We were disappointed by the actions of some middle-income
will free up more government funding for the poorest segment
countries during 2007 in regard to compulsory licensing, most
of the population. Our ‘Tearing Down the Barriers’ strategy is
notably Thailand. We appreciate the challenges and financial
designed to test this theory.
constraints facing the Thai Ministry of Public Health. However,
we believe the best way to address these issues is to engage
It comprises various pilot projects, including:
with the pharmaceutical industry to improve access through
price negotiations and appropriate community partnership
• T iered pricing models within as well as between countries,
programmes.
including those which enable products to be priced
differently for the private and public health sectors GSK and others in the industry remain in dialogue with the
Indian government about the evolution of IP rights. We
• G auging the relationship between price and volume for
welcomed the 2005 amendment to the Patent Act which
selected products in targeted MICs. For example we may be
introduced product patents, despite a number of reservations
able to reduce the price of products where we have orders
which continue to cause uncertainty and restrict IP protection.
for a sufficiently high volume of products
These concerns include restrictions on patenting certain types
of inventions (for example new uses) and the lack of provisions
• D ifferential branding strategies whereby two versions of a
on Regulatory Data Protection.
particular product will be developed for the same market
and priced differently for the private or public sector 4 T he Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (GAVI) is an
organisation that aligns public and private resources in a global
• L ocal sourcing and manufacturing arrangements designed effort to create greater access to the benefits of immunisation.
to address cost issues It targets 72 countries.
2 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Some stakeholders equate IP rights with higher prices and Russia
inhibited access. However, we believe that IP rights can In 2006 we announced an agreement to supply ARVs to the
help drive innovation and investment in India’s life-sciences Russian government at discounted prices. This is the first
industries, to the benefit of patients in India and beyond, as direct, federal purchase of anti-retroviral medicines in Russia
well as to India’s strengthening economy. within the framework of the national project ‘Health’.
During 2007 GSK supplied over 266,000 30-day treatment
packs to the Russian government of its HIV medicines,
compared with 90,000 in 2006. This agreement contributed
Our performancex to the Russian government achieving its target of reaching
15,000 patients by the end of 2006. In 2007 the target
These are some of the ways we supported access to medicines was doubled to 30,000 patients. Russian officials estimate
in middle-income countries during 2007: that 27,000 patients were treated with ARVs by the end of
November 2007.
Brazil
GSK has a long standing partnership with the Brazilian vaccine Ukraine
manufacturer Fiocruz. This includes technical collaboration and Our Orange Card in the Ukraine gives all asthma and chronic
technology transfer. The agreement is an important part of our obstructive pulmonary disease patients who are under 25
approach to access in middle-income countries, thus enabling or over 50, an average discount of 19 per cent on the most
large volumes of vaccines to be produced for the populations popular presentations of GSK’s Seretide asthma medicine.
of these countries. It covers our oral polio vaccine, Haemophilus Asthma patients of any age who suffer disabilities or who
influenzae type b (Hib) vaccine and measles, and mumps and are affected by the Chernobyl nuclear disaster are also eligible.
rubella vaccine. In 2007, we extended the partnership with a Eligibility is assessed by the patient’s doctor and patients can
new technology transfer agreement for our rotavirus vaccine, receive the medicine at participating pharmacies. A hotline
Rotarix, for supply to Brazil and other developing countries. number helps patients find their nearest pharmacy. In 2007,
See page 39. the Orange Card enabled approximately 3,000 patients to
receive discounts totalling $124,000 (£62,000).
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ACCESS TO MEDICINES
Oxfam report on access to medicines
In November 2007 Oxfam launched its briefing This fails to acknowledge the significant increase in
paper ‘Investing for life: meeting poor people’s R&D investment by GSK and others in recent years.
needs for access to medicines through responsible Although the high risk nature of pharmaceutical
business practices’. The report assesses the R&D investment means we cannot guarantee
contribution pharmaceutical companies have success, we are committed to finding new vaccines
made to increasing access to medicines since 2002 and treatments for diseases disproportionately
and explores future challenges for the industry. affecting developing countries.
GSK was one of several companies to contribute The Report fails to recognise the complexity
to the report through meetings with Oxfam and involved in improving access to healthcare in the
provision of written material. We were the only developing world. This is a major challenge which
pharmaceutical company on the panel of speakers can only be addressed if the barriers are tackled
at the launch event for the paper in London. as a shared responsibility by all sectors of global
Report findings society including governments, international
Oxfam believes that there are major shortcomings agencies, charities, academic institutions and
in the pharmaceutical industry’s initiatives to industry.
increase access to medicines for the poor. Areas The paper raises some interesting points on
particularly criticised were the industry’s approach middle-income countries (MICs). MICs are more
to intellectual property (IP) and pricing. R&D economically developed than the world’s poorest
efforts were also highlighted as insufficient. countries but we acknowledge that they often
The Report highlighted emerging markets as major have healthcare demands that outstrip their
business opportunities for the pharmaceutical available resources. GSK is developing innovative
industry. It stated that the industry must put approaches to addressing the challenges of
affordability and availability of medicines at the MICs through various pilot projects, including
heart of its decision-making processes if it is to tiered pricing models within as well as between
capitalise on these opportunities. In particular it countries; gauging the relationship between price
urged companies to adopt a new business strategy and volume for selected products in targeted MICs;
that focuses on R&D into products which are and differential branding strategies in targeted
relevant for these markets and to be more flexible MICs.
on pricing and distribution. The Report overstates the role of IP in access
The Report rated pharmaceutical companies in and fails to recognise the importance of IP as an
three categories. GSK was rated top or among the incentive to bio-medical R&D, and the importance
leaders in all three categories – pricing, IP and R&D, of incremental innovation. We do not believe that
although the ratings on IP were very low for all the IP benchmarks used in the report are realistic
companies. or meaningful.
Our view IP rules are not the fundamental barrier to access.
GSK welcomes constructive discussion of the India has the most developed generics industry in
challenges that face the industry in improving the world and until recently had no IP protection
healthcare in the developing world. We engaged for pharmaceutical products. Yet access to ARVs
with Oxfam on the development of its paper in India is arguably no better than in Africa. Of the
through meetings and e-mail and telephone 2 medicines on the WHO’s Essential Medicines
exchanges. We also provided a case study on our List, over  per cent are off patent and yet one-
business in India which was not used in the final third of the world’s population has no reliable
paper. access to these medicines. Lack of healthcare
We welcome the consultative approach taken by infrastructure and resources are the key problems;
Oxfam and the endorsement of GSK as a leading this is where the focus should be, rather than on IP.
company. However, we do not feel that the final We fully accept that it is Oxfam’s role to question
paper does the consultation process or GSK’s the status quo, and to challenge us to do more.
contribution justice. However, we believe the negative tone of the
The industry is making an important contribution paper is not conducive to constructive discussion.
to improving healthcare in the developing world, By ignoring the progress made by industry Oxfam
and there have been significant improvements in has missed an opportunity to encourage further
the past five years. We believe this contribution is advances.
understated by Oxfam. For example, investment in
R&D for developing world diseases is highlighted
as a ’major shortcoming’ based on the number of You can read the Oxfam paper at www.oxfam.org/en/
policy/briefingpapers/bp0_investing_for_life_07
products launched up to 200.
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Developed countriesx Our performancex
Access to medicines is not only an issue for the developing Programmes in the US
world. Even in developed countries some patients cannot In 2007, more than 484,000 patients received GSK medicines
afford the medicines they need. This is a particular problem worth almost $388 million through our US programmes,
in the US where many people do not have health insurance. compared with $370 million in 2006. The value of the
medicines is calculated using the wholesale acquisition cost
Our approachx (WAC). The number of patients using our patient assistance
programmes increased 17 per cent compared with 2006 with
Programmes in the US the implementation of our new programme GSK Access.
GSK has developed Patient Assistance Programs (PAPs) and
a discount savings card in the US to help patients without The Together Rx Access discount card provides savings of
insurance. PAPs provide prescription medicines to uninsured 25-40 per cent on more than 300 medicines. Approximately
patients free or at minimal cost. GSK operates several 37 million people, around 80 per cent of the people in the
programmes, including Commitment to Access which covers US without prescription insurance, are eligible to enroll. The
cancer treatments and Bridges to Access which covers other participating companies enrolled 494,133 patients in 2007,
medicines for outpatients. Patients are registered through one and 1.3 million since the programme began. This year patients
phone call from a patient advocate and receive medicine at received 1.9 million 30-day prescriptions saving $26.1 million
their local pharmacy or by mail order. (based on WAC). Of these, GSK provided discounts of
$2.1 million to 15,600 unique patients through 56,499 30-day
GSK Access provides extra help for low-income senior and prescriptions.
disabled patients enrolled in Medicare Part D. This programme
provides free medicines for eligible patients who have spent Orange Cards in upper middle-income countries
$600 on prescription medicines during the current year, and In Lithuania, our Orange Card gives senior citizens and the
whose income is between 135 – 250 per cent of the Federal disabled an average discount of 40 per cent on the patient
Poverty Level. See www.gsk-access.com for more information. co-payment on all GSK prescription medicines. So far more
than 40,000 patients have applied for an Orange Card and
GSK and nine other pharmaceutical companies operate a over 365 pharmacies (23 per cent of the pharmacies in
discount savings programme, Together Rx Access, to improve Lithuania) are registered to participate.
access to medicines for uninsured Americans who are not
eligible for Medicare drug benefits. In Bulgaria, due to changes in the reimbursement system,
many patients with chronic diseases could no longer access
We are also working with governments and employers in the state assistance for their prescribed medicine and the Orange
US to find new ways to address the problem of chronic diseases Card remained the only solution for them. GSK’s Orange Card
while reducing healthcare costs. See case study on page 29. provides direct benefits (in the form of subsidy) to 37,000
patients suffering from asthma, diabetes and benign prostate
Discount cards in upper middle-income countries hyperplasia. The 2007 GSK investment in the Orange Card in
GSK has introduced discount cards in Bulgaria and Lithuania Bulgaria was 5.7million (£4.1 million).
to enable low-income patients with chronic diseases such as
asthma to obtain prescription medicines at a discount price.
A similar programme exists in the Ukraine, see Middle-income
countries page 43.
Summary of GSK discount programmes in developed and middle-income countries
Country GSK programme Number of patients who Value of benefit to patients
received prescriptions
US Patient Assistance Programs –
Free or minimal cost medicines for
low-income, uninsured patients 484,357 $387.9 million (£193.9 million)
US Together Rx Access – Discount
savings for all low-income uninsured
patients. Joint industry programme 15,607 $2.1 million (£1.1 million)
Bulgaria Orange Card – Discounts for low-income
patients with chronic diseases 37,000 5.7 million (£4.1 million)
Lithuania Orange Card – Discounts for senior citizens
and disabled people 41,790 £312,000
Ukraine Orange Card – Discounts on asthma and
COPD medicine for patients under 25 or over 50 3,000 $124,000 (£62,000)
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ACCESS TO MEDICINES
The futurex
How we decide the price
of our medicines
Increasing access to medicines is a global challenge. While
encouraging progress has been made in some areas, significant
Prices for newly approved medicines are
problems remain and new issues are likely to emerge. For
determined on a country-by-country basis. example:
In some countries, prices are negotiated directly
• The continued need for a significant scale-up of treatment
with governments or other payers, for example
for HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa, in resource poor
sickness funds and private health insurers. In
settings
others, manufacturers are free to set their own
• A potential global flu pandemic
prices subject to other kinds of government
controls. • The healthcare needs of poor people in middle-income
countries
Pharmaceutical R&D is a lengthy and expensive
process. It typically takes 2- years and costs • The growing impact of non-communicable diseases such as
more than £00 million for each new treatment. diabetes, in poor and rich countries
For every product that reaches the market • T he death of 2.5 million children each year from vaccine
thousands more do not make it through the preventable diseases.
research process.
GSK is committed to playing its part in addressing these
We seek to ensure that the price of our new
challenges. We will continue to collaborate with our industry
products reflects:
colleagues, partners and stakeholders to find innovative
• Their clinical value to patients in terms of solutions that increase access without undermining the long-
improved therapy, better safety and fewer term sustainability of our business.
side effects
For example, we are working with the main industry
• The high risks associated with R&D
associations on new initiatives to increase R&D and
• The need for a fair return on investment improve access. The first outcome of this activity was the
• Affordability for our customers announcement in January 2008 of a grant of US$1m by the
International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and
Ultimately, national price regulation will often
Associations (IFPMA) to the Special Programme for Research
amount to a balancing act between managing
& Training in Tropical Diseases (TDR), co-sponsored by UNICEF,
public healthcare budgets, enabling patient UNDP, the World Bank and WHO. The grant will support
access and rewarding innovation and R&D TDR’s development of new medicines to combat diseases that
investment. disproportionately affect poor people living in developing
countries.
We sell our medicines to wholesalers and
pharmacies, not directly to patients. These
Other activities include plans for an industry consortium to
intermediaries often add their own price mark-
focus on developing new targets (molecules that can prevent
ups to pharmaceutical products, and in addition or interrupt disease progression) against diseases of the
duties and tariffs may be imposed on imported developing world, and the creation of a Global Funders Forum
products. This affects the price paid by the end to help finance increased R&D in this area.
customer, for example national health services,
hospitals and patients.
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Helping poor countries prepare
for a flu pandemic
Scientific experts are warning of a potential enable 2 million people to be treated with two
global flu pandemic – possibly caused by the doses each. Our HN flu vaccine is also available
HN strain, a form of bird flu. Such an outbreak for sale to the WHO stockpile and directly to
could result in millions of deaths. There are poorer countries at preferential prices. This is
concerns that poor countries will suffer most part of our wider commitment to tiered pricing
because they cannot afford the vaccines and for vaccines (see page xx).
medicines they need to prevent and treat flu. Other opportunities being explored include:
A holistic approach at local, national, and • Advance purchase agreements for countries
international levels is needed if a flu pandemic and supranational organisations to reserve
is to be prevented. Education, prevention and pandemic flu vaccines at preferential prices
effective treatment are all important. We are
• Partnerships with developing countries to
supporting preparations for a pandemic by
provide technical assistance to ensure rapid
researching new influenza vaccines and making
access to vaccines in developing countries in
these available through donations and tiered
the event of a pandemic
pricing.
We have increased our global manufacturing
We have been developing vaccines against capability for Relenza, our anti-viral medicine
pandemic influenza since 2000. Our new pre- which can help treat influenza. In the event of
pandemic HN vaccine received a positive an outbreak this will allow us to produce
opinion from Europe’s Committee for Medicinal enough doses of the treatment to cope with
Products for Human Use in February 200. This the huge expected increase in demand. We have
vaccine is made using a method that enables set a preferental price for Relenza for the Least
immune responses to be obtained using a Developed Countries.
smaller dose, allowing protection of a greater
We have also signed a voluntary licence with
number of people with the same amount of
Simcere, a Chinese manufacturer, granting
antigen.
them the right to manufacture and sell
In 2007 we announced our intention to donate zanamivir (Relenza) containing products in
0 million doses of our pre-pandemic HN flu China, Indonesia, Thailand, Vietnam and all
vaccine to the WHO stockpile. In the event of an LDCs. More than half of all human cases of flu
outbreak these can be rapidly distributed to the caused by the HN virus have occurred in the
world’s poorest countries. Our donation will Asia Pacific region.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 7ACCESS TO MEDICINES
Why doesn’t GSK extend its not-for-profit prices
to middle-income countries?
Middle-income countries are not automatically eligible
for the not-for-profit prices offered to LDCs and sub-
Saharan Africa. However, they can access medicines
at reduced prices. Middle-income countries can secure
preferential prices through bilateral discussions with
GSK.
We are focusing our preferential prices on the countries
where the need is greatest and resources are most
limited. It is widely accepted that in terms of support
for improving healthcare services, these are the LDCs
(as defined by the UN) and sub-Saharan Africa. We can
only continue to supply at a not-for-profit price in these
countries if relatively wealthier countries pay more.
Why don’t you allow middle-income countries to
buy your ARVs from generic manufacturers?
Middle-income countries are more economically
developed than the Least Developed Countries and
often have a large and affluent middle-class. However,
these countries also have large numbers of people
living in extreme poverty and healthcare demands often
Why are so few people with HIV/AIDS receiving
outstrip available resources. We recognise that many
treatment in the developing world?
middle-income countries need assistance. However, we
There has been important progress in this area with a
believe a different approach is needed from the one we
decline in deaths caused by AIDS despite an increase in
take in the world’s poorest countries, see page 41.
the number of people living with HIV5. However, there
is much more to do. The core issue is that many people Our offer to supply products at not-for-profit prices in
in developing countries do ot have access to effective the world’s poorest countries is only sustainable if we
healthcare services and are therefore unable to access can continue to make an adequate return on them in
medicines. Due to poverty, many clinics and patients wealthier markets. Many middle-income countries are
are unable to pay for even the cheapest basic generic also growing commercial markets for GSK and represent
medicines. an important source of future business for our industry.
Our response in these markets must therefore be one
Other factors that play a part are inadequate healthcare
that balances our commercial objectives with our global
resources, lack of clinics and hospitals, poor distribution
commitment to work with governments and other
networks, low numbers of trained healthcare providers,
stakeholders to ensure that our medicines and vaccines
high levels of patient illiteracy, significant stigma and
reach as many as possible of those who need them. In
discrimination, and a lack of political will and inadequate
this regard we do not believe that voluntary licensing of
prioritisation of health in government budgets. The
ARVs has a role to play in these markets.
access issue is complex and multifaceted. Pricing of
We believe governments in middle-income countries
medicines is important, but we believe there are many
can improve access by increasing investment in disease
other more significant barriers.
prevention and healthcare; eliminating taxation and
Why don’t you just donate your AIDS products to
tariffs on medicines; and creating an environment which
the world’s poorest?
allows a strong private healthcare sector to co-exist
In common with many other stakeholders, including
with public healthcare provision. We are working with
Oxfam and the WHO, we do not believe that donations
governments to find creative ways to meet these goals.
of ARVs offer a solution to the AIDS pandemic. This is
Why don’t pharmaceutical companies work
a widespread crisis and one which requires a long-term
together to increase access to medicines?
commitment to treatment. This commitment cannot be
We are working with the main industry associations
assured through donations.
on new initiatives to increase R&D and improve access,
In some limited circumstances donations may be
see page 36.
appropriate. For example, we have donated ARVs
to support UNICEF Prevention of Mother-to-Child
Transmission programmes, and collaborative clinical
trials to assess the appropriate use of ARVs in resource 5UNAIDS 2007 Epidemic Update
poor settings.
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Bureau Veritas’ independent assurance statement
Introduction
Access to medicines is one of the most material responsibility issues facing the pharmaceutical sector. It
is a complex and challenging area. The sector has faced criticism of its role in addressing these issues and
companies have responded in different ways.
Bureau Veritas has been engaged by GSK to provide independent, external assurance of the access to
medicines section within this 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report.
This assurance has been conducted in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard (AS) and considers:
• M ateriality – does GSK address the material aspects relating to access to medicines, to make informed
judgements and decisions?
• C ompleteness – does GSK identify, understand and manage the material aspects relating to access to
medicines and report its activities in a complete and balanced manner?
• R esponsiveness – does GSK respond to stakeholders’ concerns, and is this adequately communicated?
This includes review of performance indicators.
Methodology in summary
• The scope of work excludes the ‘Developed world’ section; company position statements (including
expressions of opinion, belief or aspiration); and response to FAQs.
• Factual statements and supporting data were assured through interview, document review, data sampling
and interrogation of databases and management and
reporting systems.
• Interviews with personnel at all levels across the organisation.
• Interviews with a cross section of external stakeholders selected by GSK but interviewed independently
• The aim was to challenge and substantiate the content of the Report and to gain an understanding of
governance and management of access to medicines within GSK.
We specifically asked external stakeholders their views
on GSK’s role in access to medicines and the strengths and weakness of its approach; and whether they
feel they are listened and responded to by GSK.
Bureau Veritas Opinion
Accuracy of reporting and alignment with AA1000AS
• The information provided within the access to medicines section is accurate and reliable.
• Information is provided on issues of material importance to the organisation and its stakeholders. GSK
has achieved a good level of completeness, with disclosure of performance on a range of issues. GSK’s
reporting on its approach to middle-income countries is particularly detailed.
• GSK has good systems in place to engage with and respond to stakeholders and has conducted specific
dialogue on access to medicines. The issues raised are fed back internally to action as appropriate,
although this is not tracked as part of a formalised process.
• F eedback from stakeholders indicates that GSK is performing well in relation to vaccines; differential
pricing; PPPs; R&D; and the Accelerating Access Initiative which illustrates a partnership approach to
healthcare and provides information on direct impacts.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ACCESS TO MEDICINES
Bureau Veritas’ independent assurance statement
Challenges
Bureau Veritas has summarised its opinion into the following four challenge areas. Further detailed
recommendations have been provided in an internal Management Letter to GSK.
1. V ision – Bureau Veritas recognises GSK’s strength and sector leadership on access to medicines.
GSK could further enhance and communicate its overall vision and strategy in this area. This should
demonstrate a holistic, long-term approach; articulate the business case; provide context and explain
how it is integrated into its overall business strategy;
2. Governance – GSK should provide greater detail on the governance, accountability and management
structures for access to medicines and the relationship with external stakeholders;
3. Transparency – GSK provides significant information and case studies but should also consider how to
provide greater transparency on the impacts of its access to medicines initiatives and how to put these into
context in relation to its overall operating model;
4. Measuring performance – linked to transparency, GSK should consider how to provide relevant
indicators that demonstrate the implementation of a long-term strategy and promote comparisons across
the industry.
Statement of Bureau Veritas independence and competence
Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specialises in quality, environmental,
health, safety and social accountability with over 170 years history in providing independent assurance
services, and an annual turnover in 2006 of 1.8 billion.
Our assurance team does not have any involvement in other projects with GSK and therefore there is no
conflict of interest. This is in line with the Bureau Veritas Code of Ethics.
London, January 2008.
0 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Linksx
In this report:
• Our public health initiatives in developing countries:
Community investment
• Stakeholder engagement on access to medicines
• Pricing of our medicines
In the background section of our website:
• Eligibility for our not-for-profit prices [http://www.gsk.
com/responsibility/values-policies.htm]
• Our regularly updated briefing paper of access to
medicines at GSK
• Feedback from our stakeholder engagement sessions on
access
Other resources:
• The Oxfam report on access to medicines [http://www.
oxfam.org/en/files/bp109_investing_for_life_0711.
pdf/download ]
• Médecins Sans Frontiéres pricing report [http://www.
accessmed-msf.org/resources/key-publications/]
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 RESEARCH PRACTICES
Research This section explains how we address these concerns during
the discovery and development of medicines and vaccines.
It covers:
practices
• N ew technologies
• U se of animals in research
• A ccountabilities and responsibilities for medical governance
The research and development of new
• C onduct of clinical trials
medicines and vaccines makes a significant
• C linical trial transparency
contribution to society through the prevention
• M onitoring the safety of our medicines
and treatment of disease. R&D is at the core of
our business, with 85 per cent of our revenues For more on our R&D pipeline and the contribution our
products make to health, see page 24.
derived from the sale of prescription medicines
and vaccines.
Headlinesx Advocacy and engagementx
• Developed non-animal techniques to test We regularly engage with policy makers and
batches of our new cervical cancer vaccine other stakeholders on issues relating to
• Improving our internal monitoring process research practices.
for payments made to healthcare professionals GSK was the first pharmaceutical company to
• Conducted 20 audits of GSK-sponsored clinical launch an online clinical trial results register
trials and we believe GSK has posted more clinical
• Initiated a project to improve the usability of trial result summaries than any other clinical
our Clinical Trial Register which now includes trial sponsor. As a result we are regularly invited
results for ,0 GSK clinical trials to take part in policy discussions on clinical trial
• Entered into a new patient safety collaboration registries by the WHO and other organisations.
in partnership with companies, academic In 2007 we participated in discussions in the
institutions and the US government US on appropriate elements of a national
registration system. We advocated the need
for transparency while not inadvertently
misleading patients and healthcare
professionals or disclosing proprietary
All R&D must be conducted to high ethical and scientific
standards. We aim to make our medicines as safe as possible information. These discussions have informed
by evaluating the risks and benefits at every stage from initial new legislation in the US.
research, through to clinical trials and then after a new product GSK is engaged in The European Partnership
is approved for sale. In addition the safety of volunteers who
for Alternatives to Animal Testing (EPAA) with
participate in our research is of paramount importance. We
the European Commission and companies from
take these responsibilities extremely seriously. High ethical
seven industry sectors across Europe. The aim
standards are also essential for us to obtain regulatory approval
of the EPAA is to replace, reduce and refine
for new medicines and for patients and doctors to put their
trust in our research programmes and products. the use of animals in the safety assessment
of medicines, chemicals and products. This
We recognise that biomedical and pharmaceutical research partnership has led to constructive dialogue
raises ethical concerns such as the use of new technologies, with regulators responsible for human safety.
animal research and the conduct of clinical trials. Issues addressed include the impact of the
European REACH Directive on animal use, and
vaccine batch safety testing, one of the major
drivers of animal use at GSK.
2 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
New technologiesx Animal researchx
New technologies such as stem cell and genetic research are Animal research and testing is an essential component
helping to expand the boundaries of scientific understanding. of understanding disease and evaluating the safety and
These technologies hold out hope for new ways to treat effectiveness of new vaccines and medicines.
serious diseases as well as better ways to evaluate the risks and
benefits of the compounds we develop. For example, advances Safety regulations require us to test all new medicines on
in genetic research are beginning to enable identification of animals before they are tested in clinical trials using humans.
patients who are more likely to experience a side effect from a Most vaccines have to be tested on animals each time a new
medicine. batch is produced.
We recognise that new technologies can also give rise to ethical
concerns. For example, some stakeholders are concerned about
the use of embryonic stem cells in research.
Our approachx
Cloning Technologies
Ultimately GSK would like to see the important benefits of
GSK uses cloning technologies to replicate molecules and cells
research being achieved and applied to humans without the
for research. These technologies have provided better ways to
need for animals in research. We do not believe this can be
evaluate compounds, enabling greater insight into the risks
achieved in the foreseeable future, therefore GSK remains
and benefits of potential medicines and helping to create
committed to the 3Rs – reduction, refinement and
better medicines for patients. This technology is a fundamental
replacement of animals in research – and to achieving high
component of drug discovery and development.
standards of animal welfare. Our goal is to use animals only
when scientifically necessary, use as few as scientifically
GSK does not use cloning technologies with the intention of
feasible and to minimise pain and distress
reproducing entire human beings and we do not see a medical
or research case for doing so.
Stem cells
Stem cell research makes up a very small part of R&D at GSK. Animal research at GSK – in summary
However we recognise the importance of being clear about our
approach and the standards we apply to this area of research. GSK has 7 animal research laboratories in
Europe, Asia and the US. Some animal research
We published our policy on stem cell research in 2007. It sets
is conducted by external contractors on our
out the standards we apply when using stem cells, including
behalf, representing around eight per cent of
when using embryonic and foetal stem cells. It is available in
our total animal use. We estimate that animal
the background section of our website.
research accounts for around five per cent of all
Collaborative research GSK research expenditure.
New scientific knowledge and technologies can be applied
Almost all of the animals used by GSK are
to the process of drug discovery and development through
rodents, mainly rats, and mice. We also use cats,
collaborative research. This collaborative research combines
dogs, ferrets, fish, pigs, primates and rabbits.
resources, expertise and know-how from several partners.
The benefit of this research is often realised by making the
results widely available to the research community.
One example is our participation in the US Biomarkers The 3Rs
Consortium, a public-private biomedical research partnership Implementing the 3Rs commits us to:
managed by the Foundation for the National Institutes of
Health. • R eplacing animal studies with alternative methods
wherever possible
Biomarkers are characteristics that can be measured and used
• R educing the number of animals used in each study
as an indicator of disease or responses to treatments. They
can be used in early research and play an important role in • R efining studies to minimise pain and maximise the
clinical research and practice, for example by enabling scientists information obtained from each animal
and physicians to more quickly and accurately determine the
presence or status of disease or the effect of a medicine. This We implement the 3Rs by using advanced scientific methods,
can speed up the research process and enable more effective training, raising awareness, and sharing and encouraging best
and timely medical interventions. practice.
The Biomarkers Consortium will harmonise approaches Regulation and internal controls
to identifying viable biomarkers. It will help to verify their Our animal research laboratories comply with national laws
individual value and formalise their use in research and on animal welfare. Regulators carry out regular unannounced
regulatory approval. inspections of our sites. In addition:
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 RESEARCH PRACTICES
• W e aim for our laboratories to achieve independent Our performancex
accreditation by the Association for the Assessment and
Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International
In 2007 the absolute number of animals used in our
(AAALACi)
laboratories was 4.6 per cent greater than in 1994. The growth
• G SK laboratories, and any external laboratories conducting in R&D activity continues to greatly exceed any increase in
research on our behalf, must follow all legal and regulatory animal use.
requirements and our core principles of care and welfare
for animals. These core principles include a requirement We estimate animal use by our external contractors to
for all proposed research and testing using animals to be account for 7.9 per cent of all animal use for GSK, compared
considered by an ethical review committee with 3.2 per cent in 2002. This change may represent
an increase in animal research on our behalf by external
Communicating our approach
contractors or may reflect improvements in our data collection
Some people hold strong views on animal research and testing.
from our diverse external collaborations1.
We believe it is important to explain the need for animal
research and testing and to be transparent about what we do.
Our laboratories host visits from schools, colleges, animal Animals used by GSK in 2007 (per cent)*
welfare organisations and others. We engage regularly with
animal welfare organisations and our investors, as well as Mice 67.1
contributing to the debate in the media. Rats 25.3
Guinea pigs 6.4
Protest Other rodents 0.2
We accept the right of lawful protest against animal research
Rabbits 0.3
as a part of a free society, but condemn the use of violence
Others 0.7
and intimidation by some who are opposed to animal use. We
welcome the shift in the UK away from extremism to debate.
* This does not include animals used by external contractors on our
behalf. Of the animals used by external contractors on our behalf
in 2007, 88.5 per cent were rodents and rabbits.
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007
4991
ecnis
egnahc
%
Change in R&D activity compared to change in number of
animals used in GSK research laboratories*
Key:
n Animals used n R&D activity
* These data do not include animal research conducted by external contractors on our behalf. R&D activity combines our R&D budget and our
vaccine sales, the two main drivers of animal use.
1W e started separately estimating our external animal use in 2002 and to 2007 have recorded external animal use as representing 3.2%, 4.3%,
6.7%, 6.3%, 8.2% and 7.9% of total animal use. The range of external interactions that may involve GSK, directly or indirectly, in animal use is
so diverse, and is reported to regulators by third parties, that we refer to these data as an estimate.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
The 3Rs More information on how we implement the 3Rs is available
3Rs projects in the background of our website.
Recent GSK advances in replacing, reducing and refining
animal use include: AAALACi accreditation
Ten of our 17 animal laboratories are accredited by AAALACi.
• C ontinuing to replace non-human primates with mice in
These are located in Belgium, Italy, Spain, the UK and the US.
polio vaccine batch testing
This accreditation now covers approximately 92 per cent of
• D ecreasing the number of animals needed for vaccine
the animals used in GSK-owned laboratories. Accreditation is
testing. For example we included an in vitro (non-animal)
reassessed every three years. Our aim is to achieve AAALACi
test in the regulatory submission for our new cervical cancer
accreditation for all our laboratories.
vaccine, Cervarix. This means that new batches of Cervarix
will not need to be tested in animals GSK’s worldwide standards
• I mplementing new technology to collect blood samples in It is very important that we apply the same high standards
animal studies. This approach, previously used in newborns of care and welfare in all the countries in which we operate.
and genetic screening, enables analysis to be carried out on We have revised our global animal research standards to
much smaller blood samples than traditional techniques. ensure they more clearly define our requirements of GSK staff,
This enables quality data to be obtained using fewer contractors and collaborators, and that they are applied to
animals all animal research commissioned by GSK. The standards are
• W orking with governments to change regulatory published on our website.
requirements so fewer animals are required for routine
testing. A proposal to reduce animal testing originating In 2007, we standardised contractual language on animal care
from GSK Biologicals was submitted to the European and welfare for inclusion in agreements with our collaborators.
Vaccine Manufacturing Association and later presented We established an ethical review process for all animal studies
to the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines conducted at our new animal research laboratories in China.
in 2007 The new process was in place before the laboratories opened.
• D eveloping in vitro alternatives to safety tests which check
Communicating our approach
the potential impact of pharmaceutical process materials
In 2007, we made over 23 visits to UK and US schools and
on workers’ skin and eyes. No animals have been used in
hosted ten site visits in the UK.
the evaluation of dermal or eye irritation for worker safety
purposes since 2006
In the US we host regular Science Literacy teacher workshops
• D onating our collection of information on commonly used on animal research with the Pennsylvania and North Carolina
blood collection methods to the UK National Centre for the Associations for Biomedical Research. Four workshops were
3Rs’ (NC3Rs). This now forms the central part of the NC3R’s held in 2007.
blood sampling website which is used by laboratory staff
to choose the most appropriate technique for the humane We produced a DVD entitled ‘Animals in Research: Make up
and efficient removal of blood. your OWN mind’ in partnership with the Physiological Society.
A copy of this was sent to every secondary school in the UK in
Training and awareness 2007.
We encourage a 3Rs culture at GSK. For example through:
• R egular training for staff involved in the care and
use of animals
Medical governancex
• O ur internal 3Rs website was revised and relaunched
in 2007 Medical governance at GSK is the system of principles, policies
• A news bulletin on advances in the 3Rs. This was and accountabilities that ensures we apply generally recognised
relaunched in 2007 so it is now easily accessible from principles of good medical science, medical integrity, ethics
the 3Rs website and is updated on a rolling basis and standards. It applies to all aspects of the development and
marketing of medicines, vaccines and medicinal products.
• S eminars and ‘Recommended Practice’ guidelines from
our ethical review committees
It is important that we have clear accountability and
• O ur internal animal Welfare Awards for employees who
responsibility for medical governance to ensure oversight of
have made outstanding advances in implementing the 3Rs
clinical research, pharmacovigilance and medical information
and promotional practices at GSK.
Sharing best practice
We encourage research into the 3Rs and share our experiences
We further clarified medical governance at GSK this year
and best practices. For example:
by providing a framework for medical governance across
all our businesses. Our Chief Medical Officer (the most
• W e fund the UK NC3Rs prize which recognises the best
senior physician at GSK) has responsibility and authority for
new techniques for implementing the 3Rs
establishing an effective medical governance system. Our
• T ogether with industry partners, we are funding a three- Corporate Executive Team members are responsible for the
year job post at the NC3Rs to encourage sharing of best performance of, and compliance with, this system within their
practice areas of responsibility.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 RESEARCH PRACTICES
• N o payments can be offered or made that could influence
Clinical trialsx
their judgement on whether to enrol or maintain a
participant in a clinical study
Our approachx
• G ifts to healthcare professionals are not permitted
Conduct of clinical trials
All GSK clinical trials, wherever they are carried out, are Clinical trials outside Western Europe and North
conducted according to the Good Clinical Practice (GCP) America
guidelines developed by the International Conference on Most clinical trials take place in Western Europe and North
Harmonisation (ICH) and the principles contained in the World America but GSK also undertakes trials in regions such as
Medical Association Declaration of Helsinki on the ‘Ethical Central and Eastern Europe, South Africa, Latin America and
Principles for Medical Research Involving Human Subjects parts of Asia.
(2004)’.
We seek to conduct clinical trials where:
The ICH guidelines cover issues such as the selection and • T he population is relevant to the scientific question and
training of trial investigators, gaining informed consent from where the results can be generalised to broader populations
trial participants, monitoring and quality assurance.
• T here are qualified investigators capable of carrying out the
research
Trial protocols (the plan for how a clinical trial will be
• T here are people who qualify for participation in the
conducted) are reviewed by government regulatory agencies in
research
the relevant countries when required.
• T he research can be carried out as quickly and efficiently
All protocols are also reviewed by an independent ethical as possible
review committee of lay people, medical professionals and
scientists. They assess whether a trial is justified and whether All GSK-sponsored clinical trials are conducted to the same
it is designed and will be conducted according to appropriate ethical standards irrespective of the location. In some of the
ethical standards. Ethics committees have the power to reject Least Developed Countries additional steps may be needed.
or stop a clinical trial. For example, matching the objectives of informed consent to
local culture may be necessary, for instance by involving local
We have a Global Safety Board (GSB) led by the Chief Medical leaders and/or family members.
Officer and composed of senior physicians and scientists. Its
role is to: Our policy states that trials should not be conducted in
countries when we know at the outset that there is no
• O versee the safety of all investigational and marketed
intention to register the product being evaluated in those
compounds
countries.
• A pprove the first administration of investigational
compounds to humans You can read our position on clinical trials in the developing
• D efine the doses and duration of treatments that are world in the background section of our website.
considered safe
In some circumstances we believe it is appropriate to help
• A pprove the progression of compounds into pivotal trials
build research capacity in these countries, for example through
(these are trials which provide the primary data on which
providing GCP training or research-related technical or clinical
regulatory approval is based)
equipment.
• A ssess any issues related to patient safety that arise during
product development or marketing
Training for clinical trials
All employees involved in designing, conducting recording
Safety data are routinely collected throughout development
and reporting GSK-sponsored clinical research studies are
programmes and are reported to regulators in line with
trained in GCP. Training is mandatory and employees must have
applicable regulations. Data are also reviewed by GSK on an
completed the required training before undertaking these roles.
ongoing basis for any safety signals (events not necessarily
caused by the treatment that require further exploration).
We keep detailed training records which are routinely
requested by regulatory authorities when undertaking an
Working with healthcare professionals
inspection of GSK clinical research studies.
Our policies governing interactions between GSK R&D staff and
healthcare practitioners require that: Auditing for clinical trials
GSK’s internal audit department audits the conduct of clinical
• A ll clinical trial investigators must be selected solely on their trials. Audits cover GSK systems and processes, as well as
qualifications to conduct clinical research. Their history of external clinical research organisations and investigators
using GSK products must not be taken into account when performing clinical research on our behalf.
deciding whether to include or exclude them in a particular
trial Trials are selected for audit on a risk basis. Risk factors include
• P ayments to practitioners are governed by contracts and the complexity of the study, the patient population, the
any compensation reflects fair market value for the work location of the study, previous audit history and any unusual
performed findings during the conduct of the study.
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Results are reported quarterly to the R&D Compliance Board, Inspections of investigators, clinical research organisations,
and annually to the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council and independent ethics committees/Institutional Review Boards
the Audit Committee of GSK’s Board of Directors. Members of and sponsors of clinical trials are also carried out by regulatory
our Global Safety Board (GSB) receive individual audit reports authorities to ensure the safety of trial participants, the quality
on any safety related findings. of data, and that trials are conducted according to GCP. During
2007 there were more than 51 such inspections of GSK and
Any concerns or issues identified are fully investigated and investigators used by GSK to conduct clinical studies. None
appropriate corrective action taken. For GSK staff corrective of the inspections resulted in any regulatory sanctions, or any
actions may include development of new training programmes findings that would indicate a direct threat to patient safety.
or retraining for the individuals concerned. In more severe
cases appropriate disciplinary action will be taken, up to and
including dismissal.
Reporting research resultsx
For external investigators, GSK may retrain the investigator,
or stop working with the investigator, and trial data from
Pharmaceutical companies are legally required to disclose all
noncompliant investigative sites will be excluded from the
relevant data from clinical trials to the appropriate regulatory
analysis.
authorities when seeking approval for a new product. After
approval, sponsors have a continuing obligation to provide
Regulatory authorities also carry out inspections of GSK and
regulatory authorities with updated safety information from
investigators used by GSK to conduct clinical studies.
clinical trials, see patient safety below. Safety and efficacy
information is provided to doctors through prescribing
information which is approved by regulators.
Our performancex In addition there is a need to use other ways to communicate
the results of our clinical trials to healthcare practitioners and
Working with healthcare professionals others who use or evaluate the use of our medicines.
We are improving our internal monitoring process for payments
made to healthcare professionals for services rendered. This will
provide increased assurance that staff are complying with our
policies outlined above. Our approachx
Training for clinical trials
We make the results of our clinical trials and information about
In 2007 there were 50, 279 training activities related to GCP.
ongoing trials widely available, through three channels:
Each ‘training activity’ represents a successful completion of an
e-learning module or instructor-led course related to GCP by
• W e publicly register summary protocol information for all
one of our employees or contractors.
ongoing GSK clinical trials (phase I-IV) worldwide. Currently
this information is on the ClinicalTrials.gov website
Auditing for clinical trials
In 2007 we conducted 203 audits. These included:
• W henever possible, we submit trial results for publication
in peer-reviewed scientific and medical journals or in
• 1 44 audits of investigator sites conducting GSK-sponsored
conference abstracts and proceedings
trials. This represents approximately 5 per cent of
investigator sites participating in pivotal clinical trials
• W e publish results and protocol information from GSK-
• 1 6 audits of internal GSK systems and processes used in sponsored trials of marketed medicines on our online
managing clinical trials and data Clinical Trial Register
• 2 9 audits of clinical research organisations carrying out
Our Clinical Trial Register was launched in 2004 and is designed
clinical trials on GSK’s behalf
to supplement prescribing information and publications in the
• 1 4 audits of GSK local operating companies involved in scientific literature. Anyone with access to the internet can view
clinical research activities our Register at http://ctr.gsk.co.uk.
In addition, 26 investigations were conducted in response to
suspected irregularities at investigator sites.
Issues identified at investigator sites included insufficient
oversight of clinical trial activities by investigators. Oversight
covers all areas of investigator responsibility including:
knowledge of the protocol design; appropriate and
documented delegation of tasks to skilled personnel; and
availability to meet sponsor representatives at regular intervals
during the study. Additional training for investigators and
implementation of further internal controls are helping to
reduce the frequency and significance of this issue.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 7RESEARCH PRACTICES
Our performancex
At the end of 2007 there were protocol summaries of all GSK
actively recruiting clinical trials on ClinicalTrials.gov, 237 in total.
At the end of 2007 there were 3,089 clinical trial summaries on
our Register. This includes clinical trials of our major marketed
products which have been completed since the formation of
GSK in 2000, or that were completed before this and are likely
to inform medical judgement.
Our objective is to disclose on our Register the trial results
summaries for all new products within 12 months of the
product reaching the market. We aim to disclose the results
of trials completed after a product is approved for marketing
within one year of trial completion. We met this objective in
2007.
We are re-designing our Clinical Trial Register to improve its
usability and make it easier for users to retrieve information.
• I mproving the links between the protocol and results for
each trial enabling users to move between the two
• E xtending the search function to enable users to search by
disease area or for trials relating to a particular medicine
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007
seirammus
fo
rebmuN
Our approachx
We strive to ensure patient interest is served through the
prompt detection of potential safety issues with our products
so that appropriate communication with regulators occurs and,
following evaluation, decisions can be made and actions taken.
We are also investing in genetic research to help predict an
individual patient’s response to a medicine. In the future this
will help healthcare providers prescribe safer and more effective
medicines, resulting in better health outcomes.
Our monitoring system
We have dedicated teams of scientists and healthcare
professionals across the world who monitor, review, evaluate
and communicate safety issues. See Collecting and reporting
safety data in the background section of our website for more
information.
Product safety is assessed in clinical trials before a product
can be approved for marketing. Sometimes adverse events
(potential safety issues) occur after approval when a product
is being used by large numbers of patients. We have policies
and a governance framework in place to help us detect and
act on any adverse events. We report potential safety issues
to regulatory authorities on a regular basis. See drug safety
governance framework in the background section of our
Number of summaries of GSK clinical website.
trials on the GSK Clinical Trial Register
During 2007, 14,000 managers across GSK completed Adverse
(cumulative total)
Event Reporting as part of our 2007 Management Certification
process.
3500
3089 In addition, we added an Adverse Event Reporting button
3000 2760 to the front page of myGSK, our intranet site, to encourage
employees to report any adverse event they may learn about.
2500
2125
Adverse events are recorded on our global safety and
2000
clinical trial databases and investigated by our clinical and
1500 pharmacovigilance teams. This helps us to assess the balance
of risks and benefits associated with a particular product. See
1000 benefit-risk management in the background section of our
website.
500
143
0 When appropriate, we respond to safety issues by changing
2004 2005 2006 2007
product labelling and communicating with doctors. In most
cases these actions are sufficient; in a small number of cases
we conduct risk minimisation activities, such as further
clinical trials, physician or pharmacy education, or even
Patient safetyx limited distribution programmes, for example for prescription
by specialist doctors only. In certain cases it may also be
appropriate to stop clinical trials or to withdraw the medicine
Patient safety is critically important for the health and wellbeing
from the market. See collecting and reporting safety data
of the individuals who take our medicines and is paramount
in the background section of our website.
to the success of our business. We take the safety of our
medicines and medical devices very seriously.
All medicines have potential risks as well as benefits although
not everyone who takes a medicine will experience side effects.
It is important that we identify, evaluate and minimise safety
concerns to ensure that the overall benefits of a medicine
outweigh any risks.
More detailed information on patient safety is available in the
background section of our website.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Our performancex
We have continued to improve our patient safety systems, Serious Adverse Events Consortium
safety databases and monitoring processes. Examples from In 2007 we joined with other pharmaceutical companies,
2007 include: academic institutions and the FDA to launch a new patient
safety collaboration – the Serious Adverse Events Consortium.
• H ired toxicity specialists and established Clinical Toxicities The Consortium aims to improve patient safety through genetic
Strategy Panels to provide expert safety input throughout research. Its work will include:
the drug development process
• R esearching genetic markers that may help predict who is
• D eveloped a clinical trials signal detection tool for review
at risk for serious side effects
of completed study data, in partnership with Lincoln
Technologies. This will enhance our ability to identify and • U sing genetic research to identify which patients will
explore safety signals in GSK clinical trials benefit most from which medicines
• D eveloped and launched a prototype for our Molecular
Clinical Safety Programme (MCSP). MCSP is a tool
that seeks to better inform decision-making in drug
The futurex
development by integrating chemistry, pre-clinical and
human safety information. It enables us to look for
patterns across different types of safety information We are continuing to look for ways to strengthen and
including chemical structures, pre-clinical data and human improve our R&D practices. For example, informed consent to
safety data. participate in a clinical trial requires more than just a signature
on a page. Ensuring that participants have understood the
Working with others information discussed with them during the informed consent
We work with government officials, industry partners and process is a key challenge. We are looking at ways to further
policy-makers in efforts to build an enhanced safety system. strengthen and enhance the informed consent process. We
For example GSK is working with the European Agency for the have launched an initiative called Patient Empowered, which
Evaluation of Medicinal Products on the European network aims to make the informed consent process a distinguishing
of Centres of Excellence for Pharmacoepidemiology and feature of GSK clinical trials. This initiative is intended to benefit
Pharmacovigilance project. GSK is a key partner among the both GSK and patients. It will include improvements to the
US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), other pharmaceutical informed consent process, a focus on improving the experience
companies and academia in the US to explore the development of patients in our clinical trials and encouraging patient
of a new system for the detection of adverse events and feedback to help foster a culture of continuous improvement.
benefits of medicines using large healthcare system databases.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 RESEARCH PRACTICES
Responding to questions
about Avandia
Avandia is our leading treatment for type 2 In November 2007, the FDA approved updated
diabetes and has been shown to control blood prescribing information for Avandia, including
sugar for longer than the most commonly used new text in the existing boxed warning
oral anti-diabetic medicines. Controlling blood to add the FDA’s conclusion that, while an
sugar is important to help prevent the serious FDA meta-analysis of generally short-term
complications of diabetes. In May 2007, the studies – mostly against placebo – showed an
New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) association between Avandia and an increase
published a meta-analysis co-authored by in myocardial ischemic events, that risk was
Dr Steven Nissen, a cardiologist of the Cleveland not confirmed or excluded in three long-term
Clinic US, which suggested that Avandia may be clinical trials comparing Avandia against both
associated with an increased risk of myocardial placebo and other oral anti-diabetes medicines.
infarction and death from cardiovascular causes. This new text concludes by stating that ‘[i]n
The data that contributed to Dr Nissen’s meta- their entirety, the available data on the risk of
analysis were drawn from published literature myocardial ischemia are inconclusive.’ Updated
and GSK’s Clinical Trial Register, a web-based prescribing recommendations, and detail about
repository for clinical data that is available to the data underlying the overall conclusion on
the public. GSK maintains the register as part the question of cardiac ischaemic risk, are now
of its commitment to public dissemination provided in the revised prescribing information
of scientific information about its marketed for Avandia. In its related press release, the FDA
products. Prior to Dr Nissen’s publication, GSK stated that ‘At this time, (the) FDA has concluded
had posted in the register a summary of its own that there isn’t enough evidence to indicate that
meta-analysis of 2 double-blind, controlled the risks of heart attacks or death are different
clinical trials in patients with type-2 diabetes, between Avandia and some other oral type 2
with findings directionally similar to Dr Nissen’s. diabetes treatments.’
GSK had also previously submitted its meta- All medicines, Avandia included, carry risks
analysis to FDA and other regulators along with as well as benefits. Because type 2 diabetes
the results from both long-term clinical trials and is chronic, relentlessly progressive and a life-
observational studies using large health claims threatening disease, and physicians often
databases which did not show a similar risk. need to prescribe two or three medicines to
The New England Journal publication resulted help their patients maintain their blood sugar
in extensive coverage in the media, and the FDA levels, having an array of treatment options is
convened an Advisory Committee meeting in important. Avandia – the most widely studied
July to review cardiovascular ischaemic/throm- oral anti-diabetic medicine for the treatment
botic risks of the thiazolidinedione drug class, of type 2 diabetes, with over 00 clinical trials
with a focus on Avandia. The Committee of and experience in over 2,000 patients – helps
experts examined data from multiple sources to meet that need. GSK believes it is important
and concluded that the available data suggested that Avandia is available to support effective
some ischemic risk with Avandia, but declined treatment of type 2 diabetes.
to formally comment on the comparative risk of
Avandia to other oral anti-diabetic medicines,
or in specific sub-populations. The Committee
agreed to recommend continued marketing of
Avandia, with labelling changes addressing the
question of cardiovascular ischemic risk.
0 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
You can read our full response to the BBC Panorama
programme on Seroxat on our website. http://www.gsk.
com/ControllerServlet?appId=4&pageId=402&newsid
=960
Why doesn’t GSK publish the results of trials that
don’t result in marketed medicines – surely these
could help to advance scientific understanding
too?
This is an evolving area and this year we reviewed
our policy. Our Clinical Trial Register includes results
summaries from GSK-sponsored trials of marketed
medicines. In addition, to inform the scientific and
medical community of important research we register
results summaries of trials that do not result in marketed
medicines, in the following circumstances:
• GSK-sponsored Phase III clinical trials of
investigational medicines that are no longer being
developed for any indication by GSK or any third
party
• GSK-sponsored Phase II clinical trials of investigational
medicines when the research programme has been
terminated due to a safety issue associated with the
GSK is opening an R&D facility in China. Will
mechanism of action.
this affect your research standards? Is it a cost
reduction exercise?
We are opening a new R&D facility in China which will
focus on R&D into neurodegenerative disorders such as
Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer’s.
Linksx
The new centre will enable us to increase focus and
depth in important disease areas and to benefit from
In this report:
accessing the vast talent pool and knowledge in life
sciences in China, while continuing to strengthen • A bout GSK
our global R&D capabilities. The costs of conducting
• C ontribution to health
research in China are relativity lower than those in
• Ethical conduct
other markets. However, lower costs are not the reason
behind the decision to set up this new facility. • P ublic policy
Our R&D in China will be conducted to GSK’s global
On our website:
quality and ethical standards – all our R&D policies and
monitoring procedures will apply to our operations in
• G SK Code of Conduct
China. Significant above-country resource, as well as
• O ur position on stem cell research
local resource in China is being committed to ensure
that the establishment of our facilities and their • Our position on clinical trials in the developing world
subsequent operation complies with both Chinese
• Our Clinical Trial Register
requirements and GSK’s global standards.
• M ore information on patient safety
What is GSK’s response to accusations that
• O ur response to the BBC Panorama programme
research results for Seroxat were covered up?
on Seroxat
The BBC Panorama programme, ‘Secrets of The Drugs
Trials’ that aired on 29th January 2007 made allegations
Other resources:
that GSK acted improperly in regards to Seroxat (known
as Paxil in the US). • T he Association for the Assessment and Accreditation of
We utterly reject any suggestion that we have Laboratory Animal Care International
improperly withheld drug trial information. Results from • C linicalTrials.gov
trials of Seroxat were documented and submitted to
regulators in accordance with regulatory requirements.
Results were also presented publicly, published in
scientific journals and are available on GSK’s website.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ETHICAL CONDUCT
Ethical conduct Putting the patient first is at the heart of ethical conduct for a
pharmaceutical company. This means maintaining high ethical
standards during all stages of R&D (see research practices
page 55) and once a product is approved for marketing.
We are committed to creating a strong ethical Marketing ethics is a particularly important aspect of ethical
culture at GSK. We do this by putting the conduct for GSK and one that is relevant to patient safety. It is
essential that our marketing practices help doctors to prescribe
appropriate policies in place, recruiting the right
medicines that are in the patient’s best interests. Our policies
people and equipping them with the tools to prohibit kickbacks, bribery or other inducements to doctors,
and any promotion for unapproved uses of our medicines.
make ethical decisions.
Our approachx
HeadlinesX
Our Code of Conduct
Our Employee Guide to Business Conduct requires all
• Carried out a wide-ranging review of our employees to act with integrity, comply with the law, avoid
corporate ethics strategy conflicts of interest and report any violations or unethical
• Added questions on ethics and integrity to behaviour. It provides guidance, including specific examples,
on what constitutes unacceptable behaviour.
our recruitment process and GSK Managers
Interview Guide
Read our Code of Conduct, Employee Guide to Business
• Began extending our independently managed Conduct, and management certification statement in the
integrity helpline to all countries where we background section of our website.
operate
• Over ,000 managers completed our self Marketing ethics
We market our medicines to doctors, hospitals and
certification process in 2007
governments. In some countries, such as the US, we also
• ,000 sales and marketing staff in our
advertise medicines directly to consumers. Our specialist sales
Pharmaceuticals International region received
representatives meet regularly with doctors and pharmacists to
training on our revised International Promotion
inform them about our medicines and their approved uses.
and Marketing Code
• , employees were disciplined for policy We believe that sales representatives play an important role in
violations, of which 20 were dismissed or providing up-to-date information to doctors on our products
and their benefits to patients. However, we recognise that the
agreed to leave the company voluntarily
marketing of pharmaceutical products raises some challenging
• Issued an apology in Australia and
issues.
New Zealand for inadvertently misleading
Ribena advertisements In particular, some people are concerned that marketing by
pharmaceutical companies exerts undue influence on doctors,
that sales representatives do not always give doctors full
information about potential side effects, or that promotion for
unapproved uses may be occurring despite increased training,
Strong policies, codes of practice and good training are
monitoring and oversight. Our approach to addressing these
essential elements of our approach. However, on their own
issues includes regional marketing codes of practice, regular
they cannot guarantee that our employees will meet our
training and monitoring.
standards. Our internal compliance systems are designed
to identify and address breaches of our codes.
Marketing Codes of Practice
Our Pharmaceutical Marketing and Promotional Activity
There is a strong business case for achieving high standards
policy applies to all employees and agents. It commits us to
of ethical conduct:
promotional practices that are ethical, responsible, principled
and patient-centred. It prohibits kickbacks, bribery or other
• G reater stakeholder trust in GSK and our products
inducements to doctors, and any promotion for unapproved
including among regulators, doctors and patients uses of our medicines.
• I mproved risk management by preventing breaches of
This policy is supported by regional marketing practices codes
our ethics policies which could have serious financial or
in Europe, our Pharmaceuticals International region, Japan
legal consequences
and the US. These codes apply the same standards but reflect
• C ompetitive advantage due to better reputation and differences in market structures, national healthcare systems
reduced costs of failures and regulations.
We completed a thorough review of our compliance and A copy of the GSK European Promotion of Medicines
risk management strategy in 2007 and are improving our Code of Practice is available in the background section of our
programmes in a number of areas as a result. website.
2 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Training and awareness
Our Marketing Codes of Practice Training and awareness programmes help employees
understand the importance of ethical conduct and to
in summary
apply our policies in practice.
• Full and accurate information – information
New employees in the UK and the US complete induction
can only be provided on approved uses for a
training on our Code of Conduct. Our annual management
medicine. It must be based on valid scientific
certification programme requires managers to confirm that
evidence, and must be accurate, balanced, they comply with our ethics policies. The programme covers
fair, objective, unambiguous and up-to-date over 14,000 managers worldwide. Read our management
• Promotional items to healthcare certification statement in the background section of our
website.
professionals – branded promotional
items must be given only occasionally and
Managers can access three e-Learning modules on ethical
must be relevant to the practice of medicine.
leadership.
Their nominal value must be no more than
$0 or less than £ in the UK. Items cannot Specialised training is provided for employees working in
be given as an inducement to prescribe any R&D, manufacturing and sales and marketing where there
of our medicines or to medical professionals are additional regulatory requirements.
retained as consultants to GSK
Training for employees working in sales and marketing
• Appropriate hospitality for meetings – no
includes:
entertainment is permitted. Hospitality (such
as travel costs or food) may only be provided • Induction training and testing on our marketing code of
for meetings with an educational purpose. practice
The level of hospitality must be appropriate
• Detailed training for sales representatives on the medicines
to the occasion and must only be provided
they promote and the diseases they are designed to treat
for relevant healthcare professionals, not
• Regular refresher courses held at least once a year
spouses, children, office personnel or any
other guests • Regular management updates in Europe and the US on the
types of unethical conduct detected and disciplinary actions
• Decisions about grants for medical education
taken
are reviewed by qualified medical or
scientific personnel or, in the US, within our
compliance function
Supporting industry codes of conduct
Our relationship with healthcare professionals
As well as our marketing codes we have detailed policies and
monitoring systems governing our relationship with healthcare GSK supports efforts to strengthen marketing
professionals. For example, we have established the following standards across the pharmaceutical industry.
controls and processes in the US: This benefits us by creating ‘a level playing field’
in the countries in which we operate and helps
• Limits on payments to healthcare professionals through
to improve the reputation of the pharmaceutical
speaker and consultancy fees
industry as a whole.
• GSK funding of grants to patient groups cannot exceed
For example, in 2007 the Australian Competition
25 per cent of the group’s annual income
& Consumer Commission (ACCC) introduced a
• A new Speaker Evaluation Process implemented in 2007 new requirement for members of Medicines
covering healthcare professionals sponsored by GSK. Australia (MA), an industry association, to fully
This requires our regional medical scientists to evaluate
disclose details of all educational meetings
high frequency speakers, and to provide feedback on
and symposia, including details of hospitality
their effectiveness and compliance with the GSK Speaker
provided.
Programmes policy
We fully supported the ACCC’s position. We
It is in our interest that the physicians we work with do not
believe that by demonstrating compliance with
receive excessive funding from GSK. This could undermine
the MA Code of Conduct we can improve public
their objectivity and lessen the time they spend with patients
or conducting research, potentially reducing their professional confidence in our industry and show that our
credibility and their value to GSK as sources of current medical relationships with patient groups and healthcare
expertise. professionals are conducted according to high
standards.
All GSK employees dealing with healthcare professionals
undergo extensive training and monitoring.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ETHICAL CONDUCT
Monitoring and compliance
Our corporate ethics and compliance department promotes DTC advertising is common industry practice, we would be at a
effective compliance programmes, addresses compliance competitive disadvantage if we did not promote our products
issues, and reports problems and progress to senior in this way.
management and the Board.
Patients must still consult with their physicians about their
We have a dedicated compliance officer in each of our eight condition, the appropriateness of a prescription medicine,
business units – R&D, Manufacturing, Biologicals, Pharma and obtain his or her consent before receiving such medicines.
Europe, Pharmaceuticals International, Consumer Healthcare,
Japan Pharma and US Pharmaceuticals, and additional Prescription medicines in the US
compliance representatives in some markets. Our DTC Communications policy is based on the PhRMA
Guiding Principles on DTC advertising for prescription
Compliance officers are senior managers with direct access to
medicines.
the leadership teams of GSK functions. They are a source of
expertise for anyone with a question on ethics or GSK policies.
We have a detailed approval process for DTC advertising, which
Our corporate compliance officer reports directly to the CEO.
includes review by legal, regulatory and medical specialists as
appropriate. All US marketing employees have received training
Monitoring for sales and marketing
on our DTC policy.
Sales representatives are supervised by their managers who
regularly monitor educational events, visits to doctors and
All DTC television advertisements (including audio and
expenses. We use a risk-based approach to determine the
visual components) are submitted to the US Food and Drug
frequency of our checks on different districts and individual
Administration (FDA) for review at least 30 days in advance
sales representatives.
of broadcast.
In the US we monitor the requests for Medical Information
Members of the public and healthcare professionals can
letters on off-label topics by sales representatives to check
send comments or complaints on DTC advertising to PhRMA’s
that representatives are not promoting off-label uses for our
products. Our internal audit department regularly audits our Office of Accountability, which reports the comments and the
sales and marketing practices globally. responses of the companies to the FDA.
Reporting channels The FDA Amendments Act 2007 imposes new restrictions
Employees are encouraged to seek help and to report any on DTC advertising. It gives the FDA the ability to require
concerns or suspected cases of misconduct. They can do this submission of DTC television advertisements 45 days prior to
through their line manager, a compliance officer, or through dissemination and imposes a new standard on presentation
our confidential Integrity Helplines or offsite post office box (in of safety information in broadcast advertisments. Companies
the US). responsible for false or misleading DTC advertisements
can now be fined up to $500,000. We are implementing
Reporting channels are promoted through the Employee Guide these provisions in our DTC advertising in line with the Act’s
to Business Conduct, on the GSK intranet and during training. requirements.
Addressing misconduct We fund disease awareness campaigns which are designed to
Our Corporate Ethics and Compliance department monitors increase understanding of a specific disease but are not linked
and tracks allegations and suspected legal, ethical or policy
to the promotion of GSK products. These are also governed by
infractions. It ensures that all such allegations are appropriately
our DTC policy.
investigated. Disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal,
is taken where necessary.
Direct-to-consumer advertising
In the US we advertise our prescription medicines to consumers
through TV and print advertisements. This is known as direct-
to-consumer (DTC) advertising. New Zealand, Bangladesh and
Korea also allow limited DTC advertising. DTC advertising of
prescription medicines is not permitted in other markets.
Promoting the use of prescription medicines directly to
consumers can raise concerns. Critics believe that it encourages
people to request unnecessary treatment, adding to the burden
on healthcare systems.
We believe that responsible pharmaceutical advertising is a
useful source of health information for patients. It helps to
increase knowledge of conditions and educates patients
about treatment options. In countries such as the US where
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Our performancex
Our principles for DTC advertising
in the US Reviewing our compliance and risk
management strategy
Our policy states that DTC advertising should: During 2007 we carried out a wide-ranging review of our
corporate ethics strategy. This included conducting interviews
• Only begin after we have spent an
with peer companies, comparing our performance against
appropriate amount of time educating
annual benchmark statistics from the Compliance and
doctors and healthcare professionals about Ethics Leadership Council, an industry organisation, and
new medicines individual discussions on our ethics strategy with GSK senior
management.
• Be designed to educate consumers about
the medicine and the condition for which
We found that our internal control framework is fit for its
it is prescribed
intended purpose and complies with the requirements of the
• Be accurate and supported by evidence UK’s Combined Code on Corporate Governance. We also
found our compliance programme to be consistent with the
• Include information on the risks and benefits
US Federal Sentencing Guidelines and the Office of Inspector
of treatments
General Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical
• Provide information on other treatment Manufacturers. We identified a number of areas for
options (such as diet and lifestyle changes), improvement. Following the review, our focus will be on
where these are referenced in the prescribing further embedding an ethical culture at GSK and ensuring
we give employees the tools to make the right decisions.
information for a product
• Only be targeted at an audience at least We are focusing on the following areas:
0 per cent of whom are adults
• Recruitment – we have included questions on ethics and
integrity in the recruitment process and GSK Managers
Interview Guide and will be carrying out more extensive
Over-the-counter medicines and consumer pre-employment checks. This will help ensure we recruit
healthcare products people who share GSK’s values
Our advertising for over-the-counter medicines, oral healthcare • Management objectives – we will be establishing ethical
and nutritional products is governed by national regulations leadership objectives for the top 1,800 GSK managers.
or codes of practice for advertising. Our over-the-counter In the longer-term we are looking at ways we can further
medicines are also promoted to pharmacists, doctors and recognise and reward strong ethical behaviour
dentists by our sales teams. • Training – when delivering employee training we plan to
include an ethics component and further improve our
We belong to the Consumer Healthcare Products Association in existing ethics training programmes. We plan to extend
the US and comply with its Code of Advertising Practices for ethics and compliance induction training to new employees
Non-prescription Medicines. worldwide. Extra training and guidance will be provided
for employees committing minor breaches to prevent them
GSK Consumer Healthcare advertising is reviewed by Copy committing serious breaches in future
Review Committees (in our larger markets) or medical and legal
• Integrity helpline – we will extend our independently
personnel (in our smaller markets) before publication to ensure
managed helpline to all countries where we operate.
it meets our standards.
Employees will be able to call in their native language. An
extensive communications campaign will be undertaken in
Advertising to children
conjunction to raise awareness of the international helpline
Our guidelines for advertising to children prohibit advertising
• Senior management – we are developing new training
designed to appeal to, or targeted at, children below the
and awareness programmes for site directors and
legally mandated minimum age. For example, to comply with
general managers who are key representatives of GSK
our guidelines in the UK we do not buy advertising space in
in the countries and locations where they work. This will
children’s media and we do not supply vending machines to
include individual briefings by the executive team for new
primary schools.
appointees on their compliance responsibilities
Sports star sponsorship is important to brands such as Progress on meeting our strategy review objectives will be
Lucozade Sport. Our guidelines state that only people who set reviewed twice a year by the GSK Board Audit Committee.
an appropriate example should be used for sponsorship, and
they should have an appeal that is not solely to children below Relationships with healthcare professionals
the age of 13. We updated our policies in the US regarding relationships
with healthcare professionals. This included launching a new
Speaker Evaluation Process to review the effectiveness of
frequent speakers and assess their compliance with our
speaker policies.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ETHICAL CONDUCT
We implemented a new State Reporting System to improve our
reporting of expenditure with healthcare professionals, in line Ethics training in practicex
with legislation in several US states. The system will allow us to
identify and investigate situations where excessive meals and Ethics training helps employees make the right
gifts may have been provided by GSK.
decisions and apply our policies in practice. For
example, new employees are encouraged to
In GSK Japan, payments to individual healthcare professionals
ask themselves the following questions before
and medical institutions are also monitored on a quarterly basis
making a decision:
to check for any excessive and inappropriate payments.
• Would I be embarrassed if my friends or
Questions from doctors on off-label uses for our products family knew what decision I have made?
must be referred to our medical information department
• How would my decision look to a cynic?
except in very specific instances relating to some oncology
and HIV products. In the US, we improved our process • What could the newspaper headline look
for monitoring these referrals to help us ensure that like?
representatives are not promoting off-label uses. We now
• Am I still confident that this is the right
monitor both the volume of letters responding to questions
decision for GSK?
and the types of referrals made by our individual
representatives, for example the number of referrals relating We also run ethical decision-making training
to a particular product or a particular off-label use. for established employees and leaders. During
training employees explore ethical dilemmas
Training and awareness they may face in their work and receive guidance
Over 14,000 managers completed our self certification process to help them understand the appropriate
in 2007. Other training and awareness initiatives vary from
response. This is one example of an ethical
region to region and included:
dilemma:
• 11,000 sales and marketing staff in our international Your team has received approval to hire a
region received training on our revised Pharmaceuticals vendor to help with a business task for which
International Promotion and Marketing Code there is no internal GSK support. You have asked
for and received proposals from three vendors
• 831 US field sales managers and 228 marketing staff (the
employees responsible for overseeing sales representatives) during the specified ‘request for proposals’
attended our new Compliance University programme at period. After the initial proposal period is over
venues across the US. The programme provided a half you find out that a good friend is the sales
day interactive course on key compliance areas. Senior representative for a business who can handle
managers and compliance officers also attended to answer the job for a competitive price.
questions from attendees, help them to explore potential
• Which sections of GSK’s policies will help
ethical dilemmas and reinforce the importance of the
subjects covered you to make a decision on how to act in this
situation?
• Country compliance officers and contacts in Europe
received training on topics such as key corporate policies, • Which option is the correct approach:
ethical dilemmas, and records management a. Call your friend and ask him to submit a
• Targeted communication and training for R&D employees proposal even though the RFP period is
who engage with external experts (including healthcare over
professionals). This included e-learning modules covering b. Speak with your manager or your
use of external experts and payments to healthcare
compliance officer before making a
professionals and the provision of gifts
decision
• Launched a coaching excellence programme in GSK
c. Move forward with the proposals you
Biologicals to help new employees understand and adopt
have collected and make a mental note to
GSK values and develop their skills
ask your manager if you can include your
• Annual online promotion compliance training for all GSK friend in the RFP for the next project
Japan employees who meet with healthcare professionals
The best solution is to move forward with the
Every two years we conduct a leadership survey of GSK proposals you have already collected, answer c.
managers. The last survey in 2006 showed that 91 per cent
of GSK managers believe ‘people in my department show
commitment to performance with integrity.’ 76 per cent
agreed with the statement that ‘I can report unethical practices
without fear of reprisal’, considerably higher than the overall
industry benchmark of 68 per cent.
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Monitoring and compliance
We established a new fraud risk assessment tool to help us In addition to appropriate discipline, employees staying with
prevent financial fraud. Our finance leadership team will review the company received retraining and increased monitoring.
all financial fraud cases on an annual basis. In some cases retraining is also extended to an employee’s
colleagues to prevent them making similar mistakes.
Addressing misconduct
In 2007: The main types of violations this year included:
• 1,535 employees were disciplined for policy violations • Marketing and promotional activities
• Of these, 320 were dismissed or agreed to leave the • Good manufacturing /good distribution practices
company voluntarily (known as separations)
• Falsification of documents
• Other disciplinary actions included documented warnings
• Travel and expenses claims
(1,215 instances) and financial penalties
• The 1,535 disciplinary actions included 476 cases of Direct-to-consumer advertising
employees breaching sales and marketing codes We developed a new online direct-to-consumer (DTC) training
module and certification programme for new marketing
• These 476 cases resulted in 59 dismissals or separations
employees in the US.
from the company. All the other 417 cases resulted in
documented warnings
No problems with GSK US DTC advertising were identified by
the FDA.
Responsible marketing for our
weight-loss treatment
Nearly one-third of US adults are clinically obese
‘You can’t just try alli, you have to commit to it.
and another third are seriously overweight. This
You have to challenge yourself, work hard, and
is causing a dramatic increase in life-threatening
change what you eat.’
medical conditions such as heart disease and
GSK chose the name alli (pronounced al-eye
diabetes, and adding strain to the healthcare
as in alliance) to emphasise that the drug must
system. But even a small amount of weight
be partnered with exercise and a low-fat diet.
loss can greatly reduce the risk of developing
alli comes with educational materials and tools
associated medical problems.
to help users plan their meals and develop an
In 2007, GSK launched alli (orlistat 0 mg), the
exercise programme. A special website,
first over-the-counter weight-loss product
www.myalli.com, provides further support,
to be approved by the US Food and Drug
allowing people to set targets and track their
Administration. It helps overweight adults
weight loss. It includes an ‘am I ready for alli?’
lose weight by preventing about 2 per cent
quiz which asks potential users to confirm their
of dietary fat from being absorbed in the gut.
commitment to moderating their diet, taking
Because the treatment can be bought without
exercise and reading the label carefully. All
a prescription it is vital that alli is marketed
marketing and support materials emphasise
responsibly so it is used in the right way and
that taking alli without switching to a low-fat
only by those who need it.
diet may cause side effects related to how the
Before launching the treatment we distributed
product works.
over ,000 education packs to physicians,
alli was launched in June 2007 and there were
dieticians and pharmacists to ensure alli is
five million visits to www.myalli.com in the
sold appropriately and patients receive the
first three months after product launch, with
right information about the treatment. Our
the average visitor spending over eight minutes
marketing emphasises that alli is not a magic
learning about the brand. Over two million
weight-loss pill and requires lifestyle changes
starter packs were purchased by October,
to produce the right results:
helping overweight adults learn how to eat
healthier foods and use alli to lose 0 per cent
more weight than through dieting alone.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 7ETHICAL CONDUCT
We received comments from the PhRMA Office of The futurex
Accountability relating to GSK DTC print advertisements
for six products: Advair, Boniva, Avodart, Requip, Lamictal
Our focus over the coming year and beyond will be
and Vesicare. In each case GSK provided to the Office of
implementing the findings from our compliance and risk
Accountability, and the individual that raised the comment, a
management strategy review. We will be focusing in
strong justification that its advertisement complied with the
particular on the following challenges:
PhRMA Guiding Principles. No changes were made to the
advertisements as a result of the comments received.
• The need to further embed high ethical standards into
the GSK culture
Targets and key performance indicators (KPIs)
We have set ourselves the following objectives for 2008 and • Ensuring a consistent and comprehensive approach is taken
2009: across all GSK functions and the different countries in
which we operate
• Refresh and update our ethics induction training for new
employees worldwide • Ensuring our approach continues to meet best practice and
reflects changes in the law and stakeholder expectations
• Set ethical leadership objectives for our top managers
• Working to recruit and train high-performing, ethical
• Extend our integrity helpline to cover all countries where we
employees
operate using many native languages
• Streamline and improve the administration of our corporate
policies and procedures
• Embed ethics and integrity concepts in all applicable
business training
Apology issued for Ribena advertising
It is important that all our advertising and We investigated our production methods and
marketing meets the highest ethical standards found a fault in the process designed to test the
and is honest and accurate. Unfortunately, vitamin C content. We also updated the on-pack
sometimes mistakes are made. information for RTD products to remove all
GSK issued an apology in Australia and references to vitamin C levels until the problem
New Zealand after it was found that our was remedied. We also stopped using the ‘four
advertisements contained information that times’ statement.
misled our consumers about the vitamin C Following the publicity and court decisions
content in Ribena Ready-to-Drink (RTD) variants about this misrepresentation, sales of our
in the Ribena range of products in those two Ribena drinks in New Zealand fell by 2 per cent.
markets. We ran an advertising campaign, featuring the
Laboratory experiments by two Auckland heads of GSK Consumer Healthcare in Australia
schoolgirls discovered that Ribena RTD did and New Zealand, apologising for inadvertently
not contain the amounts of vitamin C they misleading consumers. We are working hard to
anticipated. This led to further testing by regain trust in our brand, and sales are returning
regulators in New Zealand and the discovery to earlier levels.
that the RTD products did not contain the We have also tested the vitamin C levels in
minimum stated levels of vitamin C. Also Ribena products in all other markets. This testing
statements on the cartons that blackcurrants has confirmed that they contain the stated levels
used in the product have ‘four times’ the vitamin of vitamin C described on product labels.
C of oranges implied a high level of vitamin C in
the drink. As a consequence GSK was prosecuted
in New Zealand and fined NZ$227,00 (£,000)
for inadvertently misleading consumers.
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
A lot of GSK employees were dismissed for to help us ensure that representatives are not promoting
unethical conduct. Are your policies working? off-label uses. We now monitor both the volume of
In 2007, 320 employees were dismissed or agreed letters responding to questions and the types of referrals
to leave the company voluntarily as a result of policy made by our individual representatives, for example the
violations. Unethical conduct occurs in all companies. number of referrals relating to a particular product or a
We believe these figures demonstrate the effectiveness particular off-label use.
of our monitoring and compliance programmes.
Additionally, our internal audit department regularly
Furthering our ethical culture, recruiting the right
audits our sales and marketing practices globally.
people, providing the right training and tools,
improving our checks, and encouraging people to
speak-up enable us to identify and address unethical
conduct in a consistent and responsive manner.
Is GSK unduly influencing doctors?
We take several approaches to protect against
inappropriate influence of doctors including regional
marketing codes of practice, regular training and
monitoring. Our policies apply to all employees and LinksX
agents and commit us to promotional practices that
are ethical, responsible, principled and patient-centred. In this report:
They prohibit kickbacks, bribery or other inducements
• R esearch practices
to doctors, and any promotion for unapproved uses
• S upply chain
of our medicines. Our sales force is regularly trained
and supervised by managers who monitor educational
In the background section of our website:
events, visits to doctors and expenses.
• G SK Code of Conduct
How do you prevent off-label promotion?
All GSK employees dealing with healthcare professionals • E mployee Guide to Business Conduct
undergo extensive training and monitoring. They are
• M anagement certification statement
instructed that only full and accurate information may
• Our European Promotion of Medicines Code
be provided on approved uses for a medicine. It must be
of Practice
based on valid scientific evidence, and must be accurate,
balanced, fair, objective, unambiguous and up-to-date.
Other resources:
Questions from doctors on off-label uses for our
• US Consumer Healthcare Products Association
products must be referred to our medical information
www.chpa-info.org
department except in very specific instances relating
• UK Advertising Standards Authority www.asa.org.uk
to some oncology and HIV products. In the US, we
improved our process for monitoring these referrals • Information on alli www.myalli.com
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 SUPPLY CHAIN
Supply chain
Our supply chainx
Number of suppliers: 0,000
Spend: £.2 billion
We want to source from companies that
maintain high labour and environmental
Spend by region
standards. Inadequate environment, health
and safety (EHS) and human rights standards
Africa / Middle East 1% Asia Pacific 4%
are an indicator of poor management. This can
impact on quality, compromise patient safety
Europe 46% US 44%
and impede continuity of supply of essential
medicines. Association with poorly performing
suppliers could also damage our reputation.
Headlinesx
Contracts
Japan 1% Latin America 4%
• Strengthened human rights requirements
in supplier contracts
Monitoring
•  EHS audits of critical suppliers
• Ten spot checks of promotional goods suppliers
Anti-counterfeiting
• 7 raids conducted
• £ million worth of counterfeit
goods recovered
This section covers:
• Environment, health and safety and human rights
standards in our supply chain
• Security of supply measures
• Our anti-counterfeiting efforts
• Fair treatment of suppliers
70 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007
We buy goods and services from around 0,000
suppliers. Our supply chain is complex: it ranges
from strategic relationships with suppliers that
manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients,
intermediates, raw materials and packaging for
GSK medicines through to contracts for goods
and services such as office equipment, cleaning
and security.
Supply chain standardsx
Our approachx
Our approach to ensuring high standards for our global
suppliers includes:
• Pre-assessments to determine whether we will work with a
potential new supplier
• Inclusion of human rights clauses in all supplier contracts
and full EHS requirements in contracts for critical suppliers
• Review of EHS and human rights in routine supplier
engagements (for example business performance meetings)
• EHS audits of suppliers
• Regular progress monitoring and additional supportCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Supplier contracts Monitoring and engagement
Our supplier contracts contain EHS requirements based on We consider EHS and human rights issues during routine
our Global EHS Standards, and human rights clauses based interactions with critical suppliers. These interactions include
on the International Labour Organization conventions and ongoing supplier reviews as well as follow-up visits by
the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In 2007, we procurement, quality and EHS staff.
strengthened our supplier selection process so that companies
must agree with our human rights requirements before they We hold global and regional supplier review meetings where
can be included in the selection process. senior GSK managers interact with suppliers on key issues.
We provide contract manufacturers with information on the
Risk-based approach EHS risks associated with the GSK materials they are producing
Our supply chain is large and complex so we use a risk-based or handling and our supplier booklet on working with GSK
approach to target our efforts. We focus on ‘critical suppliers’ includes our ethics policies and requirements.
which are mostly based in Europe, North America and Asia and
account for approximately 30 per cent of our supplier spend. We conduct regular EHS audits of critical suppliers of
Critical suppliers include contract manufacturers and suppliers pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products.
that present the greatest risk to GSK on one or more of the We focus on the 150 higher-risk suppliers.
following issues:
Supplier facilities are evaluated against our EHS standards
• Relevance to the supply of essential medicines and must achieve a score of at least 50 per cent against GSK
EHS standards to continue supplying GSK. Suppliers develop
• Threats to continuity of supply and value to GSK
improvement plans based on the audit findings and we follow
• Regulatory requirements up to monitor progress against these plans.
• Hazards associated with manufacturing processes
We will provide feedback to suppliers if we identify any issues
and materials
through the questions relating to human rights (see above).
• Environmental impacts We will require corrective action if the issues present a potential
breach of the human rights clauses included in supplier
We develop long-term relationships with critical suppliers contracts.
and conduct regular monitoring to support the uninterrupted
supply of high quality materials and services to GSK. Training for GSK procurement teams
We train key procurement group management to make sure
Supplier selection these managers understand our standards and requirements
We conduct a detailed assessment of critical suppliers before for EHS and human rights.
they are selected. We use questionnaires, onsite reviews and
EHS audits to assess their performance on health and safety, In 2007 we continued our Effective Contracting training
environmental and human rights issues. programme for procurement employees. This included an
explanation of the importance of human rights clauses in
Critical suppliers must achieve a minimum EHS audit score of supplier contracts.
50 per cent against GSK EHS standards before they can supply
GSK. In some cases we develop improvement plans with Suppliers of promotional items
potential suppliers and offer training and technical support to Many of our gift items for our Indian business are sourced from
enable the supplier to achieve the required standards. within India in an industry with a higher risk of the use of child
labour.
EHS audits also include questions which help us identify
potential breaches of the human rights clauses included in We conduct unannounced spot checks for these suppliers,
supplier contracts. Suppliers are asked for information on often during the night. These focus on maintaining quality
policies and practices relating to: standards but are also used to check that suppliers are not
using child labour. The spot checks are conducted by GSK
• Age limits for employees procurement and regional sales staff.
• Discrimination against employees and the local population
• Prevention of abuse of individuals
• Wages, benefits and working hours (whether they meet the
legal minimum)
• Rights for workers to organise and recognition of worker
organisations
These questions do not contribute to the EHS audit score, but
may be a reason not to progress business with a supplier.
All contract manufacturers must be approved by the applicable
regulatory authorities for quality reasons before they can start
manufacturing GSK medicines.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 7SUPPLY CHAIN
Our performancex
100.0
90.0
80.0
70.0
60.0
50.0
40.0
30.0
20.0
10.0
0
1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25
Individual EHS audit
• Poor control of exposure to hazardous substances
Number of audits in 2007
• Poor waste management and environmental controls
Asia Americas Europe
• Frequent regulatory findings
Type of supplier
Primary (raw materials, No significant issues were identified relating to the human
intermediates and active rights questions we ask during audits.
pharmaceutical ingredients) 28 3 7
Pharmaceuticals (formulations) 3 7 1 Promotional goods suppliers in India
In 2007 we conducted ten unannounced spot checks of
Consumer Healthcare (excipients,
promotional goods suppliers in India (at least one visit for each
actives, raw materials) 6 0 0
company supplying promotional goods to our Indian business
Type of engagement in 2007). These uncovered no evidence of child labour.
Audit/review 33 10 7
During a spot check conducted in 2006, we found one supplier
Technical transfer/other visit 4 0 1
using child labour. We issued corrective actions to this supplier
Average audit score 46 68 69 and emphasised that the use of child labour represents a
contractual breach and is completely unacceptable. In 2007, a
follow-up visit confirmed that this supplier had completed the
In 2007, we conducted 55 supplier audits/reviews1. The
corrective actions and no longer uses underage workers.
chart shows the range of audit results – the highest score
In 2007, we also wrote to all our suppliers to raise awareness of
was 95 per cent and the lowest 27 per cent. The average
our human rights policy.
audit score was 53 and 20 out of 47 suppliers failed to meet
the minimum requirement of 50 per cent against GSK EHS
We currently do not conduct spot checks of promotional goods
standards. Potential new suppliers that scored below the
suppliers in other countries.
minimum level were either not progressed or work is underway
to improve performance to acceptable levels. We work with
EHS performance of contract manufacturers
existing suppliers to ensure necessary improvements are made
We are working to assess the EHS impacts of our contract
within an agreed timeframe.
manufacturers. See the Environment section of this report
on page 78 for more information.
The most significant audit findings in 2007 occurred mainly in
emerging economies. These included:
• No infrastructure for fire protection or poor emergency
response capabilities
• Absence of fundamental risk controls for process safety
1 Not all reviews are scored
72 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007
)%(
serocS
EHS audit scores 2007
27 29 31 33 35 37 39 41 43 45 47CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Counterfeitingx
Raising supplier standards in India
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), less than
In 200, we assessed a potential new supplier
one per cent of pharmaceutical products sold in developed
of active pharmaceutical ingredients in India. countries are counterfeit, but in the developing world this
We conducted initial audits of the supplier’s figure may be higher than 10 per cent, and up to 30 per cent in
two facilities to assess whether it could supply some countries.
GSK. The facilities scored 7 and 2 per cent,
Counterfeit drugs come in many variations, and may contain:
well below the GSK minimum of 0 per cent.
However, rather than simply refusing to work
• None of the legitimate active ingredient
with the supplier we made recommendations
and agreed action plans on how the supplier • The active ingredient in reduced or sub-therapeutic
amounts
could improve. We provided guidance and
training to support them with progressing • A completely different and/or inappropriate active
improvements. We also brought the supplier to ingredient
our manufacturing facility in Jurong, Singapore,
• Impurities such as unapproved colourants or micro-
as an example of good practice. organisms
Four years on, the supplier has achieved the
• Packaging that falsifies the product description or expiry
minimum required standards to work with GSK. date
We will continue to monitor and support the
supplier to ensure performance continues to Most counterfeit drugs are not subject to quality control,
improve. hygiene standards, testing of ingredients, monitoring of
product specifications or equipment. Counterfeiting is a
threat to public health, potentially causing harm to patients
and even death.
Security of supply
Our approachx
Ensuring a continuous supply of high quality medicines is
essential to the patients who depend on our products, as We add anti-counterfeiting features to our product packaging.
well as to the success of our business. It is vital that security These include holograms, security seals, complicated
of supply is not compromised at any stage of the distribution background patterns that are difficult to photocopy or scan,
chain. as well as a wide variety of covert identifiers which are added
using print technologies and sophisticated markers. These
Strategy directors from each therapy area have overall help us to identify counterfeits and gather evidence against
responsibility for security of supply. Divisional heads meet offenders. Our Packaging Security unit in the UK carries out
our procurement teams every month to discuss any potential forensic examinations of all suspected counterfeit GSK product.
issues.
Our sales employees world wide also play an important role
GMS (our manufacturing business) implements contingency in helping to discover counterfeit products through continual
observation of the local market place. Our Corporate
plans for a list of ‘medically critical’ products. These plans are
Security department investigates every potential case of
defined on a product by product basis but may include:
counterfeiting and uses internal and external investigators to
collect information which we then assess and report to the
• Holding sufficient stocks of products, where the product
relevant government authorities to set in motion official law
has a long shelf life
enforcement action.
• Holding sufficient stocks of active pharmaceutical
ingredients As well as removing fake products from the market one of
our primary aims is to trace the products back to source, to
• Sourcing products from more than one location (known as
shut down the manufacturers and their partners (for example
‘dual sourcing’)
the packaging printers). We provide training for regulatory
authorities, such as the FDA in the US, law enforcement
We work with all critical suppliers to encourage them to
agencies and customs officers in many parts of the world.
implement their own contingency plans. In high risk countries
we will set up joint ventures to ensure that we maintain control
over the distribution chain. We have three global contracts
for suppliers that deliver goods between GSK facilities and
distribute products to market. We conduct regular high level
operational reviews of these suppliers, which include security
elements.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 7SUPPLY CHAIN
GSK works very closely with the wider industry to investigate
Anti-counterfeiting
cases of counterfeiting and we also raise awareness with
governments internationally, pressing for stricter laws and Number of Number Number Value of
more severe penalties. GSK is also a founding member of the reported of raids of arrests counterfeit
Pharmaceutical Security Institute, (PSI), which coordinates the cases of products
counterfeit found during
information collection and investigation process within the
raids
international pharmaceutical industry. The PSI is influential in
helping to shape anti- counterfeiting policy among national 2007 429 71 127 £15 million
governments and international organisations. Together with
2006 248 57 94 £10 million
the PSI, GSK is a major contributor to the WHO’s internationally
represented anti-counterfeiting working groups.
2005 334 47 31 £13 million
For many years, GSK has been working with the Chinese Public
Security Bureau to help eradicate the trade in counterfeit
medicines. During 2007, we supported a major investigation
that resulted in the arrest of an organised counterfeiting
Fair treatment of suppliersx
syndicate in Guangdong and Anhui Provinces, and the closure
of an ‘underground’ factory. A huge quantity of counterfeit
It is important that we treat our suppliers fairly and pay them
Heptodin and Panadol tablets were seized, along with the
promptly. In some regions we conduct surveys to measure
products of other multinational companies. The total market
supplier satisfaction.
value of the seized products amounted to 100,000,000 RMB,
(£6,750,000). This market value did not include the vast
Improving speed of payment in the UK
quantity of raw materials and semi-finished products that
In 2007, we launched a programme to improve our
were seized. The quality and sanitary conditions at the factory
performance for paying UK suppliers on time. In 2006,
were appalling. Subsequent scientific analysis revealed that
we paid around 75 per cent of suppliers on time. The main
the factory had also been producing counterfeit Zeffix for
causes of late payment were: invoices being submitted on
international markets.
paper rather than through the preferred electronic system;
invoices without a purchase order (PO) number; invoices
Ten defendants in this particular investigation have now been
submitted after the date on the invoice; and delays in the
convicted of counterfeiting; the two principals were sentenced
approval of invoice payment.
to seven and a half and five years imprisonment respectively.
The remaining eight defendants were sentenced to terms of
We worked with suppliers to encourage them to use the
imprisonment ranging from 16 to 20 months. Fines were also
electronic system and to submit invoices on time. We also
imposed.
standardised payment terms for as many suppliers as possible,
raised awareness about the use of POs and made the invoice
The dismantling of this counterfeiting network has had a
approval process more efficient. This increased the proportion
significant impact on the supply of counterfeit Heptodin, Zeffix
of suppliers paid on time to 83 per cent.
and Panadol to the GSK China and International markets.
Criminals also counterfeit our consumer products. For example
in 2007, we discovered counterfeit Sensodyne toothpaste in
The futurex
the UK that had been manufactured using diethylene glycol,
a toxic substance, in place of glycerol. GSK contacted the
We will continue to work with critical suppliers to help improve
authorities and media to raise awareness of the issue, and
their EHS performance. This will include:
how to identify the fake toothpaste. We traced the counterfeit
product back to a factory in China which was shut down by the
• Developing closer relationships with key suppliers through
authorities.
training and engagement
• Conduct business forums for suppliers to raise awareness
of our standards
Our performancex
• Identify strategic suppliers to achieve ‘Highly Protected
Risk’ status (high levels of engineering and fire protection
In 2007 there were 429 reported cases of counterfeiting of
standards)
GSK products. These resulted in 71 raids, 127 arrests with
£15 million worth of counterfeit products found during raids.
The number of 71 raids includes seven criminal manufacturing
facilities and 59 wholesale/distribution outlets. The seven
factories represent criminal operations that were capable of
mass production of counterfeit medicines and other healthcare
products. The raids on these facilities undoubtedly prevented
huge amounts of counterfeit product from entering legitimate
markets around the world.
7 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
What are you doing to raise standards in your What are you doing in your supply chain to plan
supply chain? for a flu pandemic?
We have long-term relationships with our critical We have implemented a contingency plan to ensure our
suppliers and we offer them training and support to operations and the supply of medically critical products
help them raise standards. Our monitoring process is are not compromised by a flu pandemic. We are now
a key part of raising awareness of our expectations encouraging our critical suppliers to implement their
and identifying areas where suppliers need to improve. own contingency plans.
We work with our suppliers to help them make the Have the problems of contamination of
necessary changes identified. pharmaceuticals and toothpastes made in
China affected any GSK products?
Are there human rights risks in your supply chain?
No. When evidence of contamination of non-GSK
GSK’s supply chain is large and complex, and like
products is reported in the media we conduct an
all similar supply chains, contains a risk of human
extensive quality check to ensure no GSK products are
rights violations. These risks vary considerably based
affected. We have a rigorous assessment programme
on the type of supplier and the goods or service we
to ensure the highest quality is maintained in our
are sourcing. Our manufacturing and R&D suppliers
products.
employ skilled workers so there is a lower risk of human
rights violations. Our EHS audits aim to ensure good
working conditions at these supplier facilities. There are
considerably higher human rights risks in suppliers that
employ low skilled workers, for example promotional
Linksx
goods suppliers. We conduct spot checks of these
suppliers in India.
In our CR report
Our supplier selection process aims to ensure we only
enter relationships with suppliers that respect human • H uman rights
rights. We also include clauses in contracts with all • E thical conduct
suppliers which specify that upholding human rights is
In the background section of our website
a condition of doing business with GSK.
• O ur Global EHS Standards
Our human rights clauses
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 7ENVIRONMENT
Environment We concentrate our reporting on the environmental issues
that are most relevant to GSK and of most interest to our
stakeholders. These are:
• Issues with a potential financial benefit or impact for GSK
Discovering, developing, manufacturing and such as materials efficiency and energy efficiency
selling pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare
• Issues directly related to the use of chemicals such as
products uses energy and resources and volatile organic compounds, wastewater and hazardous
waste
produces emissions and waste.
We have set company-wide targets to reduce these impacts
(see page 84 and page 92).
Environmental managementx
Headlinesx
Our approachx
• Launched a revised climate change programme
which committed us to reducing our energy Our EHS vision
use from operations and transport and related To achieve sustainable competitive business advantage and
climate change impact by 20 per cent per unit environmental sustainability through leadership and excellence.
of sales by 200 and by  per cent by 20
Overall responsibility for environmental issues rests with the
(from 200 levels)
Corporate Executive Team and the Board. The Chief Executive
• We are on track to meet these energy and
Officer represents EHS on the Board. The Board Chairman is the
climate change targets and expect progress to champion for GSK’s climate change programme. The General
accelerate in 200 Counsel has operational management responsibility for EHS on
• Remained on track for the elimination of CFCs the Corporate Executive Team. The Vice President, Corporate
by 200 Environment, Health and Safety reports to the General Counsel
and has operational responsibility for EHS. The activities of
• Met annual targets for reductions in energy
the Corporate Environment, Health and Safety department
use, water use and wastewater pollution
are overseen by the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council,
• Did not meet targets for non-hazardous
the Corporate Executive Team and the Audit and Corporate
waste disposal or volatile organic compound
Responsibility Committees of the Board.
releases to air but will develop plans to improve
performance See the background pages of our website for more
information.
Management system
We manage our environmental impacts through our integrated
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) management system.
Our most significant environmental impacts are: This covers risk identification, standards, training, target setting
and audits. Our EHS system is aligned with the international
• Our climate change impact from operational energy use standards ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
and propellants released from our inhaler products
See the background pages of our website for more
• Release of pharmaceuticals into the environment after use
information.
by patients
• Raw material and water use Policies
Our EHS Policy sets out the broad principles we expect our
• Disposal of waste
operations to meet. We have also established 64 Global EHS
• Emissions of volatile organic compounds during Standards which outline specific requirements for the company
manufacturing worldwide. We provide sites with an EHS management toolkit
which contains detailed guidance to help them comply with
We strive to reduce the environmental impacts of our the standards.
operations and products. After many years of managing
emissions we are now working towards our long-term goal of Read our EHS policy in the background pages of our website.
environmental sustainability, designing more efficient processes
that use fewer types and quantities of materials that are less
hazardous and produce less waste. As well as benefiting the
environment, this approach encourages innovation, helps
reduce costs and improves relationships with our stakeholders.
7 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Stakeholder engagement
We engage with stakeholders at corporate and local level to EHS training is included in induction training for many new
inform our approach to managing EHS and to help identify employees with EHS responsibilities, with regular training in
emerging issues. This includes ad hoc meetings and formalised areas specific to employees’ job duties. Regional groups get
feedback from our stakeholder panel in the UK (created in together to discuss topical issues and to share good practices.
2005) and an EHS stakeholder workshop held in the US for
the first time in 2007. We engage with regulators to help People who are responsible for EHS programmes are
them develop controls that protect the environment while encouraged to attend relevant seminars and anyone who deals
safeguarding the development and launch of new medicines. with EHS issues or programmes receives job training. Some
Read more about how we engage with stakeholders and the EHS training is also available through myLearning, GSK’s online
feedback we received in 2007 in the Stakeholder engagement training service. Most EHS training is managed at site level and
section of this report, page 11. is allocated according to job roles.
Strategy For more information see EHS Communication in the
Our EHS Plan for Excellence sets out our ten-year strategy to background pages of our website.
improve EHS performance up to 2015. The Plan is reviewed
every five years and new targets are set. It is designed Audits and compliance
to support GSK’s business strategies and contains three We regularly audit our operations, contract manufacturers
aspirations: and key suppliers to assess compliance with legislation and
implementation of our EHS standards. Audits also assess
• EHS fundamentals embedded in the business – to produce whether appropriate management systems are in place to
and sustain high EHS performance we need to combine improve performance and maintain compliance. Our internal
structured EHS systems with the attitudes and values that auditors are certified as lead auditors against the ISO 14001
create a positive EHS culture. To achieve this we need to and OHSAS 18001 standards.
embed EHS awareness and systems in all GSK activities.
We use a risk-based approach to determine the frequency
• Environmental sustainability – to embrace environmental of audits and to focus assessments on the most significant
sustainability as a driver for competitive advantage we need environmental risks. All GSK manufacturing and R&D sites are
to define the principles of environmental sustainability and audited at least once every four years. Sites are also expected
progressively integrate them into the business, translating to conduct routine self-audits of their EHS programmes.
them into practical action. We require sites to develop plans to address any weaknesses
identified by audits and monitor progress with implementation
• Open and transparent EHS external relations – external of these plans.
stakeholders who have a legitimate interest in the
company’s EHS affairs should have ready access to relevant In 2006, we began a four-year programme to certify all
information and the opportunity for dialogue about GSK manufacturing sites to the international environmental
issues that concern them. Building open relationships and standard ISO 14001 and the health and safety standard OHSAS
partnerships can lead to business opportunities, while 18001.
failure to engage may damage our reputation.
Read about our approach to auditing our suppliers in the
Each of these aspirations is supported by strategic objectives Supply chain section of this report, page 70.
with performance targets in key areas.
Reporting suppliers’ EHS performance
Read more about our EHS Plan for Excellence in the We want to understand the total EHS footprint of the processes
background pages of our website. We use annual action plans used to make our products. This means measuring the
based around a specific theme which focus our efforts on impacts of our suppliers of active pharmaceutical ingredients
priority issues. The theme for 2007 was ‘EHS Stewardship’. and product components, as well as those from our own
This means integrating environmental performance into operations.
manufacturing and business processes while also building
environmental and safety considerations into decision making. Over the past few years it has proved difficult to obtain
environment, health and safety performance data from these
Further information about our annual action plan is available suppliers just for the products that they manufacture for GSK.
in the Environment, Health and Safety background section of In 2007, we surveyed a sample of suppliers to determine their
our website. problems with providing the data. As a result of the survey we
have refined our parameters for performance measures and
Training and awareness conducted a pilot survey.
We provide training and awareness programmes to inform
employees about risks, to create a culture where environment, We have also put in place an electronic system to collect data
health and safety thinking is an integral part of doing business, from critical suppliers. Critical suppliers include suppliers of
and to help employees understand the EHS issues specific to active pharmaceutical ingredients and product components
their jobs. For example employees handling chemicals need to and other suppliers that present the greatest risk to GSK on
understand the properties, hazards and necessary precautions issues relating to security of supply, regulation, and process
associated with those substances. and materials hazards and environmental impacts.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 77ENVIRONMENT
Our performancex
Suppliers’ EHS performancex
Targets
For the first time in 2007 we used an electronic We set company-wide targets to manage our most significant
system to collect EHS data from a sample of our environmental impacts (see table). We have revised our
suppliers. This was a first step toward determining energy and CO emissions targets as part of our new climate
2
the total environmental footprint of the processes programme (see page 80). Our materials efficiency goal aims
used to make our products. We recognise that this to reduce consumption of resources which in turn reduces
does not represent a complete picture of the EHS emissions to air and water and production of waste. Targets
profile of our suppliers and we plan to continue to and performance are normalised by sales based on a constant
refine our collection of EHS data from significant exchange rate.
suppliers of our active pharmaceutical ingredients
and finished products. Target Progress in
2007
This was a test of the capability of the electronic
system and of the response rate. We contacted EHS audit scores Average: 82 per cent
2 of our ‘critical suppliers’ (see supplier section by 2010 78%
Minimum: 70 per cent
page xx). The electronic system functioned well
by 2010 58%
and 2 of the 2 suppliers responded giving a
response rate of 0 per cent. Energy for 20 per cent reduction reduced*
operations and per unit of sales from 1%
These 2 suppliers provided the following transport 2006 baseline by 2010
information about their energy and water use,
Climate change 20 per cent reduction reduced
waste generated and injuries and illnesses. impact from per unit of sales from 2%
Energy use energy for 2006 baseline by 2010
operations and
0. million gigajoules used by suppliers in addition
transport1
to .0 million gigajoules used by GSK
Solid waste 1 per cent annual increased
2. per cent of electricity generated from reduction from 2006 2%
renewable sources compared to . per cent in GSK baseline per unit of sales
Water use Water 2 per cent annual reduced
. million cubic metres of water used by suppliers reduction from 2006 8%
baseline per unit of sales
in addition to 20. million cubic metres used by GSK
Wastewater 3 per cent annual reduced
Hazardous waste
(chemical oxygen reduction from 2006 11%
2. million kilograms generated by suppliers in
demand) baseline per unit of sales
addition to 2. million kilograms generated by
Ozone depletion2 100 per cent elimination eliminated
GSK
by 2010 from 2006 54%
.7 per cent of hazardous waste was solvent baseline
waste compared to 2.7 per cent for GSK Air emissions 2 per cent annual increased
2.0 per cent of hazardous waste was recycled (volatile organic reduction from 2006 4%
emissions) baseline per unit of sales
compared to .7 per cent for GSK
Non-hazardous waste *attained our 2007 target of 1% energy reduction
. million kilograms generated by suppliers 1Climate change impact is measured as CO equivalent emissions
2
in addition to 20. million kilograms generated 2I ncludes ozone depletion potential from production and
by GSK refrigeration losses
.2 per cent recycled compared to . per cent Targets and performance normalised by sales are based on a
constant exchange rate
for GSK
2. per cent disposed to landfill compared to
Audits
.2 per cent for GSK
In 2007, we audited 33 GSK sites for implementation of our
Injury and illness
EHS standards. The average score was 78 per cent (compared
Reportable injuries and illnesses per 00,000 hours to 74 per cent in 2006). The lowest score we consider to be
worked were .2 compared to 0. for GSK acceptable is 50 per cent. No site scored below this level and
Lost time injuries and illnesses per 00,000 hours there were no critical findings (findings which indicate a high
worked were 2. compared to 0. for GSK probability of incidents with potentially serious consequences).
Calendar days lost per 00,000 hours worked were
Three sites achieved ‘leadership’ scores above 90 per cent (two
.7 compared to 7. for GSK
in 2006), while a further 14 achieved scores over 80 per cent
(ten in 2006).
7 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
The best performance on environmental issues was in: Three of the 2007 first place award winners are featured in
this report. All the winners act as examples of innovation and
• W aste management best practice for other sites. They receive a trophy as well as a
donation to the charity of their choice. See further details on
• E nergy efficiency
the CEO’s EHS Excellence Award background pages of our
• W ater management website.
Sites were generally weakest on: REACH preparation
In 2007, we worked to reduce risks to continuity of supply
• W aste minimising of chemicals presented by the introduction of the EU’s
Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals
• R ecycling
(REACH) legislation. This involved:
Twenty-three of our 80 Pharmaceuticals and Consumer
• A ssessing the scope of operations potentially affected by
Healthcare manufacturing sites are now certified to the ISO
REACH and identifying any substances manufactured by
14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards (a further three are
GSK that will require registration in June 2008
certified to ISO 14001 only). One Consumer Healthcare R&D
site is certified to both standards and one GSK Biologicals site • P reparing inventories of all chemicals covered by REACH
and one Pharmaceuticals R&D site are certified to ISO 14001. that we purchase. This involved the evaluation of over
The certified sites are in Argentina, Brazil, China, Egypt, France, 3500 chemicals
Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Mexico, Poland, Saudi
• C ontacting companies that supply GSK with chemicals
Arabia, Spain, Turkey, the US and the UK.
covered by REACH to assess their management of potential
risks to continuity of supply to GSK. This involved the
See Health and Safety on page 105 for more information on
evaluation of 650 suppliers
audit results.
Global Harmonisation of Classification
Compliance
and Labelling (GHS)
There were no fines or penalties reported in 2007.
We continued to prepare for impending changes to
classification and labelling of hazards as part of the UN’s GHS
Awareness
regulation. This included:
These are some of the ways we raised awareness about EHS in
2007:
• C hanging the way we produce safety data sheets to ensure
compliance
• T he myEHS Community intranet site. This includes the
EHS Manager information system with policies, standards, • D eveloping training for employees on new hazard warning
guidelines, tools, training materials, examples of best symbols and labels introduced as part of GHS
practice and news
• T he CEO EHS Excellence Awards (see below)
• E arthweek, run every June to coincide with World Climate changex
Environment Day. In 2007, over 17,000 employees from
61 sites in 39 countries took part. We sent information
Our approachx
kits to all sites to help them develop their own activities
including tree planting, clearing litter from a local forest
We are committed to reducing our impact on climate change.
and involving local school children in drawing competitions
This year we launched a new climate programme which
with an environment theme
focuses on reducing energy use in our operations (facilities
• A n article in our internal magazine, Spirit, to raise and processes) and for transport of products and employees
awareness of our new climate strategy (see feature box). We set new targets to reduce our climate
change impact (CO equivalent emissions) and energy use in
• A company-wide live broadcast to raise awareness of how 2
operations, and transport from 2006 levels by 20 per cent per
employees can be more aware of climate change and help
unit of sales (based on a constant exchange rate) by 2010 and
reduce energy use
by 45 per cent by 2015. As well as benefiting the environment,
• E HS bulletins which profile successful EHS projects at GSK taking action on climate change helps us cut costs, improves
sites during the year our reputation with stakeholders and helps us prepare for
future legislation on emissions.
EHS Excellence Awards
This recognises people who have done exceptional work in Read our position paper on energy management in the
promoting and implementing EHS projects. In 2007 – the sixth background section of our website.
year of the awards – there were 86 entries from 30 countries
and from all GSK’s business sectors. Top honours were made to
11 projects from Australia, Belgium, Canada, Germany, India,
Ireland, Singapore and the UK.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 7ENVIRONMENT
We are also researching ways to minimise the amount of Emissions trading
greenhouse gases released when our propellant inhaler A number of UK sites participate in the government’s voluntary
products are used by patients for asthma and chronic Climate Change Agreement scheme which provides companies
obstructive pulmonary disease. These account for two-thirds with energy tax rebates if they meet agreed energy efficiency
of our climate impact. Propellant inhalers contain either targets. Although 2007 was not a reportable year, performance
hydrofluoroalkanes (HFAs) or chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) in 2007 indicates that all participating GSK sites will comply
which ensure a consistent dose but are thousands of times with their Climate Change Agreements in 2008.
more damaging to the climate than CO. CFCs also deplete
2
the ozone layer (see page 90). Several GSK sites participated in the European Union Emissions
Trading Scheme. Collectively these sites emitted below their
specified CO allowances, generating a surplus of carbon
2
credits. Proceeds from the sale of carbon credits are invested in
Our updated climate energy saving projects.
change programme
Our performancex
GSK’s carbon footprint
Building on our 200 to 200 programme to
SPACING IS PDF PROBLEM
reduce energy use and related climate change
impact, we initially established an energy 2007 4.5 1.7 0.4 0.3
conservation programme in 200 with an
energy reduction target of one per cent per
year, normalised by sales, (based on a constant
exchange rate). Following the fourth assessment
report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Baseline 4.3 1.7 0.3 0.4
SPACING PDF PROBLEM
2006
Climate Change, published in 2007, we revised
our programme and committed to new targets.
These are to reduce our climate change impact 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
(CO equivalent emissions) and energy use in million tonnes CO equivalent
2 2
operations and transport from 200 levels by
Key:
20 per cent per unit of sales (based on a constant
exchange rate) by 200 and by  per cent by n Climate impact from use n Climate impact from
20. of inhalers by patient travel and transport
We will achieve these targets by: n Climate impact from n Climate impact from
operations energy other3
• Making our buildings and equipment more
energy efficient 3I ncludes climate change impact from greenhouse gases released
from cooling systems, during the production of inhaler products,
• Installing onsite renewable technologies such
from wastewater treatment and other processess.
as wind turbines and photovoltaic panels
• Buying electricity produced from renewable In 2007, our carbon footprint was equivalent to 6.9 million
sources tonnes of CO compared to 6.8 million in 2006. The majority
2
of our emissions come from the use of inhalers by patients
• Reducing the climate impact of travel and
with respiratory disease and in 2007 the use of these medically
transport by switching from air to sea freight
important devices increased, with emissions from inhalers
and by transporting more per load to reduce
increasing from 4.3 million tonnes of CO to 4.5 million tonnes.
the number of journeys needed 2
The Corporate Executive Team approved a If we exclude the use of inhalers, our carbon footprint reduced
central fund to finance these energy saving from 2.5 million tonnes of CO in 2006 to 2.4 million tonnes in
2
projects. In 2007, the EHS team consulted with 2007, reflecting energy efficiency progress across the business.
GSK businesses to identify potential energy A small component of our carbon footprint is the greenhouse
gases emitted during the production of inhaler products, from
savings at site level. Over 00 projects were
wastewater treatment and other processes as well as from
identified and a cross-business team has been
leakage from cooling systems.
set up to manage selection and implementation
of these projects.
We use the Greenhouse Gas Protocol for all of our calculations
of CO emissions.
2
0 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Climate impact from operations Energy consumption
energy and transport
Target
Target 2010
2010
2007
2007
Baseline
Baseline 2006
2006
2005
2005
Baseline
Baseline 2001
2001
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200
0 20 40 60 80 100
gigajoules per £ million (sales)*
tonnes CO equivalent per £ million (sales)*
2
Key:
Key: u Target n Current data
u Target n Current data
n Historical data
n Historical data
Energy consumption
Climate impact
Year gj per £ million (sales)*
Year tonnes CO equivalent
2
per £ million (sales)* 2001 1010.1
2005 897.5
2001 95
2006 828.4
2005 90
2007 804.0
2006 87
*Targets and performance normalised by sales are based on a
2007 86
constant exchange rate.
*Targets and performance normalised by sales are based on a Any errors found in data from prior years are corrected so data may
constant exchange rate. vary slightly from earlier reports.
Thirty per cent of our carbon footprint is attributed to emissions Seventy-nine per cent of our energy use is attributed to
from energy for operations (facilities and processes) and energy for operations (facilities and processes). In 2007 our
transport of products and employees. While absolute climate absolute energy use in this category decreased by 1.1 per cent
change emissions from these sources changed less than a half to 19.0 million gigajoules. Global Manufacturing and Supply
per cent, our emissions per £ million of sales reduced by (GMS), our active pharmaceutical ingredients manufacturing
1.6 per cent . We emitted 85.9 tonnes of CO equivalent per group, Biologicals, our vaccines manufacturing and research
2
£ million of sales at constant exchange rate, compared to group and our Pharmaceuticals Research and Development
87.3 tonnes per £ million of sales in 2006. We expect progress (R&D) group accounted for 56 per cent, 14 per cent, and
toward the new 2010 targets to accelerate in 2008 as the 25 per cent respectively.
climate change programme gets underway.
Between 2001 and 2006 our energy efficiency programme
Our energy use from operations and transport on which these achieved incremental gains in energy efficiency by focusing
CO emissions are based, decreased 1.3 per cent from 1037 to on operational changes. These included optimisation of
2
1024 gigajoules per £ million of sales. equipment use, resetting thermostats and changing to
energy efficient lighting. In 2007, our energy use per £ million
of sales based on a constant exchange rate, decreased
2.9 per cent, exceeding our previous target of a one per cent
per year improvement.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ENVIRONMENT
In mid 2007 we revised our climate change programme
Installing new technologies
to include more challenging targets covering energy for
Solar panels have been installed to provide
operations (facilities and processes) and transport of products
and employees. These will be achieved through investment renewable energy to the site.
in energy efficiency projects which will bring more significant As a result of these measures the Jurong site
gains over a longer time frame. We approved funding for these has:
projects in late 2007 and when fully implemented we expect
• Prevented a projected 0 per cent increase
them to deliver significant energy savings.
in energy usage
Since 2006, some parts of our business continued to make • Reduced energy use by an average of
incremental gains in energy efficiency but growth in our 0 per cent per year since 200
vaccines business and the associated increases in energy use
• Saved 22,2 tonnes of CO since 200
partially offset these efficiency gains. 2
• Created an energy saving culture among
For more information on our work to increase energy employees
efficiency, see the background pages of our website.
Transport of products and employees
Saving energy in Singaporex In 2007, we estimate that transport of our products and
employees accounted for 367 million kilograms of CO
2
compared to 340 million kilograms in 2006. This was
Our site at Jurong in Singapore has reduced its
equivalent to about 18 per cent of our climate change impact
energy use by ,000 MWh per year since 2002
from energy. This increase was due to improvements in our
through a comprehensive energy savings plan.
data collection systems. We identified shipping routes by air,
This includes equipment upgrades, installation
sea and road not captured in previous data. 2007 data also
of environmentally-friendly technologies and a include additional air travel originating in the US.
programme to engage and motivate employees.
Jurong manufactures active ingredients for Business air travel accounted for 30 per cent of our travel-
related CO emissions. Our global sales fleet accounted for
medicines, including those used in the treatment 2
34 per cent of our travel-related CO emissions.
of HIV, hepatitis B and asthma. Over the last 2
ten years the number of medicines in production
Transport of our products from manufacturing plants to
at Jurong has increased. In 2002 site managers
distributors accounted for 36 per cent of our travel-related CO
2
predicted that Jurong’s electricity consumption emissions. The majority of our products were transported by air
was likely to increase by around 0 per cent by freight (accounting for 75 per cent of our product transport-
200. related CO emissions). These are some of the ways we aim to
2
reduce the impact of transporting products:
A comprehensive energy savings plan was
introduced to reduce the site’s operating costs
• C onsolidating freight shipments
and minimise its impact on the environment.
• R educing the number of shipping points
This includes:
Involving GSK employees • M aking more use of round tripping (managing inbound
freight trucks so they do not return empty)
Regular awareness campaigns are run to
educate employees about energy saving • S witching from air to sea transport where possible
behaviour. Energy reduction targets are built (see case study).
into personal development plans and employees
who achieve their goals are recognised through
excellence awards.
Improving the efficiency of equipment
Manufacturing processes can generate a lot of
heat, wasting energy. The site has improved air
conditioning and ventilation systems to cool
down equipment more efficiently and reduce
energy use. Maintenance and repairs on all
equipment is carried out on a regular basis.
If anything is damaged it is replaced with the
most up-to-date and energy efficient part
available.
2 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
We are exploring ways to reduce the amount of HFAs released
Reducing CO emissions through sea from our inhaler products. Possible options include:
2
freight
• M inimising the volume of HFA 134a used per inhaler by
either changing the product or the way it is delivered
GSK Europe has significantly reduced CO
2
emissions and saved money by distributing • R educing HFA 134a emissions in manufacturing
goods using sea freight, rather than by air.
Read more about the environmental impacts of our inhalers in
Hamburg in Germany – the world’s ninth-largest
Ozone depletion on page 90 of this report.
container port – is one of our global distribution
hubs. GSK medicines are sent from our Bad
Oldesloe distribution centre via the port to the
Middle East, Asia and Europe. Product stewardshipx
GSK products delivered to Dubai, Japan,
Singapore and Iceland from Bad Oldesloe We take the environment into account across the entire
are now transported by boat rather than plane. lifecycle of our products. This begins with process design and
continues through manufacturing to use by the patients and
This has reduced carbon dioxide emissions for
eventual disposal. EHS stewardship was our EHS theme for
these routes by  per cent – a total of
2007, consistent with our move away from managing risk to
0,0 tonnes between 200 and 2007.
concentrate on opportunities presented by increased process
Making the switch did not just benefit the efficiency, one of the elements of environmental sustainability
environment. It brought a cost saving of that we identified as a particular focus.
00,000 between 200 and 200 and improved
product quality. This is because sea containers
have better temperature control than those
used in air freight. There has also been less theft Cutting the environmental impact of
and damage because containers transported our UK household brands
by sea are sealed at the dispatch site and not
re-opened until they reach their destination. In 2007 our UK Nutritional Healthcare division
launched a new sustainability strategy, led by
We are now planning to switch from air to sea
Graham Neale, to cut the environmental impacts
freight for deliveries from Bad Oldesloe to
of our household brands.
China, Australia and South America.
The process started with a detailed carbon
footprint analysis for nine Ribena, Lucozade
and Horlicks products. This showed that the
Travelling to work
most significant environmental impacts relate
We have ‘green travel plans’ at a number of sites to encourage
to packaging and ingredients. Energy use, water
employees to reduce the environmental impact of their
and waste are also significant. We have set
travel to work. For example, at GSK House in Brentford, UK,
targets to reduce the environmental impacts in
privileged parking spaces are given to car-sharers and drivers of
fuel-efficient cars. Buses powered by biodiesel run to and from each of these areas.
the local train station, while changing rooms and showers are Our ingredients target
provided for cyclists as well as discounts for bicycle equipment
• To have sustainable sourcing strategies in
and repairs. We are beginning to use hybrid-engine cars for our
place for all major ingredients, such as fruit
chauffeur service.
and carbohydrate by 200
Product climate impact Our progress – We source all our blackcurrants
We have been phasing out CFCs from our inhaler products for for Ribena in the UK, avoiding the environmental
the last 15 years. Only two per cent of our inhalers now contain impacts of long-distance transport. We partner
CFCs and we have committed to a complete phase-out by the
with the Wildlife Trusts and growers to boost
end of 2010 and we are on track to meet this target.
biodiversity on blackcurrant farms. We have
also worked closely with the Scottish Crop
The replacement propellants, HFAs, have a lower but still
Research Institute to develop two new varieties
significant global warming potential –16 per cent of the
global warming potential of CFCs. GSK also offers dry powder of blackcurrant which are resistant to the new
inhalers for asthma sufferers which contain no greenhouse weather conditions likely to arise from climate
gases. These are not suitable for all patients, particularly change.
children and the elderly, as they do not contain propellants and
rely on a person’s lung power for the active ingredients to be
administered.
Continued on page 84
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ENVIRONMENT
Our approachx
Our packaging targets
• Reduce the amount of packaging we use
Process design
by 2 per cent by 200
Process design is essential to minimising environmental
• All packaging to be made from 0 per cent impacts. It determines which chemicals and processes are used
recycled materials by 200 in manufacturing as well as the impacts from the wastes of
production. The EHS team works with process development
• All packaging to be 00 per cent recyclable
teams to incorporate EHS considerations into process design
by 200. and materials sourcing, and to identify potential EHS risks in
Our progress – We use an average of 0 per cent manufacturing.
recycled plastic in our bottles. We can achieve
GSK scientists and engineers use an eco-design toolkit to
a higher percentage (we now use 00 per cent
identify process improvements and EHS issues. The toolkit has
recycled plastic for our Ribena ready-to-drink five modules:
range), but are limited by the availability of
recycled plastic. We are making packaging • G reen Chemistry/Technology Guide – information on
lighter and easier to recycle. using chemistry to improve resource efficiency, reduce EHS
impacts and minimise costs
For example we have reduced the weight of
• M aterials Guides – information on the environmental
Lucozade bottles from 2 gm to 2 gm since
impacts of materials, including solvent and chemical
200. Most of our products are consumed
selection
outside the home so this is where most recycling
• G reen Packaging Guide – an assessment tool for selecting
needs to take place. We are testing reverse
packaging
vending machines to recycle bottles in shopping
centres (see case study on page ) and working • FLASC (Fast Lifecycle Assessment for Synthetic
Chemistry) – a web- tool for assessing the environmental
with Closed Loop London and some major
impacts of different chemical processes and identifying the
retailers to support recycling in the workplace.
‘greenest’ materials
We helped set up an environmental taskforce at
• T he Chemicals Legislation Guide (CLG) – identifies
the Union of European Beverage Associations to
legislation on hazardous substances and provides guidance
improve recycling across the soft drinks industry.
about chemicals of concern
Our energy target
• Reduce energy use in manufacturing and See more on the toolkit and our approach to process design in
distribution by 20 per cent by 200. the background pages of our website.
Our progress – Since 2002 the Coleford facility Each year we collect green chemistry metrics for every batch
of potential new medicines under development (known as a
has increased production by . per cent
campaign) – over 100 in 2007 – to measure progress on our
but energy has only grown by . per cent
product stewardship objectives. These include assessments
representing an improvement in the energy
of how efficiently we use raw materials, what solvents and
efficiency of the site. ‘materials of concern’ we use and their EHS impacts. Each
Our waste and water use targets campaign is scored on its environmental impacts across its
lifecycle (using the FLASC system). The FLASC scores depend
• Reduce water use by 20 per cent by 200
on the complexity of the drug substances in development.
• Reduce manufacturing waste sent to landfill This year they worsened slightly because of the increased
by one per cent each year up until 200 complexity of some of the compounds we are producing.
Our progress – Nutritional Healthcare products
We give feedback to the development teams based on this
are manufactured at two main sites in the UK,
review, and share best practice.
at Coleford and Slough, which already recycle at
least  per cent of their waste. Materials efficiency
We aim to increase the efficiency with which we convert raw
materials to finished products. Known as materials efficiency,
this helps reduce the resources we use, the waste we generate
and the cost of production.
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Pharmaceutical processes are often complex, usually requiring Materials of concern
large amounts of solvents and other raw materials. Typically, Materials of concern are chemicals where scientific evidence
the industry uses about 100 tonnes of material for every shows probable serious effects to humans or the environment
tonne of active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) produced. and for which there is existing or potential future legislation
That materials efficiency compares to about 20 per cent for that may restrict use. These compounds are usually persistent
the fine chemicals industry and 50 per cent for bulk chemicals. in the environment, bioaccumulate in animals and plants or are
We have set a target to double the average materials efficiency toxic to life.
of manufacturing processes for new products introduced
between 2006 and 2010. Our EHS team is working with our process development teams
to help them develop strategies to eliminate or substitute the
use of these materials.
Read our position paper on hazardous chemicals
Making toothpaste production
management on our website.
more sustainable
Pharmaceuticals in the environment
GSK is a leading manufacturer of oral care Active pharmaceutical ingredients (the substances that make
products with a European market share of over medicines work) are eventually excreted by humans and enter
the sewage system. Wastewater treatment removes most
22 per cent. Our Maidenhead site in the UK
pharmaceutical residues but small concentrations do end up
produces over 00 million units of toothpaste
in rivers or in the sea. In countries where wastewater is not
and mouthwash each year. In 2007, the site
treated, higher concentrations may enter the environment.
introduced a new ‘continuous manufacturing’
process to cut its environmental footprint. This We conduct environmental tests and risk assessments on new
is the first time this process has been used in the pharmaceutical products. These indicate that our products do
oral care industry. not appear to pose a risk for humans or the environment based
on current risk assessment methodologies.
Previously toothpaste at the site was
made in batches. Equipment needed to be
In the EU and US, environmental risk assessments are part of
washed when there was a change of active
the approval process for new medicines. These allow regulatory
ingredient. With continuous manufacturing,
agencies to assess the potential for environmental impacts of
toothpaste production continues 2 hours a drugs pending approval.
day. Formulations are changed less often and
equipment does not need to be washed so We continue to monitor the latest scientific studies and
frequently. This saves water and reduces the findings to improve our risk assessment methodology. We also
chemicals used for cleaning. It also results in less work with other pharmaceutical companies, universities and
research groups in this area and collaborate on joint projects
waste, helping to cut costs.
with industry groups. For example, we submit environmental
Each year the new process will reduce: data on our products as part of the Swedish classification
• Raw material waste by almost 2. tonnes system for pharmaceuticals, a collaboration between the
Swedish Pharmaceutical Association and the Swedish
• Water consumption by 20 million litres
government. This is a voluntary transparency initiative making
• Costs by £,000 information about environmental risks available to the public,
The equipment has proved reliable and doctors and scientists. We participate in technical working
groups on pharmaceuticals in the environment sponsored by
efficient and we are looking for opportunities
the industry group Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers
to introduce the same process at other GSK
of America (PhRMA). We are also beginning to study the
manufacturing sites.
possible impacts of mixtures of various compounds at extremely
The environmental impact of our products is low concentrations, which include our pharmaceuticals.
also becoming more important to our retail
customers. For example, during 2007 Wal-Mart, See more on our approach to pharmaceuticals in the
environment on the background pages on our website.
one of our biggest global customers, asked us
to assess the amount of CO released across the
2
lifecycle of our toothpaste products in the US
– from the manufacturing and supply of raw
materials through the manufacturing, packaging
and transport of the finished product.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ENVIRONMENT
Packaging
Our performancex
We are working to reduce the environmental impact of
packaging for our Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare
Materials efficiency
products.
The chart shows how we improve materials efficiency as
compounds move through development stages. In the early
Our Green Packaging Guide provides guidance for evaluating
stages almost all compounds are less that one per cent
and selecting packaging. It allows designers and managers to
materials efficient. By the last stage most achieve more than
benchmark new and existing packaging designs, using five
two per cent and some are above three per cent, with one
metrics:
process achieving productivity of 4.9 per cent.
• Manufacturing impacts
• Mass of the material
• Biodegradability
• PVC content
• Resource depletion of petrochemical feedstocks
One example of reducing the impact of our packaging is the
use of 100% recycled plastic for our Ribena bottles. One of
challenges of doing this was finding enough recycled plastic.
See case study below.
Reverse vending machinesx
GSK is involved in an innovative project with
UK recycling charity Recoup and Imperial College
London to increase recycling of empty plastic
drinks bottles using reverse vending machines.
These look like normal drinks dispensers
but there is a crucial difference – they work
backwards. After enjoying their drink people
can drop the bottle into the machine where it
is compacted and then collected for recycling.
Plastic bottles are bulky and difficult to
transport. Compacting at source helps to
overcome this problem. The machines also
prevent the plastic being contaminated with
other waste so it is cheaper to process and
requires less water for cleaning than plastic
recovered from mixed waste recycling units.
Three reverse vending machines were installed
at UK shopping centres in 2007 and another
machine is planned for 200.
The success of the scheme relies on people
giving back their empties and a discount
shopping voucher generated by the machines
provides an incentive to take part.
The project is developing a sustainable business
model where profits generated from collection
of the bottles and the sale of advertising space
on the machines are used to buy new machines.
Not only will this create a steady supply of used
bottles for recycling, it helps the issue of litter of
our bottles which we have seen in the past.
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007
%
ytivitcudorp
ssaM
Mass productivity
6.00
5.00
4.00
3.00
2.28 2.00
1.03 1.27
1.00
0.44
0.00
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4
Key:
average
Materials of concern
In 2007, we used 49 metric tonnes of materials of concern,
92 per cent of which was accounted for by four solvents.
This was an increase from 2006 as more batches of new
products were produced during the year. The solvent waste
from this production was destroyed by incineration. We also
examined the use of materials of concern across all phases
of development. This determined which substances are
being used and identified how they can be replaced during
development.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Waterx
Clean water is a valuable resource that needs to be conserved In 2007, we used 20.9 million cubic metres of water,
and protected from pollution. 5.8 per cent less than in 2006. Water consumption per unit
of sales was 7.6 per cent lower than in 2006, exceeding
our target of a two per cent decrease. Most of this reduction
was achieved through maintenance at facilities and process
Our approachx changes.
GSK uses water in manufacturing (for processes, products, Smaller improvements were achieved through ongoing
cooling and cleaning) and for general site uses including conservation measures, particularly at water-stressed locations.
drinking, food services and sanitation. Sites that manufacture For example our pharmaceutical manufacturing plant in
active pharmaceutical ingredients use large amounts of water Boronia, Australia, located in a water-stressed area, has an
while R&D sites and offices use less. on-going campaign to save water. Since 2001 they have
reduced water usage by 33 per cent while increasing
Our water standard requires sites to minimise water use, re- production by 22 per cent and staff by 30 per cent, saving
use water whenever feasible and ensure that all wastewater an average of 29 million litres of water a year. These water
is treated and discharged in a way that minimises adverse savings are accomplished by recovering wastewater and using
environmental impacts. Our target is to reduce water it in cooling towers, amenities and maintenance, by capturing
consumption by two per cent per annum per unit of sales. storm water and by communicating with employees about
saving water.
Our performancex
Wastewaterx
Water consumption
Our approachx
Target Most sites discharge wastewater to municipal treatment
2010 facilities. Some large sites, especially primary manufacturing,
have their own on-site wastewater treatment systems. Some
2007 sites are permitted to discharge wastewater direct to the sea.
Baseline We assess the quality of wastewater by measuring the chemical
2006 oxygen demand (COD) – the oxygen required to chemically
oxidise compounds in the water. The lower the COD, the
2005
cleaner the water.
Baseline
Our target from 2006 is to improve COD levels by three
2001
per cent a year per unit of sales. The vast majority of COD
0 300 600 900 1200 1500 comes from manufacturing. Therefore our data cover mainly
cubic metres per £ million (sales)* wastewater from manufacturing processes but do not include
all wastewater from ‘domestic’ activity such as washrooms and
Key: canteens.
u Target n Current data
n Historical data
Water consumption
Year m3 per £ million (sales)*
2001 1307.5
2005 1004.7
2006 955.3
2007 882.7
*Targets and performance normalised by sales are based on a
constant exchange rate.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 7ENVIRONMENT
• Offices – paper and other standard commercial waste
Our performancex
• Building renovations produce non-routine waste such
as obsolete equipment, office furniture and structural
Chemical oxygen demand of wastewater
materials
Target We classify waste as hazardous, non-hazardous, and non-
2010 routine (for waste such as construction and demolition
rubble). A significant proportion of our waste is classified as
2007 hazardous because it contains solvents and chemicals used
to manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients. Other
Baseline hazardous waste we produce includes lubricants, fluorescent
2006
lights and carcasses of animals used in research.
2005
Most non-hazardous waste is general material such as office
waste paper, kitchen waste and non-hazardous substances
Baseline
used in manufacturing. A very small part is biological waste
2001
that has been treated so it is not hazardous.
0 300 600 900 1200 1500
kilograms per £ million (sales)*
Key: Our approachx
u Target n Current data
We aim to eliminate waste where we can, reduce it if we
n Historical data
cannot eliminate it, re-use materials if possible, recycle other
waste and dispose of any remaining material sensitively.
Chemical oxygen demand of wastewater
We separate hazardous wastes. Regulations vary widely
Year kg per £ million (sales)*
around the world, but our first choice for solvents (which
account for most of our hazardous waste) is to re-use or
2001 1296.7
recycle material. Some solvent is purified on site and reused
2005 843.3 in the original manufacturing process and some is sold to
2006 678.2 commercial reprocessing companies (also included in our
recycling statistics). When this is not possible solvents are
2007 600.8
mostly incinerated and the energy recovered wherever
*Targets and performance normalised by sales are based on a possible.
constant exchange rate.
Any errors found in data from prior years are corrected so data may We require disposal contractors to comply with our EHS
vary slightly from earlier reports. requirements and local regulations. Sites audit their waste
contractors or hire consultants to carry out the audits.
We generated 11.8 million cubic metres of wastewater in Our target is to reduce non-hazardous waste disposed per unit
2007, about the same as 2006. Total chemical oxygen demand of sales by one per cent per annum. We have not set a target
(COD) discharged after on-site treatment was 14.2 million for reduction of hazardous waste but our target to improve
kilograms, 9.7 per cent less than in 2006. The reduction in COD material efficiency (the efficiency with which we convert raw
per unit of sales was 11.4 per cent. materials to finished products) is designed to reduce hazardous
waste (see page 86).
The annual chemical oxygen demand of wastewater is linked
to the type of products made in a year. In 2007 we stopped or
decreased production of some products that create wastewater
streams with significant COD.
Wastex
Our production, research and sales activities all produce waste:
• Production – hazardous wastes such as solvents and other
chemicals
• R&D and quality laboratories – small amounts of chemicals
including products and intermediates, as well as broken
glassware and plastics
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Our performancex
Destination of non-hazardous waste 2007
Non-hazardous waste disposed Incinerated with Incinerated without
energy recovery 8% energy recovery 5%
Target
2010
2007
Baseline
2006
2005
Baseline
2001
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
Disposed to
kilograms per £ million (sales)* Reused/recycled 68%
landfill 19%
Key:
u Target n Current data
n Historical data
Non-hazardous waste disposed
Year kg per £ million (sales)*
2001 2610.7
2005 1855.9
2006 1584.4
2007 1619.4
*Targets and performance normalised by sales are based on a
constant exchange rate.
Any errors found in data from prior years are corrected so data may
vary slightly from earlier reports.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 
In 2007, we generated 120.1 million kilograms of non-
hazardous waste, compared to 113.8 million kilograms in
2006. Of this 68.1 per cent was recycled and 31.9 per cent
was disposed of via landfill or incineration. The amount
disposed per unit of sales increased by 2.2 per cent compared
to 2006.
We reduced disposal of non-hazardous waste at our
pharmaceutical manufacturing sites by 4 per cent and by
12 per cent at our pharmaceutical R&D sites. However there
was an 83 per cent increase in non-hazardous waste disposal
in our vaccines business due to expansion. For example,
increased production of our flu vaccine resulted in more waste
from chicken eggs.
These data do not include non-routine waste such as
construction and demolition rubble and similar material not
related to day-to-day operations.
We continue to look for ways to reduce waste and have
undertaken waste management reviews at many sites.
Recycling non-hazardous waste such as paper, cardboard,
glass, plastic or aluminium, usually means sending it for
reprocessing so it can be reused to make new products.
Two sites in India have stopped putting the coal ash they
generate on site in landfill; instead they sell it as raw material
for the production of construction material. In addition,
three nutritional drink manufacturing sites send some of their
process wastes (barley husk) for use in animal food while
others recycle canteen waste or effluent treatment plant
sludge by converting it into bio-compost.ENVIRONMENT
In 2007, we generated 218.4 million kilograms of hazardous
Hazardous waste disposed
waste, compared to 240.8 million kilograms in 2006. The
amount disposed per unit of sales was 4.0 per cent lower than
2006. Of this 68.7 per cent was recycled, 0.3 per cent was
2007 disposed of via landfill and 31.3 per cent was incinerated (with
energy recovered from 45.5 per cent of this). Hazardous waste
was mostly solvents (92.7 per cent), the rest being general site
Baseline
2006 waste.
Disposal of hazardous waste is affected by the way solvents are
2005 managed and by the mix of products that are made in the year.
Most hazardous waste comes from primary production activity,
Baseline
2001 and this is where we concentrate our efforts. We do not collect
hazardous waste data from consumer manufacturing plants,
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 laboratories and offices which we estimate would produce
about an additional three per cent of our hazardous waste.
kilograms per £ million (sales)*
Key: Remediation
In the past, some waste and chemicals handling practices
n Historical data n Current data
contaminated land and groundwater. These practices are no
longer followed, however we are continuing to clean up these
sites to deal with health and environmental hazards. GSK and
Hazardous waste disposed
its heritage companies have spent more then £100 million
Year kg per £ million (sales)* cleaning up more than 50 sites in the US over the last 20 years.
We are continuing to clean up 25 of these sites. Most of them
2001 2964.8 are waste disposal sites where GSK is one of several responsible
parties. These figures are not included in the data verification.
2005 3004.1
2006 3008.3
2007 2887.6
Ozone depletionx
*Targets and performance normalised by sales are based on a
constant exchange rate.
The ozone layer in the upper atmosphere is essential to
Any errors found in data from prior years are corrected so data may human survival because it filters out harmful ultra-violet
vary slightly from earlier reports. rays from the sun. It has been damaged by ozone depleting
substances (ODSs), mainly chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs),
hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) and halons.
Our approachx
Destination of hazardous waste 2007 Our main use of ODSs in the past was as the propellant gas in
metered dose inhalers (MDIs) for asthma sufferers. The gas is
Incinerated with Incinerated without released when patients use the inhalers and a small amount
energy recovery 14% energy recovery 17% escapes during production. Previously we used CFCs, but we
have been switching to hydrofluoro-alkanes (HFAs) and dry
powder technology which does not require a propellant. HFAs
do not deplete the ozone layer but do contribute to climate
change (see page 80).
The Montreal Protocol bans the production of CFCs but it
exempts a number of ‘essential uses’ which include MDIs.
We plan to eliminate the use of CFCs from our worldwide
product portfolio by 2010. Only two per cent of GSK inhalers
now contain CFCs.
We have stopped using CFCs in the US and the European
Union and offer a selection of alternatives in most other
Disposed to countries. We plan to cease manufacturing of CFC inhalers
landfill <1% Reused/recycled 69% in China in 2008 and will eliminate all CFCs from our products
worldwide by the end of 2010.
0 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
The main alternative propellant used is HFA 134a. This does In 2007, 136.5 thousand kilograms of CFC propellant were
not affect the ozone layer but does have high global warming released when patients used our products. A much smaller
potential, (see page 80). We have also invested heavily in dry amount – 14.9 thousand kilograms – was released during
powder delivery systems that do not use CFCs or HFA 134a. production of inhalers and we estimate that less than one
thousand kilograms of CFC-11 equivalent was emitted from
We also use ODSs in some cooling systems and for other
equipment.
ancillary uses at GSK facilities. These are contained inside the
systems and are only released in the event of a leak or during
Ozone depletion potential from patient use of metered dose
maintenance. We have switched to using HFAs, ammonia and
inhalers was 26.4 per cent lower than in 2006. As production
hydrocarbons. Ammonia does not contribute to either ozone
of CFC-containing MDIs decreases, the amount of CFC lost
depletion or climate change and hydrocarbons have a small
during production also declines.
climate change impact.
Ozone depletion potential estimated from equipment and
Equipment and production
production losses per unit of sales was 0.7 kg per £ million
We aim to eliminate CFCs and HCFCs from cooling systems.
sales, 55.0 per cent lower than 2006. We have 159 pieces of
This is the only way to completely eliminate emissions from
equipment containing CFCs, amounting to 14,151 kilograms
equipment. We are focusing on removing larger pieces of
in total. Over 5,000 items of equipment contain other ODSs,
equipment from service before the end of 2010.
with an ODP of 4,636 kilograms of CFC-11 equivalent. We
We do not intend to replace equipment containing less than estimate (using an estimation factor of 2.75 per cent from the
one kilogram of CFCs or HCFCs. This type of equipment tends British Refrigeration Association) that 516 kilograms CFC-11
to be hermetically sealed and is less likely to leak. equivalent were released from equipment in 2007.
Our performancex
Ozone depletion potential
(CFC-11 equivalents4)
Target
2010
2007
Baseline
2006
2005
Baseline
2001
0 2 4 6 8 10
kilograms per £ million (sales)*
Key:
u Target n Current data
n Historical data
Ozone depletion potential
Year kg per £ million (sales)*
2001 9.2
2005 2.5
2006 1.4
2007 0.7
*Targets and performance normalised by sales are based on a
constant exchange rate.
Any errors found in data from prior years are corrected so data
may vary slightly from earlier reports.
4CFC-11 has an ozone depletion potential of 1
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ENVIRONMENT
Volatile organic compoundsx
Volatile organic compounds react with nitrogen oxides in the VOC air emissions are affected by the management of solvents
presence of sunlight, creating ozone in the lower atmosphere. and by the mix of products that are made in the year. In 2007
This results in smog which is a factor in human respiratory some of our primary manufacturing plants made products that
illness. Workplace exposure to certain VOCs can also pose a required solvents that their solvent recovery equipment could
health risk. not adequately handle. We continue to look for ways to reduce
solvent emissions at sites.
Our approachx The futurex
We use volatile organic compounds (VOCs) mainly as solvents In 2007 we identified 400 energy saving opportunities at many
in our primary manufacturing operations and R&D pilot plants. of our sites. A cross-business team has been set up which will
Solvents are also used to coat some tablets and in cleaning for manage selection and implementation of these projects in
sterile operations. We also use small quantities in laboratories 2008. We expect that results from these improvement projects
but do not measure emissions from this use. will not be uniform, but rather dependent on projects that
will take time to implement. We are confident that we can
meet our climate change targets as these projects begin to
deliver energy savings and climate change improvements. In
Our performancex addition to achieving our energy and climate change targets,
we will continue to explore ways to reduce the amount of
HFAs (powerful greenhouse gases) released from our inhaler
Volatile organic compound emissions products.
Target
2010
2007
Baseline
2006
2005
Baseline
2001
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350
kilograms per £ million (sales)*
Key:
u Target n Current data
n Historical data
Volatile organic compound emissions
Year kg per £ million (sales)*
2001 322.4
2005 232.8
2006 182.4
2007 189.4
*Targets and performance normalised by sales are based on a
constant exchange rate.
In 2007, we released 4.5 million kilograms of VOCs to the
atmosphere. This was 5.8 per cent higher than in 2006.
Emissions per unit of sales were 3.8 per cent higher. Our target
from 2006 is to reduce VOCs by two per cent per annum per
unit of sales.
2 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Your inhaler products have a large environmental How can the pharmaceutical manufacturing
impact. What are you doing about this? process be made more efficient?
We have been phasing out CFCs from our inhaler Making medicines is highly regulated and is complicated
products for the last 15 years, replacing these gases due to the number of process steps required. We
with HFAs which have a lower climate change impact know that there is more we need to do in this area and
(16 per cent that of CFCs). Only two per cent of our we have set a target to double the average materials
inhalers now contain CFCs and we have committed to a efficiency of manufacturing processes for new products
complete phase-out by 2010. As part of our new climate introduced between 2006 and 2010.
strategy, we are exploring ways to reduce the amount
Are pharmaceutical residues present in drinking
of HFAs released from our inhaler products and we are
water and are they a risk to humans?
looking into alternative propellants.
Our studies have shown that GSK pharmaceutical
We also offer dry powder inhalers for asthma sufferers products are either not present in watercourses, or are
which contain no greenhouse gases. These are not present at low concentrations. Our risk assessments
suitable for all patients, particularly children and the demonstrate that these concentrations do not pose a
elderly, as they do not contain propellants and rely on risk to human health. But we are not complacent and
a person’s lung power for the active ingredients to be we continually monitor the latest scientific studies and
administered. findings to improve our risk assessment methodology.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ENVIRONMENT
External assurance statement
SGS UNITED KINGDOM LTD’S REPORT ON ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY DATA IN THE
GLAXOSMITHKLINE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FOR 2007
NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE ASSURANCE
SGS United Kingdom Ltd was commissioned by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) to conduct an independent assurance
of the Environment, Health and Safety data in their Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report. The scope of the
assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included 2007 data contained in
pages 80–87 and 90–92 and the accompanying data tables in pages 97–99 of this report.
The information in the GSK CR Report and its presentation are the responsibility of the directors and
management of GSK. SGS United Kingdom Ltd has not been involved in the preparation of any of the material
included in the CR Report. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, graphs and statements
within the scope of verification. Financial data drawn directly from independently audited financial accounts
has not been checked back to source as part of this assurance process.
The SGS Group has developed a set of protocols for the Assurance of Sustainability Reports based on current
best practice guidance provided in the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (2006)
and the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2003). These protocols follow differing levels of Assurance depending
the reporting history and capabilities of the Reporting Organisation.
This report has been assured for content veracity. The assurance comprised a combination of interviews with
relevant employees; documentation and record review at GSK locations in UK (London, Tonbridge, Montrose,
Coleford, Barnard Castle), USA (Upper Providence, St Louis), Canada (Sainte Foy, Mississauga), South Africa
(Cape Town), India (Sonepat), Germany (Dresden), Australia (Port Fairy), Mexico (Xochimilco) and Brazil
(Jacarepagua). The sites selected included those that submitted high proportions of key data and included all
parts of the GSK business.
STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE
The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and verification, operating in more
than 140 countries and providing services including management systems and service certification; quality,
environmental, social and ethical auditing and training; environmental, social and sustainability report
assurance.
SGS United Kingdom Ltd affirm our independence from GSK, being free from bias and conflicts of interest
with the organisation, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. The assurance team was assembled based on their
knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised auditors registered with IRCA,
IEMA and EMAS Verifiers.
ASSURANCE OPINION
On the basis of the methodology described and the verification work performed, we are satisfied that the
Environment, Health and Safety data contained within the GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 is
reliable and provides a fair and balanced representation of GSK’s Environment, Health and Safety activities
in 2007. We believe that GSK has chosen an appropriate level of assurance for this stage in their reporting.
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
External assurance statement
Key areas for improvement to data collection, submission and manipulation were identified as follows:
• Although there is a central database for recording EHS data, many sites use spreadsheets to collate data
before entry into the database, leading to the possibility of errors in data transfer;
• Some data is collected and submitted by subcontractors with no internal audit or other checking
mechanism in place and errors were found in such data;
• There were some instances where no system for collection of certain data existed or where data was not
reported, although these were not significant quantities for individual sites;
• Data from ancillary services or site activities was not always included in reported data;
• Some estimated data was not corrected when actual values became available and there was no system in
place to ensure this happened.
Improvements identified in previous reporting period have started to be implemented as follows:
• Definitions are instantly available electronically in EHS Manager and were seen to be in use on sites.
A revision of documented detailed definitions is currently in progress;
• Estimates continue to be made for certain data and we recognise that this is still necessary and that
attempts are being made to determine the most appropriate estimation methods and ensure accuracy in
calculations carried out;
• An increasing amount of data is being submitted by sites on a more regular basis, allowing for a more
rigorous checking process and the newly established EHS Business Intelligence Report provides for instant
up-to-date view of the overall data as well as underlying site-by-site data to track changes and outlying
figures more easily;
• Training has been continuing and site visit reports indicated that personnel involved were generally
prepared for verification activities and able to provide the necessary information;
• There appeared to have been an increase in the number of comments included alongside data in
EHS Manager to provide explanations, however this is still an area for ongoing improvement;
• The EHS Business Intelligence Report extracts data directly from EHS Manager to the Corporate
Responsibility Data Table and thereby reduces the possibility of errors occurring from alternative data
extraction methods;
• Relevant data was more readily available during external verification process through the use of the
EHS Business Intelligence Report.
Key areas for improvement in data verification process were identified as follows:
• Verification audits are planned in the coming reporting year to be undertaken alongside ISO14001 and
OHSAS18001 certification audits where possible. Since these visits could occur at any point during the
year sites should be encouraged to report data into EHS Manager on a regular monthly basis wherever
possible;
• The final verification process would be improved by extending the time period between any site visits and
this process to allow for any amendments to data to be completed in advance of the final verification.
Signed:
For and on behalf of SGS United Kingdom Ltd
Pauline Earl
Managing Director
20 February 2008
WWW.SGS.COM
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 ENVIRONMENT
Linksx
In this report:
• Feedback from the EHS stakeholder panel in Stakeholder
engagement
• Supplier EHS audits, see Supply chain
• Communicating with employees, see Employment
In the background section of our website:
• EHS management framework
• Environmental issues
• Position papers on:
• Energy
• Climate change
• Hazardous chemical management
• Pharmaceuticals in the environment
www.gsk.com/responsibility/values
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Metric 2001 2004 2005 2006 2007
Energy use
Energy for operations
(million gigajoules) 20.7 18.9 19.4 19.2 19.0
Natural gas 9.87 8.69 8.81 9.10 8.91
Fuels 1.40 1.50 1.50 1.07 1.03
Coal 1.04 0.56 0.63 0.47 0.51
Steam imported 0.28 0.17 0.19 0.21 0.19
Electricity imported 8.10 7.98 8.31 8.38 8.40
Energy for transport1
(million gigajoules) – – – 4.8 5.2
Sales force – – – 2.0 1.8
Air travel – – – 1.5 1.6
Product logistics – – – 1.4 1.9
Climate change impact (CO equivalent)2
2
CO equivalents from operations energy
2
(million kilograms) 1,825.3 1,666.6 1,715.9 1,687.9 1,667.5
Natural gas 504.0 443.7 449.9 464.8 455.1
Fuels 86.9 96.0 98.7 73.9 70.6
Coal 93.5 50.2 56.8 42.6 45.4
Steam imported 39.3 11.2 13.8 14.5 13.4
Electricity imported 1,101.6 1,065.5 1,096.7 1,092.2 1,083.0
CO equivalents from transport1
2
(million kilograms) 123.0 206.0 233.0 339.9 367.0
Sales force 33.0 78.0 102.0 136.1 123.4
Air travel 71.0 114.0 112.0 105.5 110.0
Product logistics 19.0 14.0 19.0 98.3 133.6
CO equivalents from other production
2
activities (million kilograms) 1,422.9 640.4 563.6 405.3 290.6
Inhaler production losses 1,218.6 491.9 420.3 306.9 215.8
Equipment containing greater
than 1kg refrigerant3 116.86 46.66 46.82 6.99 8.47
CO, Methane and Nitrous Oxide
2
from production, waste treatment
and other sources 87.43 101.86 96.46 91.39 66.25
CO equivalents from use of inhalers
2
by patients4 (million kilograms) – – – 4,335 4,530
CFC-11 inhalers – – – 197 145
CFC-12 inhalers – – – 1,083 797
HFC-134a inhalers – – – 3,055 3,589
Footnotes
1 Energy and climate change impact for travel and transport by air, land and sea is 3 Climate change impact from refrigerants released from equipment is calculated using
calculated using the GHG protocol starting from distance travelled, not directly from factors from the GHG protocol. We collect data on the amounts of refrigerants contained
fuel use. In years before 2006 we did not collect all categories of freight transport or in the equipment and calculate the releases using a factor from the British Refrigeration
employee business travel. In 2007 product transport reporting covered more product Association for probable leakage.
transport routes by air, land and sea and employee travel included group air travel 4 We did not have enough information to calculate climate change impact from inhaler
originating in the US (which was not included in 2006). Some of the transport data are use before 2006
estimated and we may not capture all routes and employee air travel
2 Climate change impact is calculated as CO equivalent using the Greenhouse Gas (GHG)
2
Protocol developed by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for
Sustainable Development. In 2007 we reviewed all CO factors and updated the data for
2
all years as appropriate. Greatest changes were in updated factors for electricity.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 7ENVIRONMENT
Metric 2001 2004 2005 2006 2007
Water use and discharge
Water (million cubic metres) 26.8 20.9 21.8 22.2 20.9
Municipal 15.20 12.77 12.82 12.87 12.26
Wells or boreholes 11.56 7.96 8.59 8.95 8.29
Other water5 0.04 0.14 0.35 0.37 0.35
Wastewater volume6
(million cubic metres) 14.9 13.3 13.1 11.7 11.8
WW to recycling 0.22 1.15 0.62 0.62 0.58
WW to municipal sewer 5.35 5.26 5.52 5.06 5.77
WW to water bodies 9.34 6.87 7.00 6.05 5.45
COD after on-site treatment6, 7
(million kilograms) 26.6 19.5 18.3 15.8 14.2
COD in recycled water <.01 <.01 <.01 <.01 <.01
COD to municipal sewer 5.39 5.07 4.47 3.93 4.02
COD to water bodies 21.17 14.47 13.79 11.83 10.20
Waste generated and disposed
Hazardous waste generated8
(million kilograms) 348.7 253.0 258.7 240.8 218.4
Hazardous waste recycled 287.91 182.38 193.68 170.93 150.03
Hazardous waste disposed 60.75 70.60 65.07 69.87 68.36
Hazardous waste incinerated with
energy recovery9 28.52 35.92 29.40 30.01 30.88
Hazardous waste incinerated with
no energy recovery 29.09 32.94 34.30 39.36 36.92
Hazardous waste to landfill 3.13 1.74 1.37 0.50 0.57
Non-hazardous waste generated
(million kilograms) 132.8 148.2 124.0 113.7 120.1
Non-hazardous waste recycled 79.34 103.99 83.82 76.98 81.73
Non-hazardous waste disposed 53.49 44.19 40.20 36.80 38.34
Non-hazardous waste incinerated
with energy recovery9 5.92 7.33 8.69 8.77 9.34
Non-hazardous waste incinerated
with no energy recovery 12.05 9.42 7.79 6.24 5.90
Non-hazardous waste to landfill 35.52 27.45 23.73 21.79 23.10
Non-routine waste generated10
(million kilograms) 25.3 13.7 77.9 27.2 37.4
Non-routine waste recycled 2.29 6.80 39.97 11.10 23.03
Non-routine waste disposed 22.98 6.94 37.96 16.12 14.37
Non-routine waste incinerated
with energy recovery9 1.55 0.14 7.46 2.59 4.22
Non-routine waste incinerated
with no energy recovery 0.24 0.20 0.39 0.72 0.74
Non-routine waste to landfill 21.19 6.60 30.12 12.81 9.42
Footnotes
5 Water from other sources includes recycled sources T his includes flammability, explosivity, water or air reactivity, corrosivity, oxidising
6 W e focus collection of wastewater and chemical oxygen demand data primarily on the potential, acute or chronic toxicity, ecotoxicity or infection. Biological waste rendered
major contributors; primary manufacturing operations, pilot plants, coating activities and non-hazardous after treatment is considered a non-hazardous waste. We focus collection
sterile operations. Some sanitary waste streams are included if they cannot be separated of hazardous waste on the major contributors; primary manufacturing operations, pilot
from production wastewater streams or if they are significant plants, coating activities and sterile operations
7 C hemical oxygen demand (COD), a measure of water pollution, is measured when the 9 I ncineration with energy recovery means burning the material and using the resulting
wastewater leaves our sites following any onsite treatment energy
8 W e consider a waste to be hazardous if it is radioactive, bioengineered or biohazardous, 10 N on-routine waste includes construction and demolition rubble and is not included in
or if it has any of the properties defined by the 1989 Basel Convention. hazardous or non-hazardous waste calculations
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Metric 2001 2004 2005 2006 2007
Volatile organic compound emissions
Volatile organic compound emissions11
(million kilograms) 6.6 5.3 5.0 4.2 4.5
Top five solvents released (million kilograms)
Acetone 1.23 1.11 1.15 1.03 0.93
Dichloromethane 1.73 0.96 0.87 0.85 0.74
Ethanol 0.28 0.53 0.46 0.44 0.62
Methanol 0.74 0.67 0.71 0.44 0.60
Toluene 0.41 0.19 0.06 0.09 0.26
Ozone depleting substances12
ODS releases from production
(thousand kilograms) 183.5 58.9 51.0 32.9 14.9
CFC-11 releases from production 88.55 12.63 14.11 19.35 3.22
CFC-12 releases from production 94.90 46.30 36.86 13.5 11.63
Ozone depletion potential of
refrigerants released from equipment
(thousand kilograms CFC-11 equivalent) 4.31 2.65 2.98 0.64 0.52
CFC-11 releases from equipment 0.56 0.93 1.62 0.42 0.37
CFC-12 releases from equipment 0.33 0.31 0.21 0.02 0.02
Other ODS from equipment 3.42 1.97 1.41 1.15 0.20
ODS releases from patient use of inhalers13
(thousand kilograms) – – 272.5 185.6 136.5
CFC-11 from patient use – – 76.15 51.85 18.14
CFC-12 from patient use – – 196.38 133.72 98.35
ODP of refrigerants contained in equipment14
(thousand kilograms CFC-11 equivalent) – – – 23.40 18.79
Estimated costs and investments
Operations and maintenance cost
(million £) 41.5 43.2 39.3 33.6 31.1
Capital investment (million £) 24.4 9.5 12.1 9.7 16.5
Footnotes
11 W e focus collection of volatile organic compound emissions on the major contributors;
primary manufacturing operations, pilot plants, coating activities and sterile operations
12 O zone depletion potential (ODP) from ozone depleting substances is calculated using
factors from the Montreal protocol
13 B efore 2006 we did not have information about inhalers produced in Asia so it was not
included in ODP or GWP calculations until 2006
14 B efore 2006 we did not have information about the amounts of refrigerants contained in
equipment
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
Employment
Restructuring planned for 2007 – 2010
practices In October 2007, we announced an Operational
Excellence programme to improve the
effectiveness and productivity of our
operations. This is a response to a more
Good employment practices are important to challenging business environment during 2007
and will bring annual pre-tax savings of up to
our business strategy and our goal ‘being the
£700 million by 200.
best place for the best people to do their best
The programme will include initiatives to
work’.
streamline manufacturing, adapt our selling
model and improve efficiency in R&D.
Unfortunately, it will also involve a reduction in
Headlinesx
employee numbers across GSK. We will consult
with employees and their representatives
• Women accounted for 2 per cent of senior
before we implement measures that will
managers, and 7 per cent of all managers – up
affect them, such as outsourcing, site closures
from 22 per cent and  per cent in 200
and staff reductions. We will always speak to
• Minorities made up 20. per cent of employees
in the US, and . per cent of our UK workforce affected employees first (except where local
– up from . per cent and . per cent in 200 regulations do not allow it) and then our works
• Began implementation of our Operational councils, trade unions and other employee
Excellence programme to improve effectiveness representatives as appropriate.
and productivity, which includes restructuring We aim to treat our employees with dignity and
and redundancies respect and offer a wide range of support for all
• Reviewed our process safety strategy after affected employees. This includes a competitive
an explosion at our Irvine site in 200 and severance package and outplacement support
implemented a new process safety programme such as assistance in finding alternative
• Certified three new sites to the international employment, career counselling and retraining.
health and safety standard OHSAS 00 We will also work hard to maintain the morale
• Over 2,000 employees at 72 sites worldwide of all other employees at GSK.
have used our online ergonomics risk
assessment tool during the past three years
• Reportable injury and illness rate improved by
six per cent
• Energy for Performance programmes
introduced, with over ,00 participants to date
• Over 22,000 employees have participated in the
Employment policiesx
team resilience process to date, resulting in a
five year decrease in work-related mental illness
Our approachx
by 0 per cent and in mental ill-health absence
by 20 per cent
Employee surveys
We monitor employee engagement through regular surveys.
Our Global Leadership Survey has been conducted every two
years since 2002 to track management views on a range of
GSK employs over 100,000 people in 114 countries across the issues and is available in nine languages. The findings are
world. We aim to attract the best employees from a diverse compared against 46 top ranked companies from a range of
range of backgrounds in each of the countries where we work.
industries, including pharmaceuticals, automotive, finance and
An inclusive workplace gives us a range of perspectives to draw
energy.
on and helps us to anticipate the needs of the wide range of
people who use our products. It also supports creativity and
Diversity and inclusion
innovation, and makes GSK a more attractive employer.
Our value statement, the Spirit of GSK, states that ‘we will
Keeping our employees and contractors healthy and safe is a value and draw on the differing knowledge, perspectives,
priority. As well as being the right thing to do, this improves experiences and styles resident in our global community’.
business performance by increasing engagement and Including talented people in the workforce, regardless of race,
attendance, improving productivity and reducing healthcare gender, sexuality, age and disability ensures we recruit and
and insurance costs. retain the best people for the job.
00 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Global diversity and inclusion policy
Our commitment is set out in our global diversity and inclusion individuals with disabilities to contribute as employees,
(D&I) policy, published on the GSK intranet. Our Corporate customers and partners.
Executive Team endorses the policy and related activities such
as our annual Multicultural Marketing and Diversity Awards, We hold the ‘Two Ticks’ symbol from JobCentrePlus, which
see page 103. demonstrates GSK’s commitment to employing disabled
people.
We have diversity champions in each business unit and D&I
steering committees in the UK and US, made up of human Employee development and talent management
resources and line managers with specific responsibility Employees who receive training opportunities and regular
for diversity and inclusion. The committees run awareness performance appraisals are more likely to feel valued and
campaigns and training sessions. GSK also monitors and engaged, in addition to gaining new skills. Our goal is to
reports on gender diversity in management in the UK and US. create a culture where every individual can perform to their
full potential.
We highlight the importance of diversity and inclusion through
myGSK, our intranet site, and through frequent articles in our We provide work-related training courses for all employees,
internal magazine Spirit. For example, in March 2007 Spirit ran and leadership training for managers. Regular appraisals help
an article explaining how we targeted Os-Cal, our vitamin D us to identify training needs and support employees to set
and calcium supplement range, at African American women and achieve development objectives. Training is carried out
within each business function and online, for example, through
over 50. These women are more likely to die following an
our myLearning intranet site in the US and UK. We also offer
osteoporosis related hip fracture than white women of the
project secondments to help employees learn new skills.
same age. The article described how African Americans often
distrust conventional marketing so GSK had to devise another
We identify high performing employees and potential leaders in
way of reaching the women. We held forums in African
each business function through our annual talent management
American churches to raise awareness about Os-Cal, which
cycle. Talented individuals participate in leadership programmes
increased the number of households buying the supplement by
and connect with senior management through programmes
a third. This highlighted the business benefits of understanding
such as the Chief Executive Forum. Leadership development
the needs of a diverse range of customers.
also includes ‘360 degree feedback’, where managers receive
feedback from their manager, peers and subordinates. In 2007
More information on our approach to diversity and inclusion is
our theme for employee development was leadership with
available in the background section of our website.
integrity, inspiration, energy and resilience.
Employee networks
Reward
Employee networks are an important element of our diversity
Our share ownership schemes help to create a culture of
and inclusion programme. They support professional growth
ownership among our employees. In countries where share
and provide a forum where people from similar backgrounds
ownership options exist, there is a high level of participation.
can meet, discuss shared experiences and address any problem
For example, in the UK 67 per cent of employees participate
areas. This helps engage and empower employees.
in our ShareSave scheme, and 85 per cent in our ShareReward
scheme.
GSK has networks for Asian, African American, Hispanic, gay,
lesbian, bisexual and transgender employees. We also have
Internal communications
networks for mature employees, young people and women in
We have a range of internal communications channels, such
leadership. Each network has an executive sponsor who helps
as our global intranet site myGSK, and Spirit, our internal
to set and achieve goals, obtain resources and promote the
magazine. These keep employees informed about business
network’s objectives amongst senior management.
developments and enable them to give feedback. We track
the impact of our internal communications using employee
The networks are an important source of expertise on diversity
surveys. Questions employees ask senior management in the
issues. GSK managers can engage with the networks to
Q&A section on myGSK are monitored to ensure we are aware
improve their understanding of employees from different
of areas of concern. We track the numbers of readers of news
backgrounds. Networks also help our media and marketing
stories posted on myGSK so we can assess their relevance to
teams understand our diverse customers and stakeholders. employees.
For more information on our approach to employee networks Employee consultation
see the background section of our website. It is important that we consult employees about changes
that affect them. In Europe we discuss business developments
Disability through our European Employment Consultation Forum, which
We work to ensure people with disabilities can access the includes employee representatives from 27 EU countries.
full range of recruitment and career opportunities at GSK.
In the UK, we partner with the Employer’s Forum on Disability
and strive to be a ‘disability confident’ organisation. Disability
confidence is a concept developed by the Employers’ Forum
to describe companies that create a culture of inclusion,
remove barriers to access, and make adjustments to enable
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 0EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
The Forum works alongside national consultation processes. Our performancex
Representatives meet four times a year to receive updates
and review proposals affecting the structure of the business.
Employee surveys
Senior executives address representatives from all countries
Our Global Leadership Survey has been conducted every two
at the annual meeting. This year Andrew Witty, our CEO- years. To read the findings of our most recent survey see our
designate, and other business leaders spoke on issues including 2006 Corporate Responsibility Report, page 41.
the growing importance of the GSK vaccine business, and
opportunities presented by new products in the R&D pipeline. Improvements from last year’s survey
The results of our 2006 survey helped us identify two key areas
We also discuss issues through national consultation forums. for improvement – reducing unnecessary bureaucracy and
For example, the UK Information and Consultation (I&C) Forum increasing the visibility of management. We began a major
consists of 15 elected employee representatives and seven drive to reduce unnecessary bureaucracy both in company
managers and meets three times a year. In 2007 the Forum processes and individual behaviour. Employees have been
reviewed a range of policies including those on holidays, engaged on the issue through the ‘Beating Bureaucracy’
flexible working and smoking at work. The new appeals series of videos on the GSK intranet and a feature in Spirit,
procedure in our redundancy policy was also reviewed. our internal magazine.
We will measure progress on the visibility of management
The UK I&C Forum looked at our environment, health and
when we have the results from the next Global Leadership
safety (EHS) activity. It recommended that we do more to
Survey.
communicate our efforts in this area to employees. In
response we included an article on our approach to climate
Diversity and inclusion
change in Spirit, our employee magazine. We also broadcasted
US inclusion and resilience survey
a 20-minute briefing in November with our Chairman,
Every year since 2002 employees in the US have been randomly
Sir Christopher Gent, to explain the reasons behind our
selected to complete an 11-question survey which gauges
climate change targets and what employees can do to make progress on inclusion and resilience. In December 2007,
a difference. The broadcast is available to all employees on 44 per cent of the 1,200 selected employees completed the
myEHS, our EHS intranet site. For more information on our survey. The table below shows the key results of the survey,
efforts to raise awareness of EHS activity among employees highlighting the highest and lowest satisfaction scores, as well
see the Environment section of this report, page 76. as how we are responding to the results:
US inclusion and resilience survey
2006 2007 How we are responding
Highest levels of overall employee satisfaction
I am confident I can keep up with the We are pleased our Resilience training programme
increasing pace of work 74% 80% has helped employees to manage their workload.
My workplace has a climate in which We are pleased that our diversity and inclusion efforts have
diverse perspectives are valued 76% 78% increased satisfaction in this area.
My manager demonstrates the The main challenges in this area are an aging and
ability to manage a diverse workforce 79% 77% increasingly global workforce. Our US Diversity and
Inclusion Steering Team is developing training and
resources around managing people from different
cultures and generations.
Lowest levels of overall employee satisfaction
Senior management shows by its actions Increasing senior management engagement is a top
that creating an inclusive environment is priority for our US Diversity and Inclusion Steering Team.
a top priority for GSK 59% 56% The team is emphasising that senior managers should use
their own supportive behaviour to lead by example.
In general, I am satisfied We attribute the slight drop in score to a decrease in
with my career progress 63% 61% satisfaction with career progress among more mature
workers. The GSK US Prime Time Partners Network, our
employee network which supports employees in mid to
late-career, has made career development an important
element in their 2008 programme. The US Diversity &
Inclusion Steering Team will also address the issue in its
Multigenerational Strategy.
I am satisfied with the information received We aim to increase satisfaction in this area by raising
from management on what’s going on at GSK 64% 62% awareness among senior management of the importance
of demonstrating an inclusive work environment.
02 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Multicultural marketing awards
In 2007 we held our fifth annual Multi-Cultural Marketing and Gender equality in the workplace is affected by factors
Diversity Awards, to inspire employees to find creative ways to outside our control including the requirements of family life.
reach a broader range of potential employees, customers and Our flexible working policies help employees balance the
communities. Awards are given in categories such as Employee demands of work and home life. They can be particularly
Attraction, Development or Retention, Multicultural Marketing beneficial for parents of young children. For example, we offer
and Sales, Community Outreach and Diversity Ambassador. part-time working, job sharing and remote working.
There were 52 entries this year – 341 in total since the awards
began in 2003. This year’s winners included: In 2007, we held our 13th annual US and fourth annual UK
Women in Science events. Entitled ‘Daring to be Innovative
• An initiative to recruit more female talent to Vice President in Drug Discovery and Development’, these one-day events
roles in global IT
brought together over 400 women and men working in R&D.
• Minority recruiting initiatives at the National Black MBA They gave participants the opportunity to celebrate their
Conference in US Consumer Healthcare scientific accomplishments, share knowledge and develop
professional networks. The Women in Science events also
• A supplier diversity initiative in Global Manufacturing &
enhance our reputation as an employer of choice for women.
Supply
Ethnic diversity
In the US, minorities (defined as Blacks, Hispanics, Asians,
Pacific Islanders, American Indians and Alaskan natives)
Marketing to a broad
made up 20.1 percent of our workforce, compared with
range of consumers 19.8 per cent in 2006 and 19.6 per cent in 2005.
In the US, three out of four African Americans
Ethnic minorities (US)
and Hispanics are overweight or obese.
This significantly increases their chances of
developing life-threatening medical conditions 20.1%
such as diabetes and heart disease. In 2007, GSK
launched alli, the first over-the-counter weight-
loss treatment to be approved by the US Food
and Drug Administration.
The marketing plan for alli specifically
targeted diverse groups and three of the eight
advertising agencies we used specialised in
multicultural marketing. This helped raise
awareness of the benefits of alli among groups
disproportionately affected by weight related
complications.
Gender diversity
We are pleased that the percentage of women in management Key:
has increased incrementally in the last four years. However,
n US ethnic minorities
there is still a lot of room for improvement.
Gender diversity in management 2007 (worldwide)
In the UK, ethnic minorities accounted for 19.1 per cent
of employees, compared to 18.3 per cent in 2006 and
Per cent of positions held by women
16.8 per cent in 2005. To classify minorities we use the UK
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Commission for Racial Equality definition of ethnic minorities.
This includes anyone who does not identify themselves as
A&B Bands* 20 19 21 22 22
White British (this means people identified as White Irish,
C01 – C03** 31 33 33 34 35 North American and European are included as minorities).
Ethnic minorities accounted for 12.5 per cent of the UK
C04 – C05*** 37 38 38 39 40
population of England and Wales in 2001.
Total for all 34 35 35 36 37
* Corporate Executive Team, ** Director grade
Senior Vice Presidents, Vice *** Manager grade
Presidents
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 0EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
We also measure diversity in the UK by counting the number In 2007 JP Garnier answered over 225 questions from
of employees that define themselves as non-white. In 2007, employees. Employees can read GSK’s position on key
11.8 per cent of employees defined themselves as non-white, issues faced by our industry on the ‘Be a GSK Ambassador’
compared to 11.6 per cent in 2006 and 11.0 per cent in 2005. section of the site
• Regular web-broadcasts and town hall meetings are hosted
Ethnic minorities (UK) by senior management at GSK for employees at our major
sites. During 2007 there were 17 broadcasts and 59 town
hall meetings from members of the executive team
19.1%
• Spirit, our internal magazine, is distributed quarterly to
over 33,500 employees throughout GSK
• Your Story, an online news story channel, launched in
2007 to enable employees to share their experiences at
GSK. 19 stories were published during the year
Employment awardsx
• Hewitt and FORTUNE magazine 2007 Top
Companies for Leaders Study – GSK ranked
fourth in the top ten list for Europe and
7th in the Global Top 20 list, out of 
participants
Key: • GSK ranked fourth out of 00 companies
in the Britain’s Top Employers 2007 survey
n UK ethnic minorities
• The Scientist placed GSK ninth in Best Places
to Work for Industry award. The rankings
are based on employee responses
Employee development and talent management
• GSK awarded a perfect score (00 per cent)
Leadership training in 2007 included:
for Corporate Equality from the Human
Rights Campaign Foundation in the US.
• Over 2,500 managers attended Leadership Edge
Listed for the Best Places to Work for gay,
workshops at over 30 sites worldwide
lesbian, bisexual and transgender equality
• 76 managers attended five ‘Inspirational leadership’
• GSK named one of the ‘00 Best Companies’
workshops
by US magazine Working Mother for the
• 945 managers attended ‘Hot topics – The power of full
th consecutive year.
engagement’
• GSK received a Gold H.E.A.L.T.H Award from
• 850 managers attended ‘Hot topics – We’ve got to start
the Singapore Health Promotion Board, to
meeting like this’
recognise commendable Workplace Health
• 174 managers attended ‘Coaching master class’ Promotion programmes.
• Business in the Community in the UK gave
Development
GSK an award for ‘Excellence in health, work
We require that all employees should receive an annual
and wellbeing’, for proactive attendance
performance appraisal through our Performance and
management, resilience and ergonomics
Development Planning (PDP) programme. Compliance with this
programmes
requirement is measured at local level, but we know that more
than two-thirds of employees received an appraisal in 2007.
PDP assesses how well employees have implemented GSK
business principles through their work. The appraisals impact
on bonus payments and future career development.
Internal communications
Internal communication channels in 2007 included:
• Our global intranet site, myGSK, provides updates on GSK’s
business. It also has a Q&A section where employees can
ask the Chief Executive and other senior executives direct
questions about the business and issues that affect them.
0 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
• Process safety
Employee health, safety and wellbeing
• Chemical exposure protection
Our approachx
• Identifying risks
We have rigorous management systems to reduce the risk • Ergonomics
of harm to our employees and to help them stay healthy. • Auditing
Our ultimate goal is to eliminate all work-related injuries and
illnesses. Supporting the health of employees helps increase We raise awareness about EHS issues through:
energy levels, engagement and productivity.
• Employee bulletins
Health and safety management
• A nnouncements on our myEHS and Employee Health
We manage health and safety through an integrated
Management Community intranet sites
environment, health and safety (EHS) management system.
This incorporates our EHS Vision, EHS and Employee • The CEO’s EHS Excellence awards programme
Health Policies and 64 Global EHS Standards. Our EHS
• H ealth and Safety Week, held every October. In 2007, over
Plan for Excellence includes our strategy for improving EHS
70,000 employees from 49 sites in 30 countries took part.
performance up to 2015.
Activities included online risk assessments, fire drills and fire
hazard training and training sessions on manual lifting and
For more information see the EHS Management Section in
safety signs
the background pages on our website.
See more on our EHS Management System in the
Monitoring performance
background pages of our website.
We systematically assess and manage health and safety risks
and performance. When incidents do happen we identify root
Health and safety risk management programmes
causes and take action to prevent reoccurrence.
Our health and safety programmes focus on five key areas:
Our target is to reduce reportable injuries and illnesses by five
Ergonomics
per cent a year. We believe that addressing the causes of minor
Musculoskeletal illnesses and injuries are some of the leading
events will help eliminate risks and hazards, and prevent more
causes of time away from work. We have set a target to reduce
serious occupational injuries and illnesses.
the number of these illnesses and injuries by five per cent each
year through to 2010.
We conduct EHS audits at our sites at least once every four
years and present the findings to the Audit Committee. We
Better workplace and job design (known as ‘ergonomics’)
carry out more frequent visits at selected sites, depending on
can prevent musculoskeletal injuries and illnesses, increase
an assessment of risk and the issues raised by previous audits.
efficiency and productivity and reduce costs. For example,
in 2007 one of our ergonomics improvement teams (EIT)
OHSAS 18001 certification
made changes to a production line that lowered operational
Twenty-three out of our 80 Pharmaceuticals and Consumer
costs by £140,000 by reducing waste and increasing product
Healthcare manufacturing sites and one Consumer output. We have 60 EITs, made up of representatives from
Healthcare R&D site are certified to the international health across business functions that work to improve ergonomics at
and safety standard OHSAS 18001. We have set a goal for manufacturing sites around the world.
all manufacturing sites to be certified by the end of 2010. In
2007, three new sites were certified. The certified sites are in Ergonomic principles are integrated into the design of
Argentina, Brazil, China, Egypt, France, Germany, India, Japan, major projects. Procurement teams take ergonomics into
Kenya, Mexico, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Turkey, the US and consideration when sourcing furniture and equipment.
the UK.
We use workshops to increase ergonomics skills at our sites.
Training and awareness Employees can access our intranet site, the Global Ergonomics
Training helps to create a workplace culture where EHS is taken Community. It includes an online computer ergonomics
seriously. Employees who are responsible for managing health risk assessment tool (available in seven languages) which
and safety issues at sites and business units receive regular employees can use to assess their computer work and improve
training and in turn instruct employees in working safely. their workstations.
One of the GSK EHS Standards addresses general training Chemical exposure
requirements and several of the EHS Standards require We plan to make 80 per cent of operations involving the
specific training. Safety programmes such as process safety handling of hazardous compounds ‘respirator free’ by 2010,
and chemical exposure protection have training components. meaning employees will not need to wear respiratory protective
Sites develop and conduct training based on local needs and equipment for routine production tasks. We will achieve this
capabilities. Some use eLearning tools or locally available by preventing the release of hazardous powder compounds in
government or university sponsored training programmes and these operations. For the remaining 20 per cent of operations
some business groups hold meetings that include training on employees will remain protected by appropriate respiratory
safety topics such as: protective equipment.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 0EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
We are conducting an air monitoring programme and have Resilient employees can manage work and home demands
appointed eleven regional occupational hygienists to reduce effectively and minimise the adverse health affects of stress.
exposure to chemicals. This benefits both the individual employee and the company.
See more on our approach to occupational hygiene and Our team resilience programme is available in 12 languages
control of chemical exposures in the background pages of and has been used in 41 countries. Employees and managers
our website. identify sources of particular pressure and agree actions to
address them. This helps teams to take control of their work
Materials hazard information and avoid excessive pressure which can lead to stress. Since the
We provide information to enable our customers to handle and programme began in 2003, over 22,000 employees around the
dispose of our products safely. For more information see safety world have taken the workplace assessment resulting in a five
data sheets on our website. year decrease in work-related mental illness by 60 per cent and
in mental ill-health absence by 20 per cent.
Process safety
Our process safety programme aims to ensure that safety Our energy programmes, Personal Resilience: Manage Your
is built into all manufacturing, research and development Energy, Power Your Performance, and Energy for Performance,
processes through hazard identification, control and risk support personal development and help individuals fulfil their
assessment. potential. Participating employees report improvements in
emotional, physical, spiritual and mental performance. In 2007,
In 2007, we completed a review of our process safety strategy, 600 employees participated in the programme, and a total of
launched in 2006 after two employees were injured in an 1,500 have participated since it was introduced in 2005.
explosion at our factory in Irvine, UK. Using the results of this
review we began developing an integrated Process Safety We believe that the GSK senior managers play a crucial role in
Management System (PSMS) that will be implemented at all creating a healthy, high performing culture by acting as role
GSK sites. This will include: models for other employees, and they are enthusiastically
participating in our Energy for Performance programme. We
• A design code containing new standards for process safety plan to expand the programme in 2008 to make it available to
a wider range of employees.
• A ssessments against the new standards, with gap analyses,
risk assessments and remediation processes
Wellbeing and work-life balance
• P rocess safety indicators GSK offers programmes globally to improve the health
of employees and their families. This increases employee
• S teps to embed process safety in the overall EHS Culture
commitment and productivity and reduces absenteeism and
• N ew training and competence programmes and process the cost of ill health. Support varies between countries and
safety tools according to local needs. It may include benefits such as on-site
health and fitness centres, flexible working arrangements,
• A ppointing a Director of Process Safety
immunisations, disease screening, family support services and
health education.
Driver safety
Our sales representatives spend significant amounts of
Our programmes support local healthcare services by focusing
time driving and are therefore at risk of being involved in
on disease prevention and increasing access to innovative and
road traffic incidents. We aim to reduce this risk as much as
proven treatments. For example, in many markets we offer free
possible through our worldwide driver safety programme.
immunisations, cancer screening, help with smoking cessation
This includes our EHS Essentials, instructions and guidelines
and regular medical checkups. We also assist employees
on driver training, vehicle selection, risk assessment and suffering from chronic diseases to ensure they have access
accident reporting. We have a motorbike rider safety manual to the correct long-term treatment and support. This helps
for employees in countries where we provide motorbikes or prevent costs from health-related time off work.
scooters for employees.
Positively managing HIV in the workplace
Around three quarters of GSK’s commercial businesses have We provide information and training to staff on HIV/AIDS
extensive driver safety programmes in place, including driving prevention and addressing problems of stigma relating to
licence checks, guidance on the use of mobile phones, safety HIV/AIDS. We also provide HIV/AIDS testing and treatment
training, tracking and reporting incidents. We plan to extend programmes to employees and their families in countries
these to our other sites. where these are not easily available via government healthcare
programmes. We do not discriminate against prospective and
Healthy high performance current employees based on HIV status and do not require
We aim to create a high performance culture that enables testing as a prerequisite for employment.
peak business performance. Employees who are physically
energised, mentally focused and have a clear sense of purpose
show sustained improvements in performance. We use the
term ‘resilience’ to describe the skills and behaviours needed to
be successful in a high pressure working environment. These
skills and behaviours also help to prevent mental illness, which
is a leading cause of ill-health resulting in time away from work.
0 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Flu pandemic preparedness
The World Health Organization (WHO) has stated that None of the critical findings has become ‘delinquent’ (greater
pandemic flu poses a serious threat to global public health. than 90 days overdue).
We have invested more than $2 billion in expanding seasonal
flu vaccine manufacturing capacity, developing a pandemic flu There were no instances of regulatory non-compliance in 2007
vaccine, and increasing production capacity for the anti-viral flu and GSK received no fines.
treatment Relenza. See the Access to medicines section of this
report on page 39 for more details. For more information on EHS audits see the Environment
section on page 78.
We have also implemented pandemic flu plans covering
400,000 people in over 130 countries. These will help protect Injury and illness rates
employees and their families and support business continuity.
Employees can now receive free seasonal flu vaccinations in Targets
almost 80 countries – twice as many countries as last year.
Target Progress in 2007
We are also partnering with our key suppliers to take action to
prepare for a flu pandemic. To reduce the reportable injury
and illness rate by 5 per cent
each year to the end of 2010 7%
To reduce the reportable
Our performancex musculoskeletal illness and
injury rate by 5 per cent each
to the end of 2010 5%
Audits
In 2007, we conducted 33 EHS audits.
The best performance on health and safety issues was in: Injury and illness
• B usiness continuity planning
Target
• E mployee and external stakeholder involvement 2010
• M anaging engineering & process change 2007
• E mergency planning & response
Baseline
• E mployee information & training 2006
• F ire protection
2005
• M aterial hazard identification & communication
Baseline
Sites were generally weakest on: 2001
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2
• C hemical exposure
reportable injury and illness rate
• R esilience and mental wellbeing
Key:
• P rocess safety
u Target n Current data
• R isk assessment processes
n Historical data
• Ergonomics
Injury and illness
In 2007, auditors found nine ‘critical findings’. These indicate
a high probability of incidents with potentially serious Year injury and illness rate
consequences. These involved serious deficiencies in:
2001 1.18
• I nadequate control of flammable substances or conditions 2005 0.72
(five findings)
2006 0.70
• I nadequate control of chemical exposures (two findings) 2007 0.66
• L ack of adequate fall protection (one finding)
Our main measure is the reportable injury and illness rate.
We also measure the number of days lost from injuries and
• D eficiencies in managing construction contractors (one
illnesses. This provides an indication of the severity of the
finding)
incidents, although it is only a rough guide.
Sites are monitored to ensure that appropriate actions have
been taken to mitigate risks and ensure ongoing compliance.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 07EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
Data cover GSK employees and contract workers who we Injury and illness causes
directly supervise. We report separately data for contractors Injuries with and without lost time arise mainly from slips, trips
who work on GSK sites but supervise their own staff (see or falls, over-exertions or strains and motor vehicle accidents.
data table on page 111). Contractors’ data are not externally Lost-time illness stems mainly from mental ill health and
verified. musculoskeletal problems (primarily repetitive strain injury).
Musculoskeletal illness is also the main cause of reportable
Data are collected from all of our 80 Pharmaceuticals and illness which does not lead to days off work.
Consumer Healthcare manufacturing sites, 13 of our 14
operational vaccine manufacturing sites, all 25 Pharmaceuticals Fatalities
and Consumer Healthcare research and development sites,
all three major office locations, all 14 offices with more than
Five year trend in employee fatalities
one million work hours, all seven of the main sales groups
and 59 smaller offices. 2007 2
2006 3
In 2007, we recorded 947 injuries (992 in 2006) and
2005 1
331 illnesses (380 in 2006), a total of 1278 incidents.
This is equivalent to a rate of 0.66 reportable injuries and 2004 2
illnesses per 100,000 hours worked. Of these:
2003 5
• T here were 386 injuries and 242 illnesses without lost time, 2002 3
a rate of 0.32 injuries and illnesses without lost time per
100,000 hours worked.
In 2007 a GSK employee in Canada died in a road accident
• W orking time was lost in 561 injuries and 89 illnesses, while on company business after losing control of her car in
(51 per cent of incidents) a rate of 0.33 lost time injuries icy conditions. A passenger was also hospitalised with serious
and illnesses per 100,000 hours worked. injuries. A GSK sales employee in China died in a road accident
while on company business.
• T here were 10,840 lost calendar days from injuries
and 3956 calendar days lost from illnesses, a rate of Two employees of GSK contractors in the UK and Pakistan also
7.6 calendar days lost per 100,000 hours worked. died. In the UK a warehouse contractor died in a forklift truck
accident and the Pakistani construction contractor died after
The overall reportable injury and illness rate and the ergonomic falling through a service shaft. We have fitted all unused service
injury and illness rate have improved in line with the target, but chases with temporary covers to prevent further incidents.
the lost time injury and illness rate has not improved.
We always investigate the circumstances of fatalities and other
GSK’s injury and illness performance placed us in the third serious incidents and assess what can be learned to reduce the
quartile of a benchmark industry group in 2006 which means risks. We also issue global alerts (posted on our intranet site)
we need to improve. to communicate information that could help prevent similar
incidents at other sites.
2007 highlights:
Amputations
At 82 sites in 42 countries, there were no lost-time injuries Three employees lost finger tips due to accidents at work:
or illnesses during the year. In addition: fifteen sites worked
one million or more hours without a lost time, injury or illness. • A n employee in the US attempted to clear a machine jam by
Two sites achieved five million hours without a lost time, injury putting his hand into an access to a propeller. This resulted
or illness and one site achieved eight years without a lost time, in serious cuts to a finger tip which was later amputated
injury or illness.
• A n employee in the UK lost a finger tip after it was crushed
by a bucket being loaded onto a dumper truck
Driving accidents
There were 183 driving accidents, which resulted in two • A n employee in India got his gloved hand entangled in
fatalities. 128 of the accidents resulted in lost time. These the chain working of a machine and was drawn into the
accounted for 23 per cent of lost-time injuries. sprocket causing the loss of a finger tip
All of these amputations resulted in renewed emphasis on
Chemicals exposure
machine guarding programmes at these sites.
Exposure to chemicals resulted in three respiratory or skin-
related lost-time incidents and 94 cases which did not result
Ergonomics
in lost time. Together, they accounted for 29 per cent of work-
Musculoskeletal illness and injury is one of the leading causes
related illnesses.
of time away from work. We have set a target to reduce the
number of these illnesses and injuries by five per cent each year
So far none of our sites has achieved ‘respirator free’ status.
through to 2010.
0 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Over 20,000 employees at 172 sites worldwide have used
our online ergonomics risk assessment tool during the past We put a particular focus on ensuring employees
three years to assess their computer work areas, resulting in a understand their own individual responsibilities
significant decrease in computer related injuries and illnesses. for strong safety performance. For example,
every employee was asked to commit to improve
Team Resilience at least one aspect of their safety behaviour
By the end of 2007, 22,161 employees from over 1,400 teams
and every team produced an action plan for
have completed the training programme. Since 2002, the
addressing safety issues during 2007.
programme has reduced work-related mental illness by
60 per cent and decreased absence relating to mental ill health In 2007 the site achieved its highest levels of
by 20 per cent, saving £2.4 million. A one-year follow up with EHS performance in its  year history including
teams completing the programme reported a 10-15 per cent the lowest ever recorded 2 month lost time
reduction in fatigue and frustration and a 15 per cent increase injury and illness rate.
in self-esteem and job satisfaction.
The futurex
E mployee behaviour is the key
to a safe workplace In 2008, we will implement the Operational Excellence
programme. This will bring a number of challenges, including
In March 200 there was an explosion at our providing support for employees whose jobs are affected and
Irvine site in the UK causing serious injuries maintaining the morale of all employees, see page 100.
to two staff. Safety in the workplace is of
Health, safety and wellness
paramount importance to GSK and improving
By the end of 2010 we aim:
safety at Irvine is now a key priority.
Our approach includes improving process safety • To reduce the number of ergonomic illnesses and injuries
(see page 0) and addressing workplace culture by five per cent each year through to 2010
and attitudes to safety at work.
• For 80 per cent of operations involving the handling of
A team from the factory safety committee hazardous compounds to be ‘respirator free’, meaning
developed the Irvine EHS Behaviour Standard. employees will not need to wear respiratory protective
This defines the simple but important steps equipment for these operations
employees can take to improve safety, for • For all manufacturing sites to be certified to the
example the importance of reporting all safety international health and safety standard OHSAS 18001
incidents, however small, including near-
misses. It also covers the negative behaviours
employees should avoid.
All employees have been taught about the new
Behaviour Standards through:
• Briefing sessions for managers, team
leaders and supervisory staff
• Training sessions for all site employees,
clearly explaining key safety steps
• Distribution of a booklet, postcards and
z cards (a small pocket sized information
card) explaining the new standards
• A feedback system to help us address
areas of uncertainty and clarify any
employee concerns
• An interactive introduction for all
new employees
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 0EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
How will your Operational Excellence programme Your health and safety performance is below
affect employees? the industry average, what needs to improve?
Regrettably our Operational Excellence programme We know this is an area where we need to improve.
will result in job losses. We will do everything that we We are launching a project in 2008 to identify causes
can to support affected employees including providing of injuries and illnesses and improve our engineering
a competitive severance package and providing controls and management systems. We also plan to
outplacement support such as assistance in identifying address the human factors that affect health and safety
alternative employment, career counselling and – individual behaviour and workplace culture. We have
retraining. launched a toolkit to help our sites assess their health
and safety risks and identify appropriate interventions.
We will also work hard to ensure the programme does
It will be piloted during 2008.
not have a negative impact on the morale of other
staff. We have produced a guide for managers with
information on how to support employees during the
uncertainty, anxiety and stress encountered during
major organisational change. Links
Why are there still relatively few women in
In this report:
senior management at GSK?
We are pleased that the percentage of women in
• Employee volunteering
management has increased incrementally over the last
• Ethical conduct training
four years. However, we recognise that there is still
room for improvement especially in senior management • H uman rights and EHS in our supply chain
positions and in roles within historically male-dominated
• Environmental performance
disciplines such as science and engineering. We aim to
In the background section of our website:
attract more women to GSK and to support the career
development of existing employees through our flexible • More information on our approach to diversity
working programmes. These help employees balance the http://www.gsk.com/about/diversity
demands of their personal and professional lives. We also
have diversity champions in each business unit as well as
employee networks which support career development
for women and minority groups at GSK.
0 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Metric 2001 2004 2005 2006 2007
Injury and illness – GSK employees1
Hours worked (millions) 191.1 195.6 196.6 195.2 194.6
Fatalities 5 2 1 3 2
Number of injuries with lost time2 751 524 552 554 561
Calendar days lost – injuries3 16,268 12,746 11,607 11,105 10,840
Number of illnesses with lost time2 133 92 81 96 89
Calendar days lost – illnesses3 5,304 3,006 3,034 5,263 3,956
Number of injuries without lost time4 1,079 432 464 438 386
Number of illnesses without lost time4 315 352 316 284 242
Injury and illness – non GSK employees
Hours worked (millions) 17.0 20.6 22.8 22.8 25.9
Fatalities 0 1 2 0 2
Number of injuries and illnesses
with lost time 69 84 98 89 59
Calendar days lost 754 1,369 1,575 968 924
Number of injuries and illnesses
without lost time 1 293 275 375 400
Footnotes
1 The health and safety data cover both our employees and contract workers who are
directly supervised by GSK employees. We report a snapshot of injury and illness
performance for the year. Cases may be added after the end of the year so prior years
may change
2 Lost time injuries and illnesses are work-related injuries and illnesses that are serious
enough to result in one or more days away from work
3 Lost calendar days are the calendar days, including weekends, that employees could not
work because of work-related injuries and illnesses. This helps to provide a measure of the
severity of injuries and illnesses
4 Reportable injuries and illnesses without lost time are incidents that did not result in time
away from work (lost time). They are more serious than first aid but not serious enough
to result in lost time
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 OUR WORK WITH COMMUNITIES
Our work with Our approachx
We focus our cash investment on areas relevant to our business
communities and the skills of our people. This is where we can bring the
most benefit to communities and GSK.
We look for innovative ways to:
We donate money, time, medicines and
• P revent disease
equipment to support communities around
• B uild capacity of community organisations
the world. Our programmes are long term
• P romote education, particularly in science
and focus on addressing healthcare challenges,
in line with our business priority to increase Donations are made at group level and by individual sites.
Most of our community investment is made through non-profit
access to medicines. We also invest in improving
organisations that are experts in healthcare and education.
science education.
These organisations are best placed to understand local
community needs and to target resources effectively.
We donate key medicines to support low-income patients in
the US and under-served communities around the world. We
have also committed to donating as many albendazole tablets
as are needed to eliminate LF (elephantiasis), a disabling disease
prevalent in over 80 countries.
Headlinesx
Healthcare
• Donations valued at £22 million – equivalent We support major public health initiatives in the developing
to . per cent of Group total pre-tax profits world. For example:
Global programmes
• W e are a founding member of the Global Alliance to
• January 200 marked 0 years of commitment
Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis (GAELF)
to eliminating lymphatic filariasis (LF), a
• P ositive Action is our programme to reduce stigma and
disabling tropical disease, with more than
improve capacity for HIV prevention and treatment
00 million treatments administered so far
• O ur African Malaria Partnership is supporting Mobilising
• 0 million albendazole tablets worth
for Malaria, an advocacy initiative to generate political
£ million donated in 2007 to help eliminate
commitment and funding to combat malaria
LF, bringing the total to date to almost
70 million • P HASE – Personal Hygiene And Sanitation Education – is
our education programme to prevent diarrhoea-related
•  years of Positive Action, supporting
disease through hand-washing
communities living with HIV/AIDS
• W e donate essential antibiotics and other products for
Disaster relief
disaster relief and to support basic healthcare provision in
• Donated life-saving antibiotics and other
impoverished communities
medicines valued at £ million to support
disaster and humanitarian relief in 07 countries Access to medicines is not just an issue for the developing
world. Even in the developed world some patients cannot
afford medicines. This is particularly a problem in the US
where many people do not have health insurance. Our Patient
We believe donating some of our profits to benefit Assistance Programs and discount savings cards help patients
communities is part of being a responsible company. We do on low incomes afford the medicines they need. For more
not use community investment as a way of generating sales information see Access to medicines.
but it does bring long-term business benefits by:
Education
• I mproving our reputation amongst the communities we We support education in the UK and the US to interest young
help and wider stakeholder groups people in science and encourage them to pursue a science-
related career. We also support programmes that develop
• B oosting employee morale and pride in GSK
young people’s understanding of science, enabling them to
• R aising GSK’s profile make sound decisions about the science-related issues they
meet in everyday life such as healthy eating, vaccinations and
• B uilding good relations with governments
the value of medicines.
For more information on our efforts to increase access to
medicines see the Access to medicines section on page 32.
2 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Measuring impact
We want to make sure that the money we give has the greatest
possible impact. We ask our partner organisations for our larger
programmes to report annually on progress of the projects
supported by GSK. We review results with our partners and
identify any changes required to achieve the programmes’
objectives.
Final impact and outcome reports for the projects we support
are often not produced until after our funding has come to an
end. For this reason, we have reported on the impact of some
of the GSK-supported projects that finished before 2007.
Our performancex
Total giving
In 2007, our community investment was valued at £282 million
($564 million) compared with £302 million ($558 million) in
2006. This is equivalent to 3.8 per cent of Group total pre-
tax profits (3.9 per cent in 2006). This year on year change is
primarily due to sterling/dollar exchange rate movement.
The majority (almost 70 per cent) of the value of our
community investment is made through product donations
to low-income patients in the US. In addition, we gave
£16 million ($30 million) of humanitarian product donations
for under-served communities around the world and donated
albendazole tablets valued at £14 million ($29 million) for the
LF elimination programme.
We belong to the UK’s London Benchmarking Group and
the US Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy
(CECP). We report our non-cash donations in line with CECP
guidelines which value our medicines at wholesale acquisition
cost in line with other pharmaceutical companies. Wholesale
acquisition cost is the wholesale list price, excluding discounts.
For comparative purposes, the $388 million at WAC value for
the Patient Assistance Programs,the biggest proportion of our
giving, would equal about $330 million at average wholesaler
discounted price.
Method of giving (£million)
Management costs 14 Cash 41
Inkind 3
Product 224
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 
Breakdown of cash giving (%)
Others 16 Health 50
Environment 2
Arts and
Culture 4 Education 28
Preventing disease
Infectious diseases kill millions of people in the developing
world each year. They cause misery, cost billions of dollars and
slow economic growth. Preventing infection is more effective
than treatment and can have significant social and economic
benefits.
Our vaccines play a significant role in preventing disease,
see page 24 and page 25. GSK also supports innovative
community approaches to disease prevention that are tailored
to local settings and needs. For example:
Micro-finance and malaria
Education is vital to disease prevention. GSK funded the NGO
Freedom from Hunger between 2003 and 2006, helping them
to bring financial services and education to poor women in
West Africa. An impact study assessing the results of the project
was completed in 2007.
Freedom from Hunger works with micro-finance institutions
(MFIs) which provide small loans to help women start
businesses or buy essential equipment. The women meet
regularly to make loan repayments and learn about issues
from basic business skills to child nutrition and family planning.
The MFIs found that malaria was frequently the cause of
clients missing their repayments. With support from GSK,
Freedom from Hunger was able to develop a malaria education
curriculum to improve prevention, early detection and
treatment of malaria in the home.
The education programme has now been introduced in six
West African countries reaching 173,000 households with
865,000 household members. The impact study conducted
with two rural banks in Ghana has shown that:
• A fter taking the course people are more likely to recognise
the cause of malaria and to know that both pregnant
women and children under the age of five are most
vulnerableOUR WORK WITH COMMUNITIES
• T he course improved knowledge of preventative measures • T reatment for children with fever was higher in all three
and increased ownership of mosquito nets (half of the districts covered by the programme compared to areas
people who took the course owned a mosquito net at the not included, and two of the districts achieved 80 per cent
time of the impact study, a larger proportion compared to treatment rates for under fives
the surrounding area)
The radio broadcasts were particularly successful in
• P articipants were twice as likely to have a mosquito net re- encouraging people to buy and re-treat ITNs and encouraging
treated with insecticide in the last six months; women pregnant women to seek intermittent presumptive treatment.
of reproductive age and children under five were more However, despite some increase in the use of ITNs, cost was still
likely to be sleeping under an insecticide-treated net a barrier. UMPP succeeded in bringing tax cuts for ITNs,
but they still remain too expensive for many Ugandans.
• A lmost 90 per cent of participants indicated they shared
messages from their malaria education sessions with other
The Ugandan Ministry of Health has put the UMPP strategy
members of their community
in its 2006-2011 malaria control plan. UMPP hopes the
government will provide funding to continue the programme
The study also showed that education must be accompanied
in the three districts as well as expanding it to the rest of the
by financial support. The most common reasons for non-use of
country.
mosquito nets were their expense and lack of local availability.
Eliminating lymphatic filariasis (LF)
Malaria drug distribution in Uganda
January 2008 marked ten years since GSK committed to
Uganda suffers from high levels of malaria transmission.
donating as many doses of albendazole, our anti-parasitic drug,
Children and pregnant women are particularly affected
as are needed to eliminate LF.
– malaria causes almost half of deaths in under-fives and almost
a third of deaths during pregnancy. Between 2003 and 2006,
GSK supported the Uganda Malaria Partnership Programme LF is a disfiguring disease prevalent in tropical countries, which
(UMPP), a consortium of four NGOs (AMREF, URCS, Africare is transmitted by mosquitoes. It can lead to severe swelling of
and CDFU), which aims to reduce malaria deaths among the arms, legs, breasts and genitals and thickening of the skin.
pregnant women and children. A report on the impact of this LF is one of the world’s leading causes of permanent disability
project is now available. with more than one billion people in over 80 countries
(over 15 per cent of the world’s population) at risk of infection.
The programme had three main objectives, to:
In 2007 GSK donated 150 million treatments of albendazole
• E ncourage people to seek treatment when household
to 19 countries. Since the programme began we have donated
members (particularly young children) show symptoms of
almost 750 million tablets and over130 million people have
malaria
been treated at least once with albendazole. We estimate that
• A dvocate the use of insecticide-treated nets (ITN), especially 24 million babies born in the treated regions have been spared
among pregnant women and children the risk of contracting LF.
• I ncrease preventative treatment among pregnant women
An additional benefit is that the albendazole dose given for
using antenatal care services
the LF programme doubles as a treatment for intestinal worms.
These parasites particularly affect children, causing anaemia
UMPP took an innovative approach, training 1,100 individuals
and malnutrition, and stunting growth. We estimate that
to provide basic treatment and raise awareness in their
since the beginning of the LF programme, almost 120 million
communities. Known as community drug distributors
albendazole treatments have been administered to children
(CDDs), they were taught how to recognise high fever and
and over 99 million to women of child bearing age. This will
treat patients, how to store drugs safely and when to refer
have had a positive impact on the overall health of those
patients to healthcare clinics. CDDs also raise awareness of
infected with intestinal worms.
the importance of protecting vulnerable household members.
The projects covered three districts of Uganda, with a total
Each country aiming to eliminate LF must treat all at-risk people
population of around 230,000.
once a year for at least five years. So far, Egypt, several Pacific
Island countries, Sri Lanka, Zanzibar and Togo have completed
UMPP also raised awareness through leaflets, radio broadcasts,
five annual mass drug administrations (MDAs). These countries
posters, drama shows, films and role-plays performed in
are monitoring their populations to evaluate the impact of the
schools and at community meetings.
programme on the disease. An assessment conducted in Egypt
and Vanuatu, a Pacific island nation, showed that LF has been
The final project evaluation study showed that CDDs have been
eliminated in most areas of these countries.
very effective in treating childhood malaria:
Programmes in Tanzania, Madagascar and Burkina Faso have
• I n one of the districts 18,505 children with fever were
also reported an unexpected benefit of the MDAs, beyond
brought to CDDs, of whom 64 per cent were taken there
reducing infection rates. In these countries, some patients
within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms, compared to a
infected with LF are describing an alleviation of symptoms after
national average of 24 per cent
the MDAs, including reduced leg swelling and a reduction in
• 9 5 per cent of these children fully recovered and only frequency and length of acute attacks (spells of feverishness
0.1 per cent died, compared to the national level of and loss of energy). Acute attacks are the most incapacitating
4 per cent symptom of LF.
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Elimination in Vanuatu
Vanuatu is an archipelago of 83 Pacific islands with a HIV/AIDS is a growing problem in Asia, with India now
population of around 221,500. In 1998 a survey showed ranking second to sub-Saharan Africa as having the most
that LF was transmitted in many parts of the country and HIV infections, and parts of China seeing transmission rates
approximately five per cent of the population was infected. comparable to Africa. Access to HIV therapies and knowledge
In 2000 the country launched a mass drug administration about how to use them correctly will be critical to avoid an
(MDA), where 83 per cent of the population was treated HIV/AIDS epidemic in Asia.
with albendazole tablets donated by GSK as well as
diethylcarbamazine (a non-GSK drug). Between 2001 and Positive Action is supporting amFAR’s TREAT Asia programme
2004 Vanuatu conducted a further four MDAs. A survey to improve treatment literacy projects in China, Thailand,
conducted after the fifth and final MDA showed that the Vietnam and Cambodia. This reaches some of the poorest
proportion of people infected with LF had fallen to just members of society. For example in central China, TREAT Asia
0.17 per cent. No infection was detected among children is working to improve treatment rates among people living
under five born since the start of MDA. Vanuatu appears to with HIV/AIDS who were infected by contaminated needles
have successfully reached the goal of basic elimination and after selling their blood to supplement meagre incomes.
may no longer have to conduct annual rounds of mass drug This has caused the deaths of half the population of some
administration. A further 11 Pacific island nations hope to villages. To overcome the challenge of low literacy levels the
eliminate LF by the year 2010. programme uses education materials based around pictures.
TREAT Asia provides training so that local NGOs and health
Building community capacity organisations can take on the literacy programmes after the
Lack of healthcare infrastructure – including clinics and trained project comes to an end.
healthcare professionals – and cultural attitudes are significant
Positive Action grants are also helping to raise awareness of
barriers to treatment in many developing countries. We support
HIV in Vietnam, where lack of knowledge about transmission
initiatives that help overcome stigma and build the capacity of
and treatment options are among the factors behind a rising
communities to combat disease.
HIV/AIDS pandemic. It is estimated that more than 260,000
Vietnamese people are HIV positive. The Asian Community
Positive Action
for AIDS Treatment and Advocacy is training people to manage
The 15th anniversary of Positive Action, GSK’s programme
infections so that they can educate hundreds of others. In the
to support the communities most affected by HIV/AIDS, was
second phase of the programme 200 people attended
marked in 2007.
16 treatment literacy training sessions and another 700 people
took part in 20 self-help group meetings.
Positive Action works with community organisations to counter
the ignorance and stigma surrounding HIV through outreach,
Supporting science education
education and advocacy. Since it was established in 1992, it has
Our education programmes help make science more relevant to
provided $70 million, funding projects in 60 countries across
young people, stimulating their interest in science and supports
Africa, Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe.
the training and development of science teachers.
Discrimination against people living with HIV/AIDS is a
US
significant barrier to treatment. In some communities disclosure
The success of our business relies on being able to recruit
of HIV positive status can cause a person to lose their job, their
talented individuals. In the US, the number of students
home, face domestic violence and be ostracised from their
choosing science subjects is falling. Most 4th and 8th graders
community.
lack proficiency in either reading or mathematics and only
about two-thirds of all 9th graders graduate from high school
In Kenya, fear prevents many HIV positive people seeking
within four years. Students who do receive diplomas are
treatment and some will travel long distances to avoid being
often unprepared for college or the modern workplace. With
seen going to a local clinic. Positive Action is partnering with
77 million baby boomers soon to retire the country faces a
the African Medical and Research Foundation (AMREF), the
significant skill shortage.
Network for the Empowerment of People Living with HIV and
AIDS in Kenya (NEPHAK), and the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric
GSK is a leading sponsor of the Institute for Competitive
AIDS Foundation (EGPAF) to help people get the care they
Workforce (ICW), a collaboration between businesses and the
need within their own community through the Zingatia Maisha
US Chamber of Commerce that aims to improve education in
(Positive Life) programme. This involves members of community
the US. In 2007 the ICW published ‘Leaders and Laggards’, a
groups who are living with HIV, helping to increase referrals
report into the performance of US public schools. The report
and adherence to treatment. The community groups also work
used a score card to rank public school systems in all US states
to reduce stigma by educating communities and health centre
based on a number of measures including the relationship
staff about HIV/AIDS. between spending and student achievement. It focused
on academic outcomes that relate to key business skills:
Zingatia Maisha has been running for two years and has innovation, flexibility, management and fiscal prudence.
brought more acceptance among healthcare providers and
local communities, reducing the fear of coming forward for
testing and treatment. For example, treatment adherence rates
are as high as 92 per cent in some clinics. Over the three years
of the project 38 health facilities will take part.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 OUR WORK WITH COMMUNITIES
The report has raised awareness among state and national
governments about the need to improve US education and Preparing for when GSK
has identified the states where reform is most needed. After
funding stops
the report was published governors and state legislators invited
representatives from the US Chamber and the ICW to present
Most of our programmes run over a number
the findings of the report and to give feedback on how to
of years, recognising that it takes time to build
improve performance. The ICW also held events to encourage
change. But from the start we plan for what will
business leaders to get involved in supporting education
happen at the end of our funding.
reform.
Justine Frain, Vice President Global Community
UK Partnerships, discusses how GSK helps
After school clubs help broaden the interests and experiences organisations get results and prepare for when
of young people, but these often focus on sports or arts rather
funding comes to an end:
than science. CREST Star Investigators, developed by the British
‘There are many communities around the world
Association for the Advancement of Science and funded
by GSK, aims to redress this balance and get young people in need of support so we can only fund individual
involved in science-based activities. projects for a limited time period. We work hard
to bring results over the life of a project (usually
The UK-wide programme offers schools and other around three years) and to help organisations win
organisations such as the Brownies and Cubs activity packs funding from other sources to continue their work.
for use in after-school clubs. These activities encourage
We don’t want to be a grant making organisation
children to solve scientific problems through exciting practical
that just hands over money and walks away – we
investigations. The pack contains activities at three different
work closely with community organisations at
levels, and children are awarded a certificate when they
every stage of a project. From the start we require
complete each stage.
our partners to work to a budget to make sure
By 2010, we aim to have 5,000 schools and 55,000 children funding is spent effectively and produces the right
taking part. Since the programme started in September 2007, results.
1,400 packs have been ordered. We ask our partners to demonstrate achievements
by producing an annual progress report. These
The futurex reports do take time to compile, but as our
partnership with African Medical and Research
These are some of our community investment plans for 2008: Foundation (AMREF) shows they can help attract
new donors. AMREF was one of our first partners
• W e will donate up to 300 million tablets of albendazole, in Personal Hygiene And Sanitation Education
our anti-parasitic drug for the prevention of lymphatic (PHASE), our hand-washing programme to prevent
filariasis, our largest donation to date illness from diarrhoea-related diseases. We
• A s part of our 15 year celebration for our Positive Action supported an independent evaluation and
programme we will be launching new projects and encouraged AMREF to focus on measurement and
sponsoring the Global Village (the community area) at the evaluation. The data they gathered showed real
International AIDs Conference in Mexico evidence of success and enabled them to secure
 million of EU funding to expand the programme
• O ur financial support for Mobilising for Malaria will come
to an end and we will target our support on a new malaria to other countries.
programme But things don’t always work out so well and
• W e will continue to expand PHASE, our hand washing despite the best efforts of both partners some
programme to prevent illness from diarrhoea-related projects don’t attract alternative donors. There
diseases. This will include introducing PHASE to the are also many other factors beyond our control.
Millennium Village project in Africa which aims to find ways A few years ago we started a malaria education
to employ science-based inventions to meet the Millennium and awareness project in the Sudan, with the
Development Goals hope of showing positive results that would
• W e will extend our European partnership with Hole in the attract funding from other sources such as the
Wall, an organisation that provides therapeutic recreation World Bank. Civil war, floods and difficulties
for terminally ill children, and will assist them in expanding getting into the country meant at the end of the
facilities in the UK project our funding was not completely spent as
originally intended, and we had to find another
• W e will grow our successful US ‘Science in the Summer’
education programme making it available in libraries in way it could be used. We have to manage such
both Philadelphia and North Carolina frustrations around unforeseen obstacles, and
accept that even plans that are well thought out
• T hrough our continued support for US Children’s Health
can quickly change.’
Fund, the Referral Management Initiative will be launched
in Philadelphia
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
Linksx
In this report:
• A ccess to medicines in the developing countries
• Our role in preventing disease
On our website:
• www.gsk.com/community
• www.positiveaction.com
• www.gsk.com/education
Other resources:
• G lobal Alliance to Eliminate LF www.filariasis.org
• A MREF www.amref.org
• F reedom from Hunger www.freedomfromhunger.org
• C rest Star Investigators www.the-ba.net/the-ba/ccaf/
creststarinvestigators
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 7DATA SUMMARY
Data summary
Access to medicines 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
Number of countries supplied with GSK
preferentially priced ARVs1 56 57 56 51 31
Number of Combivir and Epivir tablets
shipped (millions)1 16.2 66.4 126.3 86.3 85.0
Number of generic ARVs supplied under licence
from GSK (millions) – – – 120 183.0
GSK Combivir not-for-profit price ($ per day)2 1.7 0.65 0.65 0.65 0.54
Voluntary licences granted to generic
manufacturers for GSK ARVs (cumulative total)3 – 6 7 9 9
Value of products donated through GSK Patient
Assistance Program in the US (£ millions) 125 203 255 200 194
Research and Development
Expenditure on R&D (£ billions) 2.8 2.9 3.1 3.5 3.3
GSK animal research facilities accredited by the
Association for Assessment and Accreditation of
Laboratory Animal Care4 7 10 10 10 10
Number of trials published on the GSK Clinical Trial
Register (cumulative total) – 143 2,125 2,760 3,089
Ethical conduct
Number of employees completing certification to
the GSK Code of Conduct 9,000 9,600 >12,000 >12,000 >14,000
Number of contacts through our ethics
compliance channels5 – 2,580 3,644 5,363 5,265
Employment
Women in management grades (%) 34 35 35 36 37
Ethnic diversity – people of colour (US, %) 19.5 19.5 19.6 19.8 20.1
Ethnic diversity – ethnic minorities (UK, %) – 14.8 14.9 18.3 19.1
Lost time injury and illness rate
(cases per 100,000 hours worked) 0.30 0.30 0.30 0.33 0.33
Environment
Number of contract manufacturers audited 28 35 41 36 55
Energy consumption (million gigajoules) 20 19 20 19 19
Water consumption (million cubic metres) 23 21 22 22 21
Ozone depletion potential from metered
dose inhalers (tonnes CFC-11 equivalent)6 782 464 273 186 136
Ozone depletion potential from
production (tonnes CFC-11 equivalent) 72 59 51 33 15
Ozone depletion potential from refrigeration and
other ancillary uses (tonnes CFC-11 equivalent) 3 3 3 1 1
Volatile organic compound
emissions (thousand tonnes) 6 5 5 4 4
Global warming potential from
energy sources (thousand tonnes CO equivalent) 1,756 1,667 1,716 1,688 1,667
2
Hazardous waste disposed (thousand tonnes) 58 71 65 70 68
Community investment
Total community investment expenditure (£ millions) 338 328 380 302 282
Value of humanitarian product donations,
including albendazole (£ millions) 116 57 41 38 30
Number of albendazole tablets donated for
prevention of lymphatic filariasis (millions) 94 67 136 155 150
 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OF 2007
1 Includes ARVs sold at not-for-profit and discounted prices. We are unable to collect data
for the number of patients treated.
2 Includes freight and delivery costs. The Médecins Sans Frontières pricing report lists the
average cost of generic equivalents.
3 Only eight are currently in force.
4 This covers approximately 92 per cent of animals used in GSK facilities.
5 Includes contacts with line managers, compliance officers, our confidential Integrity
Helplines or offsite post office box (in the US).
6 2002 to 2004 data do not include inhalers made in Asia.
Global Compact indexx
GRI indexx
Trademarks
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this publication are
trademarks either owned by and/or licensed to GSK or associated
companies.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 www.gsk.com
Head Office and Registered Office
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Produced by Corporate Communications, GSK.
Designed by Conran Design Group.
Printed in the UK by The Midas Press.
The paper used in the production of this document
is made from pulps harvested from sustainable forests,
also using sawmill residues and forest thinnings.
It is elemental chlorine-free.