Ahead Together
ESG Performance Report 2022We are a global biopharma company with a purpose to unite science, technology
and talent to get ahead of disease together.
We aim to positively impact the health of 2.5 billion people by the end of 2030.
Our bold ambitions for patients are reflected in commitments to growth and a
step-change in performance.
We are a company where outstanding people can thrive.
Being a responsible business means getting ahead of disease In this report:
together in the right way. We therefore need to consider
CEO’s statement 3
environmental, social and governance (ESG) impacts across
everything we do, from the lab to the patient. That’s why ESG
Our approach 4
is embedded in our strategy and supports our sustainable
performance and long-term growth. It helps us build trust Progress in 2022 – Our six focus areas
with and deliver returns to our stakeholders, reduce risk to
Access 9
our operations and deliver positive social impact.
Global health and health security 13
In this report Environment 16
In this report we publish our performance on each of our six Diversity, equity and inclusion 23
ESG focus areas. The report includes our reporting on the Ethical standards 26
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and Global
Product governance 30
Reporting Initiative (GRI). We also submit an annual UN Global
Compact Communication on Progress (UNGC CoP). Appendix
You can find our public positions on a range of issues on the Materiality assessment 33
public policy page of gsk.com. We also publish more information
People disclosures 34
on gsk.com, including:
GRI and SASB index 36
Sustainable Development Goals
ESG reporting criteria 42
Engagement with patient organisations
Independent Limited Assurance Reports 49
Engagement with healthcare professionals
2022 was a landmark year for GSK. Following the demerger of
Trade association memberships
our Consumer Healthcare business to form Haleon in July, we
Charitable partnerships are now a fully-focused biopharma company. All data reported
excludes our previous Consumer Healthcare business unless
otherwise specified.
External benchmarking
Detailed below is how we perform in key ESG ratings that we are –FTSE4Good: Member of FTSE4Good Index since 2004
frequently asked about by investors: –CDP: A- in Climate change, B in Water security, A- in Forests
–Access to Medicines: Ranked 1st in the Access to Medicines (palm oil) and B in Forests (timber)
Index in 2022 and an industry leader in the 2021 Antimicrobial –Sustainalytics: Low risk rating
Resistance Benchmark –MSCI: AA rating
–S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment: Ranked –Moody’s ESG solutions: Ranked 2nd in the
2nd in the pharmaceuticals industry with a score of 86 (as at pharmaceuticals sector
17 February 2023) and included in the DJSI World and –ISS Corporate Rating: B+ rating
Europe indices
Cautionary statement
This document may contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,
statements give the Group’s current expectations or forecasts of future events. future events or otherwise. Investors should, however, consult any additional
An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate disclosures that the Group may make in any documents which it publishes
strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as 'anticipate', and/or files with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. All investors,
'believe', 'estimate', 'expect', intend', 'plan', 'project', 'target', 'will' and other wherever located, should take note of these disclosures. Accordingly, no
words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and
operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking
relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, inherent
performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to factors that are beyond the
expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, dividend Group’s control or precise estimate. The Group cautions investors that a
payments and financial results. Other than in accordance with its legal or number of important factors, including those in this report, could cause actual
regulatory obligations (including under the Market Abuse Regulations, UK results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-
Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the looking statement.
Financial Conduct Authority), the Group undertakes no obligation to update
2 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023CEO’s statement
We are pleased to provide this report of our ESG performance for 2022.
GSK’s purpose is to unite science, technology and talent, and to Included in our 2022 performance was strong progress on:
get ahead of disease together.
– Vaccine and medicines access initiatives reaching 73 million
We have made building Trust by operating responsibly an integral people in lower income countries
part of our strategy and our culture. Ultimately, to support returns – Progressed 12 Global Health pipeline assets for priority WHO
to shareholders, reduce risk, help our people to thrive, and to diseases including malaria and TB
deliver sustainable health impact at scale. – 30 R&D projects relevant to AMR with 13 targeting pathogens
Our ESG focus is on six core areas: Access to healthcare, Global deemed 'critical' or 'urgent' by WHO and US CDC
health and health security, Environment, Diversity, equity and – All phase III trials started in 2022 had a diversity plan to enrol
inclusion, Ethical standards and Product governance. those most affected by the disease being studied
These areas address what matters most to our business and – Improvement in gender and ethnicity representation in our
to our stakeholders. They are where we can have the greatest leadership
positive impact on some of society’s most urgent challenges. – 13% reduction in our indirect carbon emissions from 2020 to
2021 (our latest available scope 3 data)
This sets out the progress we are making in each area and
– Delivery of our 2030 target to reduce water use in operations
supplements our Annual Report. We hope this information
by 20%
and level of transparency is helpful, particularly for investors.
– 100% of employees completing mandatory training
To strengthen measurement and reporting of GSK’s overall
ESG performance, this year we have introduced a new ESG Our ESG performance continues to be recognised. We ranked
Performance Rating. 1st in the Access to Medicines Index for the 8th consecutive
time, ranked 2nd in the S&P Global Corporate Sustainability
This new rating is one of our corporate KPIs and measures
Assessment for the pharmaceutical industry, and maintained
progress against key metrics aligned to each of our six focus
top-quartile positions in the MSCI, ISS Corporate Rating and
areas. In 2022, this included 23 metrics, developed with
Sustainalytics ESG ratings.
stakeholder input, each of which were assessed and aggregated
to a single overall performance score. I am pleased to report that While proud of our progress, we keep our approach to ESG
GSK’s performance in 2022 is ‘on track’ and more details can be under constant review. Being a responsible business is not a
found on pages 5 to 6. static requirement and our operating environment continues
to change at pace. We will continue to adapt, respond and
proactively change our approach, to ensure GSK continues
to deliver strong ESG performance alongside the broader
performance of the company.
Emma Walmsley
Chief Executive Officer
3 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Our approach
ESG is an integral part of our strategy and our purpose. It impacts everything
we do, from the lab to the patient.
Our six ESG focus areas ESG governance
We can only deliver on our purpose and build trust if we embed Our ESG performance is monitored regularly by both our Board-
ESG into everything that we do. We have identified six ESG focus level Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC) and the GSK
areas that address what is most material to our business and the Leadership Team (GLT). The CRC oversees our progress against
issues that matter the most to our stakeholders. These focus areas our commitments, including performance and how we are
are core to our strategy and are the areas where we can have the meeting the expectations of our stakeholders.
greatest positive impact on some of society’s most urgent
The GLT and senior management are responsible for delivery
challenges. These focus areas are:
against our six focus areas, and report regularly to the CRC on
– Access to healthcare progress (see pages 117 to 118 of our Annual Report).
– Global health and health security
ESG-aligned remuneration
– Environment
– Diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) In 2022, the Remuneration Committee, with the support of the
CRC, introduced ESG performance measures into both our
– Ethical standards
short- and long-term incentive plans, to reward delivery of key
– Product governance
ESG commitments. The ESG element consists of: human capital
Our approach is guided by extensive stakeholder engagement
management in the form of diversity, equity and inclusion, which
and the key issues relevant to our industry and company. The
forms 10% of the annual bonus opportunity for GLT; and our
results of our most recent materiality assessment reaffirmed that
climate net zero and nature net positive ambitions, which form
the most material issues for our business were well aligned with
10% of our long-term incentive plan opportunity for senior leaders.
our six ESG focus areas. We are aware, however, that being a
These metrics align to our ESG Performance Rating. See Annual
responsible business is not a static requirement and our operating
Report page 133 for further information.
environment continues to change at pace. We will continue to
adapt, respond and proactively change our approach, to ensure
GSK continues to deliver strong ESG performance.
gsk.com: Materiality assessment
Our ESG Performance Rating
To support the integration of ESG into strategy delivery and to How we assess performance
make our ESG performance measurable and verifiable, we have
GLT is accountable for delivering progress against the metrics and
introduced a new ESG Performance Rating. The rating is one of
regularly reviews performance along with the Board’s CRC. Each
our corporate KPIs and measures progress against key metrics
individual metric is assessed as either: on track (metric met or
aligned to each of our six focus areas. In 2022, this included 23
exceeded); on track with work to do (at least 80% of metric has
metrics which are summarised on pages 5 to 6. The metrics were
been achieved); or off track (metric missed by more than 20%).
developed with stakeholder input, and our understanding of the
In addition, in order to calculate the overall ESG Performance
key issues for our industry and our company. We are committed
Rating, performance across all metrics is aggregated to a single
to ensuring that our ESG Performance Rating responds to
score to illustrate whether we are on track, on track with work to
stakeholder expectations, so we will continue to review the metrics
do, or off track. This rating is defined below:
as our business, and external expectations, change.
To create the ESG Performance Rating, management sought On track: 70% of all metrics are on track
metrics that: On track with work to do: more than 50% of all metrics are either
on track, or on track with work to do
– Are well defined to ensure we have a standardised approach
– Can be used consistently in future years Off track: more than 50% of all metrics are off track
– Are ambitious and achievable
– Can be externally assured
– Are meaningful for stakeholders
4 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Our approach continued
2022 ESG Performance Rating
Our 2022 ESG Performance Rating is on track, based on 83% of all performance metrics being met or exceeded.
Assessment of performance against our annual targets has been reviewed, and the overall ESG Performance Rating score has been
externally assured for 2022 (see page 49).
Our ESG focus areas Our six commitments and 23 metrics 2022 performance
Access Make our products available at value-based prices that are sustainable for our business and implement access
Read more strategies that increase the use of our medicines and vaccines to treat and protect underserved people
on page 9
Performance metrics: Highlights and focus areas:
– Develop and externally publish pricing and – Published pricing and access principles to guide our
access principles approach to responsible pricing
– Progress towards our 2030 goal of reaching 1.3 billion – In 2022, we reached 73 million people with our
people in lower income countries with our products products and supplied an additional 533 million doses
of albendazole1
Global health Develop novel products and technologies to treat and prevent priority diseases, including pandemic threats
and health
Performance metrics: Highlights and focus areas:
security
– Progress three Global Health pipeline assets to – Progressed 12 Global Health pipeline assets to address
Read more address priority WHO diseases priority WHO diseases, including malaria and
on page 13
tuberculosis (TB)
– Positive phase IIa study results for a new first-in-class
candidate medicine for patients with TB
– The Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration
approved the use of single-dose tafenoquine in
children aged two and above in combination with
chloroquine for the radical cure of P. vivax malaria
– The FDA approved Triumeq PD – increasing age-
appropriate treatment options for children living with HIV
Environment Commit to a net zero, nature positive, healthier planet with ambitious goals set for 2030 and 2045
Read more Performance metrics: Highlights and focus areas:
on page 16
– Climate – Reduced our scope 1 and 2 carbon operational
– Operational emissions reduction (scope 1 and 2 emissions by 6% from 2021
market-based emissions)2 – Reduced our scope 3 value chain emissions by 13%
– Industrialisation of green Ventolin initiated, and since 2020
clinical and non-clinical data available to support – Made good progress towards reformulating Ventolin,
regulatory submissions which could reduce the climate impact of our metered
– Percentage of carbon offset volume in project pipeline3 dose inhalers by up to 90%, if the clinical trials are
successful
– Water
– 94% of GSK sites and suppliers are compliant with
– Average of the percentage of GSK sites and
wastewater discharge limits
suppliers compliant with wastewater active
– 100% of our sites are now good water stewards, in line
pharmaceutical ingredient limits and the percentage
with the Alliance for Water Stewardship’s definition
of suppliers that are compliant with the AMR Industry
Alliance Common Antibiotic Manufacturing – We achieved our target of reducing our overall water
Framework and discharge limits use by 20% by 2030 against our 2020 baseline and will
now review our target
– Waste and materials
– Completed baseline biodiversity assessments for 80%
– Operational waste and material reduction at our sites
of our sites
– Biodiversity – 12 high-risk materials implementing sustainable
– Number of high-risk materials implementing sourcing roadmaps
sustainable sourcing roadmaps
1 T he 73 million figure includes people reached with Synflorix, Rotarix, Cervarix, OPV and Mosquirix vaccines and people with access to a generic dolutegravir
product through our voluntary licensing agreements; however it does not include people reached through albendazole, for which an assessment will be made
in 2025 by the WHO and GSK.
2 S cope 1 emissions cover emissions from the direct combustion of fuels on our sites to generate heat and electricity, emissions from our sales fleet vehicles,
fugitive losses of propellant during the manufacturing of inhalers and losses from refrigerants used in GSK-owned ancillary equipment and emissions from
on-site waste treatment. Scope 2 emissions include any purchased electricity, steam, compressed air and chilled water.
3 Percentage of 2.3 MtCO2 offsetting volume in 2030 project pipeline.
5 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Our approach continued
Our ESG focus areas Our commitments and metrics 2022 performance
Diversity, equity Create a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace; enhance recruitment of diverse patient populations in our
and inclusion clinical trials; and support diverse communities
Read more
on page 23 Performance metrics: Highlights and focus areas:
– 75% of phase III trials initiated in 2022 will have – 100% of phase III trials initiated in 2022 had proactive
proactive plans in place designed to enrol demographic plans in place
appropriately diverse trial participants, consistent – Women made up 42% of VP-and-above roles globally,
with disease epidemiology compared with 40% in 2021
– Performance towards 2025 aspirations through fair – In the US, we had 31.3% ethnically diverse leaders at VP
and equitable opportunities: level and above, and increased the percentage of Black
– have women hold at least 45% of VP-and-above or African American, and Hispanic or Latinx VP-and-
roles globally by the end of 2025 above leaders
– have at least 30% ethnically diverse leaders in our – In the UK, we had 14.3% ethnically diverse leaders in
roles at VP and above in the US, and increase the our roles at VP and above, however our percentage of
percentage of Black or African American, and Black VP-and-above leaders remained the same as
Hispanic or Latinx VP-and-above leaders year in 2021
on year – Significantly exceeded our target to increase spend
– have at least 18% ethnically diverse leaders in our with certified US-based diverse-owned suppliers
roles at VP and above in the UK, and increase the in 2022
percentage of Black VP-and-above leaders year
on year
– Improve year-on-year spend with certified US-based
diverse-owned suppliers
Ethical Promote ethical behaviour across our business by supporting our employees to do the right thing and working with
standards suppliers that share our standards and operate in a responsible way
Read more Performance metrics: Highlights and focus areas:
on page 26
– 100% of employees and complementary workers – Achieved 99% overall completion of GSK's mandatory
complete GSK’s 2022 mandatory training training – while 100% of employees completed the
– Percentage of employees who believe they ‘can and training, we only met a 98% completion rate for
do Speak Up if things don’t feel right’ is above the complementary workers
general industry benchmark1 – 87% of employees believe they ‘can and do Speak Up if
– Number of employees leaving GSK’s employment things don't feel right’
for misconduct in the last 12 months versus the – The number of employees leaving GSK's employment
three-year rolling average for misconduct increased as a result of enhancing our
– 80% of direct high-risk suppliers achieve GSK’s risk identification and targeted interventions in 20222
minimum EcoVadis score or have an improvement – 82% of direct high-risk suppliers achieved our minimum
plan in place EcoVadis score
Product Commit to maintaining robust quality and safety processes, and using data and new technologies responsibly
governance
Performance metrics: Highlights and focus areas:
Read more – Average number of critical and major findings by – Received no warning letters from the US FDA or critical
on page 30
FDA/MHRA/EMA regulators findings from the MHRA and EMA regulators in 2022
– Percentage of inspections from all regulators with – 99% of inspections from all regulators had no critical
no critical findings or official action indicated findings or official action indicated
– Number of FDA warning letters – We continued to reduce our level of recalls across all
– Total number of Class I/II external product recalls markets, with no Class I product recalls in 2022, and
across all markets fewer Class II and III recalls than in 2021
– Register and disclose all human subject research – We have made 7,377 protocol summaries and 6,295
of GSK products. Specifically, register protocol summaries of results available, and listed 2,559 studies
summaries for studies initiated in 2022; and disclose for data sharing since the set-up of the GSK trial
results summaries for studies with results due in 2022 register in 2004
1 T he general industry benchmark is 65% according to 2022 research by KornFerry.
2 I n 2022, we continued to embed greater focus on the use of risk analytics and monitoring aligned to increasing levels of business activities, enhancing risk
identification and targeted interventions. Additionally, we focused on closure of cases, resulting in a decrease in open cases at year end compared to prior
years with a correlation to rising numbers of employees who were dismissed or agreed to leave the company voluntarily as a result of misconduct.
6 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Our approach continued
Putting our people at the heart of our success
Our culture Focusing on diversity, equity and inclusion
We are committed to making GSK a place where people can We are continuing our focus on building a more diverse
thrive, with a culture where we are all ambitious for patients, organisation and an equitable and inclusive culture so that
accountable for impact, and do the right thing. This means we everyone feels welcome, valued and included. We are delivering
support our people to do things better and faster, focusing on our leadership representation aspirations, have implemented
what matters most. It means setting clear objectives and annual DEI training for all, and invested in development tools to
accountability for results and giving everyone the support build more inclusive leaders. We support an award-winning
and space they need to succeed. It means doing everything leadership development programme, 'Accelerating Difference',
responsibly with care and integrity, because people and patients to support women and ethnically diverse leaders. We have also
around the world count on us. continued to evolve our people policies, processes and practices
to support recruitment, retention and development of a more
During 2022, we have dedicated significant leadership energy in
diverse workforce. More details on our aspirational targets for DEI
bringing to life our Ahead Together purpose, strategy and culture
for our people, business and suppliers, can be found on page 23.
across GSK. We have also placed real emphasis on individual
ownership of the culture and the small changes we each need
Driving Performance with Choice
to make it a reality. This change has been supported by team
conversation guides and simple tools used globally to support Performance with Choice – our approach to hybrid working
better and faster decision making, greater clarity of for those in office-based roles (about a quarter of our people)
accountabilities and more ambitious, focused objectives. continues to allow us to find the right balance of on-site and
remote working. This framework, balanced in driving collective
In June 2022, we introduced The Code. This sets out our culture
and individual performance, as well as supporting individual
as well as the commitments GSK and our people make so we can
flexibility, is supporting personal wellbeing, driving performance
deliver on our ambition in the right way. GSK people sign up to
and making us attractive as an employer.
The Code annually and personally commit ‘I’m in’.
This year we have been clear in our expectations so that we
gsk.com: The Code
spend enough time together in person to help us continue to build
our sense of community, connectedness, enable development
Making GSK a place where people thrive
and better achieve our Ahead Together ambition.
Core to our Ahead Together ambition is to make GSK a place
where people thrive. Although how people thrive is very individual,
Developing outstanding people
we also believe there are common themes that matter for all.
We are committed to developing outstanding people and giving
Firstly, a belief in our purpose and a desire to live our culture and
people opportunities to grow. All GSK people are expected to
contribute to delivering our ambition. Secondly, feeling included
have an agreed development plan, regardless of grade or role,
and able to be yourself with opportunities to keep growing, with
that is underpinned by a robust conversation to understand the
the support, feedback and space needed to succeed. Finally,
space and support needed for them to succeed. We continue
feeling good, with positive mental, physical, financial and social
to invest in development initiatives and training that can be
wellbeing. This all requires GSK to be a place where people feel
accessed by all through our Keep Growing Campus – a central
welcome and valued, with an environment (including our policies,
platform for our training and knowledge sharing.
workplaces and ways of working) which wholeheartedly enables
and supports each person to deliver at their best. In 2022, we have also redesigned our talent framework – focusing
our reviews for our people against performance, living our culture
Supporting our people managers and future potential. This gives us a simpler assessment process,
Our people managers play a crucial role in helping their teams in line with our culture, to support placing our best people in our
to thrive and bring culture to life. We expect people managers to most critical roles, with strong and diverse succession plans.
Motivate, Focus, Care for and Develop their teams. Over the last This allows us to spend more time on development and action
two years we have delivered First Line Leader training, anchored planning and less on process.
in these four areas, to over 80% of this population. In addition,
in 2022, we launched a new senior leader programme, 'Leading
Leaders', to further build on our leadership development at more
senior levels of the organisation.
In preparation for 2023, we brought all people managers
together in a virtual event to bring to life our biggest priorities and
support managers in setting focused, ambitious objectives with
their teams, aligned to our Innovation, Performance, Trust and
Culture priorities.
7 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Our approach continued
Health and wellbeing improvements Recognising and rewarding our people
We have announced improvements to our health and wellbeing Sharing our success and recognising and rewarding our people,
benefits, to better support people through different life stages not just on the progress we have made but how we have made it,
and to make sure our offerings are fair and inclusive. These continues to be an important part of our culture. In addition to our
include a new global minimum standard of 18 weeks’ parental bonus scheme that rewards performance across the company,
leave for primary and secondary carers for all forms of family, each year we award 10% of our population with extra ‘Ahead
a new global minimum standard for care of a family member Together’ awards for those delivering exceptional performance
for end of life or serious health emergencies, insured benefits to in line with our culture. 5% of people are identified as Missed
include same sex partners wherever possible, a new financial Performance for those that do not deliver on their objectives or
wellbeing service and mental health training – available live the culture. This year, in addition to our annual bonus and
to everyone. long-term incentive structure, we also gave a special thank you
to all our people (excluding GLT), allowing us to recognise in real
In November 2022, we gave a one-time discretionary payment to
time what we achieved together in preparation for separation
our people who were feeling the greatest impact of rising cost-of-
and the unprecedented transformation of GSK: everyone
living challenges. This payment was given to almost half of our
received a one-off week’s salary in March, separate to our 2021
global workforce in 47 of our 83 countries, using consistent criteria
bonus pay-out.
to determine eligible countries.
We remain energised to continually live and evolve our culture
Understanding how our people experience GSK in line with the internal and external environment. It is part of
We regularly measure how our people experience GSK, including everyone’s objectives, starting at the top, with all leadership team
progress in our culture focus areas and as a place to work. This members having ambitious goals to embed and grow culture,
includes an annual survey for all employees featuring questions and shows up in how we act every day.
on engagement, confidence, inclusivity, our culture focus areas
and trust priorities. We also run a series of pulse surveys each year,
with a statistically significant population, to get timely insights on
our culture progress as well as hot topics of the moment. Over the
last year, our progress is demonstrated by increased engagement
at 81% in 2022, up from 78% in 2021, confidence in delivery of
our ambitions, and positive trends in Ambitions for Patients,
Accountability for Impact, Doing the Right Thing, and measures
of inclusion.
To measure the effectiveness of our global manager population,
their teams provide feedback via an annual One80 survey.
Managers receive anonymised aggregate feedback on their
effectiveness in motivating their team, focusing people on
what matters most, leading with care, inclusive leadership and
supporting performance and development. In 2022, 77% of our
managers were rated as highly effective by their reports.
8 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Access
Our ambition is to positively impact the health of 2.5 billion people by the
end of 2030. We will achieve this by developing vaccines and medicines and
making them available through responsible pricing, strategic access programmes
and partnerships.
73m 123 >1bn
people reached in lower countries covered by ViiV vaccines supplied at our lowest
income countries with our Healthcare’s paediatric prices to Gavi, the Vaccine
products in 20221 voluntary licensing agreements Alliance, since 2010
with generic manufacturers
Our commitment How we assess performance
Make our products available at value-based prices that are – Develop and externally publish pricing and access principles
sustainable for our business and implement access strategies – Progress towards our 2030 goal of reaching 1.3 billion people
that increase the use of our medicines and vaccines to treat and in lower income countries with our products
protect underserved people
We aim to make our vaccines and medicines available at The discovery and development of medicines and vaccines
responsible prices that are accessible for patients and sustainable is complex and takes significant time, risk and investment to
for our business, while making sure underserved people are succeed. We follow a set of pricing and access principles, published
treated and protected through our access strategies. In for the first time in 2022. These help us to get the balance right
recognition of the action we are taking to get ahead of disease between responsible pricing and a sustainable, profitable business
together, in 2022, we ranked first in the Access to Medicines Index that allows us to re-invest financial returns in future innovation,
for the eighth consecutive time. while ensuring people can access medicines and vaccines.
gsk.com: Position on pricing and access • Pricing and access principles
Putting the right value on innovation
We pursue areas of unmet medical need, deploying cutting-edge We also recognise health inequities, including in higher income
science and advanced technology to develop more effective countries, and help uninsured and underinsured patients navigate
medicines and vaccines with speed, scale and precision. healthcare systems with programmes to increase access and
provide financial and disease management support. For example,
We compare our offer to what is already available for patients,
in 2022, in the US, through GSK and ViiV Healthcare’s Patient
and we generate evidence from clinical trials and real-world
Assistance Programs Foundation, we provided prescribed
settings to establish the added value of our medicines and
medicines and vaccines to more than 78,000 low-income
vaccines. These principles ensure we set prices across our
uninsured, underinsured and Medicare Part D patients.
portfolio in line with the benefit we bring to patients and health
systems, measured by clinical, economic and social outcomes. In the US, during the year, our combined average net price (after
discounts, rebates or other allowances) for our pharmaceutical
We take into consideration the socioeconomic status of a country
and vaccines portfolio increased by 1.4%, while the average list
to ensure affordability and availability of products, including
price increased by 3.8% compared to 4.9% (list) for the industry,
using tiered pricing based on World Bank income classification
which demonstrates we are responsible in our pricing decisions2.
for vaccine tenders. We collaborate with global health partners
Over the past five years, the average net price for our products
to increase our impact in lower income countries, for example
decreased by 1.1% annually, while the average list price rose by
by supplying vaccine doses at our lowest prices with Gavi, the
3.9% compared to 5.0% (list) for the industry2. We operate under
international alliance to improve access to vaccines for countries
robust pricing approvals, developing access plans that
with the lowest GDP. ViiV Healthcare provides non-profit pricing
are informed by payers. We also work to create stability and
to public health systems in low-income, least developed and
predictability for payers and our business, engaging proactively
sub-Saharan African countries for antiretroviral medicines to
on upcoming product launches so we can plan budgets, and
treat people living with HIV as well as for innovation to prevent
adjusting prices to account for inflation.
HIV transmission.
1 T he 73 million figure includes people reached with Synflorix, Rotarix, Cervarix, OPV and Mosquirix vaccines and people with access to a generic dolutegravir
product through our voluntary licensing agreements; however it does not include people reached through albendazole, for which an assessment will be made
in 2025 by the WHO and GSK.
2 I ndustry averages are sourced from Drug Channels annual brand-name drug list change report.
9 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Access continued
Reaching patients in lower income countries
We are ambitious for our patients and develop access strategies HIV
where we can make a real difference. Nearly two billion people
Supporting the production of generic drugs can also improve
globally lack access to essential medicines and vaccines that
access. In 2022, ViiV Healthcare and the Medicines Patent Pool
could prevent and treat diseases, relieve suffering, improve quality
(MPP) signed a new voluntary licensing agreement to allow
of life and prevent deaths. Our goal is to reach 1.3 billion people
generic manufacturers to develop, manufacture and supply
in lower income countries with our products by the end of 2030,
cabotegravir long-acting for HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis. This
through access initiatives such as voluntary licensing, donations
aims to enable access to the drug in least developed, low-income,
and our work with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. In 2022, we reached
lower middle-income and sub-Saharan African countries in the
73 million people with our products and supplied an additional
coming years. In the meantime, ViiV is working with stakeholders
533 million doses of albendazole.
including global health agencies, non-governmental
For decades, we have worked with partners to strengthen organisations (NGOs), governments and community partners to
healthcare systems, which is key to increasing access to medicines plan for and support successful introduction of cabotegravir
in lower income countries. We partner with others who have the long-acting for pre-exposure prophylaxis into national
right capability, geographic reach and local knowledge to get our programmes with ViiV manufactured product.
innovation to patients. For medicines in low-income countries, we
ViiV Healthcare also has voluntary licensing agreements with
do not file patents for our medicines or enforce historic patents.
17 generic manufacturers to produce and sell low-cost single or
This lets other companies manufacture and supply generic
fixed-dose combination products containing our HIV medicine
versions of GSK medicines in those countries.
dolutegravir for adults in 95 low- and middle-income countries,
with one direct licence and the others via the MPP. There are
Vaccines
similar agreements with 14 generic manufacturers for children,
It has never been more important to work with organisations like covering 123 countries. As a result of these voluntary licence
Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, that can help us reach the most agreements, around 21 million people living with HIV across 122
vulnerable people. The pressure placed on healthcare systems in countries had access to a generic product containing dolutegravir
lower income countries by the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in by the end of 2022. This is at least 80% of people living with HIV
a reduction in routine immunisations, putting millions of children’s on antiretrovirals in low- and middle-income countries.
health at risk.
In 2022, ViiV Healthcare donated around 7,200 packs of
We have been a partner with Gavi since its foundation in 2000. antiretroviral medicines to NGO partners and national HIV and
We reserve our lowest vaccine prices for Gavi and similar AIDS programmes to support people living with HIV who have
organisations. In 2022, we passed the milestone of supplying been impacted by the conflict in Ukraine. ViiV has also provided
Gavi with more than one billion vaccines since 2010. over £800,000 through its Positive Action programme to support
11 community-based organisations with humanitarian response
Our partnership includes supplying Cervarix, a critical vaccine
activities, both within Ukraine and in surrounding countries
in lower income countries for addressing cervical cancer. In 2022,
hosting refugees.
we supplied around 40 million doses of our pneumococcal
vaccine, Synflorix, to eight Gavi-eligible countries at our lowest Positive Action, ViiV Healthcare's community grant-giving
price. Our Rotarix vaccine against rotavirus reaches children programme, celebrated its 30th anniversary in 2022 with a
across 28 Gavi-eligible countries and four former Gavi countries. year-long campaign to showcase the people at the heart of
Since March 2021, as well as Synflorix, we have also offered the programme, the partners in implementation and the
Rotarix through the Humanitarian Mechanism, to civil society progress made through collaboration. It invested more than
organisations serving refugees and working in other emergency £12.6 million in 2022, reaching approximately 392,000 people
situations. We are also a long-standing supplier of oral polio and providing 137 grants across 33 countries.
vaccines (OPV) through UNICEF and, in 2022 alone, supplied
around 95 million doses to help eradicate polio. Malaria
Working with our partners, more than 1.2 million children in Africa
Neglected tropical diseases
have now received at least one dose of our malaria vaccine,
Since 1999, we have donated 11 billion albendazole tablets to Mosquirix (RTS,S/AS01 E). Developed over more than 35 years by
the WHO, including 533 million in 2022. This supports efforts GSK and our partners, Mosquirix is the first and only vaccine that,
to end lymphatic filariasis, commonly known as elephantiasis, in clinical trials, has shown an acceptable safety profile and is
and reduce morbidity from intestinal worms (soil-transmitted feasible to deliver, and substantially reduce, deadly severe malaria
helminths) in school-age children. We have also extended our in children. In September 2022, the WHO awarded pre-
soil-transmitted helminths commitment to include pre-school qualification to the vaccine, following a rigorous regulatory
children and made an additional commitment to donate process to ensure it meets standards of quality, safety and
albendazole for treatment of echinococcosis. According to the efficacy, and is suitable for the target population. This is a
latest data from the WHO, this has benefited over 935 million prerequisite for UN agencies to procure the vaccine, and an
people since the programme began. In 2021, 365 million people important step in rolling it out in countries with moderate to high
were treated through the lymphatic filariasis programme in 28 P. falciparum malaria transmission.
countries, including 118 million children.
10 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Access continued
GSK, PATH and Bharat Biotech have agreed a product transfer the WHO-coordinated Malaria Vaccine Implementation
to help ensure long-term supply of the RTS,S malaria vaccine. Programme (MVIP) in Ghana, Kenya and Malawi. In June 2022,
We have committed to supply up to 18 million doses over the next GSK also committed to supply up to 30 million doses of AS01
three years, in addition to our donation of up to 10 million doses to adjuvant for the RTS,S malaria vaccine.
Strengthening healthcare systems
Our long-standing partnership with Amref Health Africa Our partnership with Save the Children aims to cut the number
continues with a tuberculosis (TB) and malaria programme in of children dying from preventable and treatable diseases,
Ethiopia and Kenya, launched in 2021, to improve education, strengthen healthcare systems, drive R&D to address critical
diagnosis and treatment for underserved communities. This was knowledge gaps and create systemic change for children’s health
complemented by a specific paediatric HIV testing component at a global level. We support Save the Children’s emergency
towards the end of 2021, funded by ViiV Healthcare’s Positive preparedness and response capabilities by investing in data
Action programme, which worked with healthcare workers and analytics and early action protocols. Since 2013, our partnership
managers to strengthen healthcare systems to improve has reached 3.5 million children globally across 46 countries,
laboratory testing and diagnostics, surveillance, information trained 38,740 healthcare workers and supported 21,480
systems and supply chains. community healthcare workers.
Through the TB and malaria programme, over 2,500 healthcare In 2022, the GSK-Save the Children partnership began work
workers have been trained across both countries in 2022. In the on two of the UN’s Green Climate Fund projects, in Malawi
Kenyan sub-counties supported by the programme, 97% of and Senegal, that will support their national governments’
all healthcare workers are able to effectively diagnose and objectives of addressing the health impacts of climate change,
manage TB and malaria, and there has been an 81% uptake of by contributing to more resilient healthcare systems.
preventative services in the community. In Ethiopia, integrating
Through our collaboration with the Bill & Melinda Gates CEO
TB, malaria and HIV care means that women and children can
Roundtable programme, we’re also working with J&J, Novartis, Eli
benefit from screening for all three diseases during a single
Lilly and Pfizer to train healthcare workers in six African countries.
antenatal care appointment.
The programme trained around 3,000 healthcare workers in 2022.
In 2022, we brought together Amref Health Africa and Cognizant
– one of GSK’s technology partners – to integrate three digital
tools to better plan, identify and respond to healthcare worker
training needs at the community level. The platform has been
successfully piloted and the hope is it will now reach thousands of
healthcare workers across sub-Saharan Africa with quality
training and help meet the needs of millions of people.
2019 2020 2021 2022
Community investment
Cash (£m) 82 91 83 79
Product and in-kind (£m)1 155 136 159 209
Time (£m)2 2 0.1 0.2 0.6
Management costs (£m) 22 18 17 19
Total community investment (£m) 261 245 259 308 A
Value of GSK medicine and vaccines provided through our US Patient Assistance Programs 146 151 186 228 A
Foundation ($m)1,3
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2022 data has been externally assured.
1 Product donations are valued at the global average cost of goods as reported in year-end results.
2 Employee volunteering in 2020 and 2021 was significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.
3 This product donation is included within the total community investment figures reported.
11 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Access continued
2019 2020 2021 2022
US pricing
1 year change in list and net price1
Change in combined average net price for our pharmaceutical and vaccines portfolio in the US -5.0% -0.7% +5.5% +1.4%
since the previous year
Change in average list price in the US since the previous year +2.5% +3.2% +3.8% +3.8%
5 year list and net price (compound annual growth rate)1
Change in net price (after discounts, rebates or other allowances) for our products in the US -4.0% -3.2% -2.0% -1.1%
over the past 5 years
Change in average list price in the US over the past 5 years +6.4% +5.7% +4.6% +3.9%
Product reach (doses supplied to lower income countries)
Doses of Synflorix vaccines supplied to Gavi (m) 67 56 39 40 PR A
Doses of Rotarix vaccines supplied to Gavi (m) 44 53 49 43 PR A
Doses of Cervarix vaccines supplied to Gavi (m) 0.1 0.4 0.4 0.2 PR A
Doses of OPV vaccines supplied to UNICEF (m) 204 110 80 95 PR A
Doses of Mosquirix (RTS,S/AS01 E) vaccines supplied through the MVIP (m) 1 2 1 1 PR A
Albendazole tablets donated to help eliminate lymphatic filariasis (m)2 698 304 451 440 PR A
Albendazole tablets donated to help treat intestinal worms (m)3 192 113 75 93 PR A
Total doses supplied (m) 1,206 638 695 712 PR A
Product reach (people reached in lower income countries)
People with access to a generic dolutegravir product through voluntary licensing – – – 20,927 A
agreements ('000)4
Estimated children reached with Synflorix through Gavi ('000) 20,700 17,100 12,000 12,116 A
Estimated children reached with Rotarix through Gavi ('000) 21,200 25,400 23,540 20,561 A
Estimated girls reached with Cervarix through Gavi ('000) 45 180 170 106 A
Estimated people reached with OPV through UNICEF ('000) 40,800 21,900 16,010 18,975 A
Estimated people reached with Mosquirix (RTS,S/AS01 E) through the MVIP ('000) – – 310 326 A
Total people reached ('000) 82,745 64,580 52,030 73,011 A
People reached through our healthcare access programmes5
People accessing a healthcare service, worker or educational session through our work with 355 400 438 916
Save the Children ('000)
People accessing a healthcare worker, service or facility as a result of the Bill & Melinda Gates – – 162 98
CEO Roundtable programme ('000)7
People reached through ViiV Healthcare’s Positive Action for Children Fund grants ('000)8 638 484 188 13
People reached through ViiV Healthcare’s Positive Action 2020-2030 Strategy grants ('000)8 – – 274 379
People reached through our US Patient Assistance Programs ('000) 123 96 87 79 A
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2022 data has been externally assured.
1 Calculated across GSK and ViiV Healthcare products.
2 This product donation is included within the total community investment figures reported.
3 Product donations are valued at the global average cost of goods as reported in year-end results.
4 A s a chronic and ongoing treatment, the cumulative number of people with access to dolutegravir rather than annual data is reported. The figure is
estimated based on sales of generic dolutegravir-based products through our voluntary licensing agreements. In 2022, we updated the methodology to
include sales of all generic dolutegravir-based products. In previous years, only sales of TLD (tenofovir disoproxil, lamivudine and dolutegravir) were included
as these formed the large majority of generic sales worldwide at the time (around 95%). The 2022 total is lower than the figure reported in our 2021 ESG
Performance Report (21,296,000), which was overestimated due to stock building during the pandemic.
5 W e had three healthcare access programmes that ended in 2020; People accessing malaria through our Comic Relief partnership, Healthcare workers trained
through our partners, and People accessing a healthcare worker, service or facility as a result of the healthcare workers training programmes.
6 O ur total for 2022 is lower than previous years due to most partnership programmes concluding between 2021-22.
7 T he Bill & Melinda Gates CEO Roundtable programme is funded by five pharmaceutical companies (GSK, J&J, Novartis, Lilly and Pfizer) and the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation. Each funder organisation is an equal contributor, so the reach number is the total programme reach divided by six.
8 R each data is collected and provided by our grantees. The 2022 data capture is over an 18 month cycle. Grantees report every six months on the previous six
months, therefore final 2022 data will be available in June 2023. The 2023 report will be updated to reflect the actual figure.
12 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Global health and health security
We use our expertise to address the biggest health challenges for underserved
people around the world.
£1bn 12 >30
investment in R&D to help Global Health pipeline assets R&D projects relevant to
us get ahead of infectious to address priority WHO antimicrobial resistance in
diseases in lower income diseases progressed in 2022 our pipeline
countries
Our commitment How we assess performance
To develop novel products and technologies to treat and – Progress three Global Health pipeline assets to address
prevent priority diseases, including pandemic threats priority WHO diseases
We have a unique and important role to play in improving health We have two world-leading, dedicated Global Health innovation
for patients around the world and helping the world prepare for hubs for vaccines and medicines that are developing products
future health security challenges. We’re determined to help and technologies to prevent and treat priority infectious diseases.
change the trajectory of high burden infectious diseases that In 2022, we progressed 12 Global Health pipeline assets to
disproportionately affect underserved people around the world, address priority WHO diseases, exceeding our target of three.
trapping them in cycles of disease and poverty.
As well-functioning healthcare systems are critical to enabling
To deliver our goals, we have a dedicated Global Health Unit access to the right treatments and vaccines, we work with
where success is measured by health impact not profit. Including long-term partners to help strengthen healthcare systems in lower
ViiV Healthcare, we’re working on more than 30 potential vaccines income countries, driven by local needs. Our work to increase
and medicines targeting 13 high burden infectious diseases – underserved people’s access to medicines and vaccines is
putting our unique R&D and scientific expertise to work to address described in Access, on page 9.
some of the world’s biggest health challenges, including
tuberculosis (TB), malaria and antimicrobial resistance (AMR).
Global health R&D
£1 billion to accelerate R&D We want to discover shorter, simpler and safer treatments for TB.
In 2022, alongside our partners and through public-private
In June 2022, GSK, including ViiV Healthcare, announced a
research consortiums, we continued to progress our pipeline of
£1 billion investment in R&D to help us get ahead of infectious
novel TB medicines. In 2022, we announced positive phase IIa
diseases in lower income countries. The 10-year investment will
study results for GSK3036656, a new first-in-class candidate
support R&D on new medicines and vaccines to prevent and
medicine for patients with TB. Results of the study demonstrated
treat TB, malaria, HIV, enteric diseases, and neglected tropical
the potential for the candidate to become a component of
diseases, and to reduce AMR.
simpler treatment regimens in the future. In partnership with
It will help fund our goal of ending HIV and AIDS by developing
BioVersys, the University of Lille and the Innovative Medicines
and enabling access to innovative treatment and prevention
Initiative (IMI) project, TRIC-TB, we also successfully completed
options. By advancing our industry-leading pipeline for vaccines,
phase I trials of BVL-GSK098, which has the potential to help
including first-in-class vaccines against invasive non-typhoidal
tackle drug resistance by boosting the activity of an existing
salmonellosis and shigellosis, this R&D investment aims to reduce
antibiotic.
the threat from AMR.
GSK is the industry leader in two public-private research
consortiums supported by the IMI’s AMR Accelerator – ERA4TB
Tackling tuberculosis
and Unite4TB – that are aiming to accelerate R&D of new TB
TB was responsible for 1.6 million deaths in 2021, making it the
drugs and treatment regimens for drug-resistant and drug-
world’s second-leading cause of death by infectious disease,
sensitive TB.
after COVID-19.
13 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Global health and health security continued
Each consortium aims to enable the progression of better-tolerated The FDA has also approved Triumeq PD, the first dispersible single
drug regimens of shorter duration for TB patients worldwide, with tablet formulation containing dolutegravir for children weighing
the goal of improving their quality of life and life expectancy. more than 10kg, which increases the age-appropriate treatment
These projects bring together expertise from public sector, industry options for children living with HIV. At the end of 2022, the
and academic partners to significantly reduce development time Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the
for preclinical candidates from pharmaceutical companies. EMA also issued a positive opinion recommending marketing
authorisation for Triumeq PD for children 14kg and above.
Our TB candidate vaccine (M72/AS01E) has demonstrated the
potential to reduce active TB pulmonary disease among adults
Addressing enteric diseases and neglected
with latent TB infection in a phase llb trial and has been sub-
licensed to the Bill & Melinda Gates Medical Research Institute tropical diseases
to continue its development. This is the first major step in TB Through our two Global Health R&D centres we are researching
prevention in almost 100 years, and the partnership exemplifies potential solutions for enteric diseases and neglected tropical
GSK’s approach to global health R&D. Our unique contribution diseases. Our scientists are looking at a range of diseases across
is our scientific expertise: we focus on research and early invasive non-typhoidal salmonella, typhoid and paratyphoid fever,
development, while partnering with world-leading organisations Group A streptococcus, visceral leishmaniasis, Chagas disease,
and funders on late development, manufacturing and access, lymphatic filariasis, soil-transmitted parasites and dengue fever.
so our vaccine can reach patients at scale.
Invasive non-typhoidal salmonella can be life-threatening for
children in Africa and is a key driver of AMR. We’re using our
Protecting children from malaria
innovative vaccine technology in partnership with the University of
Malaria is a complex disease caused by Plasmodium parasites. Oxford and Vacc-iNTS, to develop a potential candidate vaccine
There are five different types of Plasmodium parasites known to using our Generalised Modules for Membrane Antigens technology.
infect humans – P. falciparum is most prevalent in sub-Saharan This involves manipulating bacteria cells to produce vaccines that
Africa, while P. vivax is most common in South and South-East Asia, can be manufactured at scale and cost-effectively in low-income
and Latin America. We know that no one tool will be enough to get countries.
ahead of malaria, particularly due to growing resistance, so we
continue to invest in the next generation of transformative tools. Supporting scientific research capacity in Africa
With our partners, we’ve brought two products for the prevention To help support global R&D, in December 2022, we announced the
and treatment of malaria to market – the world’s first vaccine fourth call for proposals as part of the Africa Open Lab. The call for
against malaria (see Access, page 10), and a single-dose, radical proposals is aimed at African early-career scientists who are based
cure for P. vivax malaria. in sub-Saharan Africa, with a focus on infectious diseases which
disproportionately affect sub-Saharan populations, such as
In March 2022, the Australian regulator, the Therapeutic Goods
malaria, TB and neglected tropical diseases. Our ambition is to
Administration, approved the use of single-dose medicine
support African early-career scientists to accelerate progress in
tafenoquine in children aged two and above in combination with
getting ahead of this major global health challenge and help
chloroquine for the radical cure of P. vivax malaria. The treatment
develop the next generation of African scientific leaders. This
targets the liver stage of the disease to prevent relapse, and is
follows on from the Africa NCD Open Lab, through which we
the first single-dose radical cure to be developed. GSK and our
funded 20 research projects focused on non-communicable
partners Medicines for Malaria Venture developed the dispersible
diseases.
tablet formulation to make it easier for children to take.
HIV collaboration in action
Almost 75% of the 38 million people living with HIV globally live
in low- and middle-income countries.
By the end of 2022, generic dolutegravir dispersible tablet 10mg
formulations, specially developed for children living with HIV,
had rolled out in 73 countries – just two years after the first
generic formulation received tentative US FDA approval under
the US President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief scheme.
This was facilitated by our innovative public-private partnership
between ViiV, the Clinton Health Access Initiative, Unitaid and
two generic manufacturers with sub-licences from the Medicines
Patent Pool, providing technology transfer and know-how as well
as regulatory planning support. A second public-private
partnership is also ongoing to accelerate generic development
and introduction of generic dolutegravir/abacavir/lamivudine
dispersible tablet formulations.
14 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Global health and health security continued
Strengthening health security
There are many factors that can jeopardise our health security This provides clear guidance to manufacturers in the global
– from new and emerging infectious diseases to the rise of AMR. antibiotic supply chain to help ensure that their antibiotics are
Climate change and nature loss also pose a significant risk. made responsibly and in compliance with scientifically robust
discharge limits.
We are using our scientific know-how and collaborating with others
to help the world better prepare for future health challenges. gsk.com: Position on antimicrobial resistance
Getting ahead of antimicrobial resistance Future pandemic preparedness
AMR poses an urgent threat to public health. A study published To help pre-empt and respond to the next pandemic, we are
in the Lancet in 2022, analysing 2019 data from over 200 working with governments and other stakeholders to strengthen
countries and territories, showed that 1.27 million deaths were global preparedness. This means drawing on what we have
directly attributable to bacterial AMR, a greater toll than from learned from COVID-19 and previous outbreaks, championing
both HIV and malaria. Getting ahead of infectious disease and innovation and promoting sustainable approaches for the
impending threats like AMR will help protect lives, livelihoods and biopharmaceutical sector and public health.
healthcare systems. In July 2022, GSK, along with other major biopharmaceutical
Through our R&D expertise and partnering with AMR-focused companies, signed up to the Berlin Declaration. This sets out the
organisations such as CARB-X, we are driving innovation in both industry’s vision for equitable access during future pandemics.
prevention and treatment. We have more than 30 R&D projects The declaration stated the sector’s willingness to reserve an
across medicines and vaccines that are relevant to AMR, ranging allocation of real-time production of medicines and vaccines
from early- to late-stage development. These include gepotidacin, for distribution to priority populations, as determined by health
which could be the first novel oral antibiotic treatment for authorities, during future pandemics. This is dependent on factors
uncomplicated urinary tract infections in over 20 years; and in such as strong healthcare systems in recipient countries.
2022, we announced an exclusive licence agreement with Spero We are committed to using our world-class global vaccine
Therapeutics for tebipenem HBr, a late-stage antibiotic that may manufacturing network to support pandemic preparedness and
treat complicated urinary tract infections. 13 of these projects response. In 2022, GSK concluded a series of contracts under
target pathogens deemed ‘critical’ or ‘urgent’ by the WHO and the which we would provide at least 200 million doses of pandemic
US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. See page 16 of our influenza vaccine to governments around the world. In February
Annual Report for more about our R&D pipeline. 2022, we extended our pandemic influenza vaccine stockpile
Surveillance is central to tackling AMR. In 2022, we shared data contract with the United States government. This was followed
from our long-running Survey of Antibiotic Resistance (SOAR) by a renewed agreement, in June 2022, for supply of pandemic
study, which tracks community-acquired respiratory infections, influenza vaccines to the WHO, and in July 2022, a contract with
with the new AMR Register, developed by Vivli. We will continue to the government of Canada for both seasonal and pandemic
share new data as it is available. This initiative will help build our influenza vaccines. We signed an agreement with Europe for
collective understanding of how pathogens are evolving and the reservation and future production and supply of pandemic
what is needed to protect against them. influenza vaccines. We are also continuing to partner with the
Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority
We also promote effective stewardship of antibiotics and
(BARDA) to manufacture and assess the safety and
enable access to them. We continue to train healthcare
immunogenicity of pandemic influenza vaccine candidates.
professionals around the world on using and prescribing
antibiotics appropriately, and the importance of surveillance gsk.com: Position on pandemic preparedness
studies. To support the responsible manufacturing of antibiotics,
we work with the AMR Industry Alliance to set global limits for
wastewater antibiotic discharges from factories (see Environment,
page 18). In 2022, we also worked with the Alliance to publish
a new Antibiotic Manufacturing Standard.
2019 2020 2021 2022
Global health pipeline assets for priority diseases
Number of assets progressed through the Global Health pipeline to address priority WHO diseases 12 10 5 12 PR A
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2022 data has been externally assured.
15 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Environment
We continue to work hard to do more to protect the environment, often in partnership
with others. We’ve set clear and measurable targets to help achieve our goals.
6% 80% 94%
reduction in scope 1 and 2 GSK sites with completed GSK sites and suppliers
carbon emissions compared baseline biodiversity compliant with wastewater
with 2021 assessments discharge limits
Our commitment
Commit to a net zero, nature positive, healthier planet Water
with ambitious goals set for 2030 and 2045 – Average of the percentage of GSK sites and suppliers
compliant with wastewater active pharmaceutical ingredient
How we assess performance
limits and the percentage of suppliers that are compliant with
Climate the AMR Industry Alliance Common Antibiotic Manufacturing
– Operational emissions reduction (scope 1 and 2 market-based Framework and discharge limits
emissions)
Waste and materials
– Industrialisation of green Ventolin initiated, and clinical
– Operational waste and material reduction at our sites
and non-clinical data available to support regulatory
submissions Biodiversity
– Percentage of carbon offset volume in project pipeline – Number of high-risk materials implementing sustainable
sourcing roadmaps
We recognise that the world’s climate and nature crises pose an Achieving our goals will support long-term value creation, build
urgent threat to human health, worsening the impact of diseases trust with our stakeholders and reduce risk to our operations.
and putting healthcare systems under pressure. We’re committed This will require us to collaborate with our patients, suppliers,
to work towards a net zero, nature positive, healthier planet, with regulators and peers – and we are integrating sustainability
ambitious goals set for 2030 and 2045. These goals cover our into our operations to ensure delivery.
entire value chain, from drug discovery to disposal of our
g sk.com: Position on environmental sustainability • 2022 environmental
products, as well as investing in protecting and restoring nature.
action report
At the same time, we are investing to get ahead of the health
impacts of climate change by developing and manufacturing
new medicines and vaccines for the diseases most affected by
climate change, as well as working with partners to improve
healthcare system resilience to climate change.
Climate
We have set a clear pathway to a net zero impact on climate with To comply with this standard, no change is required to our
ambitious goals for 2030 and 2045. planned carbon reduction pathway of 80% reductions and 20%
offsets by 2030, but in addition we have set a longer-term target
In 2020, GSK set out a carbon ambition to have a net zero impact
that by 2045 we will reduce carbon emissions by at least 90%,
on climate by 2030. Our plan to meet this goal aims for 80%
with the remainder tackled through high-quality offsets.
carbon reductions across all scopes, against a 2020 baseline, with
the remaining 20% offset through investment in high-quality SBTi has accredited our 2030 carbon target, set prior to our
nature-based solutions. de-merger, as aligned with a 1.5oC pathway and our reduction
pathway to 2030 is significantly more ambitious than the SBTi
In 2021, the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) published a
Net-Zero Standard minimum requirement to halve emissions by
new carbon Net-Zero Standard, with the aim of addressing
2030.
stakeholder concerns around inconsistent methodology and
definitions of net zero. We are currently seeking re-accreditation from the SBTi for our
targets as a fully-focused biopharma company. We have also
submitted our 2045 target for verification by SBTi against its
Net-Zero Standard.
16 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Environment continued
Supply chain emissions
Our value chain carbon footprint is made up of: Approximately 29% of our total emissions footprint comes
from the goods and services that we buy. In September 2022,
– Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our own operations (8%)
we launched a Sustainable Procurement Programme, which
– Scope 3 emissions from our suppliers (29%) requires our suppliers to take action on carbon, power, heat,
– Scope 3 emissions from people using our products (54%), transport, water, waste and the sustainable, deforestation-free
mostly metered-dose inhalers sourcing of materials. From 2023, among other things, they will
– Other scope 3 emissions (9%) be required to disclose emissions, set carbon reduction targets
aligned with 1.5oC, and switch to renewable power and heat. As
Targets1:
part of this new programme, we will actively support our suppliers
– 80% reduction in carbon emissions and investment in nature-
with education and the adoption of new environmental
based solutions for the remaining 20% of our footprint by 2030
sustainability measures. In October 2022, at the GSK Supplier
(all scopes)2
Forum attended by 120 of our top suppliers, we presented our
– 100% renewable electricity by 2025 (scope 2)
sustainability plans along with clear expectations and available
– Net zero emissions across our full value chain by 2045 support for suppliers.
(all scopes)3
We continued to build capability across our procurement function
g sk.com: Net zero pathway
to integrate sustainability, including through tender questions,
contractual provisions and performance metrics.
Managing our operational footprint
Supply chain emissions are a shared challenge across our
In 2022, we reduced our scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 6%
industry sector and we are collaborating to find shared solutions.
compared with 2021. This was primarily through increasing our
For example, we participate in the Manufacture 2030 initiative
use of renewable electricity and continued delivery of energy
with our industry peers, which encourages our suppliers to
efficiency across our sites, such as the installation of new solar
measure, manage and reduce their emissions. Suppliers
panels, upgraded lighting and replacing chillers to reduce the
registered on this platform account for almost three-quarters
use of ozone-depleting refrigerant. For example, at our site in
of our emissions from purchased goods. With Manufacture 2030,
Irvine, Scotland, a closed-loop heating system has helped to drive
we co-developed the Activate programme, along with four other
reductions in operating costs, and on-site renewables and biogas
founding companies, to help active pharmaceutical ingredients
will provide 55% of its energy by the end of 2023.
(API) suppliers gain access to green funding and practical
As a member of RE100, we have committed to source 100% support to accelerate decarbonisation initiatives.
renewable electricity by 2025. In 2022, we reached 73%,
We are also working with our peers through the Energize
an increase of 6% since 2021 and 28% since 2020.
programme to encourage the use of renewable energy throughout
We are also a member of EV100 and have committed to install the pharmaceutical sector’s supply chain. In 2022, nine suppliers
charging infrastructure at 100 sites and transition our sales fleet formed the first Energize buyer’s cohort, who together will purchase
to low-carbon vehicles by 2030. As of October 2022, hybrid two terawatt-hours of renewable electricity.
or fully electric vehicles made up 4% of our fleet, and we have
We are part of the Sustainable Markets Initiative Health Systems
chargers installed at 30 sites, with the number of chargers
Task Force, made of up CEOs from seven global healthcare
increasing from 309 in 2021 to 435 in 2022 at these locations.
companies. In 2022, the task force announced joint action on
near-term emissions reduction targets and accelerating the
Reducing our value chain emissions
delivery of net zero healthcare systems by addressing emissions
Following the demerger of our Consumer Healthcare business,
across supply chains, patient care pathways and clinical trials.
we are restating our value chain carbon footprint for our baseline
year 2020. In 2021 (our latest available data), our scope 3
Emissions from the use of our products
emissions reduced by 13% compared with 2020. These reductions
The use of our medicines and vaccines by patients makes up
reflect the evolution of our product portfolio.
more than 50% of our total climate impact. This is predominantly
from the propellant used in metered dose inhalers for asthma
and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. We are investing in
an R&D programme to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from
this vital medicine, and have made good progress towards a
reformulation of Ventolin, which could reduce the climate impact
by up to 90%, if the clinical trials are successful.
Climate-related financial disclosures
See pages 55 to 62 in our Annual Report for our disclosure on
climate risk and resilience in line with the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework.
1 T argets are measured against a 2020 baseline.
2 Previously stated as net zero by 2030.
3 This is a new longer-term target, aligned to the SBTi Net-Zero Standard definition of net zero.
17 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Environment continued
Nature
We are committed to working towards our goal of having a net Materials and the circular economy
positive impact on nature by 2030, by reducing our environmental
Targets1:
impacts across water, waste and materials, and biodiversity and
– Zero operational waste, including eliminating single-use
by investing in protecting and restoring nature.
plastics, by 20302
Protecting nature plays a vital role in protecting human health.
– 25% environmental impact reduction for our products and
Habitat degradation increases the risk of new human pathogens
packaging by 2030
and pandemics emerging. The natural world also provides
– 10% waste reduction from our supply chain by 2030
ingredients for existing medicines and inspiration for new ones.
In 2022, we continued to reduce the waste from our sites and
We are making good progress on meeting our water, waste
increase the amount of materials recovered through circular
and materials, and biodiversity targets. We are one of the first
routes like reuse or recycling. For example, at some of our sites
companies to trial the Science Based Targets Network for Nature
we have introduced recycling for our chemical containers,
(SBTN) methodology, to better understand our impacts and
new solvent recovery processes and eliminated the use of
dependencies on nature. We are also a member of the Taskforce
disposable gowns.
on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD), which is
We are also targeting materials across our existing product
developing a risk management and financial disclosure
portfolio. This includes removing paper leaflets and moving to
framework similar to that of the TCFD.
e-leaflets where regulation permits. Our vaccines business has
Water also stopped using PVC blisters when packing pre-filled syringes
and is removing the plastic film wrapping used on pallets. We
Targets1:
have built the capability to perform eco-design analyses and
– Achieve good water stewardship at 100% of our sites by 20252 have completed a detailed analysis of an antibiotic product which
– Reduce overall water use in our operations by 20% by 2030 has identified a number of projects to reduce its environmental
– Be water neutral in our own operations and at key suppliers in impact. Our R&D laboratories in Upper Providence have been
water-stressed regions by 20302 certified by My Green Labs, which is considered to be the gold
– Zero impact API levels for all sites and key suppliers by 20303 standard for laboratory sustainability best practice around
the world.
In 2022, we reduced overall water use in our operations by 5%
g sk.com: Materials and waste
since 2021 and by 1% in sites in high water stress regions. This is a
decrease of 23% for overall water use and 6% for sites in high
Biodiversity
water stress regions against our 2020 baseline. This achieved our
2030 overall water use reduction target, which we will now review. Targets:
100% of our sites are now good water stewards, in line with the – Positive impact on biodiversity at all sites by 2030
Alliance for Water Stewardship’s definition.
– 100% agricultural, forestry and marine-derived materials
We have initially identified three water basins in water-stressed sustainably sourced and deforestation free by 2030
areas in Algeria, India and Pakistan where we have manufacturing We are progressing our plans for net positive biodiversity at our
sites, and where we aim to be water neutral. At our manufacturing own sites by investing in individual site action plans that improve
facility in Nashik, India, we have built plants for rainwater harvesting. habitats, protect species and improve soil and water quality.
In 2022, we completed baseline biodiversity assessments for 80%
We are committed to keeping any API emissions from
of our sites. We have commenced biodiversity uplift projects at
manufacturing, including those that might contribute to
our three largest R&D facilities. We have also completed a full
antimicrobial resistance (AMR), below levels that might have
assessment of our biodiversity impact (across the entire value
a negative impact on human health or the environment. This
chain), in line with the latest SBTN guidance, and will be taking
applies to our own sites and those of our key suppliers.
targeted actions to address the highly-stressed areas.
In 2022, 100% of our sites and 98% of our suppliers that
Our new Sustainable Sourcing Standard outlines the
manufacture antibiotics complied with AMR Alliance industry
environmental, social and ethical requirements which must be
standards on safe discharges.
met by 2030 for each supply chain to be considered sustainably
We are a partner in the Prioritisation and Risk Evaluation of
sourced. As a first stage, we are addressing the 12 most critical
Medicines in the Environment (PREMIER) project with the
agricultural, forestry and marine-derived materials. We reached
Innovative Medicines Initiative, a collaboration across industry,
our 2022 target of 90% of sustainably sourced paper and palm
academia and regulators. It involves working with stakeholders to
oil, and now have roadmaps in place to achieve 100% by 2025.
develop tools, models and data to characterise environmental risk
We have engaged with associated suppliers to map the full
for APIs, making environmental data on APIs more accessible and
supply chains involved, understand existing sustainability
exploring the feasibility of greener drug design.
standards, identify gaps and establish remediation plans.
g sk.com: Water • Value chain water footprint • Position on
pharmaceuticals in the environment
1 T argets are measured against a 2020 baseline.
2 See our Environment Basis of reporting for definition.
3 Z ero impact against predicted no effect concentrations.
18 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Environment continued
We are also building resilience into the supply of these 12 We have invested in a community reforestation project in Ghana,
materials, scoping out initiatives that help either reduce their which creates jobs, promotes gender equality and supports the
use (such as packaging redesign, portfolio consolidation and provision of clean water and sanitation. The project, which follows
other types of efficiencies) or avoid them altogether (such as Forestry Stewardship Council principles, has generated carbon
by transitioning to synthetic alternatives where appropriate). credits in line with the Verified Carbon Standard’s criteria for
environmental integrity, which we have retired in 2022 to support a
In the lead-up to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity,
carbon neutrality claim for an inhaler product in the UK. We have
the critical COP15 conference in Canada at the end of 2022,
also invested in a project in Indonesia that aims to restore 2,500
we worked with partners to call for mandatory disclosure by
hectares of mangroves through community-led projects. This
businesses and financial institutions of their impacts and
project aims to deliver between 120,000 and 240,000 tonnes of
dependencies on nature. We also worked with our partners to help
removal credits annually from 2028 to 2035, covering
raise business ambition on nature and to ensure that health and
approximately 8% of our forecasted 2030 residual emissions
the healthcare sector is part of the dialogue.
based on our current carbon reduction glidepaths.
g sk.com: Biodiversity
Collaboration is key to ensuring adequate supply of high-quality
Protecting and restoring nature projects that meet rigorous standards. We are part of the LEAF
Coalition (Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest finance),
Investing in nature protection and restoration is fundamental to
a private-public effort to protect tropical forests. We are also
achieving our climate and nature goals as well as positive impacts
testing guidance from the Voluntary Carbon Market Integrity
on human health.
Initiative, which is working to establish a globally-standardised
We aim to maximise the reductions we can make to our benchmark to guide the use of carbon credits by companies.
environmental impacts and only offset those emissions that
cannot be abated. Our robust criteria for carbon offsetting Nature-related financial disclosures
prioritise credits from high-quality, technically robust, accredited
See pages 62 to 63 in our Annual Report for how we plan to
projects that contribute to land protection and restoration, and
disclose on our impacts and dependencies on nature in line with
have the potential to deliver nature, social and health co-benefits
the emerging TNFD framework.
to local communities.
Adaptation and resilience
Climate change and nature loss are altering the burden and We are also working to research and develop new medicines and
spread of disease globally, exacerbating existing health threats, vaccines for climate-aggravated diseases. More than 50% of
creating new ones, putting healthcare systems under pressure and the funding allocated to date from our 10-year, £1 billion R&D
increasing health inequalities. This means that health, particularly investment for infectious diseases which disproportionately impact
within vulnerable communities, must be a key part of adaptation lower income countries is focused on climate-aggravated diseases,
and resilience discussions. see Global Health page 13.
In 2022, we joined the Race to Resilience campaign, with a pledge
to help 15 million people become more resilient to the health
impacts of climate change by 2030. GSK is the first biopharma
company to join this campaign. We will support it through
investment and partnerships with organisations such as Save the
Children and Microsoft, who GSK is working with to support local
health interventions with disease surveillance. As part of this
commitment, GSK will also focus on nature resilience through
nature-based action, such as supporting people with water stress
as part of the Water Resilience Coalition and reducing air
pollution via the Alliance for Clean Air.
1 T argets are measured against a 2020 baseline.
2 W here regulatory obligations allow, and excluding plastics which are critical to product discovery and development, and health and safety.
19 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Environment continued
2019 2020 2021 2022
Energy
Natural gas purchased (GWh) 1,851 1,873 1,744 1,655
Electricity used (GWh) 1,264 1,102 1,008 970
Purchased renewable electricity (GWh) 23 487 631 697 A
Purchased non-renewable electricity (GWh) 1,223 605 372 263
On-site renewably generated electricity (GWh) 22 19 13 18 A
Exported electricity (GWh) 4 9 8 8
Coal (GWh) 0 0 0 0
Other fossil fuels (GWh) 62 49 58 81
Renewable heat (GWh) 7 9 8 13
Purchased heating and cooling (GWh) 57 52 52 41
Total energy for operations (GWh) 3,240 3,085 2,871 2,759 A
% renewable electricity 4% 46% 63% 73%
Carbon: Scope 1 and 2 emissions1
On-site fuel use (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 355 355 333 320
Sales force vehicles (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 111 60 52 51
Propellant emissions during manufacture of inhalers (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 220 275 237 243
On-site waste or wastewater treatment (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 0 0 0 0
Refrigerant gas losses (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 27 20 11 13
Total scope 1 emissions (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 712 711 633 626 A
Electricity (market-based emissions) (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 342 163 125 84
Purchased heating and cooling (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 6 6 6 4
Total scope 2 market-based emissions (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 348 169 131 88 A
Total scope 2 location-based emissions (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 357 309 285 265 A
Total scope 1 and 2 market-based emissions (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 1,060 879 764 715 PR A
Fermentation/biogenic releases (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 32 27 10 12
Carbon: Scope 3 emissions2
Purchased goods and services (thousands of tonnes CO2e) – 3,267 2,725 –
Capital goods (thousands of tonnes CO2e) – 162 154 –
Fuel and energy-related activities (thousands of tonnes CO2e) – 89 84 –
Transportation and distribution (upstream) (thousands of tonnes CO2e) – 267 189 –
Waste generated in operations (thousands of tonnes CO2e) – 20 64 –
Business travel (thousands of tonnes CO2e) – 42 50 –
Employee commuting (thousands of tonnes CO2e) – 37 48 –
Leased assets (upstream) (thousands of tonnes CO2e) – 0 0 –
Transportation and distribution (downstream) (thousands of tonnes CO2e) – 135 99 –
Processing of sold products (thousands of tonnes CO2e) – 0 0 –
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2022 data has been externally assured.
1 S cope 1 and 2 emissions data has been assured to the metric tonne, for which base data is available on gsk.com.
2 O ther than propellant emissions data (which is collected through our internal systems); 2019 scope 3 emissions are not reported as we were unable to split our
previous Consumer Healthcare business data, and we will not have an accurate picture of 2022 scope 3 emissions until later in the year.
20 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Environment continued
2019 2020 2021 2022
Use of sold products (thousands of tonnes CO2e) – 5,836 5,120 –
– Emissions from use of propellant-based inhalers by patients (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 5,382 5,631 5,039 5,429 A
End of life (thousands of tonnes CO2e) – 24 51 –
Leased assets (downstream) (thousands of tonnes CO2e) – 0 0 –
Franchises (thousands of tonnes CO2e) – 0 0 –
Investments (thousands of tonnes CO2e) – 70 41 –
Total scope 3 emissions (thousands of tonnes CO2e) – 9,949 8,624 –1
Ozone-depleting substances
ODP inventory of CFC and HCFC in equipment (kg of CFC11e) 452 307 277 6
ODP calculated releases of CFC11e (kg of CFC11e) 12 8 8 0
Water use2
Municipal (million m3) 7.5 6.9 5.8 5.6
Ground water (million m3) 2.5 2.7 2.0 1.7
Tankers (million m3) 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1
Total water use (million m3) 10.2 9.7 7.9 7.5 A
Recycled sources (million m3) 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.2
Water use at high water risk sites (million m3) 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.3 A
Water discharge
Wastewater to municipal sewers (million m3) 4.8 5.7 4.0 4.0
Wastewater to surface water (million m3) 2.8 2.8 1.9 1.8
Wastewater to land (million m3) 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Wastewater to other (million m3) 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0
Total wastewater discharged (million m3) 8.0 8.6 5.9 5.9 A
% of GSK sites and supplier locations used by GSK that are compliant with AMR alliance and – – – 94% PR A
wastewater API limits
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2022 data has been externally assured.
1 O ther than propellant emissions data (which is collected through our internal systems); 2019 scope 3 emissions are not reported as we were unable to split our
previous Consumer Healthcare business data, and we will not have an accurate picture of 2022 scope 3 emissions until later in the year.
2 W ater use data has been assured to m3, for which base data is available on gsk.com.
21 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Environment continued
2019 2020 2021 2022
Waste and materials1,2
Total waste recovered via a circular route (thousand tonnes) – – 22.7 22.5
Total waste disposed via a non-circular route (thousand tonnes) – – 40.4 34.7
Total waste and materials generated (thousand tonnes)2 65.4 63.0 63.1 57.2 PR
% circular waste – – 36% 39%
Total hazardous waste recovered via a circular route (thousand tonnes) – – 3.6 3.6
Total hazardous waste disposed via a non-circular route (thousand tonnes) – – 24.5 22.5
Total hazardous waste (thousand tonnes) 28.2 25.7 28.1 26.1
Total non-hazardous waste recovered via a circular route (thousand tonnes) – – 19.2 18.9
Total non-hazardous waste disposed via a non-circular route (thousand tonnes) – – 15.8 12.2
Total non-hazardous waste (thousand tonnes) 37.2 37.3 35.0 31.1
Total hazardous waste incinerated (thousand tonnes) 25.0 21.9 20.2 19.4
Total non-hazardous waste incinerated (thousand tonnes) 14.7 14.1 13.4 8.8
Total waste incinerated (thousand tonnes) 39.7 36.0 33.7 28.2
Total hazardous waste to landfill (thousand tonnes) 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0
Total non-hazardous waste to landfill (thousand tonnes) 0.3 0.1 0.0 0.1
Total waste to landfill (thousand tonnes) 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.1
Sustainable sourcing
Number of high-risk materials implementing sustainable sourcing roadmaps – – – 12 PR A
Compliance and remediation
Environmental fines (£) 600 0 0 210
Remediation spend ($m)3 2.6 2.8 3.0 2.8
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2022 data has been externally assured.
1 2019-20 data was not recorded with the same breakdown as 2021-22 data, so we are unable to report certain metrics for these years.
2 Waste metrics were originally part of the selected information subject to independent assurance by Deloitte. As reported by Deloitte in the 'Other Matters'
section of their independent assurance report on pages 52 to 55, during the course of the assurance engagement Deloitte were unable to obtain the evidence
needed to support a conclusion. Due to the complexity of the waste data, significant remediation was required for measurement and reporting of waste metrics.
GSK took on additional support through a third party to complete the remediation in addition to requesting Deloitte to remove waste metrics from the scope of
the assurance engagement.
3 2019-21 data includes our previous Consumer Healthcare business.
22 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Diversity, equity and inclusion
We want to ensure our people can thrive, foster diversity in our clinical trials
and support diverse communities, as becoming a more inclusive business is
central to our purpose.
42% 31.3% 100%
VP-and-above roles held ethnically diverse leaders at VP 2022 phase III trials include
by women globally level and above in the US a demographic plan
Our commitment
Create a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace; enhance – have at least 30% ethnically diverse leaders in our roles at
recruitment of diverse patient populations in our clinical trials; VP and above in the US, and increase the percentage of
and support diverse communities Black or African American, and Hispanic or Latinx VP-and-
above leaders year on year
How we assess performance
– have at least 18% ethnically diverse leaders in our roles at
– 75% of phase III trials initiated in 2022 will have proactive VP and above in the UK, and increase the percentage of
plans in place designed to enrol appropriately diverse trial Black VP-and-above leaders year on year
participants, consistent with disease epidemiology
– Improve year-on-year spend with certified US-based diverse-
– Performance towards 2025 aspirations through fair and
owned suppliers
equitable opportunities:
– have women hold at least 45% of VP-and-above roles
globally by the end of 2025
Diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) are central to our purpose We want an inclusive workplace, where GSK people reflect the
of getting ahead of disease together. Being an inclusive and communities where we operate and where our leadership reflects
diverse business – and doing business inclusively – makes us our GSK people. This helps our company to perform better as it
more successful, making the most of our people’s potential and brings better insights, better quality decision making and,
increasing our positive impact. We want better health outcomes crucially, helps us understand our diverse patients.
for all, which is why we make sure our clinical trials reflect the
We are working to make STEM education more equitable and
population affected by the disease.
increasing the number of under-represented people in STEM
careers, with a focus on the US, and plans to increase our focus in
the UK in 2023. This will help to ensure that the health innovators
of the future are more diverse.
Building an inclusive business
Some diseases disproportionately impact specific patient groups, At the end of 2022, 100% of GSK's phase III trials had a diversity
and the safety and efficacy of medicines and vaccines can differ plan in place to enrol the groups most affected by the disease
based on genetic or environmental factors. Therefore, having being studied, based on epidemiology data. For example, in our
the appropriate representation in clinical research is critical for hepatitis B trials, a disease that disproportionately affects people
advancing our understanding of new medicines and vaccines of African and Asian descent, 52% of participants are of Asian
to ensure they have the biggest impact on patients. We are origin, and we are actively working to improve the representation
committed to improving diversity in clinical trial enrolment and are of participants of African descent.
already using our disease insights to set diversity enrolment goals.
g sk.com: Approach to clinical trials
We know some barriers negatively impact the clinical trial turnout
of certain patient populations, such as access to transportation,
Strengthening our supply chain by supporting
language differences, and lack of trust and awareness. We
diverse-owned suppliers
are working with patient advocacy groups and academic
organisations to tackle them. Our supplier diversity programme is well established in the US,
and an expansion plan is being developed for the UK. Through
We are also collaborating with regulators, patients, other
our programme, we seek to provide opportunities to under-
biopharma companies and the wider healthcare ecosystem so
represented groups, including women, ethnic minorities, members
that together we can make meaningful progress on diverse
of the LGBT+ community, people with disabilities and military
participation in clinical trials and achieve a shared goal of better
veterans, as well as small businesses in high-unemployment,
health outcomes for all.
low-income communities.
23 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Diversity, equity and inclusion continued
We engage with and mentor small and diverse-owned businesses This was significantly exceeded in 2022 through a combination of
in our supply chain and help them identify potential areas for spend increases with selected suppliers in marketing, sales and
growth. We have a target to increase spend annually with technology, as well as identification of new global diverse
certified US-based diverse-owned suppliers. suppliers and a strong multi-year strategy of engagement with
key advocacy groups.
Nurturing all of our people
Our Code requires all our people to commit to being inclusive In the US in 2022, we have 31.3% of ethnically diverse leaders at VP
and aware of their impact on others and annual mandatory level and above, reaching our 2025 aspirational target of at least
training on Creating an Inclusive Workplace sets out the 30%, and increasing the percentage of Black or African American
standards we expect. and Hispanic or Latinx people in those roles year on year. In the UK
in 2022, we have 14.3% of ethnically diverse leaders at VP and
g sk.com: The Code
above, continuing to make progress towards our 2025 aspirational
Building diverse teams through fair and equitable target of reaching at least 18%. Black representation at VP and
above remains flat and we will be focused in our efforts to achieve
opportunities
our aspiration for year-on-year growth.
We are committed to equality of representation so that our
We cannot build a representative workforce without a
workforce reflects the communities we work and hire in, and that
representative pool of job applicants. In the US, we engage
our GSK leadership reflects our workforce.
with Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and Hispanic
We are committed to increasing the representation of women and
Serving Institutions, to encourage applications for our graduate
ethnically diverse people in senior roles, and we ensure that our
positions and target recruitment campaigns to reach under-
recruitment and selection processes are fair and equitable, and
represented groups.
that our managers are committed to building diverse and inclusive
g sk.com: Gender pay gap report
teams. We expect diverse shortlists (gender and ethnicity) for
vacancies in our senior grades, and we have worked with
Fostering inclusion in our workplaces
recruitment agencies, our internal Employee Representation Groups
(ERGs) and specialist organisations, to continue to gain insight and We are working to create an inclusive workplace that is accessible
support, to drive our progress. All hiring managers are required to to all, and a culture of empathy and acceptance where we
complete inclusive interview training before they start their embrace each other’s differences and identities.
selection process. As part of work building our future pipeline, our We are members of the UK government’s Disability Confident
Accelerating Difference programme supports the development of scheme, and we launched a three-year plan in 2020 to increase
women and ethnically diverse leaders through individual and group our disability confidence. Since 2020, GSK has been an active
coaching, accelerating their readiness for future roles. member of the Valuable 500 pledge, a grouping of 500 global
In 2022, women held 42% of VP-and-above roles globally, companies committed to placing disability inclusion on the
compared with 40% in 2021, bringing us closer to our 2025 leadership agenda. We are delivering on the scheme’s objectives
aspirational target. Women made up 47% of all employees in through our long-term, measurable, disability confidence plan,
2022, and 50% of all management roles. which includes educating our people on the issue.
We remain committed to improving the application of fair and We are always looking at how we can better support people
equitable pay practices to ensure equal opportunities and equal through different life stages and making sure our offerings are
pay for equal work. We conduct country-based reviews and fair and inclusive. In 2022, we introduced a new global minimum
ensure all markets have clear guidance, tools and support to standard of 18 weeks’ parental leave for primary and secondary
ensure pay equity. If unexplainable differences are detected, we carers for all forms of family, a new global minimum standard
address them through our compensation processes. We published for care of a family member for end of life or serious health
our sixth UK gender pay gap report in 2022. Our gender pay gap emergencies, insured benefits to include same sex partners
for all permanent UK-based GSK employees is -1.36% (mean), wherever possible, a new financial wellbeing service and mental
compared to the national average of 13.9%. health training – available to everyone.
We published our first UK ethnicity pay gap report for 2022 using the This year, we were recognised as a Gold employer within Stonewall’s
same approach as our gender pay gap. Our ethnicity pay gap for all Top Global Employers Index. Our Allyship programme received an
permanent UK-based GSK employees is 0.06% (mean), at this time award recognising the tangible impact the campaign has had on
there is no national average comparator. Given our commitment to the lives of LGBT+ employees. The programme, launched at the end
diversity we're sharing our UK ethnicity pay gap data based on the of 2021, helps our people become more effective allies, supporting
approach for gender pay gap, recognising that adjustments to the colleagues to feel welcome, valued and included. We also achieved
calculation methodology may be required in future. the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Best Places to Work for
LGBT+ Equality standard in 2022.
In those countries that meet our criteria for data confidentiality and
anonymity, we disclose the race and ethnicity of our people at each
level and set aspirational targets. Currently, the US and the UK
meet those criteria.
24 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Diversity, equity and inclusion continued
Supporting diverse scientists of the future
We support communities around the world through our global In 2022, it reached more than 30,000 students nationwide.
health partnerships, local community investment, response to In 2020, we committed to investing $10 million over 10 years to
humanitarian emergencies and STEM education programmes for increase the number of women and Black and Latinx students in
under-represented groups. Philadelphia entering STEM careers. 13 local non-profits have now
received grants. So far, GSK STEM equity grants have reached
Our GSK Science in the Summer initiative offers free, hands-on
more than 130,000 students.
STEM learning to students in traditionally under-represented groups
in STEM careers or from underresourced communities in the US.
2019 2020 2021 2022
Gender diversity1,2
% of women (all employees) 45% 47% 47% 47% A
SVP/VP level 36% 38% 40% 42% PR A
Director level 44% 46% 48% 49% A
Manager level 49% 50% 50% 51% A
Total women in management 47% 48% 48% 50% A
% of women on the Board 45% 42% 42% 27%
Share of women in STEM-related positions (as a % of total STEM positions) – 44% 45% 45%
% of women in management positions in revenue-generating functions – 41% 41% 43%
SVP/VP Director Manager All employees
2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022
US ethnic diversity1,3
American Indian –4 –4 –4 0.4% 0.4% 0.3% 0.3% 0.4% 0.3% 0.4% 0.4% 0.3% A
or Alaska Native
Asian 10.8% 10.8% 13.3% 13.8% 14.7% 16.2% 15.9% 16.7% 17.8% 12.9% 13.7% 14.9% A
Black or African 5.8% 7.9% 8.6% 5.5% 5.2% 6.0% 6.3% 7.1% 7.9% 9.9% 9.8% 10.4% PR A
American
Hispanic or Latinx 5.0% 5.8% 6.4% 4.5% 4.5% 4.5% 5.1% 5.4% 4.4% 5.1% 5.3% 5.3% PR A
Native Hawaiian or –4 –4 –4 0.3% 0.3% 0.2% 0.1% 0.1% –4 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% A
Other Pacific
Islander
Two or more races 1.2% 2.2% 2.1% 0.9% 1.2% 1.5% 1.6% 1.5% 1.7% 1.5% 1.6% 1.9% A
Ethnically 23.2% 27.1% 31.3% 25.3% 26.3% 28.7% 29.3% 31.1% 32.2% 30.0% 31.0% 33.1% PR A
diverse total
White total 76.8% 72.9% 68.7% 74.7% 73.7% 71.3% 70.8% 68.9% 67.8% 70.0% 69.0% 66.9% A
UK ethnic diversity1,3
Asian 5.7% 6.5% 7.4% 11.8% 12.6% 14.2% 16.0% 17.4% 16.5% 13.1% 13.8% 13.3% A
Black 1.6% 1.6% 1.6% 1.8% 1.8% 1.9% 2.3% 2.7% 3.1% 2.5% 2.6% 2.7% PR A
Mixed 1.2% 2.0% 1.6% 1.5% 1.9% 1.7% 1.8% 2.0% 1.8% 1.8% 2.1% 1.9% A
Other 2.5% 2.8% 3.7% 1.6% 1.5% 1.7% 1.6% 1.6% 1.8% 1.3% 1.3% 1.4% A
Ethnically 11.1% 12.9% 14.3% 16.7% 17.8% 19.5% 21.8% 23.7% 23.2% 18.7% 19.8% 19.3% PR A
diverse total
White total 88.9% 87.1% 85.7% 83.4% 82.2% 80.5% 78.2% 76.3% 76.8% 81.3% 80.2% 80.7% A
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2022 data has been externally assured.
1 W ith the exception of % of women on the Board, Share of women in STEM-related positions, and % of women in management positions in revenue-generating
functions, the data displayed for 2019-21 reflects all GSK employees including those aligned to the Consumer Healthcare business as of 31 December of the
reported year.
2 T his data represents those that actively responded to identify a gender category. In 2022, 0.2% did not actively respond and a further 0.1% indicated ‘I prefer
not to say’.
3 T his data represents those that responded to identify a race or ethnicity category. In the US, 4.6% of employees did not actively respond to identify a race or
ethnicity category, and a further 1.8% indicated ‘I prefer not to say’. In the UK, 9.6% did not actively respond and a further 3.2% indicated ‘I prefer not to say’.
Due to rounding, the sum of the data may be marginally different from the totals.
4 I nsufficient data to report (fewer than three employees).
25 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Ethical standards
Our culture guides our people to do the right thing and Speak Up about any
concerns they have. It is important that all our people live up to this, and we
expect the same of our suppliers.
99% 87% 82%
employees and complementary of employees believe they of direct high-risk suppliers
workers completed our ‘can and do Speak Up if achieved our minimum
mandatory training things don't feel right’ EcoVadis score
Our commitment
Promote ethical behaviour across our business by supporting our – Percentage of employees who believe they ‘can and do
employees to do the right thing and working with suppliers that Speak Up if things don’t feel right’ is above the general
share our standards and operate in a responsible way industry benchmark1
– Number of employees leaving GSK’s employment for
How we assess performance
misconduct in the last 12 months versus the three-year
– 100% of employees and complementary workers complete rolling average
GSK’s 2022 mandatory training
– 80% of direct high-risk suppliers achieve GSK’s minimum
EcoVadis score or have an improvement plan in place
Supporting GSK people to do the right thing
We expect that everyone who works for us, or on our behalf, Reporting and investigating concerns
conducts themselves in the right way. This builds trust in what we
Anyone inside or outside GSK can raise concerns or speak to our
do, protects our business and helps create a workplace where we
integrity lines, confidentially and anonymously, without fear of
all thrive. How we do things is as important as what we do.
retaliation. We take every concern seriously and review every
In 2022, we launched our new Code of Conduct which reflects our report to see whether we need to investigate formally. If our
purpose to unite science, technology and talent to get ahead of investigations show an employee has breached our policies, we
disease together. Our new Code sets out the commitments we take action.
make as a company and to each other to deliver on our purpose
This year, we have updated how we report the breakdown of
and ambitions. The Code is supported by additional global
types of policy violations to provide more granularity by case class
policies and standards, which are located in our new Code Hub.
as there was a broader distribution from the top five policy area
Additionally, our people are required to complete our
categories historically reported. In 2022, we saw an overall
accompanying global mandatory learning curriculum, Living
decrease in disciplinary cases, attributed to, in part, a revision to
our Code, comprised of three modules: The Code, Creating an
our procedures for discipline regarding late completion of
Inclusive Workplace and Protecting GSK. Protecting GSK focuses
mandatory training, now reported under the employee conduct
on key risk areas such as anti-bribery and corruption (ABAC),
category. The majority of environment, health and safety (EHS)
cyber security, and privacy around reporting human safety
and sustainability category increases in 2022 were written
information related to our products, as well as Speak Up.
warnings related to compliance with the company's COVID-19
In 2022, 100% of employees and 98% of complementary workers
vaccination mandate, safety or testing requirements, to ensure
completed this training where due by year end.
the health, safety and wellbeing of our workforce.
Those in certain high-risk roles or geographic regions also
In 2022, we continued to embed greater focus on the use of risk
complete additional ABAC training. This helps them identify
analytics and monitoring aligned to increasing levels of business
and mitigate any potential ABAC risk – especially in third-party
activities, enhancing risk identification and targeted interventions.
relationships – and to recognise, report and manage
Additionally, we focused on closure of cases, resulting in a
conflicts of interest. In 2022, 100% of employees and 96% of
decrease in open cases at year end from prior years with
complementary workers completed this training where due
correlation in rising numbers of employees who were dismissed or
by year end.
agreed to leave the company voluntarily as a result of
Our approach to managing ABAC risk, and other risks relating to misconduct.
ethical standards, forms part of our well embedded risk
management framework, which is described in detail in our
Annual Report, on pages 51 to 52.
g sk.com: Anti-bribery and corruption policy • The Code
1 T he general industry benchmark is 65% according to 2022 research by KornFerry.
26 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Ethical standards continued
Upholding our commitment to human rights
We are committed to respecting internationally recognised We are committed to the application of fair and equitable pay
human rights wherever we do business. We continue to make practices, which includes ensuring that all employees globally
progress in integrating our salient human rights (access to receive pay that is competitive in their local markets and sufficient
healthcare, research practices, patient safety, EHS, and privacy) to support a sustainable standard of living. In 2022, we completed
within our operations and how we conduct our business. the first global living wage review in partnership with the Fair
Wage Foundation. We assessed the pay of all our employees
We are signatories to the UN Global Compact and our Human
(over 75,000 people in 87 countries) and differences were
Rights Position statement lays out our commitment to the UN
detected in fewer than 200 cases, in 11 countries. All necessary
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
adjustments will be made by the end of the first quarter of 2023.
During the year, we established a Human Rights Steering Group, We will be factoring the living wage data into our standard
which has a formal reporting mechanism to the Board’s compensation processes to ensure that we continue to offer a
Corporate Responsibility Committee. The Steering Group fair wage, and have built an annual living wage review into our
comprises senior representatives from the key business functions standard cycle.
who are accountable for ensuring respect for human rights within
For more information on how we uphold our commitments to
their business area. The Steering Group is facilitated and
human rights, please refer to our Modern Slavery Act statement.
attended by external human rights experts.
g sk.com: Position on human rights • Modern Slavery Act statement
In 2022, we developed guidance to enhance supplier visits to
help employees better understand labour and human rights
non-compliances. To support this guidance, we also developed
and delivered labour rights training to EHS and procurement
employees to better equip them to spot human rights issues
when visiting suppliers.
Working with third parties
Our suppliers and other third parties – including agents, We give additional support on EHS risks to our largest suppliers,
distributors, affiliate companies (where we have an equity stake) including those who supply globally medically critical products,
– help us research, develop, manufacture and distribute the are critical to our R&D, and those largest by spend1. We help
medicines, vaccines and other products that patients need. suppliers improve safety management systems and build overall
How these third parties act can have a direct impact on us. It is EHS capability, focusing on active pharmaceutical ingredients
important to manage our relationships with them well, including manufacturers and contract manufacturing suppliers. We set EHS
the way we choose, contract and monitor them. requirements and review performance as part of our internal EHS
governance and oversight.
We expect our third parties to meet our ABAC and labour rights
standards, where relevant, and to comply with our standards on We visit sites, in person or virtually, to help suppliers better
quality, health and safety, and the environment. See Annual understand and control their risks. The relaxation of travel
Report, pages 285 to 295. restrictions has allowed us to increase in-person visits to identify
and reduce risk, enabling us to conduct 50 physical visits across
We updated our Third-Party Risk Management programme,
63 priority suppliers this year2. We completed warehouse safety
which evaluates and mitigates risks introduced by third parties
surveys for 54 priority suppliers, 38 contract manufacturing
engaged by GSK to provide goods or services.
suppliers and 15 large warehouses that hold stock this year. These
In 2022, for our high-risk third parties – determined by location surveys have generated corrective and preventative action plans,
in high-risk markets and size of spend – we performed 7,168 all of which we expect to complete in 2023.
assessments across 20 risk areas. Over 62% of these assessments
In 2022, we conducted 47 supplier audits, compared with 49 in
presented risks in one or more areas. Most of these third parties
2021, following industry standard Pharmaceutical Supply Chain
are goods and services providers (77%), distributors and
Initiative guidelines, with any corrective and preventative actions
wholesalers (5%), contract manufacturers and suppliers (1%) and
tracked to completion. We have also trained more than 600
direct material suppliers (1%). We also use tools to assess how
supplier employees on EHS and ESG fundamentals in 2022,
suppliers manage risks, including EcoVadis desktop assessments.
revised EHS contractual obligations, tracked management
actions to completion, and have helped suppliers improve their
EcoVadis scores3. See Annual Report, page 293.
g sk.com: Position on working with third parties
1 G SK maintains a list of globally medically critical products. These are drug products approved to treat a life-threatening disease or medical condition for
which there is no other adequately available alternative and of which GSK is the only provider.
2 O ur EHS priority suppliers are API suppliers who are, or will be, medically-, R&D-, or revenue-critical to GSK, or are high spend suppliers.
3 T he 600 supplier employees trained includes data from our previous Consumer Healthcare business.
27 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Ethical standards continued
Data and engagement
We exercise high standards of integrity in dealing with the Using data responsibly
personal information of our employees, patients, clinical research
Privacy and the ethical use of data are part of the global
participants, healthcare providers and other stakeholders.
mandatory learning curriculum Living our Code that all our people
The data security and privacy landscape is rapidly changing. have to complete. It means they understand that everyone at GSK
Threats to cyber security are constantly proliferating, while the is responsible for handling personal information in the right way.
introduction of privacy regulations by national and state-level We ensure that key privacy personnel have certifications and
authorities requires continual assessment and review of our sufficient training and experience to carry out their roles effectively.
privacy framework and controls. In response, we have created a
We are investing in our artificial intelligence and machine learning
new digital, privacy and information security team within Legal
capability to, for example, help analyse patients’ genetic data. We
and Compliance, to streamline support and provide expertise
are mindful that artificial intelligence and machine learning can
around GSK’s digital and data strategy. This global team will
raise ethical issues and are subject to evolving decisions from
partner with our businesses to assess the impact of changing
policymakers on how best to promote trust in these systems and
global and local privacy regulations, and to mitigate related risks.
avoid unintended outcomes or harmful impacts.
See Annual Report, pages 291 to 292.
In R&D, we have oversight boards and a new advisory panel
that oversees controls to manage how we use or re-use data
and respond to bioethical questions in our research activities.
This makes sure we follow regulations and meet our ethical
obligations.
Political engagement
As part of a heavily regulated industry, our business model In all of our political engagements, we are committed to ensuring
and market can be influenced by legislation and regulation. that we adhere to the highest ethical standards and legislative
As a major multinational company, we seek to contribute to requirements. We do not make corporate political contributions,
public policy debate, especially in relation to life sciences and nor do we sponsor party political meetings anywhere around
healthcare. We, along with other stakeholders such as non- the world.
governmental organisations, scientists, healthcare professionals,
g sk.com: Position on political advocacy • Political advocacy disclosure
patients and industry groups, are frequently invited by
governments to give our views on development of new policies.
2019 2020 2021 2022
Ethical conduct
Employees who had concerns raised against them (including current year and prior year 2,481 2,105 2,534 2,191 A
open cases)
Employees disciplined for policy violations 720 552 907 847 A
Breakdown of types of policy violation1
Employee conduct2 362 267 555 366 A
Sales and marketing 77 63 166 166 A
Product quality 115 85 65 48 A
Safeguarding people and information and assets 52 60 78 140 A
Employee relations and HR policies 59 18 20 42 A
R&D and medical practices 33 7 13 13 A
Anti-bribery and corruption 12 8 21 12 A
Computer and data-breach security 14 27 9 14 A
EHS and sustainability 11 9 16 1523 A
Other4 0 17 3 4 A
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2022 data has been externally assured.
1 I n 2022, we updated the reporting methodology for the breakdown of types of policy violation to provide more granularity by case class as there was a
broader distribution from the top five policy area categories historically reported under 'other'. To enable comparison, prior year data has been restated using
the new reporting methodology.
2 I n 2022, we changed our process for the circumstances that trigger discipline for late completion of mandatory training, now reported under employee
conduct. As a result, we saw fewer disciplinary cases in 2022 compared to prior years.
3 T he majority of EHS and sustainability category increases in 2022 were written warnings related to compliance with the company's COVID-19 vaccination
mandate, safety or testing requirements, to ensure the health, safety and wellbeing of our workforce.
4 P olicy violation class types that do not fit into the other class categories specified.
28 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Ethical standards continued
2019 2020 2021 2022
Employees who were dismissed or agreed to leave the company voluntarily as a result of misconduct1 154 102 176 290 PR A
Documented warnings 571 455 738 563 A
Open cases awaiting investigation or a disciplinary decision at year end 385 617 636 227 A
Mandatory training2
% of employees and complementary workers that complete GSK’s mandatory training3 – – – 99% PR A
% of employees that complete GSK’s mandatory training – The Code: Living our Values and 99% 100% 99% 100% A
Expectations (2019, 2020); Working at GSK (2021)
% of complementary workers that complete GSK’s mandatory training – The Code: Living our 92% 97% 93% 98% A
Values and Expectations (2019, 2020); Working at GSK (2021)
% of employees that complete GSK’s mandatory training – ABAC 97% 100% 100% 100% A
% of complementary workers that complete GSK’s mandatory training – ABAC 90% 100% 99% 96% A
Reporting concerns
% of employees who believe they ‘can and do Speak Up if things don’t feel right’ – – 87% 87% PR A
Suppliers
% of direct high-risk suppliers that achieve GSK’s minimum EcoVadis score or have an – 53% 80% 82% PR A
improvement plan in place4
Supplier spend by region
Asia-Pacific – – – 8.6%
Europe, Middle East and Africa – – – 58.5%
Latin America – – – 1.5%
North America – – – 31.3%
US political engagement5
Spend on federal lobbying activities ($m) 4.42 3.80 5.30 4.46
Trade association membership spend ($m) 21.5 21.5 20.3 20.6
Corporate political contributions ($)6 0 0 0 0
Political action committee contributions from US employees to state and federal candidates ($'000) 265.2 366.8 298.0 360.5
European political engagement5
Trade association membership spend (£m) 1.87 2.28 2.08 1.91
Corporate political contributions (€)6 0 0 0 0
Cost of representing our interests to EU institutions (€m)7 1.64 1.82 1.18 1.22
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2022 data has been externally assured.
1 I n 2022, we continued to embed greater focus on the use of risk analytics and monitoring aligned to increasing levels of business activities, enhancing risk
identification and targeted interventions. Additionally, we focused on closure of cases, resulting in a decrease in open cases at year end compared to prior
years with a correlation to rising numbers of employees who were dismissed or agreed to leave the company voluntarily as a result of misconduct.
2 T hese figures are based on active employees and complementary workers at year end. Data from 2019-21 is split between employees and complementary
workers, as disclosed in our prior ESG reports, and rounded to the nearest whole number. 2019-21 also includes data from our previous Consumer Healthcare
business; due to attrition over the last three years, restating completion rates would not provide a comparable metric.
3 In 2022, we updated the way in which we report completion of mandatory training by combining metrics for employees and complementary workers across
the mandatory trainings into a single metric, rounded to the nearest whole number.
4 D irect high-risk suppliers are identified on a yearly basis through a combination of spend, category and high-risk countries. Direct procurement involves
the purchasing of materials directly associated with the production of goods.
5 2 019-21 includes data from our previous Consumer Healthcare business.
6 G SK does not make corporate political contributions, nor do we sponsor political meetings anywhere around the world.
7 T his includes the latest available figures from the previous year. Figures from the reporting year are published in March 2023, after publication of this
document.
29 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Product governance
Ensuring the quality, safety and reliable supply of our products is critical to
protecting patients and delivering health impact.
122 1,060 7,377
regulatory inspections at our quality audits of clinical trial protocol
manufacturing sites and local our suppliers summaries registered and
operating companies 6,295 summaries of results
Our commitment
We commit to maintaining robust quality and safety processes, – Number of FDA warning letters
and using data and new technologies responsibly – Total number of Class I/II external product recalls across
all markets
How we assess performance
– Register and disclose all human subject research of GSK
– Average number of critical and major findings by products. Specifically, register protocol summaries for studies
FDA/MHRA/EMA regulators1 initiated in 2022; and disclose results summaries for studies
– Percentage of inspections from all regulators with no critical with results due in 2022
findings or official action indicated
The quality and safety of our products is exceptionally important They help us deliver a reliable supply of high-quality products and
to us. We have systems in place across GSK to ensure we meet the support a values-driven culture where issues are responded to
high standards we set ourselves as a company, and those that are swiftly and transparently.
expected of us externally.
A focus on quality management
Our GSK Quality Management System is a detailed and specific In 2022, we had 122 regulatory inspections at our manufacturing
framework which describes how we comply with regulatory sites and local operating companies, compared with 111 in 2021.
requirements and other standards across our markets. It We remain prepared for inspections from regulators and received
addresses global and local regulations across manufacturing no warning letters from the United States Food and Drugs
and distribution processes, and is based on principles defined Administration (FDA) or critical findings from the Medicines
by the International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) and European
Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use. Medicines Agency (EMA) regulators in 2022; however we received
one critical finding from the Chinese regulator2. We continue to
Responsibility for quality assurance is managed by GSK
learn from and respond to all inspection findings, taking the
quality organisations, an extensive global network of quality
necessary action to address them.
and compliance professionals within each of our business units,
from site-level to senior management. Throughout 2022, we had no Class I product recalls and there
were fewer Class II and III recalls compared with 20213. We will not
The Quality Management System also details the patient safety
hesitate to voluntarily recall products to protect patients.
and quality process training required by GSK people. This includes
induction, hygiene, safety and technical skills training, as well as
Working with our suppliers on quality
good distribution and manufacturing practice training. Employees
who carry out specific, quality-critical or sensitive activities are We expect all our contract manufacturers and suppliers to comply
subject to additional checks as necessary. with GSK standards, and regularly conduct audits to verify that they
do. In 2022, we conducted 1,060 quality audits of suppliers, with an
Inspections, recalls and audit increased focus on active pharmaceutical ingredient suppliers.
We are subject to regulatory inspections in the markets we supply We have a comprehensive quality oversight model that is aligned
our products to. These provide independent assurance that high to our Quality Management System and uses a risk-based
standards of quality are in place across development, manufacturing approach to assess, qualify, manage and monitor our third-party
and distribution, and are required to maintain our licence to operate. suppliers on an ongoing basis, driving continuous performance.
1 W e consider any observations from the US FDA as major.
2 C ritical finding from one inspection by the Chinese regulator of a third-party manufacturing facility used by GSK.
3 C lass I recalls are triggered by a reasonable probability that the use of or exposure to a violative product will cause serious adverse health consequences or
death. Class II recalls address the use of or exposure to a violative product which may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences,
or where the probability of serious adverse health consequences is remote. Class III recalls relate to the use of or exposure to a violative product which is not
likely to cause adverse health consequences.
30 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Product governance continued
Maintaining pharmacovigilance
Pharmacovigilance aims to protect those who use medicines and Vigilance against falsified medicines and vaccines
vaccines and support public health programmes with reliable,
We have a robust approach to handling all falsified product
comprehensive information on the overall benefit-risk balance of
incidents, ensuring that cases of confirmed counterfeit products
our products. We have a well established and rigorous worldwide
are reported to the WHO and to relevant regulatory authorities.
system to monitor and review the safety of our products
We actively participate in legal proceedings against illegal
throughout clinical development and after regulatory approval.
actors, provide regular training to customs and local authorities
We maintain high standards of safety and medical governance, and we monitor online marketplaces and social media to request
and ensure our partners meet the same expectations through takedowns of sites illicitly selling prescription-only medicines.
reviews of third-party safety systems, monitoring of contractual g sk.com: Position on falsified and substandard healthcare products
obligations and fostering collaboration through the life cycle of
the relationship.
g sk.com: Position on pharmacovigilance
Committed to transparency
Our commitment to transparency of clinical trial data reflects our As part of our commitment we have made 7,377 protocol
wish to help advance scientific understanding and enable the summaries and 6,295 summaries of results available since
scientific community to learn from the research we have undertaken. the set-up of the GSK trial register in 2004. We have also listed
It also allows us to acknowledge the great contribution made by the 2,559 studies for data sharing via www.vivli.org and
people who take part in our clinical research. www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com.
2019 2020 2021 2022
Regulatory inspections and audits
Audits of our third parties’ quality processes 1,5631 1,4511 1,044 1,060
Total regulatory inspections from all health authorities 131 86 1112 122 PR A
% of inspections from all regulators with no critical findings or official action indicated 100% 100% 100% 99% PR A
Total regulatory inspections from FDA/MHRA/EMA regulators 39 27 35 36 PR A
Number of critical/major findings by FDA/MHRA/EMA regulators 53 11 4 26 PR A
Total FDA regulatory inspections 11 7 2 8 PR A
Number of FDA observations 39 3 1 16 PR A
Number of FDA warning letters 0 0 0 0 PR A
Product recalls
Total number of Class I external product recalls 1 0 0 0 PR A
Total number of Class II external product recalls 6 4 6 5 PR A
Total number of Class III external product recalls 19 16 12 7 PR A
Total product recalls 26 20 18 12 A
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2022 data has been externally assured.
1 2019-20 includes data from our previous Consumer Healthcare business, as many audits were conducted jointly for both Consumer Healthcare and
Pharmaceuticals.
2 T he 2021 data point has been adjusted due to eight additional inspections being identified. Two inspections were removed due to being retrospectively
identified as out of scope of the reporting criteria.
31 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Product governance continued
2019 2020 2021 2022
FDA product recalls by business and class1
Pharmaceuticals business
Class I product recalls 0 0 0 0 PR A
Class II product recalls 0 0 0 0 PR A
Class III product recalls 1 0 0 12 A
Vaccines business
Class I product recalls 0 0 0 0 PR A
Class II product recalls 0 0 1 0 PR A
Class III product recalls 0 0 1 0 A
Clinical trial management, pharmacovigiliance and transparency
Clinical trial audits (on our own trials and those conducted by third parties on our behalf) 2253 2233 294 339
Number of FDA sponsor inspections related to clinical trial management and pharmacovigilance – – 0 0
that resulted in voluntary action indicated (VAI)
Number of FDA sponsor inspections related to clinical trial management and pharmacovigilance – – 0 0
that resulted in official action indicated (OAI)
Clinical study reports/study report synopsis on GSK study register 109 60 48 35
Trials for which anonymised data will be made available upon meeting defined eligibility criteria 101 77 51 40
Research teams approved for access to GSK trial data 27 23 16 34
Publicly available trial protocol summaries (register)4 7,108 7,178 7,290 7,377 PR A
Publicly available trial result summaries (disclose)4 6,050 6,160 6,239 6,295 PR A
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2022 data has been externally assured.
1 T his data includes recalls in the US market which may be initiated voluntarily by GSK, requested by the US FDA or mandated by the US FDA under its
statutory authority.
2 T his represents 0.00076% of total pharmaceutical products produced for the US market.
3 2 019-20 includes data from our previous Consumer Healthcare business, making up approximately 6.5% of the figures.
4 T hese figures are cumulative.
32 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix
Materiality assessment
In 2021-22, GSK conducted a materiality assessment, a process Through this process, 16 issues were identified as most material
of engagement and analysis that identifies and prioritises the to our business and our external stakeholders, illustrated in the
ESG issues that pose the most significant risks and opportunities matrix below. The issues identified through this process helped
to the business, and where GSK has the most significant impact. confirm our six ESG focus areas: Access, Global health and health
The materiality assessment is used to inform strategic decision- security, Environment, Diversity, equity and inclusion, Ethical
making and helps us to prioritise issues covered in public reporting. standards and Product governance.
This year we used Datamaran’s data analytics platform to To read more about our materiality methodology, process and
conduct the assessment. The software monitors external ESG key observations please see our materiality overview on gsk.com.
risks by assessing the coverage of issues within peer annual
g sk.com: Materiality assessment
and sustainability reports, regulatory and legislative documents,
media and social media. We also conducted stakeholder
engagement, through internal and external interviews and
analysis of investor ratings, rankings and reports.
MEDIUM HIGH
Importance to the business
33 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023
sredlohekats
lanretxe
ot
ecnatropmI
Materiality matrix
VERY HIGH
Product quality
Privacy and and patient safety
data security
Supply chain management Product innovation
Global health security
Labour rights
Healthcare access
and affordability
Ethical business conduct
Employee health,
safety and wellbeing
Clinical trial conduct
Climate change
Talent attraction and retention
Nature and
environmental
protection
Waste and hazardous materials management Diversity, equity
Water and wastewater management and inclusion
KEY
Access Environment Ethical standards
Global health Diversity, equity Product governance
and health security and inclusion People and cultureOur approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
People disclosures
A positive experience at work is critical to attract, retain and Keeping our people safe
motivate the best people. We want our workplace to embrace
We care deeply about the health and safety of our employees,
everyone’s unique differences and encourage growth and
complementary workers and everyone that works at or visits our
development in a safe environment so that people can perform
sites. Our commitment is that everyone goes home safely. Our 12
at their best at work. For more information around how we put
Life Saving Rules have been embedded throughout our company.
our people at the heart of our success, please see page 7, and for
These rules are simple, standardised and easy to remember.
further detail on our focus on Diversity, equity and inclusion,
Responsibilities for safety as leaders and as individuals have
see page 23.
been reviewed at all levels of the organisation. Risk assessments
are a key part of the Environment, Health and Safety (EHS)
Freedom of association
control framework that governs our approach to identifying and
We are respectful of the right of colleagues to join an controlling hazards. We conduct health and safety training for
independent trade union, the right to collectively bargain and of our people, specific to whether they are working from an office,
freedom of association. 35% of our global employees are covered a lab, at a manufacturing site or in commercial. Recent key
by collective bargaining arrangements and 15% have declared initiatives have included safety leadership, warehouse safety
that they are a member of a union1. GSK also invests heavily in and driver safety.
formal information and consultation arrangements which actively
g sk.com Environment, health and safety policy
involve and provide additional Employee Voice to a higher
proportion of our colleagues.
2019 2020 2021 2022
Hiring
Total number of new hires – 9,305 11,110 12,513
% of open positions filled by internal candidates – 30.0% 34.0% 31.4%
Employee turnover
Overall turnover 13.8% 10.3% 15.2% 13.3% A
Turnover of voluntary leavers2 7.2% 5.5% 7.8% 7.3%
% of all permanent leavers that were male3 57.1% 56.9% 49.0% 54.1%
% of all permanent leavers that were female3 42.8% 42.9% 50.9% 45.6%
Workforce breakdown by age (permanent employees)
< 30 years old – 13.8% 13.0% 13.1%
30-50 years old – 61.0% 61.3% 60.9%
> 50 years old – 25.2% 25.7% 26.0%
Engagement4
Employee surveys engagement score 78% 84% 78% 81%
Employee surveys response rate 78% 85% 70% –4
Talent and leadership development
Number of graduates recruited through our Future Leaders programme 192 176 139 161
Number of postgraduates recruited through our Esprit programme 10 14 6 13
Number of apprentices recruited 68 85 68 67
A Metric’s 2022 data has been externally assured.
1 I n certain markets data is unavailable due to privacy reasons.
2 C alculated as the number of permanent employees that voluntarily left GSK in 2022 divided by the average 2022 permanent headcount.
3 C alculated as the number of permanent employees that left GSK for any reason within the period that were male or female divided by the total number
of permanent leavers that left for any reason within the period.
4 2 019-21 engagement data is derived from the GSK annual survey in which the total employee base is invited to participate. 2022 engagement data is derived
from the Q4 2022 pulse survey, in which a statistically-relevant randomised sample of our population, representing the average GSK employee, is invited to
participate. 2022 Employee surveys engagement score is reported here as consistent methodology is used across the two types of survey to derive a
comparable engagement score. However, 2022 employee surveys response rate is not reported here as the methodology used to administer pulse surveys
and subsequent response rate is not comparable to that used for the GSK annual survey. 2019-20 includes responses from those aligned to our previous
Consumer Healthcare business.
34 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
2019 2020 2021 2022
Health and safety
Number of fatalities (employees and complementary workers under GSK direct supervision) 0 1 0 0 A
Number of fatalities (contractors not under GSK direct supervision) 0 1 0 0 A
Reportable injuries with lost time 235 137 133 136 A
Reportable illnesses with lost time 6 8 5 8 A
Lost time reportable injury rate (per 100,000 hours worked) 0.15 0.09 0.09 0.09 A
Lost time reportable illness rate (per 100,000 hours worked) 0 0.01 0 0.01 A
Reportable injuries with and without lost time 336 205 190 199 A
Reportable illnesses with and without lost time 33 31 42 31 A
Reportable injury rate (per 100,000 hours worked) 0.21 0.13 0.13 0.14 A
Reportable illness rate (per 100,000 hours worked) 0.02 0.02 0.03 0.02 A
Reportable injury and illness rate (per 100,000 hours worked)1 0.23 0.15 0.15 0.16 A
Hours worked (m) 161 156 151 147 A
A Metric’s 2022 data has been externally assured.
1 Totals may not equal the exact sum of the constituents due to rounding.
35 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
GRI guidelines and SASB index
GRI indicator Description Where to find the information
General disclosures
2-1 Organisational details Legal name: GSK plc
Ownership: Annual Report – Share capital and share price,
page 233
HQ address: Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, UK
Operations: Annual Report – Business model, page 8
2-2 Entities included in the organisation’s sustainability reporting GSK plc
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point Sustainability and financial annual reporting period: 1 January
2022 to 31 December 2022
Report publication: 3 March 2023
Contact: csr.contact@gsk.com
2-4 Restatements of information Demerger: 2019-21 comparative results restated to reflect the
demerger of our Consumer Healthcare business, unless
otherwise specified.
Other restatements of information are detailed where relevant
for specific data points throughout the report.
2-5 External assurance Independent limited assurance statements, pages 49-55
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships Sector: Healthcare, Pharmaceuticals
Annual report, Business model, page 8
Changes compared to the previous reporting period: Following
the demerger of our Consumer Healthcare business to form
Haleon in July 2022, we are now a fully focused biopharma
company.
2-7 Employees Full-time employees (FTEs) as of 31 December 2022, page 8
Annual Report – Employees by gender, page 63.
Changes compared to previous reporting period: Following the
demerger of our Consumer Healthcare business to form Haleon
in July 2022, we are now a fully-focused biopharma company.
2-8 Workers who are not employees Not reported
2-9 Governance structure and composition Annual Report – The Board and GSK Leadership team, page 97
Annual Report – Corporate governance architecture, page 107
Annual Report – Nominations & Corporate Governance
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body
Committee report, page 120
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body GSK has an independent non-executive Chair of the Board
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the Annual Report – Corporate Responsibility Committee report,
management of impacts page 117
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Annual Report – Corporate Responsibility Committee report,
page 117
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting Our ESG Performance Report is reviewed by both GSK
Leadership Team and the Board
2-15 Conflicts of interest Annual Report – Directors’ conflicts of interest, page 130
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Annual Report – Board committee reports, page 117
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body Annual Report – The Board, page 97
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body Annual Report – Board performance, page 111
2-19 Remuneration policies Annual Report – Annual report on remuneration, page 133
2-20 Process to determine remuneration Annual Report – Annual report on remuneration, page 133
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Annual Report – Annual report on remuneration, page 136
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Annual Report – CEO's statement, page 7
2-23 Policy commitments Policy positions, including on human rights. Policies are
approved at GSK Leadership Team level and apply at
Group-level.
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Corporate responsibility committee
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Annual Report – Principal risks and uncertainties, page 285
Ethical standards, page 26
Ethics and compliance grievance mechanisms
36 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
GRI indicator Description Where to find the information
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Ethical standards, page 26
Grievance mechanisms
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Annual Report – Audit & Risk Committee report, page 124
2-28 Membership associations Trade association memberships
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Materiality Assessment, page 33
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements People disclosures, pages 34-35
Position on human rights
3-1 Process to determine material topics Materiality Assessment, page 33
3-2 List of material topics Materiality Assessment, page 33
3-3 Management of material topics Materiality Assessment, page 33
Economic performance
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Annual Report – Financial statements, page 182
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to Annual Report – Risk management, page 51
climate change Annual Report – TCFD, page 55
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Annual Report – Annual report on remuneration, page 132
201-4 Financial assistance received from government Annual Report – Financial statements, page 182
Annual Report – Share capital and share price, page 233
Anti-corruption
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Annual Report – Risk management, page 51
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies Ethical standards, pages 26-29
and procedures
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Ethical standards, pages 26-29
Tax
207-1 Approach to tax GSK Tax strategy
207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management GSK Tax strategy
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns GSK Tax strategy
related to tax
207-4 Country-by-country reporting GSK Tax strategy
Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Environment, pages 16-22
Environment, Basis of reporting
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation Environment, pages 16-22
Environment, Basis of reporting
302-3 Energy intensity Annual Report, Risk management, page 62
Environment, Basis of reporting
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environment, pages 16-22
Environment, Basis of reporting
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Environment, pages 16-22
Environment, Basis of reporting
Water
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Environment, pages 16-22
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Environment, Basis of reporting
303-3 Water withdrawal Environment, pages 16-22
Environment, Basis of reporting
303-4 Water discharge Environment, pages 16-22
Environment, Basis of reporting
303-5 Water consumption Environment, pages 16-22
Environment, Basis of reporting
37 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
GRI indicator Description Where to find the information
Emissions
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment, pages 16-22
Environment, Basis of reporting
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment, pages 16-22
Environment, Basis of reporting
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environment, pages 16-22
Environment, Basis of reporting
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Annual Report, TCFD, page 55
Environment, Basis of reporting
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environment, pages 16-22
Environment, Basis of reporting
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Environment, pages 16-22
Environment, Basis of reporting
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant Not reported
air emissions
Waste
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts Environment, pages 16-22
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Environment, pages 16-22
Environment, Basis of reporting
306-3 Waste generated Environment, pages 16-22
Environment, Basis of reporting
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Environment, pages 16-22
Environment, Basis of reporting
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Environment, pages 16-22
Supplier environmental assessment
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental Ethical standards, pages 26-29
criteria
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and Ethical standards, pages 26-29
actions taken
Employment
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover People disclosures, pages 34-35
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Life at GSK
provided to temporary or part-time employees
401-3 Parental leave Not reported
Occupational health and safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system GSK EHS policy
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident GSK EHS policy
investigation
403-3 Occupational health services GSK EHS policy
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on GSK EHS policy
occupational health and safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety GSK EHS policy
403-6 Promotion of worker health GSK EHS policy
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety GSK EHS policy
impacts directly linked by business relationships
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety GSK EHS policy
management system
403-9 Work-related injuries People disclosures, pages 34-35
GSK EHS policy
403-10 Work-related ill health
38 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
GRI indicator Description Where to find the information
Diversity and equal opportunity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity, equity and inclusion, pages 23-25. People disclosures,
pages 34-35
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Gender pay gap report
Diversity, equity and inclusion
Human rights and labour rights
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom GSK position on human rights
of association and collective bargaining may be at risk
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents GSK position on human rights
of child labour Modern Slavery Act statement
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents GSK position on human rights
of forced or compulsory labour Modern Slavery Act statement
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Ethical standards, pages 26-29
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions Ethical standards, pages 26-29
taken
Public policy
415-1 Political contributions Political advocacy disclosure
Customer health and safety
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and Product governance, pages 30-32
service categories
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and Product governance, pages 30-32
safety impacts of products and services
Marketing and labelling
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and Our code of practice
labelling
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service Product governance, pages 30-32
information and labelling
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing Product governance, pages 30-32
communications
SASB indicator Description Where to find the information
Drug safety
HC-BP-250a.1 List of products listed in the Food and Drug Administration’s Available via the FDA
(FDA) MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products
database
HC-BP-250a.2 Number of fatalities associated with products as reported in Available via the FDA
the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System
HC-BP-250a.3 Number of FDA recalls issued, total units recalled Product governance, pages 30-32
HC-BP-250a.4 Total amount of product accepted for takeback, reuse, or Not reported
disposal
HC-BP-250a.5 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to Product governance, pages 30-32
violations of current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP),
by type
Counterfeit drugs
HC-BP-260a.1 Description of methods and technologies used to maintain Product governance, pages 30-32
traceability of products throughout the supply chain and Position on falsified and
prevent counterfeiting substandard healthcare products
HC-BP-260a.2 Discussion of process for alerting customers and business Product governance, pages 30-32
partners of potential or known risks associated with Position on falsified and
counterfeit products substandard healthcare products
HC-BP-260a.3 Number of actions that led to raids, seizure, arrests, and/or Not reported
filing of criminal charges related to counterfeit products
39 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
SASB indicator Description Where to find the information
Ethical marketing
HC-BP-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal Not reported
proceedings associated with false marketing claims
HC-BP-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of Code of practice for promotional and non-promotional external
off-label use of products interactions
Employee recruitment, development and retention
HC-BP-330a.1 Discussion of talent recruitment and retention efforts for Our approach, pages 7-8
scientists and research and development personnel
HC-BP-330a.2 (1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for: People disclosures, pages 34-35
(a) executives/senior managers, (b) mid-level managers,
(c) professionals, and (d) all others
Supply chain management
HC-BP-430a.1 Percentage of (1) entity’s facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers’ GSK is a member of Rx 360 and
facilities participating in the Rx-360 International also conducts audits of third
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Consortium audit programme parties
or equivalent third-party audit programmes for integrity of Product governance, pages 30-32
supply chain and ingredients
Business ethics
HC-BP-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal Not reported
proceedings associated with corruption and bribery
HC-BP-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with Engagement with healthcare professionals
healthcare professionals
Activity metrics
HC-BP-000.A Number of patients treated Access, pages 9-12 (Patients reached through our access
strategies)
HC-BP-000.B Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and (2) in research and Annual Report – Pipeline, products and competition, page 278
development (Phases 1-3)
40 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
List of products on the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products and Vaccines as part of its
Prequalification of Medicines Programme (PQP)
Type, form and presentation Date of prequalification
Vaccines
Engerix Hepatitis B – Liquid: ready to use vial (one dose) Thursday, 1 January 1987
Engerix Hepatitis B – Liquid: ready to use vial (10 doses) Thursday, 1 January 1987
Engerix Hepatitis B – Liquid: ready to use vial (20 doses) Thursday, 1 January 1987
Priorix Measles, Mumps and Rubella – Lyophilised active component to be reconstituted Friday, 9 March 2001
with excipient diluent before use vial (one dose)
Rotarix Rotavirus – Liquid: ready to use plastic tube (one dose) Thursday, 12 March 2009
Rotarix Rotavirus – Liquid: ready to use applicator (one dose) Thursday, 12 March 2009
Cervarix Human Papillomavirus (Bivalent) – Liquid: ready to use vial (one dose) Wednesday, 8 July 2009
Cervarix Human Papillomavirus (Bivalent) – Liquid: ready to use vial (two doses) Wednesday, 8 July 2009
Polio Sabin Mono T1 Polio Vaccine – Oral (OPV) Monovalent Type 1 – Liquid: ready to use vial (10 doses) Thursday, 29 October 2009
Polio Sabin Mono T1 Polio Vaccine – Oral (OPV) Monovalent Type 1 – Liquid: ready to use vial (20 doses) Thursday, 29 October 2009
Polio Sabin One and Three Polio Vaccine – Oral (OPV) Bivalent Types 1 and 3 – Liquid: ready to use vial (10 doses) Thursday, 29 October 2009
Polio Sabin One and Three Polio Vaccine – Oral (OPV) Bivalent Types 1 and 3 – Liquid: ready to use vial (20 doses) Thursday, 29 October 2009
Synflorix Pneumococcal (conjugate) – Liquid: ready to use vial (one dose) Friday, 30 October 2009
Synflorix Pneumococcal (conjugate) – Liquid: ready to use vial (two doses) Friday, 19 March 2010
Polio Sabin Mono Three (oral) Polio Vaccine – Oral (OPV) Monovalent Type 3 – Liquid: ready to use vial (10 doses) Tuesday, 5 October 2010
Polio Sabin Mono Three (oral) Polio Vaccine – Oral (OPV) Monovalent Type 3 – Liquid: ready to use vial (20 doses) Tuesday, 5 October 2010
Polio Sabin Mono Two (oral) Polio Vaccine – Oral (OPV) Monovalent Type 2 – Liquid: ready to use vial (20 doses) Wednesday, 11 May 2011
Polio Sabin Mono Two (oral) Polio Vaccine – Oral (OPV) Monovalent Type 2 – Liquid: ready to use vial (10 doses) Wednesday, 11 May 2011
Priorix Measles, Mumps and Rubella – Lyophilised active component to be reconstituted with Wednesday, 21 December 2011
excipient diluent before use vial (two doses)
Hepatitis A (Human Diploid Cell), Inactivated (Adult) – Liquid: ready to use vial
Havrix 1440 Adult Friday, 19 July 2013
(one dose)
Havrix 720 Junior Hepatitis A (Human Diploid Cell), Inactivated (Paediatric) – Liquid: ready to use vial Friday, 19 July 2013
(one dose)
Boostrix Diphtheria-Tetanus-Pertussis (acellular) – Liquid: ready to use vial (one dose) Tuesday, 9 July 2013
Menveo Meningococcal ACYW-135 (conjugate vaccine) – Lyophilised active component to be Wednesday, 31 July 2013
reconstituted with liquid active component before use. Two vial set (one dose)
Synflorix Pneumococcal (conjugate) – Liquid: ready to use vial (four doses) Monday, 16 October 2017
Rotarix Rotavirus – Liquid: ready to use plastic tube (five doses) Thursday, 14 February 2019
Mosquirix Plasmodium falciparum (Malaria) and Hepatitis B (recombinant, adjuvanted) – Friday, 15 July 2022
Liquid active component to be mixed with second component before use. Two vial
set (two doses)
Pharmaceuticals
Abacavir (sulfate) HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA106 (a) 20 March 2002
Abacavir (sulfate) HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA107 (a) 20 March 2002
Zidovudine HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA108 (a) 29 May 2002
Zidovudine HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA109 (a) 29 May 2002
Lamivudine/Zidovudine HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA110 (a) 20 March 2002
Zidovudine HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA114 (a) 20 March 2002
Zidovudine HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA115 (a) 20 March 2002
Lamivudine HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA117 (a) 20 March 2002
Lamivudine HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA128 (a) 20 March 2002
Dolutegravir (Sodium) HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA634 (a) 14 October 2014
Abacavir (sulfate)/Lamivudine HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA706 (a) 19 June 2018
Dolutegravir (Sodium) HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA768 (a) 1 July 2021
Zanamivir Influenza – GSK – IN007 (a) 22 September 2009
41 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
ESG reporting criteria
Unless stated otherwise, the data reflects the reporting period of 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022.
KPI Definition Method
Access
Total community All donations made by GSK globally for Donations are only included if they are voluntary and charitable in purpose.
investment (£m) charitable purposes including cash, product, Donations are valued in GBP at year-end exchange rates.
in-kind donations, the value of time donated via
Product donations are valued at global average cost of goods as reported
the Philadelphia STEM Equity Collective and the
in year-end results.
management costs associated with charitable
programmes. In-kind donations are valued at the value or cost of the item to GSK not the
current external purchase price.
Previous years’ data is included for comparison but not restated for
inflation or exchange rate changes.
The methodology used follows the B4SI (formerly LBG) Framework for
Corporate Community Investment.
Value of GSK medicine The value of medicine and vaccines provided The GSK and ViiV Patient Assistance Programs Foundation administers 12
and vaccines provided through the GSK and ViiV Healthcare Patient Patient Assistance Programs for patients in the US, Puerto Rico and the US
through our US Patient Assistance Programs Foundation which provides Virgin islands.
Assistance Program medication at no charge to eligible individuals. We capture Patient Assistance Program orders for GSK and ViiV
(COGS in million USD) Patients who receive medications through the Healthcare products through an internal ordering database. The data is
Patient Assistance Programs must meet captured according to the Wholesale Acquisition Cost of the medicine or
eligibility requirements. These requirements vaccine and is coded as ‘Free Good Charitable Orders’. This amount is
include insurance status, a financial component converted to a ‘Cost of Goods Sold’ amount for reporting purposes.
based on the Federal Poverty Level, being a Patient participation varies annually based on current program eligibility
resident of the US, Puerto Rico or the US Virgin criteria, overall healthcare environmental factors and products included in
Islands and being treated by a US-licensed the programs.
healthcare provider.
Doses of Rotarix, The number of doses of the Rotarix, Synflorix and To calculate the number of doses supplied, we use the number of GSK
Synflorix and Cervarix Cervarix vaccine that are supplied to Gavi, the doses shipped to Gavi supported countries.
vaccines supplied to Vaccine Alliance. GSK has been a Gavi supplier since Gavi’s inception in 2000.
Gavi (millions)
Doses of OPV The number of doses of the OPV vaccine that To calculate the number of doses supplied, we use the number of GSK
vaccines supplied to are supplied to UNICEF. doses shipped to countries procuring via UNICEF.
UNICEF (millions)
Doses of Mosquirix The number of doses of the Mosquirix (RTS,S/ To calculate the number of doses supplied, we use the number of GSK
(RTS,S/AS01 E) AS01 E) vaccine donated to the Malaria Vaccine doses procured by UNICEF (MVIP’s procurement agent) and shipped to
vaccines supplied Implementation Programme (MVIP). MVIP countries (Ghana, Kenya and Malawi).
through the MVIP GSK has been supplying Mosquirix (RTS,S/AS01 E) – the first and only
(millions) malaria vaccine – since the beginning of the MVIP in 2019.
Albendazole tablets The number of albendazole tablets donated to Albendazole tablet shipments are sent from GSK’s manufacturing facility to
donated to help the World Health Organization to support endemic countries. These shipments are entered into a real-time database
eliminate lymphatic endemic country efforts to eliminate lymphatic of donated medicines for neglected tropical diseases. Albendazole tablet
filariasis (millions) filariasis. donation figures for lymphatic filariasis are aggregated and reported
annually through data pulled from this system.
Albendazole tablets The number of albendazole tablets donated to Albendazole tablet shipments are sent from GSK’s manufacturing facility to
donated to help treat the World Health Organization to support endemic countries. These shipments are entered into a real-time database
intestinal worms endemic country efforts to treat soil-transmitted of donated medicines for neglected tropical diseases. Albendazole tablet
(millions) helminthiasis (intestinal worms) in school-age donation figures for soil-transmitted helminthiasis control are aggregated
children. and reported annually through data pulled from this system.
People with access to The total number of people living with HIV As a chronic and ongoing treatment, we capture the cumulative number of
a generic dolutegravir currently accessing generic dolutegravir-based people with access to dolutegravir, rather than annual data, to avoid
product through products through ViiV Healthcare’s voluntary duplication. The indicator therefore represents the total number of people
voluntary licensing licensing agreements with the Medicines Patent living with HIV accessing the treatment at the time of measurement. As a
agreements (‘000) Pool and directly with Aurobindo Pharma. life-long treatment, this number incorporates people that have been
receiving ongoing treatment for multiple years.
The number is calculated by adding the total number of packs of all
generic dolutegravir-based products sold over the previous four quarters.
This is then divided by twelve to obtain average monthly sales and
estimate the number of people on treatment.
Packs of 90 and 60 are converted to 30 pack equivalents (i.e. monthly
equivalents for a daily treatment).
Data is provided by the Medicines Patent Pool and Aurobindo, through
which ViiV’s dolutegravir patents are (sub-)licensed.
42 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
KPI Definition Method
Access
Estimated children The estimated number of children who have To calculate the estimated number of children reached, we use the number
reached with Synflorix received the Synflorix vaccine (for the prevention of GSK doses shipped to Gavi supported countries, and divide this by the
through Gavi (‘000) of pneumococcal infection) through Gavi, the number of doses needed to complete a full schedule, with Gavi estimated
Vaccine Alliance. vaccine wastage rates factored in. For Synflorix a full schedule is three
All children receiving Synflorix are under five doses, and Gavi estimates wastage of 10% in 2017 and 2018, 8% in
years of age. 2019-22. See: Detailed-product-profiles.xlsx (live.com)
Estimated children The estimated number of children who have To calculate the estimated number of children reached, we use the number
reached with Rotarix received the Rotarix vaccine (for the prevention of GSK doses shipped to Gavi supported countries, and divide this by the
through Gavi (‘000) of rotavirus) through Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. number of doses needed to complete a full schedule, with Gavi estimated
All children receiving Rotarix are under five years vaccine wastage rates factored in. For Rotarix a full schedule is two doses
of age. and Gavi estimates wastage of 5% in 2017 and 2018, 4% in 2019-22.
See: Detailed-product-profiles.xlsx (live.com)
Estimated girls The estimated number of girls who have To calculate the estimated number of girls reached, we use the number of GSK
reached with Cervarix received the Cervarix vaccine (for the prevention doses shipped to Gavi supported countries, and divide this by the number of
through Gavi (‘000) of cervical cancer) through Gavi, the Vaccine doses needed to complete a full schedule, with Gavi estimated vaccine
Alliance. wastage rates factored in. For Cervarix a full schedule is two doses and Gavi
estimates 10% wastage. See: Detailed-product-profiles.xlsx (live.com)
Estimated people The estimated number of people who have To calculate the estimated number of people reached, we use the number
reached with the Oral received the OPV vaccine for polio procured of bivalent OPV (bOPV) and monovalent OPV (mOPV) doses shipped to
Polio Vaccine (OPV) through UNICEF. UNICEF, divided by the number of doses needed to complete a full
through UNICEF schedule, with WHO estimated vaccine wastage rates factored in. In
(‘000) outbreak situations, which is where GSK OPV volumes are often used, one
dose is usually given to each child. However, as the primary schedule is four
doses and children may receive more than one dose through subsequent
outbreak campaigns, we use four doses for the calculation in order to be
conservative. WHO estimates 20% wastage given that we supply 10 and 20
dose vials, vials are mainly used in campaigns and vials may or may not be
used or discarded after vial is opened at the end of the session. See WHO
indicative vaccine wastage rates: Revising_Wastage_Concept_Note.pdf
(who.int)
Estimated people The estimated number of children who have To calculate the estimated number of children reached, we use the number of
reached with received the Mosquirix (RTS,S/AS01 E) vaccine GSK doses shipped to MVIP countries (Ghana, Kenya, Malawi), and divide this
Mosquirix (RTS,S/AS01 through the Malaria Vaccine Implementation by the number of doses needed to complete a full schedule (four doses), with
E) through the MVIP Programme (MVIP). WHO estimated vaccine wastage rates (10% for two dose vials used in
('000) routine immunisation) factored in. See WHO indicative vaccine wastage
rates: Revising_Wastage_Concept_Note.pdf (who.int)
People reached The total number of unique individuals that The GSK and ViiV Patient Assistance Programs Foundation administers 12
through our US Patient received GSK and ViiV Healthcare product Patient Assistance Programs for patients in the US, Puerto Rico and the US
Assistance Programs through all of our Patient Assistance Programs. Virgin Islands.
(‘000) Patients who receive medications through the Each of the 12 US Patient Assistance Programs provides a report at year end,
Patient Assistance Programs must meet eligibility which enables us to consolidate the number of unique patients that received
requirements. These requirements include GSK and ViiV Healthcare products throughout the year.
insurance status, a financial component based Patient participation varies annually based on current program eligibility
on the Federal Poverty Level, being a resident of criteria, overall healthcare environmental conditions and products included in
the US, Puerto Rico or the US Virgin Islands and the programs.
being treated by a US-licensed healthcare
provider.
43 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
KPI Definition Method
Global health and health security
Number of assets The number of assets progressed through the ‘Pipeline progression’ is defined as the movement of a Global Health asset
progressed through Global Health pipeline to address priority WHO from one phase to another. GSK recognises progression through the
the Global Health diseases across GSK’s two Global Health hubs following four categories:
pipeline to address – Tres Cantos (Spain), which focuses on – Senior leadership endorsement of business plan for progression
priority WHO diseases therapeutics, and the GSK Vaccines Institute for
– Clinical trial starts (‘First Subject, First Visit/Dose’)
Global Health (GVGH in Sienna), which focuses
– Business development/in-licensing
on preventative treatment.
– Regulatory milestone (i.e. – submission, approval, or launch).
Priority WHO diseases are defined as diseases
and pathogens prioritized for R&D in public
health emergency contexts, which distinguishes
diseases to the degree they pose the greatest
public health risk due to their epidemic potential
and/or whether there is no or insufficient
countermeasures. GSK uses the following lists:
– WHO Priority Pathogen List*
– WHO Emergency Diseases List*
– WHO Blueprint for Prioritized Disease List*
– WHO Essential Medicines List*
– UN Sustainable Development Goals
*WHO reviews and updates these lists as needs
arise and methodologies change.
Environment
For a full list of our environment reporting criteria, please see our Basis of reporting, including full definitions and methodologies.
Diversity, equity and inclusion
Gender diversity (%) The percentage of women broken down by The data covers the total number of employees who identify as women within
SVP/VP; Director; Manager and all employees. our HR system, including active (Full-time/Part-time, Regular/Temporary
For the total percentage of women in employees) and non-active (i.e., on Maternity Leave, Paternity Leave,
management, 'management' classed as an Adoption Leave, etc.). It excludes Agency Temporary Workers (‘Contingent
employee in grade bands 0-6 which includes Workers’ defined as those payrolled via recruitment agencies) and employees
Managers, Directors, VPs and SVPs. with no gender recorded, or if they have indicated ‘Prefer not to say’.
The percentage is calculated using employee numbers as of 31 December
2022 recorded in our HR system with gender specified as female, within
grades 0-6, divided by the total employees in the system.
US and UK ethnic The percentage of ethnically diverse employees The data covers the total number of employees in our internal HR system,
diversity (%) for GSK in the US and UK employee population both active (including Full-time/Part-time, Regular/Temporary employees)
across SVP/VP level, Director level, Manager and non-active (i.e., on Maternity Leave, Paternity Leave, Adoption Leave,
level and across all employees. etc.). It excludes Puerto Rico-based employees, Agency Temporary Workers
Due to differing ethnic groups across the UK (‘Contingent Workers’ defined as those payrolled via recruitment agencies)
and US employee population, race/ethnic and employees with blank ethnicity and ‘Prefer not to say’. The US figures
categories are defined according to UK Census exclude Puerto Rico-based employees given significant differences in ethnic
and US Federal reporting guidelines. composition of the territory’s population relative to the rest of the US.
The percentage is calculated using employee numbers as at 31 December
2022 recorded in our HR system who self-identified as ethnically diverse,
divided by the total employees in the system.
Ethical standards
Employees who had The number of distinct employees with a Anyone inside or outside GSK can raise concerns or speak to an
concerns raised disciplinary concern raised against them. independent third party through our integrity lines, confidentially or
against them anonymously. Concerns can also be raised internally by employees,
(including current management, or internal monitoring.
year and prior year This data comprises all regular employees and excludes contractors and
open cases) contingent workers.
The data includes the total number of distinct employees with a
disciplinary concern raised against them during the reporting period and
those employees with disciplinary concerns raised against them from prior
year’s open cases.
Employees disciplined The number of distinct employees where the This data comprises all regular employees and excludes contractors and
for policy violations outcome of a concern raised resulted in contingent workers.
disciplinary action. The data represents cases closed during the reporting period.
In 2022, we also included three open cases where disciplinary decisions were
made and action taken at year end; however, the cases had not yet been
closed in the source system by the reporting criteria end date range due to
timing.
Disciplinary action includes a documented warning, termination, or resignation.
44 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
KPI Definition Method
Ethical standards
Breakdown of types of The breakdown of the types of policy violations This data comprises all regular employees and excludes contractors and
policy violation (%) that employees have been disciplined for contingent workers.
during the year. Individual employees can be subject to multiple allegations resulting in
Policy violations categories are defined as: disciplinary action. Where this is the case, an individual is counted once
against each unique category.
– Anti-Bribery and Corruption – Anti-Bribery and
Corruption Employee discipline results from policy violation, and includes Level 1
– Cyber Security – Cyber Security (CSIR) Sanction, Level 2 Sanction, Level 3 Sanction, Final Warning, Termination, or
– Continuity of Supply Chain – Supply Chain Resignation and is categorised as appropriate. Outcomes for employees
Continuity including mediation, demotion and settlement are not included in counts
– EHS and Sustainability – Environment Health and or percentages within categories. These outcome types are not considered
Safety and Sustainability disciplinary action and they represent situations in which employees and
– Employee Conduct – Conflict of Interest; the company work together towards a solution.
Discrimination; Expenses; Harassment; All markets, except Germany, utilise a case management system to
Inappropriate behaviour, Mandatory training manage cases and data retention. The German market maintains its own
– Employee Relations & HR Policies – case list which is submitted to the global employee relations team at year
Appeal; Attendance at Work; Capability (Health); end for consolidation and analysis.
Capability (Performance); External Litigation; GSK
Case owners regularly utilise published data quality reports to assist in
Performance System; Recruitment and Selection;
data accuracy regularly. Quarterly internal audits are conducted to
Restructuring Programmes; Settlement/Mutual
address any outstanding data discrepancies.
Agreement; Working arrangements
– Government Trade Restrictions – Sanctions and
Export Controls
– Product Quality – Good Manufacturing Practice;
Manufacturing Site Resilience; Supply Chain
Quality Assurance
– Research and Development and Medical
Practices – Care and Welfare and Treatment of
Animals; Data Integrity (nonGxP); Good
Laboratory Practices/Good Clinical Practice;
Human Biological Sample Management (HBSM);
Non-Promotional Engagement; Non-Promotional
Engagement; Patient Safety; Public Disclosure;
Regulatory Filings
– Safeguard People and Information and Assets –
Communications; Corporate or Financial
information, reporting and disclosure; Crisis and
Continuity Management; Fraud; Intellectual
Property; Privacy – Loss of data; Privacy –
Unauthorized Access; Privacy – Unsecured data
disclosure; Protection of Physical Assets and
Security; Security – People; Security – Places/
Sites; Security - Products/Supply Chain
– Sales and Marketing – Antitrust; Commercial
Practices Funding; Contract Sales Organisation;
External Experts; HCP/HCI Transfer of Value;
Inappropriate Managerial Direction; Interactions
with PAGs/Consumer/Payer groups; Product
Promotion; Samples; Speaker Programme
– Tax and Treasury – Tax; Treasury
– Other – Any other policy violation types that do
not fit into the above categories specified.
Employees who were The number of distinct employees where the This data comprises all regular employees and excludes contractors and
dismissed or agreed to outcome of a disciplinary concern resulted in contingent workers.
leave the company termination of employment or voluntary The data represents cases closed during the reporting period. In 2022, we
voluntarily as a result resignation of the employee. also included three open cases where disciplinary decisions were made
of misconduct and action taken at year end; however, the cases had not yet been closed
in the source system by the reporting criteria end date range due to timing.
Includes termination of employment or resignation.
Documented warnings The number of distinct employees where the This data comprises all regular employees and excludes contractors and
outcome of a disciplinary concern resulted in a contingent workers.
documented warning. The data represents cases closed during the reporting period. In 2022, we
also included three open cases where disciplinary decisions were made
and action taken at year end; however, the cases had not yet been closed
in the source system by the reporting criteria end date range due to timing.
Disciplinary action includes a documented warning (Level 1, 2, 3 sanction
or final warning).
45 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
KPI Definition Method
Ethical standards
Open cases awaiting The number of distinct employees involved in This data comprises all regular employees and excludes contractors and
investigation or a an investigation or a disciplinary decision that contingent workers.
disciplinary decision is still open and pending an outcome at the This data represents employees that are involved in a disciplinary case that
at year end end of the reporting period. remain open at the end of the reporting period. In 2022, we also included
three open cases where disciplinary decisions were made and action taken
at year end; however, the cases had not yet been closed in the source
system by the reporting criteria end date range due to timing.
The outcome of investigations that are still open or awaiting disciplinary
action at year end are captured during the subsequent reporting period.
% of employees and The percentage of active employees and/or All active employees (Full-time/Part-time, Regular/Temporary) and
complementary complementary workers who have been complementary workers (i.e., Agency workers, Statement of Work workers,
workers that complete assigned the mandatory training curriculum Outsourced workers, etc.) are required to complete our global mandatory
GSK’s mandatory and completed all training modules. learning curriculum called Living our Code which comprises three modules:
training The Code, Protecting GSK, and Creating an Inclusive Workplace.
Additionally, those in high-risk roles or geographic regions complete an
additional module: Focusing on anti-bribery and corruption.
The percentage is calculated by using training data as of 31 December
2022 (i.e., training due on or before 31 December 2022).
This is calculated as the total number of active employees and
complementary workers who have been assigned the Living our Code
mandatory training and have completed all modules divided by the total
population of active employees and complementary workers who have
been assigned the Living our Code mandatory training.
% of employees who The percentage of employees that strongly Pulse surveys were issued in Q2, Q3 and Q4 2022. A different third of the
believe they ‘can and agreed or agreed with the question ‘I can and organisation is targeted by each survey so that the entire employee
do Speak Up if things do speak up if things don’t feel right’ in the GSK population of GSK is reached. The score is calculated by using the average
don't feel right’ Pulse survey. score across the surveys.
The survey is issued to all regular full-time and fixed-term contract
employees in all countries in which GSK operates (excluding Russia and
Ukraine).
Questions are translated by professional service partners into 23
languages (excluding English).
80% of direct high-risk Direct high-risk suppliers are identified on a Through our EcoVadis Programme, we work with direct high-risk suppliers
suppliers that achieve yearly basis through a combination of spend, to help them improve their operations and support their sustainability
GSK’s minimum category and high-risk countries. Direct journey.
EcoVadis score or procurement involves the purchasing of EcoVadis is an external ratings provider and assesses organisations across
have an improvement materials directly associated with the four themes: Environment & Community, Labour & Human Rights, Ethics
plan in place. production of goods. and Sustainable Procurement.
Out of the total number of 2125 direct A supplier may not have an improvement plan in place because the
suppliers, 138 are high-risk and managed assessment is in progress, the supplier has committed to participate in the
through GSK’s EcoVadis Programme. programme but hasn’t commenced yet or the supplier hasn’t accepted the
An improvement plan in place is defined as an improvement plan. Where the improvement plan has been implemented
ongoing improvement plan. and the supplier awaits reassessment to reflect improved score, this is
GSK requires suppliers to have a minimum reported as the supplier not having an improvement plan in place.
EcoVadis score of 40. An improvement plan is initiated by the supplier or any of its partners,
including GSK, and tracked on the EcoVadis platform. Where required, GSK
interacts directly with the supplier to ensure corrective actions are
implemented.
EcoVadis scorecard data is exported from the EcoVadis platform. In 2022,
five suppliers were manually adjusted to group or subsidiary based on the
business relationship.
46 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
KPI Definition Method
Product governance
Total regulatory The number of regulatory inspections of GSK The data represents Good Manufacturing Practise (GMP)/Good
inspections from all entities from all health authorities. Distribution Practice (GDP) inspections where results have been confirmed.
health authorities
% of inspections from Percentage of the number of regulatory Percentage across GMP/GDP where results have been confirmed. The
all regulators with no inspections of GSK entities with no critical percentage is calculated by the total number of inspections from all
critical findings or findings or official action indicated. regulators with no critical findings or official action indicated divided by
official action the total number of inspections from all regulators multiplied by 100.
indicated
Total regulatory The number of regulatory inspections by The number of regulatory inspections across GMP/GDP inspections based
inspections from the following regulators of GSK entities: on FDA, MHRA and European regulators (National Competent Authorities)
FDA/MHRA/EMA United States Food and Drugs Administration that are inspecting on behalf of EMA regulatory bodies where results have
regulators (US FDA); United Kingdom (UK) Medicines been confirmed.
Healthcare products Regulatory Agency
(MHRA); and European Medicines Agency
(EMA) National Competent Authority in the
EEA regulators.
Number of critical/ The number of critical and major findings from The number of critical and major findings across GMP/GDP on business
major findings by regulatory inspections of GSK entities by US and products based on US FDA, MHRA and European regulators that are
FDA/MHRA/EMA FDA, UK MHRA and EMA regulators. inspecting on behalf of EMA regulatory bodies where results have been
regulators confirmed.
Total FDA regulatory The total number of regulatory inspections of The number of regulatory inspections across GMP/GDP on the business
inspections GSK entities by US FDA. and products based on US FDA regulatory inspections where results have
been confirmed.
FDA define inspections as ‘on-site’, therefore paper-based assessments or
one-off questions are excluded for the FDA.
Number of FDA The number of observations issued by the The number of findings across GMP/GDP on the business and products
observations US FDA to GSK entities. based on US FDA regulatory inspections where results have been
confirmed.
Number of FDA The number of warning letters issued by the The number of GMP/GDP warning letters.
warning letters US FDA to GSK entities, which led to enforced
regulatory actions being required.
Total number of The number of external Class I/II/III recalls of The number of external Class I/II/III recalls across GMP/GDP.
Class I/II/III external product broken down by recall type:
product recalls – Class I recall: Reasonable probability that
the use of or exposure to a violative
product will cause serious adverse health
consequences or death.
– Class II recall: Use of or exposure to a
violative product may cause temporary or
medically reversible adverse health
consequences or where the probability of
serious adverse health consequences is
remote.
– Class III recall: Use of or exposure to a
violative product is not likely to cause
adverse health consequences.
This data includes recalls which may be
initiated by GSK or mandated by regulators.
FDA product recalls by The number of recalls of product from the US Business units track recalls in their respective systems.
business and class market. This includes recalls which may be
initiated voluntarily by GSK or mandated by
the US FDA or by FDA order under statutory
authority.
We categorise the data according to which of
our businesses it relates (Pharmaceuticals or
Vaccines) and according to recall type.
47 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
KPI Definition Method
Product governance
Publicly available trial The number of trial protocol summaries We report the cumulative number of studies which have protocols
protocol summaries registered on the external facing GSK trial registered or results disclosed since the set-up of the GSK trial register
(register) register (www.gsk-studyregister.com) as part in 2004.
of GSK’s internal policy commitment to
Studies for which protocol summaries were registered and results
disclosure of human subject research. This is
summaries were disclosed by GSK are available on the GSK trial register
in addition to the mandatory requirements by
(www.gsk-studyregister.com).
regulators for disclosure of protocol
registrations. The numbers represent the studies which were initiated in 2022 and for
which protocol were registered and completed studies with results
Publicly available trial The number of trial results summaries posted
summaries due in 2022. These numbers are generated through the
result summaries on the external facing GSK trial register
Transparency report which derives the data from the disclosure system
(disclose) (www.gsk-studyregister.com) as part of GSK’s
used by the business.
internal policy commitment to disclosure of
human subject research. This is in addition to
the mandatory requirements by regulators for
disclosure of results summaries.
People disclosures
Overall turnover (%) Overall turnover is a measure of GSK We calculate the number of leavers during the year as a percentage of the
employees leaving GSK and does not include average 2022 permanent headcount.
internal moves within GSK. The employee turnover rate includes employees who left the company both
The data does not include divestments, voluntarily and involuntarily during the year.
including employees divested from the The data is updated daily and extracted from our GSK-wide HR platform.
Consumer Health business in 2022. The data is based on the effective date of termination and not the
termination date. The termination date is the last day of work and the
effective date of termination is the first day of termination, i.e. the following
day. Therefore, employees with termination dates of 31 December 2022 are
not included in this dataset.
Health and safety A GSK reportable injury or illness meets the To be consistent in our global reporting, a GSK injury or illness meets these
data following criteria: listed criteria. These criteria are different from national regulatory reporting
Reportable injury or 1. The affected individual is either a GSK requirements which vary across the world.
illness including employee or worker under direct GSK daily
fatalities supervision; and
2. The incident is work-related; and
3. The outcome has involved at least one of
the following:
– Fatality;
– Loss of consciousness;
– Medical treatment beyond first aid;
– Significant occupational injury or
occupational illness diagnosed by a
physician or other licensed healthcare
professional;
– Days away from work/restricted days/job
transfer; and
4. Must be a new case.
Lost time A lost time incident is one that has resulted in Lost time days are counted from the day following the incident.
either days away from work or a job transfer or
restriction when the employee is unable to
perform one or more routine activities.
Hours worked The total number of hours worked by all Hours worked is calculated based on the number of working days in a year,
employees including full time employees and the length of an average workday, and the number of employees by site as
directly supervised agency staff. provided by GSK Human Resources.
48 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Independent Limited Assurance Report
to the Directors of GSK plc
GSKplc(“GSK”)commissionedDNVBusinessAssuranceServicesUKLimited(“DNV”,“us”or“we”)toconductalimitedassuranceengagementover
SelectedInformationpresentedintheESGPerformanceReport2022(the“Report”),forthereportingyearended31December2022.
Our Conclusion: Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have
obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected
Informationisnotfairlystatedandhasnotbeenprepared,inallmaterialrespects,inaccordance
withtheCriteria.
ThisconclusionrelatesonlytotheSelectedInformation,andistobereadinthecontextofthis
IndependentLimitedAssuranceReport,inparticulartheinherentlimitationsexplainedoverleaf.
Our observations and areas for improvement will be raised in a separate report to GSK’s Management.
Selectedinformation
The scope and boundary of our work is restricted to the key performance indicators Our competence, independence and
includedwithintheReportforthecurrentreportingyear(the“SelectedInformation”),listed quality control
below:
• TheEnvironmentalSocialandGovernance(ESG)performancedataincludedwithinthe
Report(the“SelectedInformation”)forthereportingyear2022listedinAppendix1of DNV established policies and procedures are
thisdocument. designedtoensurethatDNV,itspersonneland,
• TheoverallESGPerformanceRatingscorerelatingtoGSK’sperformanceagainst2022 where applicable, others are subject to
targetsaslistedonpages4-6ofGSK’s2022ESGPerformanceReport. independence requirements (including
personnel of other entities of DNV) and
To assess theSelected Information, which includes an assessment of the risk of material maintain independence where required by
misstatementintheReport,wehaveusedGSK’sReportingCriteria,ESGDataCollectionand relevant ethical requirements. This
ControlProcesses,andESGPerformanceRating(the“Criteria”),asummaryofwhichcanbe engagement work was carried out by an
foundonpages4,and42–48oftheReport. independent team of sustainability assurance
professionals. Our multi-disciplinary team
We have not performed any work, and do not express any conclusion, on any other consisted of professionals with a combination
information that may be published in the Report or on GSK’s website for the current of environmental and social sustainability
reportingperiodorforpreviousperiods. assuranceexperience.
Standardandlevelofassurance
Inherent limitations
We performed a limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International
StandardonAssuranceEngagements(ISAE)3000revised–‘AssuranceEngagementsother
than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ (revised), issued by the
All assurance engagements are subject to
International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. This standard requires that we
inherent limitations as selective testing
comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement to
(sampling)maynotdetecterrors,fraudorother
obtainlimitedassurance.
irregularities.Non-financialdatamaybesubject
to greater inherent uncertainty than financial
DNVappliesitsownmanagementstandardsandcompliancepoliciesforqualitycontrol,in
data, given the nature and methods used for
accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:2015 - Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies
calculating, estimating and determining such
providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly maintains a
data.Theselectionofdifferent,butacceptable,
comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures
measurement techniques may result in
regardingcompliancewithethicalrequirements,professionalstandardsandapplicablelegal
different quantifications between different
andregulatoryrequirements.
entities.
Our assurance relies on the premise that the
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing
data and information provided to us by GSK
from,andarelessinextentthanfor,areasonableassuranceengagement;andthelevelof
have been provided in good faith. DNV
assuranceobtainedissubstantiallylowerthantheassurancethatwouldhavebeenobtained
expressly disclaims any liability or co-
hadareasonableassuranceengagementbeenperformed.Weplannedandperformedour
responsibility for any decision a person or an
worktoobtaintheevidenceweconsideredsufficienttoprovideabasisforOurConclusion,
entity may make based on this Assurance
sothattheriskofthisconclusionbeinginerrorisreducedbutnotreducedtoverylow.
Statement.
49 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Basisofourconclusion
Responsibilities of the Directors of
We are required to plan and perform our work in order to consider the riskof material GSK and DNV
misstatementoftheSelectedInformation;ourworkincluded,butwasnotrestrictedto:
▪ AssessingtheappropriatenessoftheCriteriafortheSelectedInformation;
▪ ConductinginterviewswithGSK’sManagementtoobtainanunderstandingofthekey TheDirectorsofGSKhavesoleresponsibility
processes,systemsandcontrolsinplacetogenerate,aggregateandreporttheSelected for:
Information; • Preparing and presenting the Selected
▪ PerforminglimitedsubstantivetestingonaselectivebasisoftheSelectedInformationto information in accordance with the
checkthatdatahadbeenappropriatelymeasured,recorded,collatedandreported. Criteria;
▪ RecalculatingtheSelectedInformationasestablishedbyGSK’sCriteria; • Designing,implementingandmaintaining
▪ ReviewinginformationprovidedbyGSK’sthirdpartycontractors; effective internal controls over the
▪ Reviewingthattheevidence,measurementsandthescopeprovidedtousbyGSKforthe information and data, resulting in the
SelectedInformationispreparedinlinewiththeCriteria; preparation of the Selected Information
▪ ReadingtheReportandnarrativeaccompanyingtheSelectedInformationwithinitwith thatisfreefrommaterialmisstatements;
regardtotheCriteria. • Measuring and reporting the Selected
Information based on their established
Criteria;and
• Contents and statements contained
withintheReportandtheCriteria.
Ourresponsibilityistoplanandperformour
work to obtain limited assurance about
whether the Selected Information has been
preparedinaccordancewiththeCriteriaand
to report to GSK in the form of an
Independent Limited Assurance Conclusion,
based on the work performed and the
evidence obtained. We have not been
responsibleforthepreparationoftheReport.
DNV Business Assurance
DNVBusinessAssuranceServicesUKLimited
London,UK DNVBusinessAssuranceServicesUKLimited
10March2023 ispartofDNV–BusinessAssurance,aglobal
provider of certification, verification,
assessment and training services, helping
customers to build sustainable business
performance.
www.dnv.co.uk/BetterAssurance
50 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023Appendix 1: Selected Information
Access • Total number of Class II external product recalls
People reached through our Product reach target • Total number of Class III external product recalls
• People with access to a generic dolutegravir product through FDA product recalls by business and class:
voluntary licensing agreements (‘000) • Pharmaceuticals business
• Estimated children reached with Synflorixthrough Gavi ('000) • Class I product recalls
• Estimated children reached with Rotarix through Gavi ('000) • Class II product recalls
• Estimated girls reached with Cervarixthrough Gavi ('000) • Class III product recalls
• Vaccines business
• Estimated people reached with OPV through UNICEF ('000)
• Class I product recalls
• Estimated people reached with Mosquirix(RTS,S/AS01 E) through the
• Class II product recalls
MVIP ('000)
• Class III product recalls
• Total People Reached
Register and disclose all human subject research of GSK products:
• Doses of Synflorixvaccines supplied to Gavi (million)
• Publicly available trial protocol summaries (register)
• Doses of Rotarix vaccines supplied to Gavi (million)
• Publicly available trial result summaries (disclose)
• Doses of Cervarixvaccines supplied to Gavi (million)
Ethical Standards
• Doses of OPV vaccines supplied to UNICEF (million)
• % of employees and CWs that complete GSK's 2022 mandatory
• Doses of Mosquirix(RTS,S/AS01 E) vaccines supplied to the MVIP
training
(million)
• % of employees who believe they "can and do Speak Up if things
• Albendazole tablets donated to help eliminate lymphatic filariasis
don't feel right"
(millions)
• % of direct high-risk suppliers achieving an EcoVadisscore of 40 or
• Albendazole tablets donated to help treat intestinal worms (millions)
have an improvement plan in place
Community investment # of employees leaving GSK's employment for misconduct in the last 12
• Total Community Investment (million £) months:
• Cash (million £) • Employees who had concerns raised against them (including current
• Product and in-kind (million £) year and prior year open cases)
• Time (million £) • Employees disciplined for policy violations
• Management costs (million £) • Breakdown of types of policy violation
• People reached through our US Patient Assistance Program ('000) • Employee conduct
• Value of GSK medicine and vaccines provided through our US Patient • Sales and marketing
Assistance Programs Foundation (million USD) • Product quality
Global health and health security • Safeguarding people and information and assets
• Number of assets progressed through the global health pipeline to • Employee relations
address priority WHO diseases • Research and development and medical practices
Inclusion and diversity • Anti-bribery and corruption
US ethnic diversity -broken down by SVP/VP; Director; Manager; All • Computer and data breach security
employees • EHS and sustainability
• Ethnically diverse total • Other
• Employees who were dismissed or agreed to leave the company
UK ethnic diversity -broken down by SVP/VP; Director; Manager; All
voluntarily as a result of misconduct
employees
• Ethnically diverse total • Documented warnings
• Open cases awaiting investigation or a disciplinary decision at year
Gender diversity -broken down by SVP/VP; Director; Manager; All
end
employees
• Total women in management People Disclosures:
• Number of fatalities (employees and complementary workers under
Governance: GSK direct supervision)
Product Governance: • Fatalities (contractors not under GSK direct supervision)
Regulatory inspections: • Reportable injuries with lost time
• Total regulatory inspections from all health authorities • Reportable illnesses with lost time
• % of inspections from all regulators with no critical findings or • Lost time reportable injury rate
official action indicated • Lost time reportable illness rate
• Total regulatory inspections from FDA/MHRA/EMA regulators • Reportable injuries with and without lost time
• Number of critical/major findings by FDA/MHRA/EMA regulators • Reportable illnesses with and without lost time
• Total FDA regulatory inspections • Reportable injury rate
• Number of FDA observations • Reportable illness rate
• Number of FDA warning letters • Reportable injury and illness rate
• Hours worked
Product recalls: • Overall turnover (%)
• Total product recalls:
• Total number of Class I external product recalls
51 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023IInnddeeppeennddeenntt LLiimmiitteedd AAssssuurraannccee RReeppoorrtt ttoo tthhee DDiirreeccttoorrss ooff GGSSKK ppllcc
Independent Limited Assurance Report by Deloitte LLP to the Directors of GSK plc on selected
Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) metrics (the “Selected Information”) within the Annual
Report and Accounts and Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) Performance Report for the
year ending 31 December 2022.
WWhhaatt wwee ffoouunndd:: OOuurr aassssuurraannccee ccoonncclluussiioonn
Based on our procedures described in this report, and evidence we have obtained, nothing has come
to our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Information, as listed below and indicated
with a * in the Annual Report and Accounts and ESG Performance Report, has not been prepared, in
all material respects, in accordance with the Applicable Criteria as defined in the Basis of Reporting
prepared and published by GSK plc at ESG resources | GSK.
WWhhaatt wwee llooookkeedd aatt:: ssccooppee ooff oouurr wwoorrkk ((RReevviisseedd aass ppeerr tthhee ““OOtthheerr MMaatttteerrss””)) sseeccttiioonn bbeellooww
GSK plc has engaged us to provide independent limited assurance in accordance with International
Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or
Reviews of Historical Financial Information (“ISAE 3000 (Revised)”) and International Standard on
Assurance Engagements 3410 Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (“ISAE 3410”),
issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (“IAASB”) and our agreed terms of
engagement.
The Selected Information in scope of our engagement, as listed below and indicated with a * in the
Annual Report and Accounts and ESG Performance Report is as follows:
Selected Information Units Assured Value
Scope 1 emissions Tonnes CO e 626,418
2
Scope 2 emissions – Market Based Tonnes CO e 88,368
2
Scope 2 emissions – Location Tonnes CO e 264,677
2
Based
Total Scope 1 and 2 Market Based Tonnes CO e 714,786
2
emissions
Total energy for operations GWh 2,759
Purchased Renewable electricity GWh 697
Onsite renewably generated GWh 18
electricity
Emissions from use of propellant Tonnes CO e 5,428,814
2
based inhalers by patients
Total water use at high water risk Cubic metres 322,275
sites
Total wastewater discharged Cubic metres 5,905,274
Total water use Cubic metres 7,516,848
52 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023The Selected Information, as listed in the above table,needs to be read and understood together with
the Applicable Criteria set out in the Basis of Reporting at ESG resources | GSK.
IInnhheerreenntt lliimmiittaattiioonnss ooff tthhee SSeelleecctteedd IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn
We obtained limited assurance over the preparation of the Selected Information in accordance with the
Applicable Criteria. Inherent limitations exist in all assurance engagements.
Any internal control structure, no matter how effective, cannot eliminate the possibility that fraud,
errors or irregularities may occur and remain undetected and because we use selective testing in our
engagement, we cannot guarantee that errors or irregularities, if present, will be detected.
The Applicable Criteria as defined by GSK plc within their Basis of Reporting, the nature of the Selected
Information, and absence of consistent external standards allow for different, but acceptable,
measurement methodologies to be adopted which may result in variances between entities. The
adopted measurement methodologies may also impact comparability of the Selected Information
reported by different organisations and from year to year within an organisation as methodologies
develop.
OOtthheerr mmaatttteerrss
The initial Selected Information in scope of our engagement included Waste Metrics, as defined below.
During the course of our work, it became clear that we would be unable to obtain the evidence needed
to support a conclusion in respect of the Waste Metrics. As described on page 22, management
concluded that significant remediation is required in the measurement and reporting of Waste Metrics
and asked us to remove them from the scope of our engagement.
Waste Metrics are defined as:
• Total circular waste %
• Total waste generated (tonnes)
• Total waste recovered by a circular route (tonnes)
• Total waste sent to landfill (tonnes)
DDiirreeccttoorrss’’ rreessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess
The Directors are responsible for preparing an Annual Report and Accounts which complies with the
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and for being satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts
and ESG Performance Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Directors are also responsible for:
• Making available all necessary records, correspondence, information and explanations
necessary to allow the successful completion of the Services;
• Selecting and/or establishing suitable criteria for preparing the Selected Information;
• Measuring and reporting the Selected Information in accordance with the applicable criteria;
• Designing, implementing and maintaining internal processes and controls over information
relevant to the preparation of the Selected Information that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; and
• Taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
53 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023OOuurr rreessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess
We are responsible for:
• Independently expressing a conclusion as to whether, based on our assurance procedures,
anything has come to our attention which causes us to believe that the Selected Information
set out above has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable
criteria for the year ended 31 December 2022.
OOuurr iinnddeeppeennddeennccee aanndd ccoommppeetteennccee
In conducting our engagement, we complied with the independence requirements of the FRC’s Ethical
Standard and the ICAEW Code of Ethics. The ICAEW Code is founded on fundamental principles of
integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.
We applied the International Standard on Quality Management 1 (“ISQM 1”), issued by the Financial
Reporting Council. Accordingly, we maintained a comprehensive system of quality including
documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional
standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
WWhhaatt wwee ddiidd:: kkeeyy pprroocceedduurreess
We are required to plan and perform our work to address the areas where we have identified that a
material misstatement of the description of activities undertaken in respect of the Selected Information
is likely to arise. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement. In carrying
out our limited assurance engagement on the description of activities undertaken in respect of the
Selected Information, we performed the following procedures:
• Performed enquires and interviews with management to understand how the applicable criteria
have been applied in the preparation of the selected information;
• Understood internal controls, the quantification process and data used in preparing the
selected information, the methodology for gathering qualitative information, and the process
for preparing and reporting the selected information;
• Inspected documents relating to the selected information, including board committee minutes,
to understand the level of management awareness and oversight of the selected information;
• Considered the risk of material misstatement of the selected information, including analytical
review procedures;
• Performed procedures over the selected information, including recalculation of relevant
formulae used in manual calculations and assessment of whether the data was appropriately
consolidated;
• Performed procedures over underlying data on a sample basis to assess whether the data was
collected and reported in accordance with the applicable criteria, including verifying to source
documentation;
• Performed procedures over the selected information including assessing management’s
assumptions and estimates;
• Performed site visit to a selection of operational sites to understand the processes in place;
• Read the reports and narrative accompanying the selected information with regard to the
applicable criteria, and for consistency with our findings; and
• Accumulated misstatements and control deficiencies identified and assessed whether
material.
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are
less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance
54 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have
been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed.
UUssee ooff oouurr rreeppoorrtt
This report is made solely to the Directors of GSK plc in accordance with ISAE 3000 (Revised) and ISAE
3410 and our agreed terms of engagement. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to
the Directors of GSK plc those matters we have agreed to state to them in this report and for no other
purpose.
Without assuming or accepting any responsibility or liability in respect of this report to any party other
than GSK plc and the Directors of GSK plc, we acknowledge that the Directors of GSK plc may choose to
make this report publicly available for others wishing to have access to it, which does not and will not
affect or extend for any purpose or on any basis our responsibilities. To the fullest extent permitted by
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than GSK plc and the Directors of GSK
plc as a body, for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions we have formed.
DDeellooiittttee LLLLPP
London, UK
09 March 2023
55 GSK ESG Performance Report 2022 March 2023