ESG
Performance
Report
2023We unite science, technology and talent to get ahead of disease together.
We aim to positively impact the health of 2.5 billion people by the end of
2030, as a successful, growing company where people can thrive.
Building trust by operating responsibly is an integral part of our In this report:
strategy and our culture. This approach supports long term growth
CEO’s statement 3
and returns to shareholders, reduces risk, helps our people to
thrive, and delivers sustainable health impact at scale.
Our approach 4
In this report Progress in 2023 – Our six focus areas
This report summarises performance across our six environmental, Access 10
social and governance (ESG) focus areas.
Global health and health security 15
We report in line with the requirements of the Sustainability
Environment 18
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the Global Reporting
Diversity, equity and inclusion 26
Initiative (GRI). We also submit an annual UN Global Compact
Communication on Progress (UNGC CoP). Ethical standards 30
Product governance 35
In addition to this report, we report against the Task Force on
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD, pages 62-70) and
Appendix
the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) on
Materiality assessment 38
pages 70-74 of our Annual Report.
People disclosures 39
You can find our public positions on a range of issues, such as
pricing and access, human rights, clinical trial conduct, nature and GRI and SASB index 41
environmental protection, and supply chain management on the ESG reporting criteria 48
public policy page of gsk.com. We also publish more information
Independent Limited Assurance Reports 55
on gsk.com, including:
Materiality assessment
Sustainable Development Goals
Engagement with patient organisations
Engagement with healthcare professionals
Trade association memberships
Charitable partnerships
External benchmarking
Detailed below is how we perform in key ESG ratings that we are – FTSE4Good: Member of FTSE4Good Index since 2004
frequently asked about by investors: – CDP: A- in Climate change, A- in Water security, B in Forests
– Access to Medicines: Ranked first in the Access to Medicines (palm oil) and B in Forests (timber)
Index in 2022 and an industry leader in the 2021 Antimicrobial – Sustainalytics: Low risk rating
Resistance Benchmark – MSCI: AA rating
– S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment: Ranked – Moody’s Analytics: ESG Overall Score of 62 (out of 100,
first in the pharmaceuticals industry with a score of 84 (as at sector average 38)
24 November 2023) and included in the DJSI World and – ISS Corporate Rating: B+ rating
Europe indices
Cautionary statement
This document may contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,
statements give the Group’s current expectations or forecasts of future events. future events or otherwise. Investors should, however, consult any additional
An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate disclosures that the Group may make in any documents which it publishes
strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as 'anticipate', and/or files with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. All investors,
'believe', 'estimate', 'expect', intend', 'plan', 'project', 'target', 'will' and other wherever located, should take note of these disclosures. Accordingly, no
words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and
operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking
relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, inherent
performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to factors that are beyond the
expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, dividend Group’s control or precise estimate. The Group cautions investors that a
payments and financial results. Other than in accordance with its legal or number of important factors, including those in this report, could cause actual
regulatory obligations (including under the Market Abuse Regulations, UK results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-
Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the looking statement.
Financial Conduct Authority), the Group undertakes no obligation to update
2 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024CEO’s statement
We are pleased to report sector-leading ESG performance in 2023.
GSK is a global biopharma company focused on prevention and – Significant commitment to strengthening health security with 12
changing the course of disease. Our purpose is to unite science, R&D projects targeting pathogens deemed ‘critical’ or ‘urgent’
technology and talent to get ahead of disease together and by the WHO and the US CDC
positively impact the health of 2.5 billion people. We are – Ready for phase III trials of a low-carbon version of our rescue
delivering against our purpose through our R&D based on science metered dose inhaler (MDI) medication, Ventolin, to begin in
of the immune system and new technologies and leveraging our 2024 with the potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
leadership in developing new vaccines and specialty medicines from the use of this inhaler by 90% – important as our Scope 3
for infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory/immunology and emissions increased in 2023 due to increased sales of this
oncology. product
We understand that being a responsible business means getting – Decreased overall water use by 24% and by 11% for sites in high
ahead of disease together in the right way. Environmental, social water-stress regions, against our 2020 baseline
and governance (ESG) impacts are embedded in our strategy to – At the end of the year, women held 45% of VP-and-above roles
support our long-term growth, build trust with our stakeholders, globally, and we had 35.7% ethnically diverse leaders at
reduce risk and deliver positive social impact. VP-and-above in the US and 18.4% ethnically diverse leaders at
VP-and-above in the UK
Our approach is centred around six core areas: Access to
healthcare; global health and health security; environment; – Set out new AI principles to shape how we use AI and machine
diversity, equity and inclusion; ethical standards; and product learning to transform R&D in a way that is safe, ethical and
governance. responsible
We continue to be recognised for our sector-leading ESG
This report sets out the progress we are making in each area and
performance. In 2023, we ranked 1st in the S&P Global Corporate
supplements our Annual Report and the disclosures we publish on
Sustainability Assessment for the pharmaceutical industry, and
our website.
maintained leading scores in the MSCI, ISS Corporate Rating and
We measure our ESG progress through our ESG Performance Sustainalytics ESG ratings.
Rating, introduced in 2022 as one of our corporate key
We keep our approach to ESG under constant review, responding
performance indictors to drive performance and provide greater
to our operating environment as it evolves. This includes the
transparency in our ESG reporting. The executive leadership team
rapidly changing ESG regulatory landscape and expectations of
and the Board, via the Corporate Responsibility Committee,
companies’ ESG disclosures. In 2023, we began necessary
review the metrics that make up this Rating each year to ensure
preparations for new sustainability reporting requirements,
they are sufficiently challenging and ambitious.
including the EU’s Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive
I am proud of the continued progress we have made this year, (CSRD), and committed to adopt TNFD-aligned disclosures
leveraging science, technology and talent to deliver a positive based on 2025 data.
impact on some of society’s most urgent challenges. Our 2023
We look forward to delivering further strong ESG performance
ESG Performance Rating was ‘on track’ for the second
alongside our improving outlook for sustained growth through
consecutive year. More details can be found on pages 5-8. The
the decade.
performance against the metrics that contribute to this rating
and the overall ESG Performance Rating score have been
independently assured for 2023, along with other priority ESG
data in this report.
Our 2023 performance included:
– Reaching 89 million people in lower income countries through
Emma Walmsley
access partnerships
Chief Executive Officer
– Gavi confirming the rollout of our malaria vaccine, Mosquirix,
in up to 12 countries in Africa
– Progressed 11 global health pipeline assets for priority WHO
diseases and worked with partners to get ready to start phase
III trial for our promising candidate vaccine, M72/AS01E,
against tuberculosis
3 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Our approach
Environmental, social and governance (ESG) is embedded in our strategy.
It helps us deliver our purpose and supports our sustainable performance
and long-term growth.
We are a global biopharma company with a purpose to unite Stakeholder engagement
science, technology and talent to get ahead of disease together.
Our approach to ESG is guided by continuous engagement
To deliver on our purpose, we need to consider ESG impacts
with our stakeholders. Our key stakeholders include our patients,
across everything we do, from the lab to the patient. That’s why
shareholders, customers and employees. We undertake formal
ESG is embedded in our strategy and supports our sustainable
materiality assessments every two-to-three years and engage
performance and long-term growth. It helps us to build trust
with our stakeholders to ensure that our ESG focus areas continue
with and generate value for our stakeholders, reduce risk to our
to address the most material issues for our business.
operations and create positive social impact.
How we engage with our stakeholders is covered throughout
We have identified six ESG focus areas that address what is most
this report. This includes engagement with our people (see page
material to our business and the issues that matter the most to our
8), our partnerships with NGOs and our membership of cross-
stakeholders. These focus areas are core to our strategy and are
industry collaborations.
where we can have the greatest positive impact on some of
society’s most urgent challenges, including those set out in the We also discuss our engagement with stakeholders in our Annual
UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). Report, which includes how our Board considers stakeholders in
decision-making. (See our section 172 statement on page 123).
They are:
For more information on our approach to stakeholder
– Access to healthcare
engagement, see our policies and publications on gsk.com.
– Global health and health security
gsk.com: Materiality • Engaging with patient organisations • Engaging
– Environment with healthcare professionals • Investors hub – ESG
– Diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI)
– Ethical standards ESG governance
– Product governance Our ESG performance is monitored regularly by both our Board-
level Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC) and the GSK
These focus areas were informed by our most recent materiality
Leadership Team (GLT). The CRC oversees our progress against
assessment in 2022, which reaffirmed that the most material
our commitments, including performance and how we are
issues for our business were well aligned with our six ESG focus
meeting the expectations of our stakeholders. It collaborates with
areas. We recognise that being a responsible business is not a
other Board committees, such as the Remuneration Committee
static requirement. We began work on our double materiality
and the Audit & Risk Committee, to ensure that ESG performance
assessment, which will be completed in 2024. This means that we
is integrated across the business.
will continue to evolve our approach in response to the rapidly
changing operating environment and strive for continuous The GLT and senior management are responsible for delivery
improvement to ensure we maintain strong ESG performance. against our six focus areas, and report regularly to the CRC on
progress (see pages pages 128-129 of our Annual Report).
gsk.com: Our materiality assessment
ESG-aligned remuneration
Our contribution to the UN SDGs
In 2022, the Remuneration Committee, with the support of the
The United Nations' 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
CRC, introduced ESG performance measures into both our
set out a vision for ending poverty, hunger and inequality, and
short- and long-term incentive plans, to reward delivery of key
protecting the planet’s natural resources, by 2030. The six ESG
ESG measures. The ESG element consists of: human capital
areas that we have identified, and which are core to our strategy,
management in the form of diversity, equity and inclusion
are where we can have the greatest positive impact on some of
aspirations, which forms 10% of the annual bonus opportunity for
society’s most urgent challenges, including those set out in the
the GLT; and our climate and nature ambitions, which form 10% of
SDGs. As a global biopharma company, we can make the most
our long-term incentive plan opportunity for senior leaders. These
significant contribution to SDG3: Good Health and Wellbeing.
metrics align to our ESG Performance Rating. See page 139 of our
We publish our contribution to the SDGs on our website.
Annual Report for further information.
gsk.com: Our contribution to the SDGs
4 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Our approach continued
Our ESG Performance Rating
Our ESG Performance Rating helps us integrate ESG into the How we assess performance
delivery of our strategy and allows us to measure and verify the
The GLT is accountable for delivering progress against our ESG
progress we are making. The rating is one of our corporate KPIs
metrics and regularly reviews performance along with the Board’s
and measures progress against key metrics aligned to each of
CRC. This helps to ensure that accountability for ESG performance
our six focus areas. In 2023, this included 22 metrics, which are
is embedded within the business. Each individual metric is
summarised on pages 6-8.
assessed as either: on track (the metric has been met or
We continue to evolve our ESG Performance Rating to ensure it exceeded); on track with work to do (at least 80% of the metric
meets the expectations of our stakeholders. The executive has been achieved); or off track (metric has been missed by
leadership team and the Board, via the Corporate Responsibility more than 20%).
Committee, review the metrics that make up this Rating each year
We calculate the overall ESG Performance Rating by aggregating
to ensure they are sufficiently challenging and ambitious. This
performance across all metrics into a single score to illustrate
year, we have removed two metrics, relating to Access and Ethical
whether we are on track, on track with work to do, or off track.
standards, and added one relating to antimicrobial (AMR)
This rating is defined below:
resistance. We met one of our 2022 metrics relating to Access by
developing and publishing pricing and access principles so it is no On track: 70% or more of all metrics are on track
longer required. We have also removed one of our Ethical On track with work to do: more than 50% of all metrics are either
standards metrics that tracks the number of employees leaving on track, or on track with work to do
GSK for misconduct. Increases or decreases in this number could
Off track: more than 50% of all metrics are off track
indicate either a higher/lower number of breaches or stronger/
weaker enforcement of our processes, so setting a threshold is not
an effective measure for success in upholding our standards. We
continue to monitor this data internally and publish it externally
(see page 32). We have three additional metrics which provide a
strong measure of our commitment to ethical standards. We have
added a metric within Global health and health security, focused
on AMR. AMR is an urgent public health threat, and we have seen
increased stakeholder interest in our approach. We updated our
biodiversity target which measured the number of high risk
materials implementing sustainable sourcing roadmaps as we
achieved it in 2022. Our new target focuses on deforestation free
sourcing of paper and palm oil.
5 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Our approach continued
2023 ESG Performance Rating
Our 2023 ESG Performance Rating is on track, based on 95% of all performance metrics being met or exceeded.
Assessment of performance against our annual targets has been reviewed, and the overall ESG Performance Rating score has been
subject to independent limited assurance for 2023 (see page 55).
Our ESG focus areas Our six commitments Our metrics for 2023 Our progress in 2023
Access Make our products – Progress towards our 2030 goal of reaching In 2023, we reached 89 million people
available at value- 1.3 billion people in lower income countries with our vaccines and antiretrovirals and
based prices that are with our products made 989 million doses of our products
sustainable for our available in lower income countries
business and
implement access
strategies that
increase the use of our
medicines and
vaccines to treat and
protect underserved
people
Global health Develop novel – Progress six Global Health pipeline assets to Progressed 11 Global Health pipeline
and health products and address priority WHO diseases assets to address priority WHO diseases
security technologies to treat including malaria and tuberculosis (TB)
and prevent priority
– Progress 8 R&D projects that address Progressed 12 active R&D projects that
diseases, including
pathogens prioritised by the WHO address pathogens considered critical
pandemic threats
and CDC as posing the highest level and/or urgent threats due to drug
of concern due to drug resistance (critical and/ resistance
or urgent threats)
Environment Commit to a net zero, Climate
nature positive,
– Operational emissions reduction Reduced our operational emissions by
healthier planet with (Scope 1 and 2 market-based emissions)1 10% from 2022
ambitious goals set
for 2030 and 2045 – Industrialisation of low-carbon Ventolin Progressed our low-carbon Ventolin
initiated, and clinical and non-clinical data programme with the potential to reduce
available to support regulatory submissions greenhouse gas emissions from the
inhaler by 90%. Phase III trials of our next
generation, lower-carbon propellant
will begin in 2024 and, if successful,
regulatory submissions will start in 2025
– Percentage of carbon offset volume in 35% of carbon offset volume in project
project pipeline2 pipeline
Water
– Average of the percentage of GSK sites and Average of 87% of all sites and key
suppliers compliant with wastewater active suppliers compliant with AMR Alliance
pharmaceutical ingredient limits and the and API Wastewater discharge limits.
percentage of sites and suppliers that are This is down from 94% in 2022, primarily
compliant with the AMR Industry Alliance due a scope expansion to include more
Common Antibiotic Manufacturing Framework API suppliers
and discharge limits
Waste and materials
– Operational waste and material reduction at 1% reduction of operational waste and
GSK sites materials at our sites
1 S cope 1 emissions cover emissions from the direct combustion of fuels on our sites to generate heat and electricity, emissions from our sales fleet vehicles,
fugitive losses of propellant during the manufacturing of inhalers and losses from refrigerants used in GSK-owned ancillary equipment and emissions from
on-site waste treatment. Scope 2 emissions include any purchased electricity, steam, compressed air and chilled water.
2 Percentage of 2.1 MtCO2 offsetting volume in 2030 project pipeline.
6 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Our approach continued
Our ESG focus areas Our six commitments Our metrics for 2023 Our progress in 2023
Environment Biodiversity
– Percentage of paper and palm oil 86% of our paper packaging was derived
deforestation free from certified sources or from recycled
raw materials and 98% of our core palm
oil materials were certified by third-
parties as being from sustainable sources.
Diversity, equity Enhance recruitment – 100% of phase III trials initiated in 2023 that 100% of phase III trials initiated in 2023
and inclusion of diverse patient have proactive plans in place designed to had proactive demographic plans in
populations in our enrol appropriately diverse trial participants, place
clinical trials; create consistent with the disease epidemiology
an inclusive,
equitable and
Update towards 2025 aspirations through fair and equitable opportunities:
diverse workplace;
and support diverse – aspire to have women hold at least 45% Women held 45% of VP-and-above roles
communities of VP-and-above roles globally by the end globally, compared with 42% in 2022
of 2025
– aspire to have at least 30% ethnically 35.7% ethnically diverse leaders at
diverse leaders in our roles at VP-and- VP-and-above in the US compared with
above in the US by the end of 2025, and 31.3% in 2022. We had 8.1% Black or
increase the percentage of Black or African African American leaders at VP-and-
American, and Hispanic or Latinx VP-and- above compared with 8.6% in 2022.
above leaders year on year We had 6.4 % Hispanic or Latinx leaders
at VP-and-above compared with 6.4%
in 2022
– aspire to have at least 18% ethnically 18.4% ethnically diverse leaders at
diverse leaders in our roles at VP-and- VP-and-above in the UK compared with
above in the UK by the end of 2025, and 14.3% in 2022. We had 1.9% Black leaders
increase the percentage of Black VP-and- at VP-and-above compared with 1.6%
above leaders year on year in 2022
– Improve year-on-year spend with US-based Increased year-on-year spend with
certified diverse-owned suppliers US-based certified diverse-owned
suppliers
Ethical Promote ethical – 100% of employees and complementary 100% of employees and 99% of
standards behaviour across our workers that complete GSK’s 2023 mandatory complementary workers completed
business by training GSK's 2023 mandatory training
supporting our
– Percentage of employees who believe they 83% of employees believe they ‘can and
employees to do the
‘can and do Speak Up if things don’t feel do Speak Up if things don’t feel right'
right thing and
right’ is above the general industry
working with
benchmark1
suppliers that share
our standards and
– 80% of direct high-risk suppliers that 89% of direct high-risk suppliers
operate in a
achieve GSK’s minimum EcoVadis score or achieved our minimum EcoVadis score or
responsible way
have an improvement plan in place have an improvement plan in place
1 The general industry benchmark is 66% according to 2023 research by KornFerry.
7 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Our approach continued
Our ESG focus areas Our six commitments Our metrics for 2023 Our progress in 2023
Product Commit to – Average number of critical and major Received no critical findings from the
governance maintaining robust findings per inspection by FDA/MHRA/ MHRA and EMA regulators in 2023
quality and safety EMA regulators
processes, and using
– Percentage of inspections from all 100% of inspections had no critical
data and new
regulators with no critical findings or official findings or official action indicated
technologies
action indicated
responsibly
– Number of FDA warning letters Zero FDA warning letters
– Total number of Class I/II external product 5 product recalls. In these instances, we
recalls across all markets engaged with regulators and acted
quickly to prioritise patient safety.
– Register and disclose all human subject Registered and disclosed all human
research of GSK products. Specifically, register subject research of GSK products
protocol summaries for studies initiated in
2023; and disclose results summaries for
studies with results due in 2023
Our culture and people
Our purpose – to unite science, technology and talent to get Helping people thrive
Ahead of disease Together – puts our people at the heart of
Making GSK a place where people thrive is core to our Ahead
our success.
Together ambition. While thriving is different for each individual,
there are common themes that matter to everyone. Firstly, a belief
Our culture
in our purpose and a desire to live our culture and contribute to
We are committed to making GSK a place where people can delivering our ambition. Secondly, feeling included and able to be
thrive, with a culture where we are all ambitious for patients, yourself with opportunities to keep growing, with the support,
accountable for impact, and do the right thing. This means we feedback and space needed to succeed. And finally, feeling
support our people to do things better and faster, focusing on good, with positive mental, physical, financial and social
what matters most. It means setting clear objectives, creating wellbeing. This means GSK should be a place where people feel
accountability for results and giving everyone the support and welcome and valued, in an environment (including our policies,
space they need to succeed. workplaces and ways of working) that enables and supports them
to deliver at their best.
It means doing everything responsibly with integrity and care,
because people and patients around the world count on us. Our
Welcoming and developing outstanding people
culture is embedded in everything we do from
We are committed to developing outstanding people and giving
our recruitment and onboarding, training and development, to our
them opportunities to grow. We expect all our people to have an
assessments of performance and promotion.
agreed development plan, regardless of grade or role, based on a
Our Code sets out our culture as well as the commitments GSK conversation to understand what space and support they need to
and our people make so we can deliver on our ambition in the succeed. We continue to invest in learning and development
right way. Our people sign up to initiatives which everyone can access through our Keep Growing
The Code annually and personally commit ‘I’m in’. Campus, our training and knowledge sharing platform.
gsk.com: See The Code on gsk.com
Digital and technology remain core to our purpose and delivery of
our ambitions. We have built our people's skills
in this area with global events such as DataCon, where all
employees can experience immersive sessions to see first-hand
how to apply digital, data and tech tools including generative AI
to become more digitally fluent. This year, more than 7,000
employees took part from every business unit and 28 countries. In
our Data Academy, employees can access resources and online
training. We've run programmes to develop our senior leaders'
leadership skills in the digital age. We've also piloted a career hub
using AI to match employees with mentors, projects and potential
job opportunities. We will scale this up in 2024.
8 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Our approach continued
In 2023, we enhanced our onboarding experience for new joiners Performance with Choice
by introducing monthly live virtual sessions with our CEO and
Performance with Choice, our approach to hybrid working for
other senior leaders. By having access to senior global leaders
those in office-based roles (about a quarter of our people), allows
from the beginning of their career with us, we aim to provide a
the right balance of on-site and remote working. We are clear in
more intimate connection to GSK and the patients we serve,
our expectations that people take accountability to spend
creating emotional connection with our purpose, strategy and
enough time together in person, while maintaining flexibility, to
culture, to complement ongoing local onboarding activities.
help us continue to build our sense of community and
connectedness, enable development and achieve our Ahead
Supporting our people managers
Together ambitions. Data from our annual employee survey shows
Our people managers play a crucial role in helping their teams to broad support for our approach and expectations.
thrive and connecting the contributions the team makes to the
patient and GSK's broader impact. We expect people managers Recognising and rewarding our people
to motivate, focus, care for and develop their teams and we
Sharing our success and recognising and rewarding our people
deliver training anchored in these four areas. In 2023 all of our VPs
equitably, not just on the progress we have made but how we
were invited to attend a four day in-person event called Leading
have made it, continues to be an important part of our culture. In
Leaders, a programme to help leaders bring out the best in their
addition to our bonus scheme that rewards performance across
teams and foster the culture we need to succeed together. We
the company, each year we award 10% of our people with extra
also continue to invest in growing the next generation of senior
‘Ahead Together’ awards for delivering exceptional performance
leaders to support our talent and succession needs through
in line with being accountable for their impact, ambitious for
bespoke development interventions, equipping them with
patients and doing the right thing. And we identify 5% of people
leadership skills for the future.
as having missed performance for those not delivering on their
objectives or living the culture.
Maintaining momentum on diversity, equity
and inclusion How our people experience GSK
We are continuing our focus on building a more diverse To ensure we continue to listen to our people, we regularly
organisation and an equitable and inclusive culture so that measure their experience of GSK as a place to work. This includes
everyone feels welcome, valued and included. By taking steps to an annual survey for all employees featuring questions on
ensure equal opportunity and non-discrimination, we are engagement, confidence, inclusivity, our culture focus areas and
delivering on our ambition to make our leadership and teams trust priorities. We are proud that our engagement levels
more diverse and inclusive. We support development for all with remained high at 81% in 2023. We also continue to see high
numerous offerings for our employees, including an award- scores with positive upward trends in confidence in delivery of our
winning leadership development programme, Accelerating strategy and our culture focus areas – ambitious for patients,
Difference. Also, all our people complete a mandatory DEI accountability for impact and doing the right thing – as well as
module as part of our annual training, this year focused on how to measures of inclusion. In 2023 we expanded analysis of the survey
create an inclusive workplace so all our people can thrive. to understand differences in employee experience across diverse
For more details on our DEI aspirations, see the Responsible characteristics. We continue to make good progress in creating a
Business section on page Error! Bookmark not defined.. culture and workplace where people feel a sense of belonging
and can thrive.
Health, wellbeing and volunteering To measure the effectiveness of our global managers, their teams
Our health and wellbeing benefits support people through provide feedback through an annual One80 survey and
different life stages and are fair and inclusive. These include: a managers receive anonymised aggregate feedback. In 2023, 78%
global minimum standard of 18 weeks’ parental leave for primary of our managers were rated as highly effective by their teams.
and secondary carers for all forms of family, a global minimum
standard for care of a family member for end of life or serious
health emergencies, insured benefits to include same-sex
partners wherever possible, and mental health training –
available to everyone. We have also enhanced our financial
wellbeing support for employees by introducing the ‘nudge’
financial education platform in over 50 countries, helping people
manage their finances and achieve their financial goals.
In 2023 we reignited volunteering across the company, focused on
our ambition and charitable investment themes (Health for
people, Health for the planet, Innovators for the future). All
employees can volunteer for one or two days each year by taking
part in team-based hands-on ‘Together Days’ or through skills-
based volunteering. A smaller number of people can volunteer up
to four days each year for selected skills-based volunteering
projects.
9 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Access
We aim to positively impact the health of 2.5 billion people by the end of 2030. We
will do this by making our vaccines and medicines available as widely as possible,
through responsible pricing, strategic access programmes and partnerships.
89m 24m >1bn
people reached in lower income people living with HIV had vaccine doses supplied to
countries with our vaccines and access to a generic product Gavi, the vaccine alliance,
antiretrovirals in 20231 containing dolutegravir in 2023 since 2010
Our commitment Our ESG Performance Rating metric 2023
Make our products available at value-based prices that are – Progress towards our 2030 goal of reaching 1.3 billion people
sustainable for our business and implement access strategies in lower income countries with our products
that increase the use of our medicines and vaccines to treat and
protect underserved people
We have an ambition to positively impact the health of 2.5 billion It takes significant time, risk and investment to successfully
people by the end of 2030. To help achieve this, we have a goal to discover and develop new medicines and vaccines. That
reach 1.3 billion people in lower income countries with our investment then creates products that make a huge difference to
medicines and vaccines. We will do this by making our products patients and society, and generates the financial returns required
available at prices that are affordable for patients and to fund the next generation of medicines and vaccines. Getting
sustainable for our business. the balance right between responsible pricing and sustainable
business is a fundamental part of our commitment to ESG. To help
us find that balance, we follow our pricing and access principles,
which we first published in 2022 and updated in October 2023.
gsk.com: Pricing and access principles
Putting the right value on innovation
We aim to develop differentiated, best- and first-in-class We recognise health inequities, including in higher income
medicines and vaccines, pursuing areas of unmet need, and countries, and fund dedicated activities to reach underserved
deploying cutting-edge science and advanced technology, populations. These include disease education and helping
including genetics, artificial intelligence and data analytics, to uninsured and underinsured patients to navigate health benefits,
develop more effective medicines and vaccines with speed, scale as well as access programmes to provide financial and disease
and precision. We involve the patient in the development of our management support. In the US, for example, we provided
medicines and vaccines to identify real-world disease challenges. prescribed medicines and vaccines to more than 71,000 low-
income uninsured, underinsured and Medicare Part D patients
We set responsible prices in line with the benefits we bring to
in 2023, through GSK and ViiV Healthcare’s Patient Assistance
patients and health systems, measured by clinical, economic and
Programs Foundation.
social outcomes. We compare our offer to what is already available
for patients and we generate evidence from clinical trials to We operate under robust pricing approvals, developing access
establish the added value provided by our medicines and vaccines. plans informed by payers. We also work to create stability and
We adjust our pricing in line with the socio-economic status of a predictability for payers and our business, engaging proactively
country to ensure affordability and availability. This includes using on upcoming product launches for budget planning, and
tiered pricing for vaccines that address public health priorities in adjusting prices to account for inflation. In the US in 2023, our
low and middle income countries based on the World Bank gross combined average net price (after discounts, rebates or other
national income classification. ViiV Healthcare provides non-profit allowances) for our pharmaceutical and vaccines portfolio
pricing for antiretroviral medicines for HIV for use in public health increased by 0.4%, while the average list price increased by 3.2%,
programmes in all low-income, least developed and Sub-Saharan compared with 5.4% (list) for the industry. Over the past five years,
African countries. We work within existing payer systems and the average net price for our products increased 0.3% annually,
recognise the need to balance health budgets for the societies while the average list price rose by 3.3%, compared
we serve. with 4.7% (list) for the industry.
1 T he 89 million figure includes people reached with Synflorix, Rotarix, Cervarix, OPV and Mosquirix vaccines and people with access to a generic dolutegravir
product through our voluntary licensing agreements; however it does not include people reached through albendazole, for which an assessment will be
made in 2025 by the WHO and GSK.
10 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Access continued
Providing access for patients in lower income countries
People living in lower income countries continue to be So far, LF has been eliminated in 19 countries including
disproportionately affected by infectious diseases. We want to Bangladesh and Lao PDR, who announced elimination of
develop access strategies that make a real difference. In 2023, we the disease in 2023. These are significant milestones in our
reached 89 million people with our vaccines and antiretrovirals in collaborative effort to get ahead of disease together. The number
lower income countries. of tablets we are donating is declining each year, given the
gradual eradication of the NTDs that the medicine is targeting.
We systematically evaluate our pipeline, in consultation with
The programme has benefited over 935 million people since it
global health partners, to identify which products will benefit
began, according to WHO data. We remain committed to
low- and lower middle-income countries so we can develop
supplying albendazole to endemic countries until LF is eliminated
effective and focused access plans. In least-developed countries
everywhere.
and low-income countries, we do not file patents for our
medicines or enforce historic patents. This lets other companies
HIV
manufacture and supply generic versions of our medicines in
those countries. We also support equitable access to impactful We support the development of generic versions of our products
GSK products by implementing responsible pricing strategies through voluntary licences to help improve access by increasing
based on a country’s ability to pay (measured by Gross National manufacturing capacity and enabling lower prices in eligible
Income). countries. In 2023, Aurobindo, Cipla and Viatris, three generic
manufacturers, signed sub-licences of ViiV Healthcare’s licence
Vaccines with the Medicines Patent Pool to develop, manufacture and
supply generic versions of cabotegravir long-acting for HIV
We reserve our lowest vaccine prices for Gavi and similar
pre-exposure prophylaxis (cabotegravir LA for PrEP) in 90
organisations. We have partnered with Gavi since its foundation
countries, subject to obtaining regulatory approvals. Compared
in 2000 and have supplied more than one billion vaccine doses to
with oral HIV prevention options, cabotegravir LA for PrEP is more
date, at our lowest prices to the lowest income countries.
complex to manufacture and ViiV is supporting the companies
In 2023, through our partnership we significantly increased our with technical know-how to enable generic development and
supply to deliver around 5 million doses of Cervarix, a critical access as soon as possible.
vaccine in lower income countries for addressing cervical cancer.
ViiV also works with global health agencies, non-governmental
In 2023, we supplied around 41 million doses of our pneumococcal
organisations, governments and community partners to plan for
vaccine, Synflorix, to seven Gavi-eligible countries at our lowest
and support the introduction of ViiV-manufactured cabotegravir
price. Our vaccine against rotavirus, Rotarix, reaches children
LA for PrEP into national programmes. In late 2023, first orders of
across 25 Gavi-eligible countries and four former Gavi countries.
cabotegravir LA for PrEP were delivered to a global partner for
We have offered vaccines to civil society organisations serving
programmatic use in low- and middle-income countries.
refugees and working in other emergency situations through the
Humanitarian Mechanism since 2017. We are also a long-standing ViiV Healthcare also has voluntary licensing agreements with
supplier of oral polio vaccines through UNICEF and, in 2023, 15 generic manufacturers to produce and sell low-cost single or
supplied around 130 million doses to help eradicate polio. fixed-dose combination products containing our HIV medicine
dolutegravir for adults. These agreements cover 95 low- and
Neglected tropical diseases middle-income countries, with one direct licence and the others
We have been working with our partners since 1999 to tackle via the Medicines Patent Pool. There are similar agreements with
neglected tropical diseases (NTDs), including lymphatic filariasis 14 generic manufacturers for children, covering 123 countries,
(LF), a debilitating disease caused by a parasite transmitted to as well as separate agreements to enable greater access to
humans by mosquitoes, and to reduce morbidity from intestinal dolutegravir in certain upper middle-income countries. This
worms and echinococcosis. In 2023, we donated 615 million includes generic dolutegravir dispersible tablet 10mg formulations
albendazole tablets to help end these NTDs, taking the total we for children living with HIV, which first received FDA tentative
have donated to over 11 billion. approval under the US PEPFAR scheme three years ago and are
now available in more than 90 countries. This access has been
facilitated by ViiV’s public-private partnership with the Clinton
Health Access Initiative, Unitaid and two generic manufacturers
with sub-licences from the Medicines Patent Pool.
In total, around 24 million people living with HIV across 128
countries had access to a generic product containing dolutegravir
by the end of 2023. This is more than 90% of people living with
HIV on antiretrovirals in generic-accessible low- and middle-
income countries.
11 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Access continued
Malaria To significantly increase supply of the vaccine in the medium term,
we are transferring technology know-how to Bharat Biotech of
To date, over two million children in Ghana, Kenya and Malawi
India, which will be the sole supplier of the vaccine from 2029. We
have been reached with at least one dose of Mosquirix (RTS,S/
continue to make good progress on this product transfer.
AS01E) through the WHO-coordinated Malaria Vaccine
Implementation Programme. Developed by GSK and our partners, In 2023, results from a landmark study by the London School of
Mosquirix is a significant scientific breakthrough – it is the world’s Hygiene & Tropical Medicine showed that combining Mosquirix
first malaria vaccine and the first vaccine against any human with antimalarial drugs in areas of Africa with seasonal malaria
parasite. reduced malaria cases and deaths in young children over a
period of five years. These findings confirm the potential of
In July 2023, Gavi announced that up to nine African countries
seasonal vaccination to provide a high level of protection over
are to be allocated doses of Mosquirix from early 2024. In early
the first five years of life, when this protection is much needed.
2024, Cameroon and Burkina Faso became the first countries to
introduce the vaccine into routine immunisation programmes.
We have committed to supply 18 million doses to Gavi-eligible
countries between 2023 and 2025, with a plan to produce 15
million doses annually from 2026 to 2028.
Strengthening healthcare systems
We collaborate with partners to strengthen healthcare systems, In September, we announced that we have renewed our
which is key to addressing systemic issues which reduce access partnership with Save the Children for another five years. To date,
to healthcare, vaccines and treatments and which perpetuate the partnership has provided more than 3.5 million children with
health inequalities in lower income countries. We work with people essential healthcare, trained and equipped more than 39,000
and underserved communities to make sure that they take the health workers in the most remote and marginalised communities,
lead in the decisions that affect them and their health, and we and advocated for the incorporation of stronger policies to
help support emergency preparedness and response. protect children’s health at country and global level.
We work in partnership with organisations that are active within Building on learnings over the last decade, we are focusing our
local communities and look to catalyse additional resources to partnership on reducing the number of ‘zero dose’ children –
increase impact. In 2023, GSK and ViiV Healthcare joined forces those who have never received a vaccine – in Ethiopia and
with The Global Fund to pledge $7.5 million over three years to Nigeria, which represent more than a third of the zero-dosed
create the Gender Equality Fund, which will support community- children in Africa.
based and -led organisations that are working to deliver lasting
Last year, we launched two new programmes as part of our
changes in health policies and programmes, transform gender
long-standing partnership with Amref Health Africa. One focuses
norms and eliminate discrimination to improve health outcomes,
on malaria in Kenya and Zambia, and the second will address
with a focus on TB, HIV and malaria. The Gates Foundation has
anti-microbial resistance (AMR) across the region. It will work with
committed to match this donation, in support of The Global
WHO Regional Office for Africa and the African CDC to identify
Fund's work.
and assess national AMR plans and support their implementation.
Mobilised and connected community-based organisations are a
GSK and ViiV Healthcare are committed to responding to
vital part of health systems, enabling access to and delivery of
humanitarian crises where possible. To date, GSK has donated
services, especially for hard-to-reach populations. Positive Action,
more than £6 million to a number of partners, including the Red
ViiV Healthcare's community grant-giving programme, works
Cross, Save the Children and The Global Fund, directly responding
directly with the communities most affected by HIV to further the
to the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine and neighbouring countries.
ViiV Healthcare mission of ensuring no person living with HIV is
In 2023, ViiV Healthcare continued to donate antiretroviral
left behind. In 2023, Positive Action invested more than £12 million,
medicines to national HIV and AIDS programmes in Poland to
reaching approximately 514,000 people and providing 99 grants
support people living with HIV who have been affected by the
across 31 countries.
conflict in Ukraine. To date, the company has donated more
than 10,000 packs. Positive Action also launched its Ukraine
Emergency Response Fund. Positive Action made £830,000
available to partners based in Ukraine and neighbouring
countries to protect the health of people living with and affected
by HIV in the region.
12 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Access continued
2020 2021 2022 2023
Community investment
Cash (£m) 91 83 79 80 A
Product and in-kind (£m)1 136 159 209 198 A
Time (£m) 0.1 0.2 0.6 3 A
Management costs (£m) 18 17 19 23 A
Total community investment (£m) 245 259 308 304 A
Value of GSK medicine and vaccines provided through our US Patient Assistance Programs 151 186 228 224 A
Foundation ($m)1,2
US pricing
1 year change in list and net price3
Change in combined average net price for our pharmaceutical and vaccines portfolio in the US -0.7% +5.5% +1.4% 0.4%
since the previous year
Change in average list price in the US since the previous year +3.2% +3.8% +3.8% 3.2%
5 year list and net price (compound annual growth rate)3
Change in net price (after discounts, rebates or other allowances) for our products in the US -3.2% -2.0% -1.1% 0.3%
over the past 5 years
Change in average list price in the US over the past 5 years +5.7% +4.6% +3.9% 3.3%
Product reach (doses supplied to lower income countries)
Doses of Synflorix vaccines supplied to Gavi (m) 56 39 40 41 PR A
Doses of Rotarix vaccines supplied to Gavi (m) 53 49 43 43 PR A
Doses of Cervarix vaccines supplied to Gavi (m) 0.4 0.4 0.2 5 PR A
Doses of OPV vaccines supplied to UNICEF (m) 110 80 95 130 PR A
Doses of Mosquirix (RTS,S/AS01 E) vaccines supplied (m) 2 1 1 6 PR A
Albendazole tablets donated to help eliminate lymphatic filariasis (m) 304 451 440 462 PR A
Albendazole tablets donated to help treat intestinal worms (m) 113 75 93 153 PR A
Total doses supplied (m) 638 695 712 8405 PR
Product reach (people reached in lower income countries)
People with access to a generic dolutegravir product through voluntary licensing – – 20,927 24,058 A
agreements ('000)4
Estimated children reached with Synflorix through Gavi ('000) 17,100 12,000 12,116 12,573 A
Estimated children reached with Rotarix through Gavi ('000) 25,400 23,540 20,561 20,570 A
Estimated girls reached with Cervarix through Gavi ('000) 180 170 106 4,307 A
Estimated people reached with OPV through UNICEF ('000) 21,900 16,010 18,975 26,032 A
Estimated people reached with Mosquirix (RTS,S/AS01 E) ('000) – 310 326 1,383 A
Total people reached ('000) 64,580 52,030 73,011 88,923 A
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2023 data has been independently assured.
1 Product donations are valued at the global average cost of goods as reported in year-end results.
2 This product donation is included within the total community investment figures reported.
3 Calculated across GSK and ViiV Healthcare products.
4 A s a chronic and ongoing treatment, the cumulative number of people with access to dolutegravir rather than annual data is reported. The figure is
estimated based on sales of generic dolutegravir-based products through our voluntary licensing agreements. In 2022, we updated the methodology to
include sales of all generic dolutegravir-based products.
5 I n 2023, we also held 149 million doses of OPV vaccine in ready-to-ship stockpile in case of epidemic, making a total of 989 million doses of our products
available in lower income countries. This contributed to our 2023 Access Performance Rating metric, which has been independently assured.
13 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Access continued
2020 2021 2022 2023
People reached through our healthcare access programmes
People accessing a healthcare service, worker or educational session through our work with 400 438 91 103
Save the Children ('000)
People accessing a healthcare worker, service or facility as a result of the Bill & Melinda Gates – 162 1061 –2
CEO Roundtable programme ('000)
People reached through ViiV Healthcare’s Positive Action for Children Fund grants ('000) 484 188 13 –
People reached through ViiV Healthcare’s Positive Action 2020-2030 Strategy grants ('000) – 274 4213 513
People reached through our US Patient Assistance Programs ('000) 96 87 79 71 A
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2023 data has been independently assured.
1 2 022 data has been restated due to more data subsequently becoming available.
2 T he Bill & Melinda Gates CEO Roundtable programme concluded in 2022 therefore, no amount was reported for 2023.
3 Reach data is collected from grantees every six months for the previous six months activity over an 18 month cycle. 2022 data has been restated.
14 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Global health and health security
We want to help address the biggest health challenges faced by people
around the world.
11 >30 12
Global Health pipeline assets R&D projects relevant to R&D projects targeting pathogens
to address priority WHO antimicrobial resistance in deemed ‘critical’ or ‘urgent’ by the
diseases progressed in 2023 our pipeline WHO and the US CDC
Our commitment Our ESG Performance Rating metrics
To develop novel products and technologies to treat and – Progress six Global Health pipeline assets to address priority
prevent priority diseases, including pandemic threats WHO diseases
– Progress eight active R&D projects that address pathogens
prioritised by WHO and CDC as posing the highest level of
concern due to drug resistance (critical and/or urgent threats)
Where people live continues to influence their chances of enjoying In 2022, with ViiV Healthcare, we announced an investment
a healthy life. People living in lower income countries are of £1 billion over 10 years to accelerate global health R&D. By
disproportionately affected by infectious diseases. Among the the end of 2023, we had invested 21%1 of this and progressed 11
biggest drivers of morbidity and mortality are tuberculosis (TB), Global Health pipeline assets to address priority WHO diseases
malaria, antimicrobial resistance (AMR), HIV and neglected including climate-aggravated diseases that are
tropical diseases. disproportionately affecting lower income countries.
GSK has a proud heritage as a leader in global health. We have a Strong and resilient healthcare systems are critical to enabling
unique and important role to play in improving health for patients access to the right treatments and vaccines. We are working with
around the world by using our science, technology, talent and long-term partners to help strengthen healthcare systems in lower
partnerships to deliver health impact at scale and prevent, income countries, driven by local needs. Our work to increase
prepare for and respond to future health security challenges. underserved people’s access to medicines and vaccines is
described in Access, on page 10.
Including ViiV Healthcare, we’re working on more than 30
potential vaccines and medicines targeting high burden infectious
diseases – putting our unique R&D and scientific expertise to work
to address some of the world’s biggest health challenges.
Global health R&D
Promising avenues for TB prevention and treatment We are also developing a portfolio of shorter, safer, simpler TB
treatments that, in combination with other medicines, could
GSK is committed to tackling TB, one of the world’s deadliest
transform the TB landscape as part of new regimens for both
infectious diseases. We have developed a promising candidate
drug-sensitive and drug-resistant TB patients. We are advancing
vaccine, M72/AS01E, up to proof of concept (phase IIb). Building on
four novel medicines in clinical development through nine R&D
our long-standing, successful history of working with external
consortia and partnerships that combine expertise, share risk
partners, we have partnered with the Bill and Melinda Gates
and leverage resources to accelerate innovation.
Medical Research Institute (MRI) for its further development. Gates
MRI is well positioned to lead the large and complex phase III study GSK is the lead industry partner in two large EU-funded Innovative
required. In June 2023, Wellcome and the Bill and Melinda Gates Medicine Initiative projects, ERA4TB and Unite4TB, that together
Foundation announced funding of up to $550 million for phase III aim to progress numerous assets from pre-clinical through to phase
trials. If these trials are successful, M72/AS01E could be the first new III-ready compounds.
vaccine to help prevent pulmonary TB in over a century.
1 B udget phasing is not linear across the 10-year period.
15 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Global health and health security continued
Breakthroughs in malaria research and treatment It also used data from semi-field studies conducted with the Institut
de Recherche en Sciences de la Santé (IRSS) in a contained
The latest data shows that there were an estimated 249 million
‘MosquitoSphere’ facility in Burkina Faso. This suggests that the
malaria cases and over 600,000 deaths caused by malaria in 2022,
laboratory findings could be successfully translated to
according to the WHO, with over 90% of those in Africa. More than
the field for malaria control. We continue to pursue this ground-
three-quarters were of children under five. To date, together with
breaking research while engaging with global health institutions
our partners, we’ve brought two products for the prevention and
and partners to identify the most effective and sustainable
treatment of malaria to market – the world’s first vaccine against
approach for development and mobilisation if successful.
malaria (see Access, page 10), and a single-dose, radical cure for
P. vivax malaria as reported in 2022. Getting ahead of malaria is
Supporting innovation through capacity and
particularly challenging due to growing resistance to existing drugs
and insecticides and as climate change enables the spread of the capability building
disease, so we are investing to develop the next generation of Through our Africa Open Lab initiative, launched in 2014, we
transformative tools. support early-career scientists based in sub-Saharan Africa,
with a focus on infectious diseases that disproportionately affect
In August 2023, we announced that GSK scientists had discovered
sub-Saharan populations, such as malaria, TB and AMR. In 2023,
a strain of a naturally occurring bacterium that could potentially
we agreed grants to ten researchers in six countries in sub-Saharan
help eradicate the disease. The Tres Cantos 1 (TC1) strain of the
Africa and we announced a further call for proposals in November.
Delftia tsuruhatensis bacterium – named after the GSK R&D
We are also working with African academic institutions to provide
facility where it was discovered – significantly reduces the load of
grantees with supplemental training in areas including
P. falciparum malaria parasites in mosquitoes. This could
epidemiology, statistics and clinical research.
potentially inhibit transmission of the parasite to humans. TC1 was
shown to be effective in multiple types of Anopheles mosquito
and against multiple types of malaria parasite. The ground-
breaking research was conducted in collaboration with the Johns
Hopkins Malaria Research Institute at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg
School of Public Health.
Strengthening health security
There are many factors that can jeopardise our health security In December 2023, the first patient was dosed in PIVOT-PO, our
– from new and emerging infectious diseases to the rise of AMR. pivotal phase III trial for tebipenem. If approved, tebipenem HBr
Climate change and nature loss also can change disease will address an unmet medical need for a novel oral antibiotic as
patterns. We are using our scientific know-how and collaborating an alternative to intravenous hospital therapy for drug-resistant
with others to help the world better prepare for future health cUTIs. In March 2023, we announced an exclusive licence
challenges. agreement with Scynexis for Brexafemme (ibrexafungerp tablets),
a first-in-class antifungal for the treatment of vulvovaginal
Getting ahead of AMR through innovation and candidiasis (VVC) and for reduction in the incidence of recurrent
appropriate use VVC.
Founded on GSK’s science and technology, our primary Vaccines remain an important pathway to getting ahead of
contribution to strengthening health security is through our resistant infections. During the year, the US FDA granted a
innovation to prevent and mitigate infectious disease. This Fast Track designation for our investigational vaccine against
includes investing in innovation to get ahead of infections where gonorrhoea – which is the second most prevalent bacterial
new antimicrobials and vaccines are urgently needed. We have sexually transmitted infection worldwide, with an estimated 82
more than 30 R&D projects across medicines and vaccines million new cases globally each year. It is recognised as an urgent
that are relevant to AMR, ranging from early- to late-stage unmet medical need due to its growing global incidence and
development, with 12 R&D projects targeting pathogens deemed reduced efficacy of available treatments as drug-resistant strains
‘critical’ or ‘urgent’ by the WHO and the US CDC. are increasing.
These include gepotidacin, which could be the first novel oral See page 30 of our Annual Report for more about our R&D
antibiotic treatment for uncomplicated urinary tract infections pipeline.
(uUTIs) in over 20 years. Positive phase III data from the EAGLE-2
and EAGLE-3 phase III trials were presented at the European
Congress of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases in
Copenhagen in April 2023. Through our partnership with Spero
Therapeutics, Inc., we have an exclusive licence agreement for
tebipenem HBr, a late-stage oral carbapenem antibiotic with the
potential to treat complicated urinary tract infections (cUTIs).
16 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Global health and health security continued
Progressing vaccines against enteric diseases To support the responsible manufacturing of antibiotics, we work
with the AMR Industry Alliance to set global limits for wastewater
to reduce the burden of AMR
antibiotic discharges from factories (see Environment, page 18).
AMR is a major threat to health globally, and it is particularly
Our work to strengthen responsible manufacturing of antibiotics
prevalent in low resource settings, deepening existing health
was highlighted as an example of good practice in a 2023 report
inequities and risking the efficacy of current medicines to fight
on the issue from the Access to Medicine Foundation’s AMR
diseases. We continue to progress candidate vaccines against
Benchmark.
several enteric diseases which contribute to the burden of AMR,
including invasive non-typhoidal salmonella, klebsiella, shigella, We also continued to support dialogue around how to rebuild
typhoid and paratyphoid fever. the ecosystem for antimicrobial innovation, participating in
discussions on the topic in Brussels, Washington and London.
In 2023, it was announced that we are partnering with LimmaTech
Biologics for the further development of one candidate vaccine
Partnering for pandemic preparedness
against shigellosis, while we continue to develop another
As countries continued to manage the repercussions of the
candidate vaccine against the disease which uses our vaccine
COVID-19 pandemic, health security remained high on the global
platform technology, GMMA. Currently, there are no vaccines to
agenda during 2023. The United Nations held high-level meetings
help prevent shigellosis, a disease which causes 600,000 deaths
on pandemic preparedness and response and universal health
each year.
coverage, while the White House has established a Pandemic
Preparedness and Response Office.
Ensuring appropriate use of antibiotics
Ensuring appropriate access to infectious disease interventions To help pre-empt and respond to the next health security
is key to getting ahead of health security threats. We continue emergency, we are working with governments and other
to maintain a strong focus on the appropriate use of antibiotics stakeholders to strengthen global preparedness. This means
and enabling access to them. We are committed to exploring drawing on what we have learned from COVID-19 and previous
lower income focused indications of our antimicrobials and outbreaks, championing innovation and promoting sustainable
vaccines in development, to help maximise their health impact. approaches for the biopharmaceutical sector and public health.
We continue to train healthcare professionals around the world We continue to monitor the potential threat of pandemic
on using and prescribing antibiotics appropriately, and the influenza, and other emerging infectious diseases with pandemic
importance of surveillance studies. As well as maintaining our potential, and we engage in pandemic preparedness dialogue.
long-running multinational Survey of Antibiotic Resistance
g sk.com: Our position on Antimicrobial Resistance
programme, we are developing new resistance surveillance
programmes to support antimicrobial assets in late-stage
development. In January 2023, the Infection Index launched in
India. This has been designed to provide convenient access to
information and data to support physicians with appropriate
antibiotic decision-making.
2020 2021 2022 2023
Global health pipeline assets for priority diseases
Number of assets progressed through the Global Health pipeline to address priority WHO diseases 10 5 12 11 PR A
Number of active R&D projects that address pathogens prioritised by the WHO and CDC as posing – – – 12 PR
the highest level of concern due to drug resistance (critical and/or urgent threats)
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2023 data has been independently assured.
17 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Environment
Climate change and nature loss are an urgent threat to human health, as well as
a risk to business resilience. To get ahead of disease and to help ensure long-term
business success, we need to take action on climate and nature.
10% 100% 100%
reduction in operational GSK sites with completed of GSK manufacturing sites
carbon emissions (Scope 1 baseline biodiversity within AMR Alliance and
and 2) in 2023 from 2022 assessments Wastewater API quality limits
Our commitment
Commit to a net zero, nature positive, healthier planet with Freshwater
ambitious goals set for 2030 and 2045 – Average of the percentage of GSK sites and suppliers
compliant with wastewater active pharmaceutical ingredient
Our ESG Performance Rating metrics 20231
(API) limits and the percentage of sites and suppliers that are
Climate compliant with the AMR Industry Alliance Common Antibiotic
– Operational emissions reduction (Scope 1 and 2 market- Manufacturing Framework and discharge limits
based emissions)
Land
– Industrialisation of low-carbon Ventolin initiated, and clinical
– Percentage of paper and palm oil deforestation free
and non-clinical data available to support regulatory
submissions Waste and materials
– Percentage of carbon offset volume in project pipeline – Operational waste and material reduction at our sites
Climate change and nature loss are creating new health threats We are also working to address the impacts of climate change on
and changing the spread and burden of disease, with the most health. We’re investing in R&D for medicines and vaccines for
vulnerable communities disproportionately affected. This puts climate aggravated, infectious diseases which disproportionately
increasing pressure on healthcare systems, which already account impact the most vulnerable communities and working with our
for nearly 5% of global emissions. partners to increase the resilience of healthcare systems to climate
change. For more information, see Global health, on page 15.
That’s why we have set ambitious environmental goals for 2030
and 2045. These aim to address our impacts across our entire Collaboration across our entire value chain – with patients,
value chain, from drug discovery to disposal of our products. They suppliers, regulators and peers – is vital to achieving our goals.
will help make GSK more resilient, protect our supply chains, help We also collaborate internally to ensure we embed climate and
us adapt ahead of anticipated regulation change and provide nature considerations throughout the business.
potential growth opportunities as demand increases for
medicines and vaccines with a lower environmental impact.
Climate
We have a clear pathway to a net zero impact on climate with Targets:3
ambitious goals for 2030 and 2045. – 80% absolute reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from a
Our value chain carbon footprint2 is made up of: 2020 baseline, across all scopes, and investment in nature-
based solutions for the remaining 20% of our footprint by 2030)
– Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our own operations (7%)
– 100% imported renewable electricity by 2025 and 100%
– Scope 3 emissions from our supply chain (31%)
renewable electricity (imported and generated) by 2030
– Scope 3 emissions from logistics (4%) (Scope 2)
– Scope 3 emissions from people using our products (57%), – Net zero greenhouse gas emissions across our full value chain by
mostly metered-dose inhalers 2045: 90% absolute reduction in emissions from a 2020 baseline,
– Scope 3 emissions from the disposal of our products (1%) across all scopes, and all residual emissions neutralised
1 T hese metrics are related to the ESG Performance Rating 2023 outlined on pages 6-7. We also measure and report performance against our environmental
sustainability targets, which we publish on +gsk.com.
2 Based on 2022 data.
3 The target boundary includes biogenic land-related emissions and removals from bioenergy feedstocks.
18 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Environment continued
In 2023, The Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) approved Our Sustainable Procurement Programme requires our suppliers
GSK’s net zero target for 2045 in line with its Corporate Net-Zero to take action on both climate and nature. At the same time, we
Standard, the world’s only framework for corporate net zero target actively support our suppliers to adopt new environmental
setting in line with climate science. sustainability measures, with a particular focus on the top 30
suppliers by climate and nature impact.
g sk.com: Net zero pathway
We have started to include contract clauses on carbon reductions
Managing our operational footprint for these priority suppliers. In 2023, 23% of our top 30 suppliers by
In 2023, we reduced our Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 10% carbon emissions have submitted science based targets for
compared with 2022, and by 27% compared with our 2020 validation, and eight of those have had the targets approved. In
baseline. This was primarily due to energy efficiency measures 2023, we completed deep-dives for two of our key suppliers to
and increasing the amount of renewable electricity we use. For identify opportunities to reduce energy and water usage and
example, our Nashik site in India has reduced its emissions by 93% switch to renewable energy sources.
since 2020, by moving to renewable biomass for heat and to We are also engaging more broadly across our supply chain.
renewable electricity. In May 2023, as part of our Supplier Forum, attended by 56
As a member of the RE100 initiative, we have committed to reach suppliers, we held three sustainability roundtables focused on
100% of our imported electricity from renewable sources by 2025 addressing common challenges and potential solutions. We
and 100% of all electricity we generate and import from launched the Sustainability Foundations programme in January
renewable sources by 2030. In 2023, we reached 83% imported 2023 with over 50 GSK procurement employees attending three
renewable electricity, an increase of 10% from 2022. hours of training, focused on climate and nature. Participants
reported a 60% increase in confidence and competence in
We signed a power purchase agreement to source renewable
explaining our ambition to suppliers and ensuring our
electricity to cover 50% of our electricity demand for our sites in
environmental goals are aligned.
Europe from mid-2026. Two additional wind turbines and the new
solar farm at our manufacturing facility in Irvine, Scotland began Supply chain emissions are a shared challenge for our sector,
generating renewable energy. so we are working in collaboration across our industry through
programmes like Activate, Energize and the Sustainable Markets
We seek to follow leading practice in laboratory sustainability. In
Initiative (SMI) Health Systems Task Force, to find solutions.
2023, seven of our laboratories in the United States, Canada and
the UK achieved My Green Lab Certification, which is considered To date, 10 of our top 30 suppliers by carbon emissions have
the gold standard for laboratory sustainability best practices registered to join the Activate programme focused on reducing
around the world, covering community engagement, energy, water, emissions from the production of active pharmaceutical
waste and resource management. Three of these received the ingredients.
highest level of certification. We now have ten laboratories certified In July, our CEO signed an open letter alongside other healthcare
across our network with a further ten in the assessment process. leaders in the SMI Health Systems Task Force, calling on our
We are a member of EV100 and are committed to transition 100% suppliers to sign-up to the joint minimum climate and
of our fleet to electric or hybrid vehicles and to install chargers at 100 sustainability targets set by the Task Force.
of our sites by 2030. Plug-in-hybrid or fully electric vehicles made up In December, My Green Lab launched Converge, a collaborative
6% of our sales fleet and 16% of our total fleet in 2023. We have supply chain initiative to encourage suppliers to reduce the
chargers at 30 major sites and have increased the number of environmental impact of labs in their value chain. GSK is one of
charging points to nearly 500. the founding sponsors of the initiative.
Addressing our Scope 3 emissions Emissions from the use of our products
Our overall Scope 3 emissions are 10% lower than our baseline The use of our medicines and vaccines makes up 57% of our total
year of 2020, although there was a 4% increase in 2022 (our latest footprint. Most of this is from the propellant used in metered-dose
available data) compared with 2021. This was primarily driven by inhalers for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
higher sales of metered dose inhaler products. We set out below (COPD).
the steps we are taking to reduce the emissions associated with
GSK’s rescue metered dose inhaler (MDI) medication, Ventolin
metered dose inhalers. Although overall Scope 3 emissions
(salbutamol) is an essential medicine prescribed to approximately
increased from 2021 to 2022, in the same period, we reduced
35 million people with respiratory conditions worldwide. Patient
upstream Scope 3 emissions from our suppliers, see more below.
use of this inhaler, due to the current propellant, accounts for just
under half (48%) of our carbon footprint. We are investing in a
Supply chain emissions
low-carbon programme with the potential to reduce greenhouse
The goods and services we buy to make our medicines and
gas emissions from the inhaler by 90% by transitioning to a next
vaccines, and additional upstream emissions, account for
generation, lower-carbon propellant. Phase III trials will begin in
approximately 31% of our total carbon emissions footprint. In 2023,
2024 and, if successful, regulatory submissions will start in 2025.
our supply chain emissions fell by 2%.
This is to supplement our existing low carbon dry powder inhalers.
Climate-related financial disclosures
See pages 62-70 in our Annual Report for our disclosure on
climate risk and resilience in line with the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework.
19 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Environment continued
Nature
In 2023, we shared more detail on our plan for contributing to a We achieved our overall water reduction target in 2022. In 2023,
nature-positive world, in line with the goal of the Global we reduced overall water use in our operations by an additional
Biodiversity Framework to halt and reverse biodiversity loss by 1% compared with 2022 and by 6% in sites in high water-stress
2030. It sets out how we approach action on nature through four regions. This is a decrease of 24% for overall water use and 11% for
focus areas – freshwater, land, oceans and atmosphere – sites in high water-stress regions against our 2020 baseline.
including the biodiversity of living species across these areas.1
We have implemented water efficiency and reuse systems at a
We aim to deliver our contribution in three ways: avoiding or
number of our sites, including Pakistan, which is increasing its
reducing our impact on nature, protecting and restoring nature,
recycled water capacity. At our Wavre site in Belgium, a pilot
and helping to accelerate collaborative action. This approach is
wastewater treatment station has been installed to enable reuse
aligned with the work of the Taskforce on Nature-related
of our wastewater to reduce water consumption.
Financial Disclosures (TNFD) and the Science Based Target
Network (SBTN). For our sites and key suppliers located in water-stressed areas, we
are developing catchment-level water replenishment, restoration
The overuse of natural resources and the generation of waste and
and regeneration projects to deliver our water neutrality target.
pollution are key drivers of nature loss, so we have also set
underlying targets on waste and materials. We have partnered with a local NGO, Watershed Organisation
Trust (WOTR), in Nashik, India on a water replenishment project
In May 2023, we were selected to be part of the first group of
designed to improve ecosystem conditions, enhance the climate
companies to participate in the initial target validation process
resilience of local agriculture, and help local villages manage
with SBTN to set validated science-based targets for nature,
water resources to improve their health and livelihoods.
starting with targets for freshwater and land, followed by targets
for oceans and biodiversity. These targets will focus on locations We are also a founding partner of the Women + Water
across our value chain where nature is particularly under pressure. Collaborative in India, which launched in October 2023, working
with the Water Resilience Coalition, an initiative between the UN
TNFD published its final framework in September – an outcome
Global Compact and the Pacific Institute. This programme brings
of the pilot framework that we and others were already testing.
together companies from different sectors to leverage women’s
We announced our commitment to adopting TNFD-aligned
leadership to improve access to clean water and sanitation,
disclosures in 2026, based on 2025 data. We have already started
ultimately supporting the health of local communities.
to implement the final recommendations in our 2023 disclosure on
page 70 of the Annual Report. We are committed to ensuring that discharges from the
manufacturing of APIs, including antibiotics, do not adversely affect
gsk.com: Our plan for contributing to a nature positive world
people or the environment. In 2023, 87% of all sites and key suppliers
were compliant with AMR Alliance and API Wastewater discharge
Freshwater
limits, down from 94% in 2022. This is driven by us expanding our
We continue to work towards our existing water targets (set out scope to include more API suppliers which led to a decrease in the
below) and, as part of the SBTN pilot, we are currently working to percentage of key suppliers that were confirmed to be within
implement their guidance and validate our freshwater targets. Wastewater API discharge limits. We are now engaging with these
Targets additional suppliers to assess their alignment with discharge limits,
and support improvements where necessary. 100% of GSK sites
– Achieve good water stewardship at 100% of our sites by 2025
were within AMR Alliance and Wastewater API quality limits.
– Reduce overall water use in our operations by 20% by 2030
To support the responsible manufacturing of antibiotics, we work
– Be water neutral in our own operations and at key suppliers in
with the AMR Industry Alliance to set global limits for wastewater
water-stressed regions by 2030
antibiotic discharges from factories. Our work to strengthen
– Achieve zero impact active API levels2 for all sites and key
responsible manufacturing of antibiotics was highlighted as an
suppliers by 2030
example of good practice in a 2023 report on the issue from the
We depend on water for the production of our vaccines and Access to Medicine Foundation’s AMR Benchmark.
medicines. Our primary impact on water availability is through our
manufacturing sites located in areas of water-stress. Land
100% of our sites are good water stewards, in line with the Alliance We continue to deliver on our existing land targets (set out below).
for Water Stewardship’s definition. In 2023, we started the Alliance Additionally, we are piloting the SBTN guidance for setting land
for Water Stewardship Standards certification process for our five targets.
water-stressed sites in Algeria, India and Pakistan. The site teams
Targets
have passed their training on the Standard and are working to
implement it by 2025. – Positive impact on biodiversity at all sites3 by 2030
– 100% of agricultural and forestry-derived materials sustainably
sourced and deforestation free by 2030
1 I n previous ESG Performance Reports, our nature targets are grouped by water, waste and materials, and biodiversity. When we published ‘ Our plan for
contributing to a nature positive world’ in September 2023, we updated our target categories to align with the four areas of nature as defined by TNFD and
SBTN, with underlying targets on waste and materials. The targets remain the same.
2 Below the predicted no-effect level.
3 GSK-owned sites.
20 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Environment continued
Land degradation, due to poor land management or land For example, we use horseshoe crab blood, which is an important
conversion, can have a range of negative health impacts. Our substance that is required by some regulators to be used in
primary dependency on land is through the natural materials we pharmaceutical and biomedical quality control processes to
source, some of which derive from agricultural commodities. Their ensure the quality and safety of medicines, vaccines and devices.
production can drive deforestation and land-use change.
We continue to make progress on volume reductions, and we are
During 2023, we completed baseline assessments for six sites, advancing a pilot across five of our sites to test the use of non-
meaning we have now assessed all our sites, using the Natural animal alternatives. At the same time, we are engaging with
England Biodiversity Net Positive methodology. In parallel, we regulators to support wider uptake of these alternatives.
have plans in place to improve biodiversity at nine of our sites, an
Until horseshoe crab blood can be fully replaced, we are working
increase of six from 2022.
with our suppliers to improve sustainability. Our new Sustainable
In May 2023, we set out ambitious new Sustainable Sourcing Sourcing Standards, discussed above, include a specific Marine
Standards for suppliers who provide us with materials that are Sustainable Sourcing Standard which outlines the requirements that
highly dependent on nature, like lactose, gelatine and soy. The our suppliers of marine-derived materials must adhere to. We
standards, developed in collaboration with third-party experts, conducted physical site audits of key suppliers in 2023 to understand
aim to support these suppliers to assess, improve and verify their adoption of this standard.
approach to addressing a range of nature impacts – and
associated climate and social impacts – including land-use, Atmosphere
water stewardship and biodiversity. Air quality is closely linked to climate change, as many of the
We have roadmaps in place which aim to achieve 100% drivers of air pollution, such as burning fossil fuels, are also sources
sustainably-sourced paper packaging and palm oil by 2025. In of greenhouse gas emissions. Air pollution is a significant risk to
2023, 86% of our paper packaging was derived from certified human health, particularly for patients with respiratory conditions
sources or from recycled raw materials and 98% of our core palm like asthma and COPD.
oil materials were certified by third parties as being from Our approach to air pollution includes reducing pollutants linked
sustainable sources. To further improve our Palm Oil sourcing to burning fossil fuels that will be addressed via our SBTi-aligned
practices, we have joined Action for Sustainable Derivatives, an climate targets (set out on page 18), as well as looking more
industry-led collaboration to tackle environmental and social broadly at our air pollution footprint.
supply chain issues around palm oil derivatives.
To help accelerate collective action on air pollution, we are
While working with suppliers is a key part of our goal to reduce members of the Alliance for Clean Air through the Clean Air Fund
our impact on nature, where appropriate we will also look at (CAF) and the World Economic Forum, which aims to drive
opportunities to reduce or avoid the use of some natural materials, corporate action on clean air to accelerate climate action and
for example through process efficiencies and synthetic create healthy communities around the world.
alternatives. For example, an extract from the soapbark tree is an
We have done an initial assessment to establish an air pollution
essential ingredient in vaccine adjuvants, which are used to
footprint in our operations and our supply chain. This highlighted
enhance the immune response of vaccines. We are working on a
opportunities for reductions in emissions linked to on-site
process improvement to deliver a significant yield increase,
electricity generation and use of solid fuels, car use and move to
reducing our nature impact and improving supply resilience.
electric fleet, as well as indicating opportunities in our value chain
gsk.com: Our approach to sourcing materials that are highly
for the sourcing of plastic and glass products. We are creating
dependent on nature
reduction plans around these key areas that are aligned to our
pathway to zero and which aim to have a positive impact on air
Oceans
quality.
We continue to deliver on our existing ocean target (set out
We are conducting an additional air quality assessment, working
below), and will apply the relevant science-based methodology
with Stockholm Environment Institute (SEI) and the University of
on oceans when it becomes available.
York, broadening the suite of air pollutants to be taken into
Target consideration to understand their impact across our value chain
– 100% of marine-derived materials to be sustainably sourced and their connection to human health.
by 2030
Degradation of the world’s oceans, caused by factors such as climate
change, marine pollution and over-fishing, poses risks to human
health and business resilience. Our impacts and dependencies on
oceans come primarily from marine-derived materials that are a
critical part of manufacturing vaccines and medicines.
1 Including a 20% reduction in routine hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
2 Where regulatory obligations allow, excluding plastics that are critical to product discovery and development, and health and safety.
21 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Environment continued
Waste and materials 100% of GSK sites are now manufacturing PVC-free secondary
and tertiary packaging. We also implemented our first pilot of
The overuse of natural resources and the generation of waste and
electronic patient information, to replace paper leaflets in
pollution are key drivers of climate change and nature loss.
Singapore.
Targets
A solvent reduction strategy is being rolled out across our sites
Our approach to product stewardship means that we consider
and key suppliers. This includes designing out solvents, using lower
and aim to address impacts on nature and climate at every stage
impact solvents, and improving solvent recovery rates.
of the product life cycle, from discovery, design, sourcing and
manufacturing through to product use and disposal. We have set Waste
a target to help accelerate the adoption of this approach: In 2023, we reduced operational waste by 1% compared with
– 25% environmental impact reduction for our products and 2022, a total of 21% since 2020.1 We increased the amount of
packaging by 2030 materials recovered by circular routes to 53%.
We have also set targets to reduce operational and supply We have maintained zero operational waste to landfill and we
chain waste: continue to build on our long-standing operational waste
management programme to identify opportunities to find more
– Zero operational waste,1 including eliminating single-use
beneficial uses for waste.
plastics2 by 2030
For example, at our wastewater treatment facility in Jurong and at
– 10% waste reduction from our supply chain by 2030
our site in Marburg, Germany, we are reducing the amount of
Product stewardship waste incinerated.
Our approach to product stewardship across both new and For our supply chain, we’re working on a waste footprint
existing products is built on a scientific method for environmental assessment to help with supplier engagement on waste reduction.
footprinting called life cycle assessment (LCA). We worked with
external specialists to co-develop an internal product carbon Investing in nature
footprinting tool, building on the LCA process, that covers both
Investing in nature protection and restoration is a key part of our
climate and nature to inform our scientists and engineers when
ambition and commitment to achieve a net zero, nature positive,
they develop new products. We also use publicly available tools
healthier planet. We aim to do this by making investments in
when we need to share information outside of GSK.
nature across our value chain. We are also prioritising nature
To embed sustainability into the design of all our future products, investments for the carbon credits we are committed to securing
we have developed a set of eco-design principles to help guide as part of our pathway to net zero emissions.
the decision-making.
Our approach is to partner with expert developers, investors and
We are actively working as part of a consortium of eight global NGOs to invest in early-stage nature projects for the long term.
pharmaceutical that have come together via the Pharmaceutical
GSK is an investor in Climate Asset Management’s Nature Based
Environment Group (PEG), with support from the SMI, to co-
Carbon Fund, which aims to invest at a landscape scale in
develop a shared way of measuring and reporting environmental
grassland, agriculture, forestry, wetlands and coastal carbon
product data.
projects in developing economies, to provide long-lasting, verified,
Since 2022, we have completed an LCA analysis for 22 products, positive impact at scale for the climate, biodiversity and local
which has enabled us to identify where we need to improve communities. This is a long-term investment over the next 15 years,
manufacturing design, to assess potential savings from design which aims to secure approximately a quarter of credits that we
changes and to provide product-level information to key need in 2030, to meet our commitment to invest in nature-based
customers on specific products. solutions for 20% of our 2020 footprint.
To help ensure that human health is a key outcome of the world’s
drive to protect and restore nature, in September 2023, we
published an open-source toolkit in partnership with Pollination,
developed with input from key nature and health experts from
organisations such as the Circular Bioeconomy Alliance, the
Nature Climate Solutions Alliance and the London School of
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. The toolkit aims to support
companies, investors and developers to incorporate health
considerations in the design of nature-based projects. We will
be seeking to test the toolkit in some of the nature investments
that we make.
1 Methodology changed in 2023 to only include waste and materials leaving our sites.
2 Where regulatory obligations allow, excluding plastics that are critical to product discovery and development, and health and safety.
22 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Environment continued
2020 2021 2022 2023
Energy
Natural gas purchased (GWh) 1,873 1,744 1,655 1,567
Electricity used (GWh) 1,102 1,008 970 958
Purchased renewable electricity (GWh) 487 631 697 782 A
Purchased non-renewable electricity (GWh) 605 372 263 163
On-site renewably generated electricity (GWh) 19 13 18 17 A
Exported electricity (GWh) 9 8 8 4
Coal (GWh) 0 0 0 0
Other fossil fuels (GWh) 49 58 81 60
Renewable heat (GWh) 9 8 13 12
Purchased heating and cooling (GWh) 52 52 41 39
Total energy for operations (GWh) 3,085 2,871 2,759 2,636 A
% renewable electricity 46% 63% 73% 83%
Carbon: Scope 1 and 2 emissions
On-site fuel use (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 355 333 320 301
Sales force vehicles (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 60 52 51 46
Propellant emissions during manufacture of inhalers (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 275 237 243 220
On-site waste or wastewater treatment (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 0 0 0 0
Refrigerant gas losses (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 20 11 13 13
Total Scope 1 emissions (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 711 633 626 581 A
Electricity (market-based emissions) (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 163 125 84 60
Purchased heating and cooling (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 6 6 4 4
Total Scope 2 market-based emissions (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 169 131 88 64 A
Total Scope 2 location-based emissions (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 309 285 265 240 A
Total Scope 1 and 2 market-based emissions (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 879 764 715 645 PR A
Fermentation/biogenic releases (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 27 10 12 12
Carbon: Scope 3 emissions1
Purchased goods and services (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 3,267 2,725 2,485 –
Capital goods (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 162 154 161 –
Fuel and energy-related activities (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 89 84 145 –
Transportation and distribution (upstream) (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 267 189 242 –
Waste generated in operations (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 20 64 51 –
Business travel (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 42 50 85 –
Employee commuting (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 37 48 60 –
Leased assets (upstream) (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 0 0 0 –
Transportation and distribution (downstream) (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 135 99 130 –
Processing of sold products (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 0 0 0 –
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2023 data has been independently assured.
1 O ther than propellant emissions data (which is collected through our internal systems); we will not have an accurate picture of 2023 Scope 3 emissions until
later in the year.
23 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Environment continued
2020 2021 2022 2023
Use of sold products (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 5,836 5,120 5,523 –
– Emissions from use of propellant-based inhalers by patients (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 5,631 5,039 5,429 5,039 A
End of life (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 24 51 47 –
Leased assets (downstream) (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 0 0 – –
Franchises (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 0 0 – –
Investments (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 70 41 66 –
Total Scope 3 emissions (thousands of tonnes CO2e) 9,949 8,624 8,995 –
Ozone-depleting substances
ODP inventory of CFC and HCFC in equipment (kg of CFC11e) 307 277 6 5
ODP calculated releases of CFC11e (kg of CFC11e) 8 8 0 0
Water use
Municipal (million m3) 6.9 5.8 5.6 5.6
Ground water (million m3) 2.7 2.0 1.7 1.6
Tankers (million m3) 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2
Total water use (million m3) 9.7 7.9 7.5 7.4 A
Recycled sources (million m3) 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.3
Water use at high water risk sites (million m3) 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 A
Water discharge
Wastewater to municipal sewers (million m3) 5.7 4.0 4.0 3.9
Wastewater to surface water (million m3) 2.8 1.9 1.8 2.2
Wastewater to land (million m3) 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Wastewater to other (million m3) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Total wastewater discharged (million m3) 8.6 5.9 5.9 6.2 A
% of GSK sites and supplier locations used by GSK that are compliant with AMR alliance and – – 94% 87% PR
wastewater API limits
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2023 data has been independently assured.
24 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Environment continued
2020 2021 2022 2023
Waste and materials1
Total waste recovered via a circular route (thousand tonnes) – 21.9 21.8 26.2
Total waste disposed via a non-circular route (thousand tonnes) – 33.9 28.5 23.5
Total waste and materials generated (thousand tonnes)1 63.0 55.8 50.3 49.7 PR
% circular waste – 39% 43% 53%
Total hazardous waste recovered via a circular route (thousand tonnes) – 2.9 2.9 3.6
Total hazardous waste disposed via a non-circular route (thousand tonnes) – 18.3 16.3 14.7
Total hazardous waste (thousand tonnes) 25.7 21.2 19.2 18.3
Total non-hazardous waste recovered via a circular route (thousand tonnes) – 19.0 18.9 22.5
Total non-hazardous waste disposed via a non-circular route (thousand tonnes) – 15.6 12.1 8.9
Total non-hazardous waste (thousand tonnes) 37.3 34.6 31.0 31.4
Total hazardous waste incinerated (thousand tonnes) 21.9 14.0 13.2 13.0
Total non-hazardous waste incinerated (thousand tonnes) 14.1 13.2 8.5 8.4
Total waste incinerated (thousand tonnes) 36.0 27.2 21.7 21.4
Total hazardous waste to landfill (thousand tonnes) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2
Total non-hazardous waste to landfill (thousand tonnes) 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.0
Total waste to landfill (thousand tonnes) 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.2
Sustainable sourcing
Percentage of paper deforestation free – – – 86% PR
Percentage of palm oil deforestation free – – – 98% PR
Compliance and remediation
Number of GSK internal audits 0 0 24 20
Number of GSK sites independently certified to ISO 4001 0 0 7 9
Environmental fines (£'000s) 0 0 0.2 0
Remediation spend ($m) 2.8 3.0 2.8 3.3
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2023 data has been independently assured.
1 M ethodology changed in 2023 to only include waste and materials leaving our sites. We have restated waste and materials data for 2021 and 2022 to reflect
this. Please see Environmental Data Table 2023 for more detail.
25 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Diversity, equity and inclusion
We want to ensure all our people can thrive, foster diversity in our clinical
trials and support diverse communities, as becoming a more inclusive
business is central to our purpose.
100% 45% 18.4%
2023 phase III trials included a VP-and-above roles held by ethnically diverse leaders at
demographic plan women globally VP-and-above in the UK
Our commitment
Create a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace; enhance – Update towards 2025 aspirations through fair and equitable
recruitment of diverse patient populations in our clinical trials; opportunities:
and support diverse communities – aspire to have women hold at least 45% of VP-and-above
roles globally by the end of 2025
Our ESG Performance Rating metrics 2023
– aspire to have at least 30% ethnically diverse leaders in our
– 100% of phase III trials initiated in 2023 will have proactive
roles at VP-and-above in the US by the end of 2025, and
plans in place designed to enrol appropriately diverse trial
increase the percentage of Black or African American, and
participants, consistent with disease epidemiology
Hispanic or Latinx VP-and-above leaders year on year
– Improve year-on-year spend with US-based certified
– aspire to have at least 18% ethnically diverse leaders in our
diverse-owned suppliers
roles at VP-and-above in the UK by the end of 2025, and
increase the percentage of Black VP-and-above leaders
year on year
Becoming a more diverse, inclusive and equitable business will Clinical trial diversity
help to attract and retain outstanding talent, bringing greater
Diseases and medicines can affect people differently depending
opportunity to create better health outcomes for patients.
on ethnicity, sex, race and age. This means it is important to
We want better health outcomes for all. Our clinical trials need to ensure that the patients and people enrolled in our clinical trials
reflect the populations affected by the diseases we are aiming to represent the real-world patient/people population that will use
address. Backed by the latest scientific research, we are working our medicines and vaccines and represent those affected by the
to make sure we recruit participants to our clinical trials in line with disease under study.
the epidemiology of the diseases in question.
We continue to make progress in advancing clinical trial diversity.
Being an inclusive business will make the most of our people’s In addition to ensuring 100% of our phase III trials have diversity
potential and increase our positive impact. Our culture should allow plans in place to enrol the groups most affected by the disease
all our people to thrive, we want all our leadership to reflect our GSK being studied, based on disease epidemiology, we also are
people and our people to reflect the communities we work and hire challenging ourselves to actively monitor patient recruitment in
in. Diversity brings better insights and better-quality decision- real time to ensure that we reach our diversity goals. We met our
making to help us perform better and understand our diverse objective of 100% of the phase III interventional trials initiated in
patients. We want a truly inclusive working environment where all 2023 having proactive diversity plans.
employees can be themselves and their diverse perspectives and
In February 2023, we published a study of 17 years of GSK and
characteristics are valued so they can thrive, perform at their best
ViiV Healthcare US clinical trial diversity data. It showed that
and help us get ahead of disease together.
enrolling participants to clinical trials based on real-world disease
To build a diverse workforce, we need a diverse pool of job epidemiology data, rather than census data, would ensure that
applicants – so we are working to improve access to STEM those trials reflect the populations affected by different diseases.
education among under-represented communities. These efforts As an example, US Census Bureau data indicates 13.4% of the
extend from community programmes and secondary education, total US population is Black/African American. However,
through working with universities to mentoring young people epidemiology shows us that of HIV patients recently diagnosed
beginning their careers. in the US, 55.3% are Black/African American. We are using
epidemiologic data to guide enrolment in our clinical trials,
allowing us to set more representative trial enrolment goals.
26 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Diversity, equity and inclusion continued
By publicly sharing this research, we hope to advance the In the UK at the end of 2023, we had 18.4% ethnically diverse
discussion around clinical trial diversity and improve how the leaders at VP-and-above, compared with 14.3% in 2022. We had
pharmaceutical sector approaches the issue of clinical trial 1.9% Black leaders at VP level and above compared with 1.6% in
diversity. 2022. In the US at the end of 2023, we had 35.7% ethnically
diverse leaders at VP-and-above, compared with 31.3% in 2022.
Supporting diversity in our supply chains We had 8.1% Black or African American leaders at VP-and-above
By engaging with and mentoring small and diverse-owned compared with 8.6% in 2022. We had 6.4% Hispanic or Latinx
businesses in our supply chain, we can help them identify leaders at VP-and-above compared with 6.4% in 2022.
potential areas for growth. In 2023, we increased investments We are working to ensure that we have a representative pool
with select suppliers in marketing, sales and technology. In of job applicants from which to hire. In the US, we continue to
addition, we significantly increased partnerships with external engage with Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and
advocacy groups, deepened relationships with key existing Hispanic Serving Institutions, and our employee alumni, to
diverse suppliers, and onboarded new diverse suppliers. encourage applications for our graduate and experienced hire
This year, we expanded our successful US supplier diversity positions and target recruitment campaigns to reach under-
programme to the UK. This programme provides opportunities to represented groups.
under-represented groups, including women, ethnic minorities, A highly talented and diverse team is essential to help us get
members of the LGBTQ+ community, people with disabilities and ahead of disease together. Our fair and equitable pay practices
military veterans, as well as small businesses in high- help ensure we create an environment where people feel
unemployment, low-income communities. welcome, valued, included, and supported to thrive. We
conduct country-based reviews and ensure all markets have
Supporting an inclusive culture clear guidance, tools, and support to ensure pay equity. If
Our Code requires all our people to commit to being inclusive and unexplained differences are detected, we address them through
aware of their impact on others. Our annual mandatory training our compensation processes. Our focus on pay equity while
on Creating an Inclusive Workplace sets out the standards we building a diverse organisation helps us to deliver strong UK
expect. pay gap results.
gsk.com: The Code Our 2023 gender pay gap for all permanent UK-based GSK
employees is -0.50% (mean), compared to the national average
Building a diverse organisation of 13.2%. This is the second time that we’re reporting our UK
ethnicity pay gap comparing the average pay of our White and
We are fundamentally committed to equal employment
Ethnically Diverse employees. Our 2023 UK ethnicity pay gap for
opportunity and non-discrimination for all employees and we
all permanent UK-based GSK employees is -0.74% (mean),
want all our leadership to reflect our GSK people and our people
compared with 0.06% in 2022.
to reflect the communities we work and hire in. That is why we
have set leadership aspirations for race and ethnicity in senior In addition, within our 2023 UK ethnicity pay gap report we are
positions in the US and UK and gender aspirations for senior also sharing the pay gaps comparing the average pay of our
positions globally. To support this, we ensure that our recruitment White employees with those in the ethnic groupings of Black,
and selection processes are fair and equitable to all. Mixed, Asian, and Other. This is with reference to the UK
government’s recently published guidance to provide a more
For vacancies in our senior grades, we expect diverse shortlists
granular view.
and interview panels by gender and ethnicity. We are working
with recruitment agencies, our internal Employee Resource gsk.com: Gender pay gap report • Ethnicity pay gap report
Groups and specialist organisations to drive progress. Hiring
managers are required to complete inclusive interview training An inclusive and accessible place to work
before they start selection processes.
Our workplaces must be inclusive and accessible to all, with a
At the end of 2023, women held 45% of VP-and-above roles culture of empathy and acceptance where we embrace each
globally, compared with 42% in 2022. Women made up 48% of all other’s differences and identities. Our Employee Resource Groups
employees in 2023, and 50% of all management roles. (ERGs) are employee-led communities that collaborate with the
business in achieving their strategic priorities, in line with the
In countries that meet our criteria for data confidentiality and
global inclusion and diversity strategy. Alongside our Councils
anonymity, we disclose the race and ethnicity of our people
focused on single aspects of diversity like race or gender, this year,
at each level and set aspirations for leadership representation
we also created a new forum – the Intersectionality and Inclusion
which reflect available talent, our employee population and
Council – through which our various ERGs can provide cross-
external communities. Currently, the UK and the US meet those
dimensional input to our priority global initiatives that affect
criteria.
employees at scale.
27 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Diversity, equity and inclusion continued
This year, we undertook the UK’s Business Disability Forum’s This year, we relaunched our Mental Health Matters training.
Disability Smart Assessment; it showed that we have made clear Available globally, it is designed to help our people spot the signs
improvements over the last three years in making adjustments of poor mental health, know how to start a conversation with
for people with disabilities, recruitment, retention, the built others, and signpost resources to support everyone’s wellbeing.
environment and technology. We are now developing a new
three-year plan to further improve how we meet the needs of Supporting diverse innovators for the future
people with disabilities. We’re investing in STEM education to make it more equitable and
We are taking the needs of all our people into account by using to support and inspire the next generation of diverse, talented
our own Inclusive Design Standards for all new and retrofitted innovators.
facilities, including our new global headquarters in London. These Our GSK Science in the Summer™ initiative offers free, hands-on
standards aim to ensure that our workplaces are welcoming to all STEM learning in community settings to students in the US from
our people. groups traditionally under-represented in STEM careers, or from
We have also partnered with PurpleSpace to sponsor a series of under-resourced communities. It has reached more than 380,000
‘Confident Conversation’ guides, available to all. These guides are children across the US since its launch in 1986.
a resource for people with disabilities and health conditions to In 2020, we committed $10 million over 10 years to support the
help build confidence and personal resilience. They are also useful number of women and Black and Latinx students in Philadelphia
for colleagues, managers and leaders to learn more about how to entering STEM careers. More than 138,000 students of all
support employees with disabilities and health conditions. backgrounds have benefited from GSK STEM equity grants
Additionally, Disability Confidence training has been added into provided to local non-profit organisations so far.
our First Line Leader training, aimed at all our people managers.
In the UK, we launched a £6 million, 10-year STEM equity
This training is designed to develop inclusive leaders that are able
programme, targeting 11–25-year-old girls and young women,
to promote disability confidence within their teams.
black people and people from low socio-economic backgrounds.
We continue to work to make sure that our LGBTQ+ colleagues The programme includes nationwide STEM mentoring, delivered
feel welcome, valued and included. We were once more in partnership with established mentoring organisations. In its first
recognised as a Gold employer within Stonewall’s Top Global three years, we aim to reach approximately 4,000 young people
Employers Index. through this programme.
2020 2021 2022 2023
Gender diversity1
% of women (all employees) 47% 47% 47% 48% A
SVP/VP level 38% 40% 42% 45% PR A
Director level 46% 48% 49% 50% A
Manager level 50% 50% 51% 51% A
Total women in management 48% 48% 50% 50% A
% of women on the Board 42% 42% 27% 42%
Share of women in STEM-related positions (as a % of total STEM positions) 44% 45% 45% 46%
% of women in management positions in revenue-generating functions 41% 41% 43% 45%
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2023 data has been independently assured.
1 T his data represents those that actively responded to identify a gender category. In 2023, 0.2% did not actively respond and a further 0.1% indicated ‘I prefer
not to say’.
28 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Diversity, equity and inclusion continued
SVP/VP Director Manager All employees
2020 2021 2022 2023 2020 2021 2022 2023 2020 2021 2022 2023 2020 2021 2022 2023
US ethnic
diversity1
American – –2 –2 –2 0.4% 0.4% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.4% 0.3% 0.2% 0.4% 0.4% 0.3% 0.3%
Indian
or Alaska
Native
Asian 10.8% 10.8% 13.3% 18.8% 13.8% 14.7% 16.2% 16.8% 15.9% 16.7% 17.8% 18.4% 12.9% 13.7% 14.9% 15.7%
Black or 5.8% 7.9% 8.6% 8.1% 5.5% 5.2% 6.0% 6.5% 6.3% 7.1% 7.9% 7.8% 9.9% 9.8% 10.4% 11.0% PR
African
American
Hispanic
5.0% 5.8% 6.4% 6.4% 4.5% 4.5% 4.5% 4.9% 5.1% 5.4% 4.4% 4.9% 5.1% 5.3% 5.3% 5.8% PR
or Latinx
Native – –2 –2 –2 0.3% 0.3% 0.2% 0.2% 0.1% 0.1% –2 0.1% 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% 0.2%
Hawaiian or
Other Pacific
Islander
Two or more
1.2% 2.2% 2.1% 1.7% 0.9% 1.2% 1.5% 1.3% 1.6% 1.5% 1.7% 2.0% 1.5% 1.6% 1.9% 1.9%
races
Ethnically 23.2% 27.1% 31.3% 35.7% 25.3% 26.3% 28.7%30.0% 29.3% 31.1% 32.2% 33.5% 30.0% 31.0% 33.1% 34.9% PR A
diverse total
White total 76.8% 72.9% 68.7%64.3% 74.7% 73.7% 71.3% 70.0% 70.8% 68.9% 67.8% 66.5% 70.0%69.0% 66.9% 65.1%
UK ethnic
diversity1,3
Asian 5.7% 6.5% 7.4% 9.7% 11.8% 12.6% 14.2% 15.1% 16.0% 17.4% 16.5% 17.4% 13.1% 13.8% 13.3% 14.2%
Black 1.6% 1.6% 1.6% 1.9% 1.8% 1.8% 1.9% 2.2% 2.3% 2.7% 3.1% 3.4% 2.5% 2.6% 2.7% 3.0% PR
Mixed 1.2% 2.0% 1.6% 2.9% 1.5% 1.9% 1.7% 2.0% 1.8% 2.0% 1.8% 2.2% 1.8% 2.1% 1.9% 2.1%
Other 2.5% 2.8% 3.7% 3.9% 1.6% 1.5% 1.7% 1.9% 1.6% 1.6% 1.8% 2.1% 1.3% 1.3% 1.4% 1.6%
Ethnically 11.1% 12.9% 14.3% 18.4% 16.7% 17.8% 19.5% 21.3% 21.8% 23.7% 23.2%25.0% 18.7% 19.8% 19.3% 20.9% PR A
diverse total
White total 88.9% 87.1% 85.7% 81.6% 83.4%82.2%80.5% 78.7% 78.2% 76.3% 76.8% 75.0% 81.3% 80.2%80.7% 79.1%
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2023 data has been independently assured.
1 T his data represents those that responded to identify a race or ethnicity category. In the US, 4.3% of employees did not actively respond to identify a race or
ethnicity category, and a further 1.9% indicated ‘I prefer not to say’. In the UK, 9.5% did not actively respond and a further 3.2% indicated ‘I prefer not to say’.
Due to rounding, the sum of the data may be marginally different from the totals.
2 I nsufficient data to report (fewer than three employees).
29 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Ethical standards
Our culture guides our people to behave in an ethical way, to do the right thing
and Speak Up about any concerns they have. We expect everyone who works for
us to live up to this, and we expect the same of our suppliers.
100% 83% 89%
employees completed our of employees believe they of direct high-risk suppliers
mandatory training 'can and do Speak Up if achieved our minimum
things don't feel right' EcoVadis score
Our commitment
Promote ethical behaviour across our business by supporting our – Percentage of employees who believe they ‘can and do Speak
employees to do the right thing and working with suppliers that Up if things don’t feel right’ is above the general industry
share our standards and operate in a responsible way benchmark1
– Percentage of direct high-risk suppliers that achieve GSK’s
Our ESG Performance Rating metrics 2023
minimum EcoVadis score or have an improvement plan in
– Percentage of employees and complementary workers place
complete GSK’s 2023 mandatory training
Supporting GSK people to do the right thing
It is important that all our people, and everyone who works on our Our approach to managing ABAC risk, and other risks relating
behalf, conducts themselves in the right way. This builds trust in what to ethical standards, forms part of our well-embedded risk
we do, protects our business and helps create a workplace where management framework, which is described in detail in our
we all thrive. How we do things is as important as what we do. Annual Report, on pages 57-61.
Our Code of Conduct (The Code) reflects our purpose to unite g sk.com: Anti-bribery and corruption policy • The Code
science, technology and talent to get ahead of disease together.
It sets out the commitments we make as a company and to each Reporting and investigating concerns
other to deliver on our purpose and ambition. The Code is Anyone inside or outside GSK can raise concerns or speak to our
supported by additional global policies and standards, which integrity lines, confidentially and anonymously, without fear of
can be found in our Code Hub. We have an accompanying global retaliation. We take every concern seriously and review every
mandatory learning curriculum, Living our Code, which all our report to see whether we need to investigate formally. If our
people are required to complete, comprising three modules: investigations show an employee has breached our policies,
The Code, Creating an Inclusive Workplace and Protecting GSK. we take action.
Protecting GSK focuses on key areas such as anti-bribery and
In 2023, we saw an overall decrease in the number of employees
corruption (ABAC), information and cyber security, privacy,
who had concerns raised against them, employees disciplined for
reporting human safety information related to our products, and
policy violations and open cases at year end. This is reflective of
our Speak Up integrity lines. In 2023, 100% of our employees and
several factors including external geopolitical and economic
99% of complementary workers completed this training where
issues affecting some countries which changes the nature of
due by year end.
concerns raised and, internally, our continued emphasis on
We have additional ABAC training for our people in certain appropriate management and closure of cases.
high-risk roles or geographic regions. This helps them identify
and mitigate any potential ABAC risk – especially in third-party
relationships – and recognise, report and manage conflicts of
interest. In 2023, 100% of employees and 99% of complementary
workers completed this training where due by year end.
1 T he general industry benchmark is 66% according to 2023 research by KornFerry.
30 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Ethical standards continued
Our commitment to human rights
We are committed to respecting internationally recognised We conduct audits and site visits covering EHS and labour rights
human rights wherever we do business. Our salient human rights for our priority suppliers.1 Some of the issues identified during
relate to access to healthcare, research practices, patient safety, supplier visits in 2023 related to policy, wages and compliance.
environment, health and safety (EHS), and privacy. We continue All observations have action plans in place to drive improvement,
to make progress in integrating them within our operations and which are tracked and followed up for completion.
how we conduct our business.
We are committed to fair and equitable pay, ensuring that all
We are signatories to the UN Global Compact and our Human employees globally receive pay that is competitive in their local
Rights Position Statement lays out our commitment to the UN markets and sufficient to support a sustainable standard of living.
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We have a In 2023, the Fair Wage Network certified GSK as a Living Wage
cross-business Human Rights Steering Group, which reports to employer, after it reviewed the global gap analysis we conducted
the GSK Leadership Team and Board’s Corporate Responsibility in 2022. It confirmed that all GSK workers are paid at or above the
Committee, and drives progress on human rights impacts and living wage in their relevant markets. We have also developed a
risks across the business. consistent approach to how GSK will manage global fair wage
analysis annually, as well as a methodology for the Fair Wage
In 2023, we carried out human rights training for priority suppliers,
Network to use to continue to assess us.
aimed at ensuring a good understanding of human rights and
labour principles, aligned with international standards. We also g sk.com: Our position on Human Rights • Modern Slavery Act statement
continued our human rights training for procurement and third- • Our position on working with third parties
party engagement leads, to better equip them to spot human
rights issues when visiting suppliers.
Working with third parties
Our suppliers and other third parties – including agents, We assess all our third parties to understand whether we consider
distributors and affiliate companies (where we have an equity them to be low, medium or high risk. Our high-risk third parties are
stake) – help us research, develop, manufacture and distribute determined by location in high-risk markets, size of spend and
the medicines and vaccines that patients need. We want to work type of goods or services. They are mostly goods and services
with business partners who share our commitment to high ethical providers (62%), distributors and wholesalers (3%), direct material
standards and operate in a responsible way. How these third suppliers (3%) and contract manufacturers (1%). In 2023, we
parties act can have a direct impact on us. It is important to assessed our high-risk third parties, totalling over 7,500
manage our relationships with them well, including the way we assessments across 17 risk areas. We also use tools to assess how
choose, contract and monitor them. suppliers manage risks, including EcoVadis desktop assessments.
Our third-party risk management programme provides the Additionally, to further support ongoing oversight of our third
framework by which we manage and oversee risks associated parties and suppliers, we have additional controls and monitoring
with the third parties we engage to provide goods or services. programmes to ensure they meet our standards and
We expect our third parties to comply with applicable laws and requirements. For example, we include controls as relevant in
regulations and to adopt, at minimum, our ABAC and labour our principal risks to manage third-party risk, which differs by
rights principles and, where relevant, to comply with our standards business area according to the third-party risk profiles. Teams
on quality, patient safety, health and safety, and the environment. in our Global Supply Chain business are responsible for on-site
All expectations are formalised in contracts and subject to supplier visits and audits, periodic business review and
appropriate levels of audit and oversight. All new suppliers performance meetings, and annual or semi-annual enterprise-
undergo a risk assessment and all existing suppliers are re- level governance. In R&D, we have an established third-party
assessed once every three years on average. Appropriate action monitoring programme to assess compliance with our policies
is taken against those third parties found in breach of their and standards. In our Commercial business, we annually risk
undertakings. assess key commercial third parties and prioritise independent
monitoring reviews, focused on ABAC, commercial practices and
scientific and patient engagement. We monitor the actions we
require them to complete and the reasons for doing so.
1 O ur largest suppliers, including those who supply globally medically critical products, are critical to our R&D, and those largest by spend.
31 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Ethical standards continued
Helping our suppliers to manage environment, We conducted 47 supplier audits following industry standard
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative guidelines. We trained
health and safety risks
more than 1,000 supplier employees on EHS and ESG
Across the organisation, we give additional support on EHS risks
fundamentals this year, strengthened EHS contractual obligations
to our largest suppliers, including those who supply globally
and have worked with suppliers to help them improve their
medically critical products, those critical to our R&D, and those
EcoVadis scores. We introduced a process to pause supply if a
largest by spend.1 We help suppliers improve safety management
third party has a significant EHS incident, and the decision on
systems and build overall EHS capability, focusing on active
whether to restart or discontinue work with the third party
pharmaceutical ingredients manufacturers and contract
depends on completion of an improvement plan and trajectory.
manufacturing suppliers.
We also introduced an EHS risk app-based questionnaire for GSK
We set EHS requirements and review performance as part of our
visitors to a third party as part of our monitoring activities, which
internal EHS governance and oversight. We visit sites, in person
generate improvement actions that we track through to
or virtually, to help suppliers better understand and control their
completion.
risks. This year, we conducted 73 physical visits across 63 priority
suppliers.2 g sk.com: Our position on working with third parties • Annual Report
2023 • Principal risks and uncertainties pages 230-240
Using data and AI responsibly
Data is an essential foundation to realising our ambitions for In 2023, we created cross-functional AI Governance Council to
patients. Advances in artificial intelligence (AI) and machine oversee our AI strategy and to ensure responsible adoption of
learning (ML) technologies present tremendous opportunities, but AI/ML. This is complemented by an internal policy to ensure that
the technologies must be approached correctly, responsibly and AI/ML adoption is safe and aligned with GSK’s culture by
ethically. Increases in the volume of data processed through AI/ establishing AI Principles, which are underpinned by the ethical
ML use have resulted in a greater focus on data governance and standards set out in the GSK Code. The AI Governance Council is
the ethical use of personal information, over and above responsible for enforcing our AI Principles and monitoring the
compliance with data privacy laws. external AI/ML landscape to anticipate potential risks to GSK.
We take our responsibility for data privacy seriously and we We have also published a public policy position on responsible AI
exercise high standards of integrity in dealing with the personal to set out our views, commitments and asks of policymakers. Our
information of our employees, patients, clinical research new operating model for AI governance is scalable and flexible to
participants, healthcare providers and other stakeholders. adapt to the upcoming regulations. We are engaging with
policymakers about the most appropriate regulatory approaches
Our Digital and Privacy Governance Board oversees our overall
that foster innovation while preserving safety and trust.
data ethics and privacy operating model, supported by digital and
privacy legal experts and compliance professionals. We monitor g sk.com: Annual Report, pages 57-61 • Annual Report, R&D pages
and mitigate new and emerging cyber threats to protect GSK 27-29 • Our position on Responsible AI
from cyber security risks. We have additional governance boards
that oversee the use of our data in the research, development,
manufacture and supply of our products to ensure we follow
regulations and meet ethical obligations.
Political engagement
Our industry is heavily regulated, meaning that our business We are committed to the highest ethical standards and legislative
model and market are influenced by legislation and regulation. At requirements in all of our political engagements. We do not make
GSK, we seek to contribute to public policy debate, especially in corporate political contributions, nor do we sponsor party political
relation to life sciences and healthcare. As a major multinational meetings anywhere around the world.
company, we are frequently invited by governments to give our
g sk.com: Our position on political advocacy • Political advocacy
views on the development of new policies, along with other disclosure
stakeholders such as non-governmental organisations, scientists,
healthcare professionals, patients and industry groups.
1 G SK maintains a list of globally medically critical products. These are drug products approved to treat a life-threatening disease or medical condition for
which there is no other adequately available alternative and of which GSK is the only provider.
2 Our EHS priority suppliers are API suppliers who are, or will be, medically-, R&D-, or revenue-critical to GSK, or are high-spend suppliers.
32 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
EEtthhiiccaall ssttaannddaarrddss ccoonnttiinnuueedd
2020 2021 2022 2023
Ethical conduct1
Employees who had concerns raised against them (including current year and prior year 2,105 2,534 2,191 1,960 A
open cases)
Employees disciplined for policy violations 553 910 850 798 A
Breakdown of types of policy violation2
Employee conduct3 268 555 367 304 A
Sales and marketing 63 166 168 122 A
Product quality 85 65 48 76 A
Safeguarding people and information and assets 60 78 140 177 A
Employee relations and HR policies 18 20 42 994 A
R&D and medical practices 7 13 13 7 A
Anti-bribery and corruption 8 22 12 394 A
Cyber security 27 9 14 245 A
EHS and sustainability 9 16 152 646 A
Other 17 5 4 4 A
Employees who were dismissed or agreed to leave the company voluntarily as a result of 103 177 290 256 A
misconduct
Documented warnings 455 740 566 553 A
Open cases awaiting investigation or a disciplinary decision at year end 617 636 457 297 A
Mandatory training7
% of employees and complementary workers that complete GSK’s mandatory training8 – – 99% 100% PR A
% of employees that complete GSK’s mandatory training – The Code: Living our Values and 100% 99% 100% 100%
Expectations (2019, 2020); Working at GSK (2021)
% of complementary workers that complete GSK’s mandatory training – The Code: Living our 97% 93% 98% 99%
Values and Expectations (2019, 2020); Working at GSK (2021)
% of employees that complete GSK’s mandatory training – ABAC 100% 100% 100% 100%
% of complementary workers that complete GSK’s mandatory training – ABAC 100% 99% 96% 99%
Reporting concerns
% of employees who believe they ‘can and do Speak Up if things don’t feel right’ – 87% 87% 83% PR A
Suppliers
% of direct high-risk suppliers that achieve GSK’s minimum EcoVadis score or have an 53% 80% 82% 89% PR A
improvement plan in place
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2023 data has been independently assured.
1 In 2023, we enhanced our analytics of types of discipline taken and identified additional cases from prior years where disciplinary action was not reported.
As a result, we restated some prior years metrics with the following net increase changes in employees disciplined for policy violations from prior reporting:
2020 (1); 2021 (3) and 2022 (3). Disciplinary action was taken within the year.
2 I n 2022, we updated the reporting methodology for the breakdown of types of policy violation to provide more granularity by case class as there was a
broader distribution from the top five policy area categories historically reported under 'other'. To enable comparison, prior year data has been restated using
the new reporting methodology.
3 I n 2022, we changed our process for the circumstances that trigger discipline for late completion of mandatory training, now reported under employee
conduct. As a result, we saw fewer disciplinary cases in 2022 compared to prior years.
4 I n 2023 changes from prior years are reflective of several factors including external geopolitical and economic issues affecting some countries which changes
the nature of concerns raised and, internally, our continued emphasis on appropriate management and closure of cases, correlating in an increase in these
areas.
5 I n 2023, policy violation class type name changed from Computer and data-breach security to Cyber Security, content/classification remains the same and
therefore data is comparable year on year.
6 T he majority of EHS and sustainability category increases in 2022 were written warnings related to compliance with the company's COVID-19 vaccination
mandate, safety or testing requirements, to ensure the health, safety and wellbeing of our workforce, which were subsequently lifted in April 2023, correlating
in a decrease in 2023.
7 T hese figures are based on active employees and complementary workers at year end. Data from 2020-21 is split between employees and complementary
workers, as disclosed in our prior ESG reports, and rounded to the nearest whole number. 2020-21 also includes data from our previous Consumer Healthcare
business; due to attrition over the last three years, restating completion rates would not provide a comparable metric.
8 In 2022, we updated the way in which we report completion of mandatory training by combining metrics for employees and complementary workers across
the mandatory trainings into a single metric, rounded to the nearest whole number.
33 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Ethical standards continued
2020 2021 2022 2023
Supplier spend by region
Asia-Pacific – – 8.6% 8%
Europe, Middle East and Africa – – 58.5% 55%
Latin America – – 1.5% 2%
North America – – 31.3% 35%
US political engagement
Spend on federal lobbying activities ($m) 3.80 5.30 4.46 5.10
Trade association membership spend ($m) 21.5 20.3 20.6 20.6
Corporate political contributions ($)1 0 0 0 0
Political action committee contributions from US employees to state and federal candidates ($'000) 366.8 298.0 360.5 325.8
European political engagement
Trade association membership spend (£m)3 2.28 2.08 1.91 2.00
Corporate political contributions (€)1 0 0 0 0
Cost of representing our interests to EU institutions (€m)2 1.82 1.18 1.22 0.70
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2023 data has been independently assured.
1 G SK does not make corporate political contributions, nor do we sponsor political meetings anywhere around the world.
2 T his includes the latest available figures from the previous year. Figures from the reporting year are published annually in March, after publication of this
document.
3 E uropean political memberships included here are EFPIA (European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations) and ABPI (Association of the
British Pharmaceutical Industry)
34 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Product governance
To protect our patients, it is critically important to ensure the quality, safety and
reliable supply of our products.
1,081 114 7,988
quality audits of our regulatory inspections at our clinical trial protocol
contract manufacturers manufacturing sites and local summaries registered and
and suppliers operating companies 6,734 summaries of results
Our commitment
We commit to maintaining robust quality and safety processes, – Number of FDA warning letters
and using data and new technologies responsibly – Total number of Class I/II external product recalls across all
markets
Our ESG Performance Rating metrics 2023
– Register and disclose all human subject research of GSK
– Average number of critical and major findings per inspection products. Specifically, register protocol summaries for studies
by FDA/MHRA/EMA regulators1 initiated in 2023; and disclose results summaries for studies
– Percentage of inspections from all regulators with no critical with results due in 2023
findings or official action indicated
Product quality and patient safety are critically important to GSK. These systems enable us to deliver a safe and reliable supply of
We have systems in place across the company that ensure we high-quality medicines and vaccines. When issues arise, our
meet the high standards we set ourselves, and those that are quality systems, in line with our values-driven culture, ensure they
expected of us externally. are responded to swiftly and transparently.
Maintaining quality across GSK
We have a detailed and specific quality framework that describes Inspections, recalls and audit
how we comply with regulatory requirements and other standards
We are subject to frequent regulatory inspections in markets
across our markets. This addresses global and local regulations
where we supply our medicines and vaccines. These inspections
across manufacturing and distribution processes, and is based on
provide independent assurance that our development,
principles defined by the International Council for Harmonisation
manufacturing and distribution processes adhere to the required
of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use.
high quality standards and expectations. We work to ensure we
Our GSK quality function is responsible for managing quality are inspection ready at all times.
and for ensuring a quality mindset is embedded throughout the
In 2023, we had 114 regulatory inspections at our manufacturing
organisation at all levels. It brings together an extensive global
sites and local operating companies, compared with 122 in 2022.
network of quality and compliance professionals within each of
We received zero warning letters from the United States Food and
our business units, from site level to senior management.
Drug Administration (FDA) or critical findings from the Medicines
Our Quality Management System provides the standards required and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) and
to be followed by GSK people to support good distribution and European Medicines Agency (EMA) in 2023. We respond to and
manufacturing practice and to maintain a standardised and learn from all inspection findings, taking the necessary actions to
compliant approach to all our quality activities, aligned to address them.
the regulatory expectations of the markets that we supply to.
Throughout 2023, we had two Class I product recalls. In these
instances, we engaged with regulators and acted quickly to
prioritise patient safety. There were fewer Class II recalls
compared with 2022. If necessary to protect patients, we will not
hesitate to recall products voluntarily.
1 We consider any observations from the US FDA as major.
35 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Product governance continued
Quality management along our supply chains We have a comprehensive quality oversight model for suppliers
that is aligned to our Quality Management System. It uses a
We expect all our contract manufacturers and suppliers to
risk-based approach to assess, qualify, manage and monitor our
comply with GSK standards. In 2023, we conducted 1,081 quality
third-party suppliers on an ongoing basis, driving continuous
audits of contract manufacturers and suppliers to verify that they
performance.
do so.
Pharmacovigilance
We have a well-established and rigorous worldwide system to Tackling counterfeit medicines and vaccines
monitor and review the safety of our products throughout clinical
Falsified products put the health of patients at risk and threaten
development and after regulatory approval. Through this
our brand and reputation. We report all cases of confirmed
pharmacovigilance system, we aim to enhance patient care and
counterfeit products to the WHO and to relevant regulatory
safety when using our marketed and investigational medicines
authorities. We actively participate in legal proceedings against
and vaccines. We also support public health programmes by
illegal actors, and support customs and local authorities with
using this system to provide reliable, comprehensive information
regular training. We also monitor online marketplaces and social
on our products’ overall benefit-risk balance.
media to request takedowns of sites illicitly selling prescription-
We expect our partners to meet the same high standards of only medicines.
safety governance. We conduct reviews of third-party safety
g sk.com: Our position on falsified and substandard healthcare products
systems, monitoring of contractual obligations and fostering
collaboration through the life cycle of the relationship.
g sk.com: Our position on pharmacovigilance
Clinical data transparency
We are committed to transparency of data from clinical studies As part of our commitment to transparency, we have made 7,988
that evaluate our medicines and vaccines. This is because we want protocol summaries and 6,734 summaries of results available since
to enable access to information about our research to study the GSK trial register was set up in 2004. We have also listed 2,669
participants, patients, healthcare providers and the wider public. clinical trials for data sharing via www.vivli.org.
It also allows us to acknowledge the invaluable contribution of the
people who take part in our clinical research.
2020 2021 2022 2023
Regulatory inspections and audits
Audits of our third parties’ quality processes 1,451 1,044 1,0891 1,081
Total regulatory inspections from all health authorities 86 111 122 114 PR A
% of inspections from all regulators with no critical findings or official action indicated 100% 100% 99% 100% PR A
Total regulatory inspections from FDA/MHRA/EMA regulators 27 35 36 32 PR A
Number of critical/major findings by FDA/MHRA/EMA regulators 11 4 26 11 PR A
Total FDA regulatory inspections 7 2 8 5 PR A
Number of FDA observations 3 1 16 8 PR A
Number of FDA warning letters 0 0 0 0 PR A
Product recalls
Total number of Class I external product recalls 0 0 0 2 PR A
Total number of Class II external product recalls 4 6 5 3 PR A
Total number of Class III external product recalls 16 12 7 11 PR A
Total product recalls 20 18 12 16 A
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2023 data has been externally assured.
1 2022 figure has been restated.
36 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Product governance continued
2020 2021 2022 2023
FDA product recalls by business and class1
Pharmaceuticals business
Class I product recalls 0 0 0 0 PR A
Class II product recalls 0 0 0 0 PR A
Class III product recalls 0 0 1 1 A
Vaccines business
Class I product recalls 0 0 0 1 PR A
Class II product recalls 0 1 0 0 PR A
Class III product recalls 0 1 0 1 A
Clinical trial management, pharmacovigiliance and transparency
Clinical trial audits (on our own trials and those conducted by third parties on our behalf) 223 294 339 286
Number of FDA sponsor inspections related to clinical trial management and pharmacovigilance – 0 0 0
that resulted in voluntary action indicated (VAI)
Number of FDA sponsor inspections related to clinical trial management and pharmacovigilance – 0 0 0
that resulted in official action indicated (OAI)
Clinical study reports/study report synopsis on GSK and ViiV study register4 60 48 35 99
Trials for which anonymised data will be made available upon meeting defined eligibility criteria4 77 51 40 111
Research proposals approved for access to GSK and ViiV clinical trial data4 23 16 34 22
Human subject research of GSK products: percentage of protocol summaries initiated in current – – 100% 100% PR
year registered and results disclosed in the current year2,3
Publicly available trial protocol summaries (register)4 7,178 7,290 7,377 7,988 PR
Publicly available trial result summaries (disclose)4 6,160 6,239 6,295 6,734 PR
PR Metric contributes to our ESG Performance Rating.
A Metric’s 2023 data has been independently assured.
1 T his data includes recalls in the US market which may be initiated voluntarily by GSK, requested by the US FDA or mandated by the US FDA under its
statutory authority.
2 From 2023 includes ViiV Healthcare in addition to GSK.
3 T his metric created and first reported in 2022; for 2023, the number of all protocol summaries registered (103) and results summaries disclosed (98) was
independently assured.
4 C umulative summaries for GSK from 2004 and from 2023 cumulative for ViiV Healthcare from 2009.
37 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix
Materiality assessment
In 2021-22, GSK conducted a materiality assessment, a process Through this process, 16 issues were identified as most material
of engagement and analysis that identifies and prioritises the to our business and our external stakeholders, illustrated in the
ESG issues that pose the most significant risks and opportunities matrix below. The issues identified through this process helped
to the business, and where GSK has the most significant impact. confirm our six ESG focus areas: Access, Global health and health
The materiality assessment is used to inform strategic decision- security, Environment, Diversity, equity and inclusion, Ethical
making and helps us to prioritise issues covered in public reporting. standards and Product governance.
We used Datamaran’s data analytics platform to conduct To read more about our materiality methodology, process and
the assessment. The software monitors external ESG risks by key observations please see our materiality overview on gsk.com.
assessing the coverage of issues within peer annual and
g sk.com: Materiality assessment
sustainability reports, regulatory and legislative documents,
media and social media. We also conducted stakeholder
engagement, through internal and external interviews and
analysis of investor ratings, rankings and reports.
MEDIUM HIGH
Importance to the business
38 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024
sredlohekats
lanretxe
ot
ecnatropmI
Materiality matrix
VERY HIGH
Product quality
Privacy and and patient safety
data security
Supply chain management Product innovation
Global health security
Labour rights
Healthcare access
and affordability
Ethical business conduct
Employee health,
safety and wellbeing
Clinical trial conduct
Climate change
Talent attraction and retention
Nature and
environmental
protection
Waste and hazardous materials management Diversity, equity
Water and wastewater management and inclusion
KEY
Access Environment Ethical standards
Global health Diversity, equity Product governance
and health security and inclusion People and cultureOur approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
People disclosures
A positive experience at work is critical to attract, retain and Keeping our people safe
motivate the best people. We want our workplace to embrace
We care deeply about the health and safety of our employees,
everyone’s unique differences and encourage growth and
complementary workers and everyone that works at or visits our
development in a safe environment so that people can perform
sites. Our commitment is that everyone goes home safely. Our 12
at their best at work. For more information around how we put
Life Saving Rules have been embedded throughout our company.
our people at the heart of our success, please see page 8, and
These rules are simple, standardised and easy to remember.
for further detail on our focus on Diversity, equity and inclusion,
Responsibilities for safety as leaders and as individuals have
see page 26.
been reviewed at all levels of the organisation. Risk assessments
are a key part of the environment, health and safety control
Freedom of association
framework that governs our approach to identifying and
We are respectful of the right of colleagues to join an controlling hazards. We conduct health and safety training for
independent trade union, to collectively bargain and to freedom our people, specific to whether they are working from an office,
of association. Of our global employee population, 35% are a lab, at a manufacturing site or in our commercial operations.
covered by collective bargaining arrangements and 15% have Recent key initiatives have included safety leadership, warehouse
declared that they are a member of a union.1 We also invest safety and driver safety. In 2023, we improved our reporting
heavily in formal information and consultation arrangements, processes and systems and carried out increased training in
which actively involve and provide additional Employee Voice to Safety and Incident Reporting which has contributed to an uplift
a higher proportion of our colleagues. in reported injuries and illnesses with lost time.
g sk.com Policy on environment, health and safety
2020 2021 2022 2023
Hiring
Total number of new hires 9,305 11,110 12,513 10,730
% of open positions filled by internal candidates 30.0% 34.0% 31.4% 29.9%
Employee turnover
Overall turnover 10.3% 15.2% 13.3% 10.0% A
Turnover of voluntary leavers2 5.5% 7.8% 7.3% 5.5%
% of all permanent leavers that were male3 56.9% 49.0% 54.1% 56.7%
% of all permanent leavers that were female3 42.9% 50.9% 45.6% 42.9%
Workforce breakdown by age (permanent employees)
< 30 years old 13.8% 13.0% 13.1% 12.8%
30-50 years old 61.0% 61.3% 60.9% 63.2%
> 50 years old 25.2% 25.7% 26.0% 23.8%
Engagement
Employee surveys engagement score 84% 78% 81% 81%4
Talent and leadership development
Number of graduates recruited through our Future Leaders programme 176 139 161 162
Number of postgraduates recruited through our Esprit programme 14 6 13 4
Number of apprentices recruited 85 68 67 57
A Metric’s 2023 data has been independently assured.
1 I n certain markets, data is unavailable due to privacy reasons.
2 C alculated as the number of permanent employees that voluntarily left GSK divided by the average permanent headcount in the reporting year.
3 C alculated as the number of permanent employees that left GSK for any reason within the period that were male or female, divided by the total number
of permanent leavers that left for any reason within the period.
4 E mployee surveys response rate was 79% in 2023.
39 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
2020 2021 2022 2023
Health and safety
Number of fatalities (employees and complementary workers under GSK direct supervision) 1 0 0 0 A
Number of fatalities (contractors not under GSK direct supervision) 1 0 0 0 A
Reportable injuries with lost time 137 133 144 195 A
Reportable illnesses with lost time 8 5 8 301 A
Lost time reportable injury rate (per 100,000 hours worked) 0.09 0.09 0.10 0.13 A
Lost time reportable illness rate (per 100,000 hours worked) 0.01 0 0.01 0.02 A
Reportable injuries with and without lost time 205 190 214 292 A
Reportable illnesses with and without lost time 31 42 32 65 A
Reportable injury rate (per 100,000 hours worked) 0.13 0.13 0.15 0.19 A
Reportable illness rate (per 100,000 hours worked) 0.02 0.03 0.02 0.04 A
Reportable injury and illness rate (per 100,000 hours worked)1 0.15 0.15 0.17 0.24 A
Hours worked (m) 156 151 147 151 A
A Metric’s 2023 data has been independently assured.
1 In 2023, there were two illness-related incidents that involved multiple workers; these were promptly investigated and corrected.
1 Totals may not equal the exact sum of the constituents due to rounding.
40 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
GRI guidelines and SASB index
GRI indicator Description Where to find the information
General disclosures
2-1 Organisational details Legal name: GSK plc
Ownership: Annual Report – Share capital and share price,
page 268
HQ address: Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, UK
Operations: Annual Report – Business model, pages 8-9
2-2 Entities included in the organisation’s sustainability reporting GSK plc
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point Sustainability and financial annual reporting period: 1 January
2023 to 31 December 2023
Report publication: 1 March 2024
Contact: csr.contact@gsk.com
2-4 Restatements of information Demerger: 2019-21 comparative results restated to reflect the
demerger of our Consumer Healthcare business, unless
otherwise specified.
Other restatements of information are detailed where relevant
for specific data points throughout the report.
2-5 External assurance Independent limited assurance statements, pages 55-62
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships Sector: Healthcare, Pharmaceuticals
Annual report, Business model, pages 8-9
Changes compared to the previous reporting period: Following
the demerger of our Consumer Healthcare business to form
Haleon in July 2022, we are now a fully focused biopharma
company.
2-7 Employees Full-time employees (FTEs) as of 31 December 2023, page 8
Annual Report – Employees by gender, page 75.
Changes compared to previous reporting period: Following the
demerger of our Consumer Healthcare business to form Haleon
in July 2022, we are now a fully-focused biopharma company.
2-8 Workers who are not employees Not reported
2-9 Governance structure and composition Annual Report – The Board and GSK Leadership team, page 108
Annual Report – Corporate governance architecture, page 116
Annual Report – Nominations & Corporate Governance
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body
Committee report, pages 131-132
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body GSK has an independent non-executive Chair of the Board
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the Annual Report – Corporate Responsibility Committee report,
management of impacts page 128-129
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Annual Report – Corporate Responsibility Committee report,
page 128-129
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting Our ESG Performance Report is reviewed by both GSK
Leadership Team and the Board
2-15 Conflicts of interest Annual Report – Directors’ conflicts of interest, page 161
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Annual Report – Board committee reports, page 128
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body Annual Report – The Board, page 108
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body Annual Report – Board performance, page 120
2-19 Remuneration policies Annual Report – Annual report on remuneration, pages 139-160
2-20 Process to determine remuneration Annual Report – Annual report on remuneration, pages 139-160
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Annual Report – Annual report on remuneration, page 151
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Annual Report – CEO's statement, page 7
2-23 Policy commitments Policy positions, including on human rights. Policies are
approved at GSK Leadership Team level and apply at
Group-level.
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Corporate responsibility committee
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Annual Report – Principal risks and uncertainties, page 230
Ethical standards, page 30
Ethics and compliance grievance mechanisms
41 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
GRI indicator Description Where to find the information
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Ethical standards, ESG Performance Report 2023, page 30
Grievance mechanisms
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Annual Report – Audit & Risk Committee report, page 133-138
2-28 Membership associations Trade association memberships
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement ESG Performance Report, Stakeholder engagement, page 4
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements People disclosures, page 39
Position on human rights
3-1 Process to determine material topics Materiality Assessment, ESG Performance Report 2023, page 38
3-2 List of material topics Materiality Assessment, ESG Performance Report 2023, page 38
3-3 Management of material topics Materiality Assessment, ESG Performance Report 2023, page 38
Economic performance
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Annual Report – Financial statements, page 163
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to Annual Report – Risk management, page 58
climate change Annual Report – TCFD, page 62
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Annual Report – Annual report on remuneration, page 139-160
201-4 Financial assistance received from government Annual Report – Financial statements, page 163
Annual Report – Share capital and control, page 268
Anti-corruption
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Annual Report – Risk management, page 57
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies Ethical standards, ESG Performance Report 2023, pages 30-33
and procedures
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Ethical standards, ESG Performance Report 2023, pages 30-33
Tax
207-1 Approach to tax GSK Tax strategy
207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management GSK Tax strategy
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns GSK Tax strategy
related to tax
207-4 Country-by-country reporting GSK Tax strategy
Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Environment, ESG Performance Report 2023, page 23
Environment, Basis of reporting, Environmental Data 2023
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation Environment, ESG Performance Report 2023, page 23
Environment, Basis of reporting
302-3 Energy intensity Annual Report, TCFD, pages 69-70
Environment, Basis of reporting
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environment, ESG Performance Report 2023, pages 18-23
Environment, Basis of reporting
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Environment, ESG Performance Report 2023, pages 18-23
Environment, Basis of reporting
Water
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Environment, ESG Performance Report 2023, Pages 18-25,
Annual Report, TNFD, page 70
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Environment, Basis of reporting
303-3 Water withdrawal Environment, ESG Performance Report 2023, Pages 18-25,
Annual Report, TNFD, page 70
Environment, Basis of reporting
303-4 Water discharge Environment, ESG Performance Report 2023, Pages 18-25,
Annual Report, TNFD, page 70
Environment, Basis of reporting
303-5 Water consumption Environment, ESG Performance Report 2023, Pages 18-25,
Annual Report, TNFD, page 70
Environment, Basis of reporting
42 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
GRI indicator Description Where to find the information
Biodiversity
3-3 Management of material topics Materiality assessment, ESG Performance Report 2023, page 38
304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, Annual Report, TNFD, page 71
protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside
protected areas
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on Environment, ESG Performance Report 2023, pages 20-22,
biodiversity Annual Report, TNFD, pages 70-74
304-3 Habitats protected or restored Environment, ESG Performance Report 2023, pages 20-22,
Annual Report, TNFD, pages 70-74
304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species Not reported
with habitats in areas affected by operations
Emissions
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment, ESG Performance Report 2023, page 23
Environment, Basis of reporting, Environmental Data 2023
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment, ESG Performance Report 2023, page 23
Environment, Basis of reporting, Environmental Data 2023
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environment, ESG Performance Report 2023, page 23-24
Environment, Basis of reporting, Environmental Data 2023
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Annual Report, TCFD, page 70
Environment, Basis of reporting, Environmental Data 2023
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environment, ESG Performance Report 2023, pages 18-24
Environment, Basis of reporting, Environmental Data 2023
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Environment, ESG Performance Report, page 24
Environment, Basis of reporting, Environmental Data 2023
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant Not reported
air emissions
Waste
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts Environment, ESG Performance Report, pages 22-25
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Environment, ESG Performance Report, pages 22-25
Environment, Basis of reporting
306-3 Waste generated Environment, ESG Performance Report, pages 22-25
Environment, Basis of reporting
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Environment, ESG Performance Report, pages 22-25
Environment, Basis of reporting
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Environment, ESG Performance Report, pages 22-25
Supplier environmental assessment
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental Ethical standards, ESG Performance Report, pages 30-32
criteria
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and Ethical standards, ESG Performance Report, pages 30-32
actions taken
Employment
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover People disclosures, ESG Performance Report, pages 39-40
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Life at GSK
provided to temporary or part-time employees
401-3 Parental leave Not reported
Occupational health and safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system GSK EHS policy
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident GSK EHS policy
investigation
403-3 Occupational health services GSK EHS policy
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on GSK EHS policy
occupational health and safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety GSK EHS policy
403-6 Promotion of worker health GSK EHS policy
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety GSK EHS policy
impacts directly linked by business relationships
43 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
GRI indicator Description Where to find the information
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety GSK EHS policy
management system
403-9 Work-related injuries People disclosures, ESG Performance Report, pages 29-30
GSK EHS policy
403-10 Work-related ill health
Diversity and equal opportunity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity, equity and inclusion. People disclosures, ESG
Performance Report 2023, pages 26-29, 39-40
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Gender pay gap report
Diversity, equity and inclusion
Non-discrimination
3-3 Management of material topics Materiality assessment, ESG Performance Report 2023, page 36
Human rights and labour rights
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom GSK position on human rights
of association and collective bargaining may be at risk
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents GSK position on human rights
of child labour Modern Slavery Act statement
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents GSK position on human rights
of forced or compulsory labour Modern Slavery Act statement
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Ethical standards, ESG Performance Report 2023, pages 30-34
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions Ethical standards, ESG Performance Report 2023, pages 30-34
taken
Public policy
415-1 Political contributions Political advocacy disclosure
Customer health and safety
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and Product governance, ESG Performance Report 2023,
service categories pages 35-37
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and Product governance, ESG Performance Report 2023,
safety impacts of products and services pages 35-37
Customer privacy
3-3 Management of material topics Materiality assessment, Materiality Assessment, ESG
Performance Report 2023, page 36
Marketing and labelling
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and Our code of practice
labelling
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service Product governance, ESG Performance Report 2023,
information and labelling pages 35-37
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing Product governance, ESG Performance Report 2023,
communications pages 35-37
SASB indicator Description Where to find the information
Safety of clinical trial participants
HC-BP-210a.1 Discussion, by region, of management process for ensuring "Our position on "Approach to Clinical Trials"
quality and patient safety during clinical trials
HC-BP-210a.2 Number of inspections related to clinical trial management Clinical data transparency, ESG performance report 2023,
and pharmacovigilance that resulted in: (1) entity voluntary pages 36-37
remediation or (2) regulatory or administrative actions taken
Available via the FDA Inspection Citation page
against the entity
Access to medicines
HC-BP-240a.1 Description of actions and initiatives to promote access to Access, ESG Performance Report 2023 pages 10-14
health care products for priority diseases and in priority
countries as defined by the Access to Medicine Index
HC-BP-240a.2 List of products on the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal List of products, ESG Performance Report 2023 page 46
Products as part of its Prequalification of Medicines
Global health and health security, ESG Performance Report
Programme (PQP)
2023 pages 15-17
44 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
SASB indicator Description Where to find the information
Affordability and pricing
HC-BP-240b.2 Percentage change in: (1) weighted average list price and (2) Access, ESG Performance Report 2023, page 12
weighted average net price across product portfolio
compared to previous reporting period
HC-BP-240b.3 Percentage change in: (1) list price and (2) net price of Access, ESG Performance Report 2023, pages 10, 13
product with largest increase compared to previous
reporting period
Drug safety
HC-BP-250a.1 Products listed in public medical product safety or adverse Available via the FDA
event alert databases
HC-BP-250a.2 Number of fatalities associated with products Available via the FDA
HC-BP-250a.3 (1) Number of recalls issued, (2) total units recalled Product governance, ESG Performance Report 2023, pages 35-37
HC-BP-250a.4 Total amount of product accepted for takeback, reuse, or Not reported
disposal
HC-BP-250a.5 Number of enforcement actions taken in response to ESG Performance Report 2023, Inspections, recalls and audit,
violations of good manufacturing practices (GMP) or page 34
equivalent standards, by type
Counterfeit drugs
HC-BP-260a.1 Description of methods and technologies used to maintain Product governance, ESG Performance Report 2023,
traceability of products throughout the supply chain and pages 35-36
prevent counterfeiting Position on falsified and
substandard healthcare products
HC-BP-260a.2 Discussion of process for alerting customers and business Product governance, ESG Performance Report 2023,
partners of potential or known risks associated with pages 35-36
counterfeit products Position on falsified and
substandard healthcare products
HC-BP-260a.3 Number of actions that led to raids, seizure, arrests, and/or Not reported
filing of criminal charges related to counterfeit products
Ethical marketing
HC-BP-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal Not reported
proceedings associated with false marketing claims
HC-BP-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of Code of practice for promotional and non-promotional external
off-label use of products interactions
Employee recruitment, development and retention
HC-BP-330a.1 Discussion of talent recruitment and retention efforts for Our culture and people, ESG Performance Report, page 8
scientists and research and development personnel
HC-BP-330a.2 (1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for: People disclosures, ESG Performance Report, page 39
(a) executives/senior managers, (b) mid-level managers,
(c) professionals, and (d) all others
Supply chain management
HC-BP-430a.1 Percentage of (1) entity’s facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers’ GSK is a member of Rx 360 and also conducts audits of third
facilities participating in the Rx-360 International parties
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Consortium audit programme Working with third parties, ESG Performance Report 2023,
or equivalent third-party audit programmes for integrity of page 31
supply chain and ingredients
Business ethics
HC-BP-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal Not reported
proceedings associated with corruption and bribery
HC-BP-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with Engagement with healthcare professionals
healthcare professionals
Activity metrics
HC-BP-000.A Number of patients treated Access, ESG Performance Report 2023, pages 10-14 (patients
reached through our access strategies)
HC-BP-000.B Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and (2) in research and Annual Report – Product development pipeline, page 250
development (Phases 1-3)
45 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
List of products on the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products and Vaccines as part of its
Prequalification of Medicines Programme (PQP)
Type, form and presentation Date of prequalification
Vaccines
Engerix Hepatitis B – Liquid: ready to use vial (one dose) Thursday, 1 January 1987
Engerix Hepatitis B – Liquid: ready to use vial (10 doses) Thursday, 1 January 1987
Engerix Hepatitis B – Liquid: ready to use vial (20 doses) Thursday, 1 January 1987
Priorix Measles, Mumps and Rubella – Lyophilised active component to be reconstituted Friday, 9 March 2001
with excipient diluent before use vial (one dose)
Rotarix Rotavirus – Liquid: ready to use plastic tube (one dose) Thursday, 12 March 2009
Rotarix Rotavirus – Liquid: ready to use applicator (one dose) Thursday, 12 March 2009
Cervarix Human Papillomavirus (Bivalent) – Liquid: ready to use vial (one dose) Wednesday, 8 July 2009
Cervarix Human Papillomavirus (Bivalent) – Liquid: ready to use vial (two doses) Wednesday, 8 July 2009
Polio Sabin Mono T1 Polio Vaccine – Oral (OPV) Monovalent Type 1 – Liquid: ready to use vial (10 doses) Thursday, 29 October 2009
Polio Sabin Mono T1 Polio Vaccine – Oral (OPV) Monovalent Type 1 – Liquid: ready to use vial (20 doses) Thursday, 29 October 2009
Polio Sabin One and Three Polio Vaccine – Oral (OPV) Bivalent Types 1 and 3 – Liquid: ready to use vial (10 doses) Thursday, 29 October 2009
Polio Sabin One and Three Polio Vaccine – Oral (OPV) Bivalent Types 1 and 3 – Liquid: ready to use vial (20 doses) Thursday, 29 October 2009
Synflorix Pneumococcal (conjugate) – Liquid: ready to use vial (one dose) Friday, 30 October 2009
Synflorix Pneumococcal (conjugate) – Liquid: ready to use vial (two doses) Friday, 19 March 2010
Polio Sabin Mono Three (oral) Polio Vaccine – Oral (OPV) Monovalent Type 3 – Liquid: ready to use vial (10 doses) Tuesday, 5 October 2010
Polio Sabin Mono Three (oral) Polio Vaccine – Oral (OPV) Monovalent Type 3 – Liquid: ready to use vial (20 doses) Tuesday, 5 October 2010
Polio Sabin Mono Two (oral) Polio Vaccine – Oral (OPV) Monovalent Type 2 – Liquid: ready to use vial (20 doses) Wednesday, 11 May 2011
Polio Sabin Mono Two (oral) Polio Vaccine – Oral (OPV) Monovalent Type 2 – Liquid: ready to use vial (10 doses) Wednesday, 11 May 2011
Priorix Measles, Mumps and Rubella – Lyophilised active component to be reconstituted with Wednesday, 21 December 2011
excipient diluent before use vial (two doses)
Hepatitis A (Human Diploid Cell), Inactivated (Adult) – Liquid: ready to use vial
Havrix 1440 Adult Friday, 19 July 2013
(one dose)
Havrix 720 Junior Hepatitis A (Human Diploid Cell), Inactivated (Paediatric) – Liquid: ready to use vial Friday, 19 July 2013
(one dose)
Boostrix Diphtheria-Tetanus-Pertussis (acellular) – Liquid: ready to use vial (one dose) Tuesday, 9 July 2013
Menveo Meningococcal ACYW-135 (conjugate vaccine) – Lyophilised active component to be Wednesday, 31 July 2013
reconstituted with liquid active component before use. Two vial set (one dose)
Synflorix Pneumococcal (conjugate) – Liquid: ready to use vial (four doses) Monday, 16 October 2017
Rotarix Rotavirus – Liquid: ready to use plastic tube (five doses) Thursday, 14 February 2019
Mosquirix Plasmodium falciparum (Malaria) and Hepatitis B (recombinant, adjuvanted) – Friday, 15 July 2022
Liquid active component to be mixed with second component before use. Two vial
set (two doses)
Pharmaceuticals
Abacavir (sulfate) HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA106 (a) 20 March 2002
Abacavir (sulfate) HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA107 (a) 20 March 2002
Zidovudine HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA108 (a) 29 May 2002
Zidovudine HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA109 (a) 29 May 2002
Lamivudine/Zidovudine HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA110 (a) 20 March 2002
Zidovudine HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA114 (a) 20 March 2002
Zidovudine HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA115 (a) 20 March 2002
Lamivudine HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA117 (a) 20 March 2002
Lamivudine HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA128 (a) 20 March 2002
Dolutegravir (Sodium) HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA634 (a) 14 October 2014
Abacavir (sulfate)/Lamivudine HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA706 (a) 19 June 2018
Dolutegravir (Sodium) HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA768 (a) 1 July 2021
Cabotegravir (Sodium) HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA788 (a) 22 December 2023
Cabotegravir (Sodium) HIV – ViiV Healthcare – HA789 (a) 22 December 2023
Zanamivir Influenza – GSK – IN007 (a) 22 September 2009
46 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
ESG reporting criteria
Unless stated otherwise, the data reflects the reporting period of 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023.
KPI Definition Method
Access
Total community All donations made by GSK globally for Donations are only included if they are voluntary and charitable in purpose.
investment (£m) charitable purposes including cash, product, in Donations are valued in GBP at year end exchange rates.
kind donations, the value of time donated via
Product donations are valued at global average cost of goods as reported
volunteering and the management costs
in year-end results.
associated with charitable programmes.
In-kind donations are valued at the value or cost of the item to GSK not the
current external purchase price.
Previous years’ data is included for comparison but not restated for
inflation or exchange rate changes.
The methodology used follows the B4SI (formerly LBG) Framework for
Corporate Community Investment.
Value of GSK medicine The value of medicine and vaccines provided The GSK and ViiV Patient Assistance Programs Foundation administers 13
and vaccines provided through the GSK and ViiV Healthcare Patient Patient Assistance Programs for patients in the US, Puerto Rico and the US
through our US Patient Assistance Programs Foundation which provides Virgin Islands.
Assistance Program medication at no charge to eligible individuals. We capture Patient Assistance Program orders for GSK and ViiV
(COGS in million USD) Patients who receive medications through the Healthcare products through an internal ordering database. The data is
Patient Assistance Programs must meet captured according to the Wholesale Acquisition Cost of the medicine or
eligibility requirements. These requirements vaccine and is coded as ‘Free Good Charitable Orders’. This amount is
include insurance status, a financial component converted to a ‘Cost of Goods Sold’ amount for reporting purposes.
based on the Federal Poverty Level, being a Patient participation varies annually based on current program eligibility
resident of the US, Puerto Rico or the US Virgin criteria, overall healthcare environmental factors and products included in
Islands and being treated by a US-licensed the programs.
healthcare provider.
Doses of Rotarix, The number of doses of the Rotarix, Synflorix and To calculate the number of doses supplied, we use the number of GSK
Synflorix and Cervarix Cervarix vaccine that are supplied to Gavi, the doses shipped to Gavi supported countries.
vaccines supplied to Vaccine Alliance. GSK has been a Gavi supplier since Gavi’s inception in 2000.
Gavi (millions)
Doses of Mosquirix The number of doses of the Mosquirix (RTS,S/ To calculate the number of doses supplied, we use the number of GSK
(RTS,S/AS01 E) AS01 E) vaccine GSK donated to the Malaria doses procured by UNICEF for MVIP and Gavi funded supply.
vaccines supplied Vaccine Implementation Programme (MVIP) GSK has supplied/donated 10 million Mosquirix (RTS,S/AS01 E), since the
(millions) and number of Gavi funded doses supplied beginning of the MVIP in 2019 and has supplied the first Gavi funded doses
through Gavi-Unicef from Q4-2023.
Doses of OPV The number of doses of the OPV vaccine that To calculate the number of doses in the OPV stockpile, we use the number
vaccines ready-to- are ready-to-ship stockpile for outbreak of mOPV2 doses stored in GSK warehouse for outbreak responses.
ship stockpile for responses to UNICEF.
outbreak responses to
UNICEF (millions)
Doses of OPV The number of doses of the OPV vaccine that To calculate the number of doses supplied, we use the total number of GSK
vaccines supplied to are supplied to UNICEF. doses shipped to countries procuring via UNICEF for both routine
UNICEF (millions) vaccination campaigns and outbreak responses.
People with access to The total number of people living with HIV As a chronic and ongoing treatment, we capture the cumulative number of
a generic dolutegravir currently accessing generic dolutegravir-based people with access to dolutegravir, rather than annual data, to avoid
product through products through ViiV Healthcare’s voluntary duplication. The indicator therefore represents the total number of people
voluntary licensing licensing agreements with the Medicines Patent living with HIV accessing the treatment at the time of measurement. As a
agreements (‘000) Pool and directly with Aurobindo Pharma. life-long treatment, this number incorporates people that have been
receiving ongoing treatment for multiple years.
For adults living with HIV, the number is calculated by adding the total
number of packs of all generic dolutegravir-based products (indicated for
adults) sold over the previous four quarters. This is then divided by twelve to
obtain average monthly sales and estimate the number of adults on
treatment.
For children living with HIV, this is done by calculating the total number of
paediatric DTG 10mg tablets sold over the previous four quarters and
dividing this by 365 to calculate average number of tablets sold per day.
This is then divided by 2.056 (the average daily number of tablets taken
across different paediatric weight bands) to estimate the number of
children on treatment.
In both cases, packs of 90 and 60 are converted to 30 pack equivalents
(i.e. monthly equivalents for a daily treatment).
Data is provided by the Medicines Patent Pool and Aurobindo, through
which ViiV’s DTG patents are (sub-)licensed.
47 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
KPI Definition Method
Access
Estimated children The estimated number of children who have To calculate the estimated number of children reached, we use the number
reached with Synflorix received the Synflorix vaccine (for the prevention of GSK doses shipped to Gavi supported countries, and divide this by the
through Gavi (‘000) of pneumococcal infection) through Gavi, the number of doses needed to complete a full schedule, with Gavi estimated
Vaccine Alliance. vaccine wastage rates factored in. For Synflorix a full schedule is three
All children receiving Synflorix are under five doses, and Gavi estimates wastage of 10% in 2017 and 2018, 8% in
years of age. 2019-2023. See: Detailed-product-profiles.xlsx (live.com)
Estimated children The estimated number of children who have To calculate the estimated number of children reached, we use the number
reached with Rotarix received the Rotarix vaccine (for the prevention of GSK doses shipped to Gavi supported countries, and divide this by the
through Gavi (‘000) of rotavirus) through Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. number of doses needed to complete a full schedule, with Gavi estimated
vaccine wastage rates factored in. For Rotarix a full schedule is two doses
All children receiving Rotarix are under five
and Gavi estimates wastage of 5% in 2017 and 2018, 4% in 2019-2023.
years of age.
See: Detailed-product-profiles.xlsx (live.com)
Estimated girls The estimated number of girls who have To calculate the estimated number of girls reached, we use the number of GSK
reached with Cervarix received the Cervarix vaccine (for the prevention doses shipped to Gavi supported countries, and divide this by the number of
through Gavi (‘000) of cervical cancer) through Gavi, the Vaccine doses needed to complete a full schedule, with Gavi estimated vaccine
Alliance. wastage rates factored in. For Cervarix a full schedule is either one dose or two
doses and Gavi estimates 10% wastage in 2023. See: Detailed-product-
profiles.xlsx (live.com)
Estimated people The estimated number of people who have To calculate the estimated number of people reached, we use the number
reached with the Oral received the OPV vaccine for polio procured of bivalent OPV (bOPV) and monovalent OPV (mOPV) doses shipped to
Polio Vaccine (OPV) through UNICEF. UNICEF, divided by the number of doses needed to complete a full
(‘000) schedule, with WHO estimated vaccine wastage rates factored in. In
outbreak situations, which is where GSK OPV volumes are often used, 1
dose is usually given to each child. However, as the primary schedule is 4
doses and children may receive more than one dose through subsequent
outbreak campaigns, we use 4 doses for the calculation in order to be
conservative. WHO estimates 20% wastage given that we supply 10 and 20
dose vials, vials are mainly used in campaigns and vials may or may not be
used or discarded after vial is opened at the end of the session. See WHO
indicative vaccine wastage rates: OPV Supply: revising-wastage-concept-
note.pdf (who.int)
Estimated people The estimated number of children who have To calculate the estimated number of children reached, we use the number of
reached with received the RTS,S vaccine through the Malaria GSK doses shipped and divide this by the number of doses needed to
Mosquirix (RTS,S/AS01 Vaccine Implementation Programme (MVIP) complete a full schedule (4 doses), with WHO estimated vaccine wastage
E) ('000) and through Gavi-Unicef. rates (10% for 2 dose vials used in routine immunisation) factored in. See:
Detailed-product-profiles.xlsx (live.com)
Albendazole tablets The number of albendazole tablets donated to Albendazole tablet shipments are sent from GSK’s manufacturing facility to
donated to help the World Health Organization to support endemic countries. These shipments are entered into a real-time database of
eliminate lymphatic endemic country efforts to eliminate lymphatic donated medicines for Neglected Tropical Diseases. Albendazole tablet
filariasis (millions) filariasis (LF). donation figures for LF are aggregated and reported annually through data
pulled from this system.
Albendazole tablets The number of albendazole tablets donated to Albendazole tablet shipments are sent from GSK’s manufacturing facility to
donated to help treat the World Health Organization to support endemic countries. These shipments are entered into a real-time database of
intestinal worms endemic country efforts to treat soil- donated medicines for Neglected Tropical Diseases. Albendazole tablet
(millions) transmitted helminthiasis (intestinal worms) in donation figures for soil-transmitted helminthiasis control are aggregated
school-age children. and reported annually through data pulled from this system.
People reached The total number of unique individuals that The GSK and ViiV Patient Assistance Programs Foundation administers 13
through the US Patient received GSK and ViiV Healthcare product Patient Assistance Programs for patients in the US, Puerto Rico and the US
Assistance Program through all our Patient Assistance Programs. Virgin Islands.
(‘000) Patients who receive medications through the Each of the 13 US Patient Assistance Programs provides a report at year-end,
Patient Assistance Programs must meet eligibility which enables us to consolidate the number of unique patients that received
requirements. These requirements include GSK and ViiV Healthcare products throughout the year.
insurance status, a financial component based Patient participation varies annually based on current programme eligibility
on the Federal Poverty Level, being a resident of criteria, overall healthcare environmental conditions and products included in
the US, Puerto Rico or the US Virgin Islands and the programmes.
being treated by a US-licensed healthcare
provider.
48 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
KPI Definition Method
Global health and health security
Number of assets The number of assets progressed through the ‘Pipeline progression’ is defined as the movement of a Global Health asset
progressed through Global Health pipeline to address priority WHO from one phase to another. GSK recognises progression through the
the Global Health diseases across GSK’s two Global Health hubs following four categories:
pipeline to address – Tres Cantos (Spain), which focuses on – Senior leadership endorsement of business plan for progression
priority WHO diseases therapeutics, and the GSK Vaccines Institute for
– Clinical trial starts (‘First Subject, First Visit/Dose’)
Global Health (GVGH in Sienna), which focuses
– Business development/in-licensing
on preventative treatment.
– Regulatory milestone (ie – submission, approval, or launch)
Priority WHO diseases are defined as diseases
2023 ESG achievements consider GSK’s internal 2-week grace period to
and pathogens prioritized for R&D in public
ensure that any asset progressed through 15 January will not be double
health emergency contexts, which distinguishes
counted for the metric in 2024.
diseases to the degree they pose the greatest
public health risk due to their epidemic potential
and/or whether there is no or insufficient
countermeasures. GSK uses the following lists:
– WHO Priority Pathogen List*
– WHO Emergency Diseases List*
– WHO Blueprint for Prioritized Disease List*
– WHO Essential Medicines List*
– UN Sustainable Development Goals
* WHO reviews and updates these lists as needs
arise and methodologies change.
Number of active R&D The number of active R&D projects that address Active R&D projects include projects in discovery, preclinical, phase I,
projects that address pathogens prioritised by the WHO and CDC as phase II, phase III, and open label trials.
pathogens prioritised posing the highest level of concern due to drug
– The global infectious disease and vaccines team maintain an internal
by the WHO and CDC resistance (critical and/or urgent threats).**
tracker with active projects being run exclusively by GSK. Additional
as posing the highest
GSK uses the following lists to define critical projects being run with partner companies are added to the list.
level of concern due to
and/or urgent threats: – Accuracy is validated by key subject matter experts identified in the
drug resistance
(critical and/or urgent – Bacterial pathogens categorized as a controls document.
threats) Critical Threats by the WHO (updated 2017)
– Fungal pathogens categorized as a Critical
Threats by the WHO (added 2022)
– Pathogens listed as Urgent Threats on the
CDC (Updated 2019)
Active R&D Projects include R&D projects from
ID therapeutics and Vaccines team.
– Includes active R&D projects in Discovery,
preclinical, or phase I, phase II, phase III,
and open label trials.
– Note that projects on clinical hold, and low
priority/Tier 3 projects are NOT included in
the count.
** Currently, WHO and CDC designated critical
and/or urgent threats include carbapenem-
resistant (CR) Acinetobacter spp., C. difficile, CR
or ESBL+ Enterobacteriaceae, Drug-resistant N.
gonorrhoeae and carbapenem-resistant P.
aeruginosa, Candida auris, Candida albicans,
Aspergillis fumigatus and Cryptococcus
neoformans.
Environment
For a full list of our environment reporting criteria, please see our Basis of reporting, including full definitions and methodologies.
Diversity, equity and inclusion
Ethnically diverse total Total percentage of ethnically diverse The data covers the total number of employees salaried in our internal HR
(%) employees for GSK in the US and UK employee system, both active (including Full-time/Part-time, Regular/Temporary
population across SVP/VP level, Director level, employees) and non-active (ie, on Maternity Leave, Paternity Leave,
Manager level and across all employees. Due Adoption Leave, etc.). It excludes Puerto Rico-based employees, Agency
to differing ethnic groups across the UK and Temporary Workers (‘Contingent Workers’ defined as those payrolled via
US employee population, race/ethnic recruitment agencies) and employees with blank ethnicity and “Prefer not to
categories are defined according to UK say”. The US figures exclude Puerto Rico-based employees given significant
Census and US Federal reporting guidelines. differences in ethnic composition of the territory’s population relative to the
rest of the US.
The percentage is calculated using employee numbers as of 31 December
of the current year. This is calculated as the number of salaried employees
at 31 December of the current year recorded in our internal HR system who
self-identified as Ethnically Diverse, divided by total salaried employees in
the system.
49 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
KPI Definition Method
Diversity, equity and inclusion
Total women in The total percentage of women in a The data covers the total number of salaried employees who identify as
management (%) management role. ‘Management’ is classed as women within our HR system, including active (Full-time/Part-time,
an employee in grade bands 0-6 which includes Regular/Temporary employees) and non-active (i.e., on Maternity Leave,
Managers, Directors, VPs and SVPs. Paternity Leave, Adoption Leave, etc.). It excludes Agency Temporary
Workers (‘Contingent Workers’ defined as those payrolled via recruitment
agencies) and employees with no gender recorded, or if they have indicated
“Prefer not to say”. The percentage is calculated using employee numbers
as of 31 December of the current year. This is calculated as the number of
salaried employees (at 31 December) recorded in our HR system with
Gender specified as female, within grades 0-6, divided by the total
payrolled employees recorded in the HR system.
% of phase III trials The total percentage of clinical trials that have The number of (and status of) actual protocol approvals is recorded in
initiated in the current achieved First Subject First Visit (FSFV) and GSK’s electronic Trial Master File (Veeva CDMS) database.
reporting year with have a Study Diversity Plan recorded at time of
proactive plans – FSFV.
Diversity
Ethical standards
Employees who had The number of distinct employees with a Anyone inside or outside GSK can raise concerns or speak to an
concerns raised disciplinary concern raised against them. independent third party through our integrity lines, confidentially or
against them anonymously. Concerns can also be raised internally by employees,
management, or internal monitoring.
This data comprises all regular employees and excludes contractors and
contingent workers.
The data includes the total number of distinct employees with a
disciplinary concern raised against them during the reporting period and
those employees with disciplinary concerns raised against them from prior
year’s open cases.
Employees disciplined The number of distinct employees where the This data comprises all regular employees and excludes contractors and
for policy violations outcome of a concern raised resulted in contingent workers.
disciplinary action. The data represents cases closed during the reporting period. In 2022, we also
included three open cases where disciplinary decisions were made and action
taken at year end; however, the cases had not yet been closed in the source
system by the reporting criteria end date range due to timing.
Disciplinary action includes a documented warning, termination, or resignation.
Employees who were The number of distinct employees where the This data comprises all regular employees and excludes contractors and
dismissed or agreed to outcome of a disciplinary concern resulted in contingent workers.
leave the company termination of employment or voluntary The data represents cases closed during the reporting period. In 2022, we also
voluntarily resignation of the employee. included three open cases where disciplinary decisions were made and action
taken at year end; however, the cases had not yet been closed in the source
system by the reporting criteria end date range due to timing.
Includes termination of employment or resignation.
Documented The number of distinct employees where the This data comprises all regular employees and excludes contractors and
warnings outcome of a disciplinary concern resulted in a contingent workers.
documented warning. The data represents cases closed during the reporting period. In 2022, we also
included three open cases where disciplinary decisions were made and action
taken at year end; however, the cases had not yet been closed in the source
system by the reporting criteria end date range due to timing.
Disciplinary action includes a documented warning (Level 1, 2, 3 sanction or
final warning).
Open cases awaiting The number of distinct employees involved in This data comprises all regular employees and excludes contractors and
investigation or a an investigation or a disciplinary decision that contingent workers
disciplinary decision is still open and pending an outcome at the This data represents employees that are involved in a disciplinary case that
at year end end of the reporting period. remain open at the end of the reporting period. In 2022, we also included three
open cases where disciplinary decisions were made and action taken at year
end; however, the cases had not yet been closed in the source system by the
reporting criteria end date range due to timing.
The outcome of investigations that are still open or awaiting disciplinary action
at year end are captured during the subsequent reporting period, and
correlating, this metric will be updated accordingly for the prior year.
50 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
KPI Definition Method
Ethical standards
Compliance – The breakdown of the types of policy violations This data comprises all regular employees and excludes contractors and
Breakdown of types of that employees have been disciplined for contingent workers.
policy violation (%) during the year.
Individual employees can be subject to multiple allegations resulting in
Policy violations categories are defined as: disciplinary action. Where this is the case, an individual is counted once
– Anti-Bribery and Corruption – Anti-Bribery and against each unique category.
Corruption
Employee discipline results from policy violation, and includes Level 1
– Cyber Security – Cyber Security (CSIR) Sanction, Level 2 Sanction, Level 3 Sanction, Final Warning, Termination, or
– Continuity of Supply Chain – Supply Chain Resignation and is categorised as appropriate. Outcomes for employees
Continuity including mediation, demotion and settlement are not included in counts
– EHS and Sustainability – Environment Health and or percentages within categories. These outcome types are not considered
Safety and Sustainability disciplinary action and they represent situations in which employees and
– Employee Conduct – Conflict of Interest; the company work together towards a solution.
Discrimination; Expenses; Harassment;
All markets, except Germany, utilise a case management system to
Inappropriate behaviour, Mandatory training
manage cases and data retention. The German market maintains its own
– Employee Relations & HR Policies –
case list which is submitted to the global employee relations team at year
Appeal; Attendance at Work; Capability (Health);
end for consolidation and analysis.
Capability (Performance); External Litigation; GSK
Performance System; Recruitment and Selection; Case owners regularly utilise published data quality reports to assist in
Restructuring Programmes; Settlement/Mutual data accuracy regularly. Quarterly internal audits are conducted to
Agreement; Working arrangements address any outstanding data discrepancies.
– Government Trade Restrictions – Sanctions and
Export Controls
– Product Quality – Good Manufacturing Practice;
Manufacturing Site Resilience; Supply Chain
Quality Assurance
– Research and Development and Medical
Practices – Care and Welfare and Treatment of
Animals; Data Integrity (nonGxP); Good
Laboratory Practices/Good Clinical Practice;
Human Biological Sample Management (HBSM);
Non-Promotional Engagement; Non-Promotional
Engagement; Patient Safety; Public Disclosure;
Regulatory Filings
– Safeguard People and Information and Assets –
Communications; Corporate or Financial
information, reporting and disclosure; Crisis and
Continuity Management; Fraud; Intellectual
Property; Privacy – Loss of data; Privacy –
Unauthorized Access; Privacy – Unsecured data
disclosure; Protection of Physical Assets and
Security; Security – People; Security – Places/
Sites; Security - Products/Supply Chain
– Sales and Marketing – Antitrust; Commercial
Practices Funding; Contract Sales Organisation;
External Experts; HCP/HCI Transfer of Value;
Inappropriate Managerial Direction; Interactions
with PAGs/Consumer/Payer groups; Product
Promotion; Samples; Speaker Programme
– Tax and Treasury – Tax; Treasury
– Other – Any other policy violation types that do
not fit into the above categories specified.
% of employees and The percentage of active employees and All active employees (Full-time/Part-time, Regular/Temporary) and
complementary complementary workers who have been complementary workers (ie, Agency workers, Statement of Work workers,
workers that complete assigned the mandatory training curriculum Outsourced workers, etc.) are required to complete our global mandatory
GSK’s mandatory and completed all training modules. learning curriculum called Living our Code which comprises two modules:
training The Code, Living our Code. Additionally, those in high-risk roles or
geographic regions complete an additional module: Effectively managing
high ABAC risk.
The percentage is calculated by using training data as of 31 December
2023 (ie, training due on or before 31 December 2023).
This is calculated as the total number of active employees and
complementary workers who have been assigned the Living our Code
mandatory training and have completed all modules divided by the total
population of active employees and complementary workers who have
been assigned the Living our Code mandatory training.
51 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
KPI Definition Method
Ethical standards
% of employees who The percentage of employees that strongly The question is included in the Annual Engagement and Culture Survey
believe they "can and agreed or agreed with the question ‘I can and which is sent annually.
do Speak Up if things do speak up if things don’t feel right’ in the GSK The survey is issued to all regular full-time and fixed term contract
don't feel right" Annual Engagement and Culture Survey. employees in all countries in which GSK operates (excluding Russia due to
the sanctions).
Questions are translated by professional service partners into 23
languages (excluding English).
In 2023, the “Annual Engagement and Culture Survey” replaced the
quarterly Pulse surveys, therefore the percentage of employees for this
metric is the result of a single annual data point instead of an average
score across quarterly surveys.
80% of direct high-risk Direct high-risk suppliers are identified on a Through our EcoVadis Programme, we work with direct high-risk suppliers
suppliers achieve yearly basis through a combination of spend, to help them improve their operations and support their sustainability
GSK’s minimum category and high-risk countries. Direct journey.
EcoVadis score or procurement involves the purchasing of EcoVadis is an external ratings provider and assesses organisations across
have an improvement materials directly associated with the four themes: Environment & Community, Labour & Human Rights, Ethics
plan in place production of goods. and Sustainable Procurement.
Out of the total number of 4,414 direct A supplier may not have an improvement plan in place because the
suppliers, 122 are high-risk and managed assessment is in progress, the supplier has committed to participate in the
through GSK’s EcoVadis Programme. programme but hasn’t commenced yet or the supplier hasn’t accepted the
An improvement plan in place is defined as an improvement plan. Where the improvement plan has been implemented
ongoing improvement plan. and the supplier awaits reassessment to reflect improved score, this is
reported as the supplier not having an improvement plan in place.
GSK requires suppliers to have a minimum
An improvement plan is initiated by the supplier or any of its partners,
EcoVadis score of 45.
including GSK, and tracked on the EcoVadis platform. Where required, GSK
interacts directly with the supplier to ensure corrective actions are
implemented.
EcoVadis scorecard data is exported from the EcoVadis platform.
Direct high-risk suppliers are identified on a yearly basis through a
combination of spend, category and high-risk countries. Direct
procurement involves the urchasing of material directly associated with the
production of goods. Suppliers reaching the minimum score for a given
year are considered to have met the minimum for the entire three-year
grace period even if the desired minimum score increases in that period.
Product governance
Total regulatory The number of regulatory inspections of GSK The data represents Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP)/Good
inspections from all entities from all health authorities. Distribution Practice (GDP) inspections where results have been confirmed.
health authorities
% of inspections from The percentage of the number of regulatory Percentage across GMP/ GDP for the where results have been confirmed.
all regulators with no inspections of GSK entities with no critical The percentage is calculate by the total number of inspections from all
critical findings or findings or official action. regulators with no critical findings or official action indicated divided by the
official action total number of inspections from all regulators multiplied by 100.
indicated
Total regulatory The number of regulatory inspections by the The number of regulatory inspections across GMP/GDP based on FDA,
inspections from FDA/ following regulators of GSK entities: United MHRA and European regulators* that are inspecting on behalf of EMA
MHRA/EMA States (US) Federal Drugs Agency (FDA); where results have been confirmed.
regulators United Kingdom (UK) Medicines Healthcare
*National Competent Authorities
Regulatory Agency (MHRA); and European
Medicines Agency (EMA) National Competent
Authority in the EEA.
Number of critical/ The number of critical and major 483 findings The number of critical and major 483 findings across GMP/GDP on
major 483 findings per from regulatory inspections of GSK entities by business and products based on FDA, MHRA and European regulators that
inspection by FDA/ US FDA, UK MHRA and EMA regulators are inspecting on behalf of EMA where results have been confirmed.
MHRA/EMA
regulators
Total FDA regulatory The total number of regulatory inspections of The number of regulatory inspections across GMP/ GDP on the business
inspections GSK entities by US FDA. and products based on US FDA regulatory inspections where results have
been confirmed.
Number of FDA The number of 483 observations issued by the The number of 483 observations across GMP/GDP on the business and
observations US FDA to GSK entities. products based on US FDA regulatory inspections where results have been
confirmed.
Number of FDA The number of warning letters issued by the The number of enforceable GMP/GDP warning letters.
warning letters US FDA to GSK entities, which led to enforced
regulatory actions being required.
52 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
KPI Definition Method
Product governance
Total number of The number of external Class I/II/III recalls of The number of external Class I/II/III recalls across GMP/ GDP.
Class I/II/III external product broken down by recall type:
product recalls
– Class I recall: Reasonable probability that
the use of or exposure to a violative product
will cause serious adverse health
consequences or death.
– Class II recall: Use of or exposure to a
violative product may cause temporary or
medically reversible adverse health
consequences or where the probability of
serious adverse health consequences is
remote.
– Class III recall: Use of or exposure to a
violative product is not likely to cause
adverse health consequences.
FDA product recalls by The number of US FDA recalls of product from Business units track recall data in an electronic system.
business and class the US market. We categorise the data
according to which of our businesses it relates
to (pharmaceutical or vaccine) and according
to recall type.
Publicly available trial The number of trial protocol summaries Studies for which protocol summaries were registered on the GSK trial
protocol summaries registered and results summaries disclosed on register (www.gsk-studyregister.com) or on ViiV register (www.viiv-
(register) and result the external facing GSK trial register or ViiV studyregister.com). The numbers represent the studies which were initiated
summaries (disclose) register as part of GSK’s internal policy in the current year for which protocol summaries were registered.
commitment to disclosure of human subject
For cumulative values: The numbers represent the studies for which
research. This is in addition to the mandatory
protocol summaries were registered on the GSK register between 2004 and
requirements by regulators for disclosure of
2023; and those registered on ViiV study register between 2009 and 2023.
protocol registrations.
These numbers are generated through the Transparency report which
derives the data from the disclosure system used by the business.
People disclosures
Overall turnover (%) Overall turnover is a measure of GSK We calculate the number of leavers during the year as a percentage of the
employees leaving GSK and does not include average reporting year’s permanent headcount.
internal moves within GSK.
The employee turnover rate includes employees who left the company both
voluntarily and involuntarily during the year.
The data is updated daily and extracted from our GSK-wide HR platform.
The data is based on the effective date of termination and not the
termination date. The termination date is the last day of work and the
effective date of termination is the first day of termination, ie the following
day. Therefore, employees with termination dates of 31 December of
reporting year are not included in this dataset.
“Reportable” injury or A GSK reportable injury or illness meets the Assessed and reviewed by EHS site team during approval/closure of record
illness following criteria: in EHS One system. as part of the reporting process.
1. M ust be an employee or GSK-supervised
worker
2. Must be GSK work-related
3. M ust meet one or more of the general
criteria:
a. Medical treatment beyond first aid
b. Restricted days/job transfer/days away
from work
c. Loss of consciousness
d. A significant occupational injury or
occupational illness diagnosed by a
physician or other licensed healthcare
professional
e. Fatality
4. M ust be a “new case”
53 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Our approach Access Global health Environment DEI Ethical standards Product governance Appendix
Appendix continued
KPI Definition Method
People disclosures
Fatalities Work-related fatalities of employees and As per GSK standard, all work-related incidents are required to be reported
complementary workers under GSK direct into GSK’s EHS One system.
supervision.
Fatalities - contractors Fatalities of contractors not under GSK direct As per GSK standard, all work-related incidents are required to be reported
supervision but related to work at GSK. into GSK’s EHS One system.
Reportable injuries Injuries at the global GSK site level meeting the As per GSK standard, all work-related incidents are required to be reported
with lost time criteria of GSK reportable and resulted in lost into GSK’s EHS One system.
time. Lost time includes work-related incidents
that have resulted in lost days, restricted time,
or a job transfer.
Reportable illnesses Number of illnesses at the global GSK site level As per GSK standard, all work-related incidents are required to be reported
with lost time meeting the criteria of GSK reportable and into GSK’s EHS One system.
resulted in lost time. Lost time includes work
related incidents that have resulted in lost
days, restricted time or a job transfer.
Lost time reportable The number of reportable injuries with lost (# of reportable lost time injuries) × 100,000 divided by Total hours worked
injury rate (per days, restricted work or job transfers rated per for GSK employees/GSK supervised workers.
100,000 hours 100,000 hours worked.
worked)
Lost time reportable The number of reportable illnesses with lost (# of reportable lost time illnesses) × 100,000 divided by Total hours worked
illness rate (per days, restricted work or job transfers rated per for GSK employees/GSK supervised workers.
100,000 hours 100,000 hours worked.
worked)
Reportable injuries Total number of injuries that meet the criteria As per GSK standard, all work-related incidents are required to be reported
with and without lost of being “reportable”. into GSK’s EHS One system.
time
Reportable illnesses Total number of illnesses that meet the criteria As per GSK standard, all work-related incidents are required to be reported
with and without lost of being “reportable”. into GSK’s EHS One system.
time
Reportable injury rate The number of reportable injuries rated per (# of reportable injuries*100,000) divided by 'total hours worked for GSK
(per 100,000 hours 100,000 hours worked. employees/supervised workers.
worked)
Reportable illness rate The number of reportable illnesses rated per (# of reportable illnesses*100,000) divided by 'total hours worked for GSK
(per 100,000 hours 100,000 hours worked. employees/supervised workers.
worked)
Reportable injury and The number of reportable injuries and illnesses (# of GSK reportable illnesses+ # of GSK reportable injuries*100,000)
illness rate (per rated per 100,000 hours worked. divided by 'total hours worked for GSK employees/supervised workers.
100,000 hours
worked)
Hours worked HR System Report of the hours worked. Hours worked is based on multiplying headcount on the 15th of the month
per site by 150 hours in the EHS One system each month. The total number
of employees in active status with specified employee type codes for each
location (site) and multiply that number by 150. This will provide the number
of hours for that location (site).
54 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Independent Limited Assurance Report
to the Directors of GSK plc
DNV Business Assurance Services UK Limited (“DNV”, “us” or “we”) were commissioned by GSK Services Unlimited to provide limited
assurance to GSK plc (“GSK”) over Selected Information presented in the ESG Performance Report 2023 (the “Report”) for the reporting year
ended 31 December 2023.
Our Conclusion: On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing came to our attention to suggest
that the Selected Information is not fairly stated and has not been prepared, in all material
respects, in accordance with the Criteria.
This conclusion relates only to the Selected Information, and is to be read in the context of this
Independent Limited Assurance Report, in particular the inherent limitations explained overleaf.
Our observations and areas for improvement will be raised in a separate report to GSK’s Management. These observations do
not affect our conclusion set out above.
SelectedInformation
The scope and boundary of our work is restricted to the metrics included within the Report for the current reporting year (the “Selected
Information”), listed below and in the Appendix:
• The Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) performance data listed in the Appendix of this document.
• The overall 2023 ESG Performance Rating score of “on track” relating to GSK’s performance against the 2023 Performance Rating metrics
listed on pages 6 and 7 of the Report.
To assess the Selected Information, which includes an assessment of the risk of material misstatement in the Report, we have used GSK’s ESG
Data Collection Process and Controls Documents which are summarised in the ESG reporting criteria (the “Criteria”), which can be found from
pages 47 to 54 of the Report.
We have not performed any work, and do not express any conclusion, on any other information that may be published in the Report or on
GSK’s website for the current reporting period or for previous periods.
Standard and level of assurance
Our competence, independence
We performed a limited assurance engagement of specified data and information using
DNV’s assurance methodology VerisustainTM, which is based on our professional and quality control
experience and international assurance best practice including the International
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 – ‘Assurance Engagements other than DNV established policies and procedures are
Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ (revised) issued by the designed to ensure that DNV, its personnel
and, where applicable, others are subject to
International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. This methodology ensures
independence requirements (including
compliance with ethical requirements and mandates planning and execution of the
personnel of other entities of DNV) and
assurance engagement to obtain a limited level of assurance. maintain independence where required by
relevant ethical requirements. This
DNV applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, engagement work was carried out by an
which are based on the principles enclosed within ISO IEC 17029:2019 - Conformity independent team of sustainability
Assessment - General principles and requirements for validation and verification bodies, assurance professionals. DNV did not
provide any services to GSK in 2023 that
and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including
could compromise the independence or
documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements,
impartiality of our work. Our multi-
professional standards, and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. disciplinary team consisted of professionals
with a combination of environmental and
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and are sustainability assurance experience.
shorter in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of
assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the
assurance that would have been obtained if a reasonable assurance engagement had
been performed.
55 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Basis of our conclusion Inherent limitations
We are required to plan and perform our work in order to consider the risk of material DNV’s assurance engagements are based on
misstatement of the Selected Information; our work included, but was not restricted to: the assumption that the data and
information provided by GSK to us as part of
▪ Conducting interviews with GSK’s management to obtain an understanding of the key our review have been provided in good
processes, systems and controls in place to generate, aggregate and report the faith, is true, complete, sufficient, and
Selected Information; authentic, and is free from material
misstatements. Because of the selected
▪ Remote site visits to Evreux (France), Ste. Foy (Canada) and Stevenage (UK) to review nature (sampling) and other inherent
the processes and systems for preparing site level Health and Safety data limitations of both procedures and systems
consolidated at Company level. DNV were free to choose sites based on materiality; of internal control, there remains the
unavoidable risk that errors or irregularities,
▪ Performing limited substantive testing on a selective basis of the Selected Information possibly significant, may not have been
to check that data had been appropriately measured, recorded, collated and detected. The engagement excludes the
sustainability management, performance,
reported;
and reporting practices of the Company’s
▪ Reviewing that the evidence, measurements and their scope provided to us by GSK for suppliers, contractors, and any third parties
mentioned in the Report. We understand
the Selected Information is prepared in line with the Criteria;
that the reported financial data, governance
▪ Assessing the appropriateness of the Criteria for the Selected Information; and and related information are based on
statutory disclosures and Audited Financial
▪ Reading the Report and narrative accompanying the Selected Information within it Statements, which are subject to a separate
with regard to the Criteria. independent statutory audit process. We
did not review financial disclosures and data
During the assurance process, we did not come across limitations to the scope of the as they are not within the scope of our
agreed assurance engagement. assurance engagement.
Disclaimers
Responsibilities of the Directors of
The assurance provided by DNV is limited to the selected indicators and information GSK and DNV
specified in the scope of the engagement. DNV has not conducted an assessment of the
reporting organisation's overall adherence to reporting principles or the preparation of The Directors of GSK have sole responsibility
the report. Therefore, no conclusions should be drawn regarding the reporting for:
organization's compliance with reporting principles or the quality of the overall report. ▪ Preparing and presenting the Selected
The assurance provided by DNV is based on the selected indicators and information information in accordance with the
made available to us at the time of the engagement. DNV assumes no responsibility for Criteria;
any changes or updates made to the indicators or information after the completion of ▪ Designing, implementing and
the assurance engagement. maintaining effective internal controls
over the information and data, resulting
Use and distribution of our Independent Limited Assurance Report in the preparation of the Selected
Information that is free from material
misstatements;
This report is intended solely for the information and use of the Directors of GSK and is
not intended to be and should not be used by anyone other than these specified parties. ▪ Measuring and reporting the Selected
DNV expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an Information based on their established
Criteria; and
entity may make based on this Independent Limited Assurance Report.
▪ Contents and statements contained
within the Report and the Criteria.
for DNV Business Assurance Services UK Limited Our responsibility is to plan and perform our
work to obtain limited assurance about
London, UK
whether the Selected Information has been
01 March 2024 prepared in accordance with the Criteria and
to report to GSK in the form of an
independent limited assurance conclusion,
Wallis- Digitally signed WaldenDigitally signed by based on the work performed and the
C Ho op llyley, b C D 21y o a
:
p t 3W el 9e :a :2y 5ll , 0 9i s H 2 - Z4o .l 0ly 2 .28 , Shaun W D 11aa :t 4l ed 8:e :2 5n 0 6, 2 S Z4h .a 0u 2n .2 9 e r Rev esi pd p oe o rn n tc .s e ib o leb t foai rn te hd e. pW ree p h aa rv ae ti on no t o b f e the en
Holly Wallis-Copley Shaun Walden
Lead Verifier Technical Reviewer DNV Supply Chain and Product
DNV Business Assurance Services UK DNV Business Assurance Services UK Assurance
Limited Limited
DNV Business Assurance Services UK Limited
is part of DNV – Supply Chain and Product
Assurance, a global provider of certification,
verification, assessment and training
services, enabling customers and
stakeholders to make critical decisions with
confidence.
www.dnv.co.uk/BetterAssurance
DNV-2024-ASR-C672898
56 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Appendix: SelectedInformation
The scope and boundary of our work is restricted to the Selected Information, including the ESG Performance data listed below and
continued overleaf.
ESG Performance data Reported value Unit
Access
Cash 80 £m
Product and in-kind 198 £m
Time 3 £m
Management costs 23 £m
Total community investment 304 £m
Value of GSK medicine and vaccines provided through our US Patient Assistance Programs Foundation 224 $m
Doses of Synflorixvaccines supplied to Gavi 41 m
Doses of Rotarixvaccines supplied to Gavi 43 m
Doses of Cervarixvaccines supplied to Gavi 5 m
Doses of OPV vaccines supplied to UNICEF 130 m
Doses of OPV vaccines supplied and in ready-to-ship stockpile to UNICEF 149 m
Doses of Mosquirix (RTS,S/AS01 E) vaccines supplied 6 m
Albendazole tablets donated to help eliminate lymphatic filariasis 462 m
Albendazole tablets donated to help treat intestinal worms 153 m
Total doses supplied 989 m
People with access to a generic dolutegravir product through voluntary licensing agreements 24,058 ‘000
Estimated children reached with Synflorixthrough Gavi 12,573 ‘000
Estimated children reached with Rotarixthrough Gavi 20,570 ‘000
Estimated girls reached with Cervarixthrough Gavi 4,307 ‘000
Estimated people reached with OPV through UNICEF 26,032 ‘000
Estimated people reached with Mosquirix (RTS,S/AS01 E) 1,383 ‘000
Total people reached 88,923 ‘000
People reached through our US Patient Assistance Programs 71 ‘000
Global health and health security
Number of assets progressed through the Global Health pipeline to address priority WHO diseases 11 #
Environment
Percentage of carbon offset volume in project pipeline (Percentage of 2.1MtCO2offsetting volume in 2030 project 35 %
pipeline)
Diversity, equity and inclusion
Percentage of Phase III trials initiated in 2023 that have proactive plans in place designed to enrol appropriately 100 %
diverse trial participants, consistent with the disease epidemiology
US ethnic diversity: Ethnically diverse total of:
-SVP/VP 35.7 %
-Director 30.0 %
-Manager 33.5 %
-All employees 34.9 %
UK ethnic diversity: Ethnically diverse total of:
-SVP/VP 18.4 %
-Director 21.3 %
-Manager 25.0 %
-All employees 20.9 %
% of women (all employees): 48 %
-SVP/VP 45 %
-Director 50 %
-Manager 51 %
Total women in management 50 %
Ethical standards
Employees who had concerns raised against them (including current year and prior year open cases) 1,960 #
Employees disciplined for policy violations 798 #
57 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024Appendix: SelectedInformation continued
ESG Performance data Reported value Unit
Breakdown of types of policy violation:
-Employee conduct 304 #
-Sales and marketing 122 #
-Product quality 76 #
-Safeguarding people and information and assets 177 #
-Employee relations 99 #
-Research and development and medical practices 7 #
-Anti-bribery and corruption 39 #
-Cyber security 24 #
-EHS and sustainability 64 #
-Other 4 #
Employees who were dismissed or agreed to leave the company voluntarily as a result ofmisconduct 256 #
Documented warnings 553 #
Open cases awaiting investigation or a disciplinary decision at year end 297 #
% of employees and complementary workers that complete GSK’s mandatory training 100 %
% of employees who believe they ‘can and do Speak Up if things don't feel right’ 83 %
% of direct high-risk suppliers that achieve GSK’s minimum EcoVadis score or have an improvement plan in place 89 %
Product governance
Total regulatory inspections from all health authorities 114 #
% of inspections from all regulators with no critical findings or official action indicated 100 %
Total regulatory inspections from FDA/MHRA/EMA regulators 32 #
Number of critical/major findings from FDA/MHRA/EMA regulators 11 #
Total FDA regulatory inspections 5 #
Number of FDA observations 8 #
Number of FDA warning letters 0 #
Total product recalls 16 #
-Total number of Class I external product recalls 2 #
-Total number of Class II external product recalls 3 #
-Total number of Class III external product recalls 11 #
Pharmaceuticals business -Class product I recalls 0 #
Pharmaceuticals business -Class product II recalls 0 #
Pharmaceuticals business -Class product III recalls 1 #
Vaccines business -Class product I recalls 1 #
Vaccines business -Class product II recalls 0 #
Vaccines business -Class product III recalls 1 #
Publicly available trial protocol summaries (register) 103 #
Publicly available trial result summaries (disclose) 98 #
People disclosures
Overall turnover 10 %
Number of fatalities (employees and complementary workers under GSK direct supervision) 0 #
Fatalities (contractors not under GSK direct supervision) 0 #
Reportable injuries with lost time 195 #
Reportable illnesses with lost time 30 #
Lost time reportable injury rate 0.13 per 100,000 hours worked
Lost time reportable illness rate 0.02 per 100,000 hours worked
Reportable injuries with and without lost time 292 #
Reportable illnesses with and without lost time 65 #
Reportable injury rate 0.19 per 100,000 hours worked
Reportable illness rate 0.04 per 100,000 hours worked
Reportable injury and illness rate 0.24 per 100,000 hours worked
Hours worked 151 m
58 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024IInnddeeppeennddeenntt LLiimmiitteedd AAssssuurraannccee RReeppoorrtt ttoo tthhee DDiirreeccttoorrss ooff GGSSKK PPLLCC
Independent limited Assurance Report by Deloitte LLP to the Directors of GSK PLC on selected
Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) metrics (the “Selected Information”) within the Annual
Report and Accounts and the ESG Performance Report for the reporting year ended 31 December 2023.
OOuurr aassssuurraannccee ccoonncclluussiioonn
Based on our procedures described in this report, and evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to
our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Information, as presented on page 70 of the
Annual Report and Accounts and pages 23-24 of the ESG Performance Report for the year ended 31
December 2023, and as listed below and indicated with an (A) in the Annual Report and Accounts and
the ESG Performance Report has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the
Basis of Reporting defined by the directors.
SSccooppee ooff oouurr wwoorrkk
GSK PLC has engaged us to perform an independent limited assurance engagement in accordance with
International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) Assurance Engagements Other than
Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (“ISAE 3000 (Revised) and the International
Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 Assurance engagements on greenhouse gas statements
(ISAE 3410), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (“IAASB”) and our
agreed terms of engagement.
The Selected Information in scope of our engagement, as presented on page 70 of the Annual Report
and Accounts and pages 23-24 of the ESG Performance Report for the year ended 31 December 2023,
and as listed below and indicated with an (A) in the Annual Report and Accounts and ESG Performance
Report, is as follows:
SSeelleecctteedd IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn AAssssuurreedd VVaalluuee
Scope 1 emissions (thousand tonnes CO2e) 581
Scope 2 emissions – Market Based – (thousand tonnes CO2e) 64
Scope 2 emissions – Location Based – (thousand tonnes
240
CO2e)
Total scope 1 and 2 market-based emissions (thousand
645
tonnes CO2e)
Total energy for operations (GWh) 2,636
Purchased Renewable electricity (GWh) 782
Onsite renewably generated electricity (GWh) 17
Emissions from use of propellant based inhalers by patients
5,039
(thousand tonnes CO2e)
Total water use at high water risk sites (million m3) 0.3
Total wastewater discharged (million m3) 6.2
Total water use (million m3) 7.4The Basis of Reporting (defined by GSK PLC); the nature of the Selected Information, and absence of
consistent external standards allow for different, but acceptable, measurement methodologies to be
adopted which may result in variances between entities. The adopted measurement methodologies
may also impact comparability of the Selected Information reported by different organisations and from
year to year within an organisation as methodologies develop.
The Selected Information, as listed in the above table, needs to be read and understood together with
the Basis of Reporting prepared and published by GSK PLC at ESG resources | GSK.
IInnhheerreenntt lliimmiittaattiioonnss ooff tthhee SSeelleecctteedd IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn
We obtained limited assurance over the preparation of the Selected Information in accordance with the
Applicable Criteria. Inherent limitations exist in all assurance engagements.
Any internal control structure, no matter how effective, cannot eliminate the possibility that fraud,
errors or irregularities may occur and remain undetected and because we use selective testing in our
engagement, we cannot guarantee that errors or irregularities, if present, will be detected.
The self-defined Basis of Reporting, the nature of the Selected Information, and absence of consistent
external standards allow for different, but acceptable, measurement methodologies to be adopted
which may result in variances between entities. The adopted measurement methodologies may also
impact comparability of the Selected Information reported by different organisations and from year to
year within an organisation as methodologies develop.
Inherent limitations exist in all assurance engagements due to the selective enquiry of the information
being examined. Therefore fraud, error or non-compliance may occur and not be detected. Our work
does not involve testing the operating effectiveness of controls over the underlying data, nor have we
sought to review systems and controls beyond those relevant to the selected ESG metrics.
DDiirreeccttoorrss’’ rreessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess
The Directors are responsible for preparing an Annual Report and Accounts which complies with the
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and for being satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts
and ESG Performance Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Directors are also responsible for:
• Selecting and establishing the Basis of Reporting.
• Preparing, measuring, presenting and reporting the Selected Information in accordance with the
Basis of Reporting.
• Publishing the Basis of Reporting publicly in advance of, or at the same time as, the publication of
the Selected Information
• Designing, implementing, and maintaining internal processes and controls over information relevant
to the preparation of the Selected Information to ensure that they are free from material
misstatement, including whether due to fraud or error.
• Providing sufficient access and making available all necessary records, correspondence, information
and explanations to allow the successful completion of the Services.
• Confirming to us through written representations that they have provided us with all information
relevant to our Services of which they are aware, and that the measurement or evaluation of the
underlying subject matter against the Basis of Reporting, including that all relevant matters, are
reflected in the Selected Information.
60 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024OOuurr rreessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess
We are responsible for:
• Planning and performing procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence in order to express an
independent limited assurance conclusion on the Selected Information.
• Communicating matters that may be relevant to the Selected Information to the appropriate party
including identified or suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations, fraud or suspected
fraud, and bias in the preparation of the Selected Information.
• Reporting our conclusion in the form of an independent limited Assurance Report to the Directors.
OOuurr iinnddeeppeennddeennccee aanndd ccoommppeetteennccee
In conducting our engagement, we complied with the independence requirements of the FRC’s Ethical
Standard and the ICAEW Code of Ethics. The ICAEW Code is founded on fundamental principles of
integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.
We applied the International Standard on Quality Management 1 (“ISQM 1”) issued by the International
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. Accordingly, we maintained a comprehensive system of
quality management including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical
requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
KKeeyy pprroocceedduurreess ppeerrffoorrmmeedd
We are required to plan and perform our work to address the areas where we have identified that a
material misstatement in respect of the Selected Information is likely to arise. The procedures we
performed were based on our professional judgment. In carrying out our limited assurance engagement
in respect of the Selected Information, we performed the following procedures:
• Performed analytical review procedures and considered the risks of material misstatement of the
Selected Information.
• Through inquiries of management, obtained an understanding of the Company, its environment,
processes and information systems relevant to the preparation of the Selected Information
sufficient to identify and assess risks of material misstatement in the Selected Information, and
provide a basis for designing and performing procedures to respond to assessed risks and to
obtain limited assurance to support a conclusion.
• Through inquiries of management, obtained an understanding of internal controls relevant to the
Selected Information, the quantification process and data used in preparing the Selected
Information, the methodology for gathering qualitative information, and the process for
preparing and reporting the Selected Information. We did not evaluate the design of particular
internal control activities, obtain evidence about their implementation or test their operating
effectiveness.
• Inspected documents relating to the Selected Information, including Sustainability Council
minutes and where applicable internal audit outputs to understand the level of management
awareness and oversight of the Selected Information.
• Performed procedures over the Selected Information, including recalculation of relevant
formulae used in manual calculations and assessment whether the data was appropriately
consolidated.
• Performed procedures over underlying data on a statistical sample basis to assess whether the
data was collected and reported in accordance with the Basis of Reporting, including verifying to
source documentation.
• Conducted site visits at a sample of sites, selected on a judgemental basis to determine
consistency in understanding and application of the Basis of Reporting.
61 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024• Performed procedures over the Selected Information including assessing management’s
assumptions and estimates (if applicable).
• Accumulated misstatements and control deficiencies identified, assessing whether material.
• Read the narrative accompanying the Selected Information with regard to the Basis of Reporting,
and for consistency with our findings.
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are
less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance
obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have
been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed.
UUssee ooff oouurr rreeppoorrtt
This report is made solely to the Directors of GSK PLC in accordance with ISAE 3000 (Revised) and ISAE
3410 and our agreed terms of engagement. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to
the Directors of GSK PLC those matters we have agreed to state to them in this report and for no other
purpose.
Without assuming or accepting any responsibility or liability in respect of this report to any party other
than GSK PLC and the Directors of GSK PLC, we acknowledge that the Directors of GSK PLC may choose
to make this report publicly available for others wishing to have access to it, which does not and will not
affect or extend for any purpose or on any basis our responsibilities. To the fullest extent permitted by
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than GSK PLC and the Directors of GSK
PLC as a body, for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions we have formed.
DDeellooiittttee LLLLPP
London, UK
27 February 2024
62 GSK ESG Performance Report 2023 March 2024