Responsible Business
Supplement 2014
Our success depends on our ability
to research and develop innovative
medicines, vaccines and consumer
healthcare products and make
them accessible for more
people in a responsible way.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014
About this supplement
At GSK responsible business is how Cover image
By working together with health
we do business.
workers like Head Nurse
Jacqueline Mankenda, GSK
We report key information on our and Save the Children are
directly reaching thousands of
approach to responsible business
children, including those in the
alongside our financial performance hardest to reach communities.
within the Annual Report.
This supplementary document
Photo: Ivy Lahon/Save the Children
provides additional context and details
of our progress against our responsible
business commitments.
Guide to using this report Guide to the navigation buttons Dynamic links Full screen mode
This interactive PDF is designed to help Click on the dynamic links to access further The PDF is set up to view in full screen mode.
you easily navigate the report and find Go to main contents page relevant information within the report or online, To exit full screen mode, press Escape to view
the information you are looking for. and use the tabs at the top of the page to the full toolbar.
navigate between sections.
Search this PDF Printer-friendly PDF
You can use the print icon in the navigation
to print the whole or part of the document
Print
in a print-friendly format.
Go to preceding page
Go to next page
Return to last page visitedGSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 1
Contents
Inside this report
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet D ata summary
and assurance
Learn about how our approach Find out how we are developing Read about how we are Learn how we create an Find out how we are managing Read our key data 2011-2014.
to responsible business is innovative products and embedding our values inspiring and supportive work the environmental impacts of
embedded within our business. improving access to healthcare throughout the business, environment that encourages our operations and products
for patients around the world. including into the ways we our employees to develop across their life cycle to reduce
research, develop, sell and their capabilities and achieve carbon emissions, water use
market our products. their best. and waste.
Chairman’s statement 2 Our approach 10 Our approach 24 Our approach 35 Our approach 41 Data summary 47
CEO’s statement 3 Open innovation 12 Ethical conduct 26 Protecting the health and Carbon 43 Summary of assurance
wellbeing of our people 37 statement 50
Responsible business Developing vaccines that Promoting values in sales Water 45
in practice 4 don’t need to be kept cold 13 and marketing practices 27 Promoting inclusion About our reporting 50
Waste 46
and diversity 38
Commitments 6 Better access to medicines Transparency of
and vaccines 14 clinical research 28 Community volunteering
creates change 39
Building products to better Rigorous patient and
meet needs 16 consumer safety 29
Reducing child mortality 17 Minimising animal testing 31
Strengthening healthcare Addressing human
infrastructure 18 rights impacts 32
Eliminating and controlling Ethical interactions 33
neglected tropical diseases 19
Fighting malaria 20
Eradicating polio 21
Access to antiretroviral
treatment for HIV 22GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 2
Chairman’s statement
GSK’s long-standing commitment to responsible The Board continues to monitor how GSK
External benchmarking
business remains central to the company’s benchmarks on its commitment to responsible
strategy. To reflect this and in further efforts business practice. During 2014, GSK topped
to improve our corporate reporting, we have the Access to Medicines Index for the fourth Topped the Index in 2014 and
integrated more information about our responsible consecutive time. The index measures the every time since it began in 2008.
business approach and performance within the performance of the top 20 pharmaceutical
Annual Report. This document – the Responsible companies on their efforts to improve access
Rejoined the Dow Jones
Business Supplement – provides additional detail to medicines and healthcare in developing
Sustainability Index in 2014
on these topics and has been structured to clearly countries. The Company also re-entered the
with a score of 84, putting
set out the progress made during 2014 against Dow Jones Sustainability Index in 2014, ranking
us in the top 2% of our sector
our responsible business commitments. in the top 2% of companies in the sector on the
on environmental, social and
Assuring GSK operates responsibly is a priority environmental, social and governance criteria governance criteria.
sought by responsible investors.
for the Board and its Committees, in particular
the Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC) This is my final letter as Chairman of GSK and
With a score of 96 B, retained
which I chair. In 2014, the CRC had oversight the CRC. One of the reasons I took this role was
our position in the CDP’s
of both progress and challenges across a range my belief in the significant value this company
FTSE 350 Climate Disclosure
of responsible business areas. brings to society. Through my time as Chairman,
Leadership Index for the seventh
I have no doubt that I am pleased to have seen many changes and
This included strategies to drive innovation where year, in recognition of the amount
commercial success there is a key need, such as diseases impacting much progress, whether that is delivery from the and quality of climate change
the developing world like malaria and Ebola, company’s R&D organisation, efforts to improve data we disclosed.
is directly linked to access to our medicines, or the evolution of the
as well as antibiotic resistance; and strategies
commercial model. This has been coupled with
operating in a way that to improve access to medicines and vaccines a strong commitment to shareholder returns. GSK remains the only
such as pricing models, building capacity and
pharmaceutical company
meets the changing capability in Africa and the partnership with I remain confident GSK will deliver considerable
to have achieved the Carbon
expectations of society. Save the Children. long-term value and returns for shareholders, and RE YD EU AC R I ON NG YW EA AT RER Trust’s Carbon Standard and
The Committee was encouraged to see value to wider society into the future. Water Standard for cutting
continued efforts to evolve the commercial model. carbon emissions and water use
across our operations globally.
A new approach to compensation for sales
representatives has now been rolled out worldwide
and work is ongoing to fundamentally change the
Member of FTSE4Good
relationship with doctors and customers, removing
since 2004.
any perception of a conflict of interest.
Sir Christopher Gent
ChairmanGSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 3
CEO’s statement
In 2014, despite challenges resulting from We continue to look at ways to transform Looking at other priority areas, we made good
our operating environment, we made sustained our commercial model. A new approach to progress on employee gender diversity –
progress against both the company’s compensation for sales representatives has now slightly increasing the proportion of women
strategic priorities and our commitment to been rolled out worldwide. These changes build in management – from 41% to 42% – and
operate responsibly. on the reforms we started in the USA more than are on track with the roll-out of our preventative
two years ago and I was pleased to see our most healthcare programme for our employees and
I was particularly proud of the progress on our
recent Healthcare Practitioner customer their families, reaching 15 countries so far.
commitments to improve access to medicines
satisfaction research showing that GSK now
this year. We saw the world’s first malaria We have also set ambitious targets on carbon,
ranks first in the USA among our peer group for
vaccine come another step closer when we water and waste. We continue to face the
the value we bring to their work. Adding to this,
submitted our RTS,S candidate for regulatory challenge of reducing our carbon footprint
by 2016, we will have fully implemented our
approval. We have committed that we will make across the value chain while sales of our
commitment to stop paying doctors to speak
the vaccine available at a not for profit price for propellant based inhalers, our product with
on our behalf and instead deliver information
those who need it. the biggest carbon footprint, continue to grow.
to them through a new multi-channel system.
However, we have met our operational water
We also saw progress on addressing
We believe these changes are not only the use target a year early, cutting use by 20%
affordability barriers to access to healthcare.
right thing to do, but that they will also be a since 2010.
In 2014, we extended our tiered pricing approach
competitive advantage. They follow our initiatives
to prescription medicines, asking countries to Finally, it is through the efforts of many that
How we operate is just as on clinical trial data transparency.
pay based on their national income. In early 2015, we look to fulfil our commitment to operate
important to us as delivering we also committed to freeze vaccine prices for We expect all our people to put our values at responsibly. I’d like to thank all our employees
GAVI graduating countries for ten years. the heart of their decisions and that their work and partners – their continued support has
financial performance.
meets or exceeds the expectations of society. helped us both address challenges and deliver
In addition we committed to invest £130 million
We believe our commitment in Africa over the next five years, aiming to That’s why the issues we saw in China last year substantial achievements this year.
have been wholly disappointing and we have
provide a portfolio of relevant products, develop
to responsible business will taken significant steps to rectify the issues
innovative pricing strategies, support African
identified in our Chinese business, to apply
bring long-term, sustainable R&D expertise and increase local manufacturing
appropriate lessons to our operations elsewhere
capacity and capability.
business benefit. and to strengthen our monitoring of ethical
2014 saw a critical public health emergency conduct. Given the complexity of our sector and
with the outbreak of Ebola in West Africa, the challenges of working in global healthcare, Sir Andrew Witty
which demanded an urgent response. As well we will continue to face risks. However, we Chief Executive Officer
as providing humanitarian support to affected continue to believe that with robust systems in
regions, we accelerated the development of our place our presence in these markets can improve
candidate vaccine for Ebola at an unprecedented access to medicine and broader healthcare.
rate, with trials now underway.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 4
Our approach
Responsible business in practice
Our approach to embedding Creating value for society Governance Values and conduct
Developing innovative products and maximising We have a robust governance structure in We are committed to being a values-based
responsible business practice
access to them delivers direct benefit to patients place to oversee our approach to responsible business. We expect all of our employees to
is based on our values backed and consumers. If we do this successfully, this business, with oversight integrated within our act transparently, respectfully and with integrity
will deliver profitable and sustainable business core governance framework. – and to put the interests of patients and
by strong governance.
performance. In turn this allows us to generate consumers first. Our leaders are responsible for
Our Audit and Risk Committee focuses on the
Our strategic priorities are value and returns for our shareholders and to embedding this into our culture, decision making
key business risk areas for GSK, including non-
reinvest in the business. Wider society benefits and how we work. This ranges from the way we
underpinned by our too, since healthy people and communities are financial risks. It is supported by our Audit and conduct our research, to our approach to sales
Assurance team, provides an independent view
essential to building strong, sustainable societies. and marketing, to the way we interact with
responsible business approach (i.e. assurance) to senior management and the
patients, doctors and policymakers.
We also contribute significant value by making Board of how risk is being managed across the
and we are continually
direct and indirect economic contributions in the Group in line with an agreed Assurance Plan. Our Code of Conduct, and accompanying
listening to stakeholders countries and communities where we operate training, seek to ensure everyone at GSK
GSK also has a Board-level Corporate
through tax, our employment of 98,000 people understands how to put our values into practice
to better understand their Responsibility Committee (CRC) led by our
and charitable support. and we encourage our employees to report
Chairman. The CRC has oversight for our
expectations of us. any concerns through our Speak Up channels.
Responsible business priorities approach to responsible business across our four
We extend these same high standards to suppliers
The priorities for our responsible business areas of focus. It meets four times a year, providing
through our Third Party Code of Conduct.
approach sit within the context of macroeconomic high-level guidance and reviews performance and
and social trends that are impacting wider society progress against our commitments.
and all companies. These trends present both
opportunities and challenges for global
healthcare companies like GSK. Our governance structure and systems
We report our progress across four areas: Health
Board
for all, Our behaviour, Our people, and Our planet.
(Chairman, 3 Executive Directors and 12 independent
In 2012, we developed longer-term commitments
Non-Executive Directors)
across the four areas. This report details progress
against these commitments in 2014.
Corporate
Corporate Administration
Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Finance & Transactions
Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee CommitteeOur approach
Responsible business in practice – continued
Listening to stakeholders As well as ongoing stakeholder engagement,
We value engagement with a range of external we carry out additional research to determine
stakeholders as an effective tool for gaining current and emerging issues to help shape
deeper insight into societal trends and our approach to responsible business.
expectations, as well as offering us the
For example, in 2013, we undertook a formal opportunity to challenge our own assumptions
materiality analysis, gathering internal and
about the way we work. external perspectives on the key areas that
Teams across GSK engage with a wide range of have considerable financial, operational, and/or
stakeholders through day-to-day interactions with reputational impacts on our company (see chart
customers, formal engagement with governments on right). While this identified all the issues
and patient advocacy groups (see page 33), and relevant to our business, we focus our efforts
regular dialogue with suppliers (see page 25), on those of high or medium importance to
partners and investors. Communicating with GSK and our stakeholders.
employees and responding to their feedback
is critical to running our business effectively
and helps us retain the most talented people
(see page 35).
We are willing to fundamentally change the
way we do things to better meet stakeholder
expectations. Examples include our open
innovation strategy to stimulate research into
unmet medical needs (see page 12), an end Low Medium High
to direct payments to doctors (see page 27)
and changes to the way we reward our people
(see page 35).
sredlohekats
ot
ecnatropmI
GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 5
Prioritising our most material issues
Access to healthcare
Ethical conduct Transparency
Prod uct innovation
Clinical trials conduct
R esponsible sales and marketing
Intellectual property rights
Lobbying and advocacy practices Product safety and quality
Energy and climate change Tax and
Community investment Diversity and inclusion economic Animal research
Anti-counterfeiting contribution
Training and development
Waste and recycling Privacy and data security
Water use
Human rights (labour) Ethical supplier standards
Talent, attraction and reward
Health, safety and well-being
Biodiversity Security of supply
Importance to business successCommitments
Our progress
User Key
Work to do On track Progressing well Completed
Work is needed to get the Work is ongoing. Able to demonstrate clear The commitment has
commitment on schedule. deliverables and good progress been completed.
towards completing the commitment.
Progress Find
Commitment tracker Progress in 2014 out more
lla
rof
htlaeH
GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 6
Our commitments aim to address global health needs
and are aligned with our strategic priorities and our values.
Open innovation Adapt the open innovation R&D model, currently used for Diseases of the Created the world’s first Open Lab for non-communicable diseases in Africa. Page 12
Developing World, to apply to other areas of great unmet medical need and Working with other pharmaceutical companies and academics to conduct a
scientific challenge, including infectious disease and Alzheimer’s disease, by 2015. major study in dementia research. Continued working with the IMI’s New Drugs
4 Bad Bugs collaboration related to antibiotic research.
Developing vaccines Invest in the development of vaccines that don’t require continuous refrigeration, Invested US$1.8 million in research to enable a critical liquid component used in Page 13
that don’t need to be making distribution easier and less expensive. our malaria vaccine candidate to remain stable in hotter climates, working with the
kept cold
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
Better access Further embed our flexible pricing strategy and innovative business models for our Extended our tiered pricing approach to prescription medicines as well as vaccines, Pages 14-15
to medicines prescription medicines and vaccines, to increase usage among those less able to asking countries to pay based on their wealth and ability to pay; committed to freeze
and vaccines
access and afford our products. vaccine prices for Gavi graduating countries for ten years.
Building products to Continue to build a core range of products and formats to better meet the needs of Worked with partners to develop an inhaled form of oxytocin, which can prevent Page 16
better meet needs people across the globe, including those less able to access and afford our women dying from pregnancy-related causes, and to reformulate an antiseptic used
products. in mouthwash to reduce newborn deaths.
Reducing child Continue to invest in innovative cross-sector partnerships to reduce child mortality. Continued our partnership with Save The Children which aims to reach one million Page 17
mortality children, matched employee fundraising of £1 million, launched second
Health Innovation Award, obtained EMA agreement of pathway for chlorhexidine
gel, and established Emergency Response workstream.
Strengthening Continue to work with partners to support the development and strengthening of Re-invested £6 million profits in Least Developed Countries to strengthen Page 18
healthcare healthcare infrastructure. We anticipate this could improve access to healthcare for healthcare systems and partnered with the World Health Organisation (WHO),
infrastructure
20 million underserved people by 2020 (vs 2012). the International Telecommunication Union, Vodafone, Barclays and others to pilot
innovative healthcare delivery systems.
Eliminating and Help to eliminate and control ten neglected tropical diseases that affect 1.4 billion Donated a further 858 million albendazole tablets to help eliminate LF and control Page 19
controlling neglected people, by 2020 – including the elimination of lymphatic filariasis, through our intestinal worms; made progress towards identifying a preclinical candidate to
tropical diseases
continued investment in R&D, ongoing product donations and our contribution to combat the leishmaniasis parasite through our collaboration with the University
the London Declaration on Neglected Tropical Diseases. of Dundee and Wellcome Trust.
Fighting malaria Build on our 30-year commitment to contribute to the fight against malaria through Filed the world’s first malaria vaccine candidate, RTS,S for regulatory approval; Page 20
continued R&D investment and partnerships on the ground. started phase III trials for tafenoquine to treat P. vivax malaria.Commitments
Our progress – continued
User Key
Progress Find
Commitment tracker Progress in 2014 out more
Eradicating polio Continue to support the WHO objective of eradicating polio by 2018 by providing Delivered 396 million doses of the oral polio vaccine via Global Polio Eradication Page 21
vaccines to UNICEF until this is achieved. Initiative to the countries that most need it, bringing the total to over 16.2 billion
doses over the past 25 years.
Access to Through ViiV Healthcare, continue to increase access to our medicines and care Entered an agreement with the Medicines Patent Pool to accelerate access Page 22
antiretroviral for adults and children living with HIV around the world. We will help the WHO to dolutegravir for both adults and children in countries where the HIV burden
treatment for HIV
and UNAIDS achieve their goal of reaching 15 million people globally with is the highest.
antiretroviral treatment by 2015.
ruoivaheb
ruO
GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 7
Work to do On track Progressing well Completed
Work is needed to get the Work is ongoing. Able to demonstrate clear The commitment has
commitment on schedule. deliverables and good progress been completed.
towards completing the commitment.
Promoting values in Continue to drive a values-based approach to sales and marketing practices Completed the roll-out of our new sales compensation model globally in January Page 27
sales and marketing across the world, with the interests of consumers and patients at its core. 2015 and started work to change how we engage with healthcare professionals
practices
so that by 2016 we will no longer pay them to speak about our medicines.
We have also changed the way we support education for doctors.
Transparency in Be as transparent as possible with our clinical trial data, including publishing Led the development of www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com where researchers can Page 28
clinical trial data clinical study reports (without patient-level data) for all outcome trials of medicines now request access to anonymised patient level data from over 1,000 clinical trials
conducted by GSK and, within an appropriate process, making available to by GSK and other companies.
researchers access to anonymised patient level data to further scientific enquiry.
Rigorous patient and Continue to ensure the interests and safety of patients and consumers are of Developed a Third Party Oversight programme that will consolidate and streamline Page 29-30
consumer safety paramount importance in the way we design and undertake our clinical trials, our approach to managing third-party risk globally; introduced Fingerprint, an
our product quality assurance and our monitoring and reporting of adverse end-to-end supply chain serialisation programme that will further strengthen our
events in ongoing product usage. anti-counterfeiting measures.
Minimising animal Rigorously challenge the need for animal studies and work to minimise the impact Launched a strategic initiative that has the potential to reduce our reliance on animal Page 31
testing on animal welfare, by investing in the development of alternative studies and sharing studies; continued looking for new ways to develop medicines using human cells and
animal-based data. tissues together with the European Bioinformatics Institute and the Sanger Institute.
Promoting Human Address the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights across our Increased focus on the human rights impacts identified by an external assessment Page 32
Rights own operations and our supplier relationships. of our business, for example through our global Third Party Oversight programme.
Engaging with patient Demonstrate that all GSK interactions with patient advocacy groups and political Enhanced Global Standard Operating Procedures on public policy group and Page 33
advocacy groups and stakeholders are conducted appropriately, ethically and transparently. government official engagement; first full year of implementation of an Emerging Markets
political stakeholders
and Australasia patient advocacy strategy to broaden and deepen interactions with
patient groups, whilst embedding the highest levels of transparency and governance.Commitments
Our progress – continued
User Key
Progress Find
Commitment tracker Progress in 2014 out more
Protecting the health Continue to create a working environment that inspires people to grow and Provided preventive healthcare for over 14,000 employees and their families in Page 37
and well-being of perform in a healthy and resilient way. 15 countries; over 5,200 of employees have participated in programmes to improve
our people
personal resilience; injury and illness rate down 4% from 2013.
elpoep
ruO
Promoting inclusion Continue to promote inclusion and diversity globally at GSK. Increased proportion of women in management from 41% to 42%; developing Page 38
and diversity global standards to measure businesses’ disability performance.
Community Extend volunteering opportunities to bring about positive change to communities 98 employees volunteered with 39 non-profit organisations through our PULSE Page 39
volunteering to and global health while providing individual development. programme; established a Volunteer Ambassador Network in 30 countries to
create change
develop locally relevant programmes.
tenalp
ruO
GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 8
Work to do On track Progressing well Completed
Work is needed to get the Work is ongoing. Able to demonstrate clear The commitment has
commitment on schedule. deliverables and good progress been completed.
towards completing the commitment.
Aiming to be carbon Reduce our overall carbon footprint by 25% by 2020 (vs. 2010) and have a carbon Cut Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our operations by 11% since 2013 and 19% Page 43-44
neutral neutral value chain by 2050. since 2010; Scope 3 emissions up by 2%, this remains a challenge as the sales
of our propellant based inhalers continue to grow.
Reducing our water By 2020, reduce our water impact across the value chain by 20% (vs. 2010). Cut operational water use by 5% in 2013 and 20% since 2010 – hitting our 2015 Page 45
impact target a year early; completed a four-year assessment to measure water impact
across the value chain; recertified to Carbon Trust’s Water Standard.
Reducing our waste By 2020, reduce our operational waste by 50% (vs. 2010). We generated 159,000 tonnes of waste from our operations, 4% less than in 2013 Page 46
and 11% less than 2010. Sent 6% of waste to landfill compared to 10% in 2010.
48 sites achieved zero waste to landfill.
Building Build sustainable supply lines for our Nutrition portfolio and work with local farmers Under We remain committed to building a sustainable supply chain for our Nutrition
sustainability in our to improve their agricultural practices, improve their yields, their competitiveness review portfolio. Changes to market dynamics within the portfolio are impacting our
supply chain
and their livelihoods. sourcing model so we are currently reviewing this commitment.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 9
H ealth
for all
Konnah* and his family live in a community
near Monrovia badly affected by Ebola.
Konnah has lost family members to the virus.
His remaining family have been helped
by Save the Children. GSK is contributing
to the fight against Ebola by accelerating
development of our investigational vaccine
and supporting humanitarian efforts, including
funding for Save the Children to enable them
to continue their work.
* Name has been changed to protect identity.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 10
Health for all
Our approach
Health challenges remain Our medicines, vaccines and consumer health Improving access and availability
products are improving quality of life for patients We aim to extend access to existing products 2014 In focus: our contribution
a fundamental barrier
and consumers around the world. But millions by tackling affordability and availability barriers.
to the fight against Ebola
to economic development of people are still not getting the vaccines and
We have a tiered pricing approach for prescription
treatments they need because they cannot afford GSK has been working closely with the World
and quality of life. GSK medicines and vaccines, where countries pay
them, and there are still many diseases without Health Organization (WHO), regulators and
different prices based on their ability to pay, as
aims to make a real treatments that impact the poorest. Many other partners to respond to the Ebola crisis and
determined by Gross National Income (GNI) per
countries continue to have under-resourced to accelerate development of our investigational
contribution to meeting health systems. capita. To maximise patient benefits and sustain Ebola vaccine. We are also contributing to the
our business in Least Developed Countries
these challenges. To play our part in tackling these global health (LDCs), we have capped our prices at 25% of overall humanitarian effort.
challenges we are using open innovation to those for more developed countries. We are also As of February 2015, our investigational Ebola
target unmet medical needs, pioneering new investing in new formulations and distribution vaccine is now being tested in a large phase III
business models to increase access to our models to make our products more available. clinical trial sponsored by the National Institute of
products and collaborating to strengthen Health (NIH) in Liberia. If it protects volunteers
Developing countries bear the greatest burden of
healthcare infrastructure. In doing so, we as hoped, it could contribute significantly to
both infectious and non-communicable diseases
are making an important contribution to the controlling this outbreak. Its future use in mass
(NCDs), and have the least resources to manage
Millennium Development Goals for 2015. vaccination campaigns will depend on whether
them. In Africa, where many global health
the WHO, regulators and other stakeholders
Innovation challenges are magnified, we are investing
are satisfied that the vaccine candidate provides
GSK scientists are creating new products that £130 million to stimulate research, improve
protection against Ebola without causing
have the potential to make a real difference to scientific capabilities and build manufacturing
significant side effects and how quickly large
people’s lives. We have around 40 new molecular capacities (see page 11).
quantities of vaccine can be made.
entities in phase II and phase III development.
Strengthening healthcare systems
Following five approvals in 2013, we received We are actively exploring, with relevant
In the world’s poorest countries, the lack of
four further significant product approvals in 2014, organisations and partners, all opportunities
trained healthcare workers to diagnose diseases
for respiratory, HIV and diabetes. to accelerate the development of manufacturing
and administer treatment is preventing many
at an industrial scale, so that if the trials are
We know that we can’t discover everything patients from accessing our medicines and
successful, we will be in a position to significantly
on our own. We collaborate with partners vaccines, regardless of the cost.
ramp-up production of the vaccine candidate
to target unmet medical needs and great
By reinvesting 20% of our profits in LDCs to train to help combat this, or future Ebola outbreaks.
scientific challenges – from diseases which
front-line healthcare workers, we aim to improve
impact the developing world to Alzheimer’s
access to healthcare for 20 million people
and antibiotic resistance.
by 2020. The 25,000 healthcare workers our
We have adapted our approach to intellectual partners have trained in the past five years are
property to accelerate the discovery of new drugs already providing access to healthcare for more
for pressing health priorities, such as malaria and than 6.5 million people.
TB. Our open innovation strategy offers external
scientists access to our compound library and our
resources to promote research in these areas.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 11
Health for all
Our approach – continued
Investing in Africa
GSK is further investing in Africa to increase access Our goal is to deliver 25 high-impact research projects
to medicines, build capacity and deliver sustainable to contribute to the World Health Organisation’s global
growth. Our vision is to make GSK products available target of 25% reduction in preventable NCD deaths
to 80% of the population in sub-Saharan Africa and by 2025. The NCD Open Lab builds on the success
LDCs by 2020. of our original Open Lab in Spain, which focuses on
malaria, tuberculosis (TB) and other tropical diseases
Africa has long borne the highest rates of infectious
(see page 12).
diseases and now faces growing incidences of NCDs
too. This dual health burden poses a significant Through our Trust in Science Africa programme, we
obstacle in economic and social development. continue to seek out the best scientific ideas and fund
their development. In 2014, we awarded funding to six
We will invest £130 million in Africa over the next
scientists from Kenya and Uganda for research into HIV,
five years. Working with partners, we aim to provide
TB and NCDs in Africa. See our website for more on
a portfolio of relevant products and innovative pricing
Trust in Science in Africa and Latin America.
strategies, support African R&D expertise and increase
local manufacturing capacity and capability. Developing products where they are needed
Increasing capability and capacity to manufacture
Supporting open innovation and collaboration
medicines in Africa will create jobs and boost long-term
We are investing £25 million to create the world’s
economic prospects. We will invest £100 million to
first Africa Open Lab for NCD research, where GSK
expand our existing facilities in Kenya and Nigeria, and
scientists and external researchers will work together
build new factories elsewhere to ensure the sustainable
to improve understanding of NCD variations in
production of medicines in Africa for African people.
African patients.
To further increase the region’s skills base, we aim
to establish up to 25 academic Chairs/Programmes
to promote the study of pharmaceutical science,
healthcare policy and provision. In time, this will
enhance local research, manufacturing and healthcare
capability, helping to secure future investment and build
vibrant healthcare economies.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 12
Health for all
Open innovation
By adapting our innovation We opened up our innovation process to Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) The urgent need to develop new antibiotics that
accelerate research into treatments for diseases Claiming 75% of all lives, NCDs such as cancer, can effectively target these bacteria is widely
model we aim to stimulate
of the developing world in 2009, accepting there is heart disease, respiratory problems, kidney recognised, but unique scientific challenges,
research where it is needed. not the same potential for commercial return on our disease and diabetes are the world’s biggest lengthy and complex clinical trials, and a low
R&D investment. Now we are applying the same killers. Our strategic approach to NCDs includes return on investment have hampered attempts
open innovation model to target other unmet innovation and research of new drugs, improving to address this need, and many companies have
medical needs and overcome significant scientific the efficacy of existing medicines, increasing withdrawn from this area. We are combining our
challenges – from Alzheimer’s to antibiotics. patient access to our medicines, and health long heritage and expertise in antibiotics with
education and prevention (through our products to our open innovation approach to stimulate
Our open innovation approach
Commitment: Adapt the open innovation help people quit smoking, for example). For more research in antibiotic resistance as well as
Our approach is based on three principles:
R&D model, currently used for Diseases of on our approach to NCDs, see our policy paper. advocating for global action.
access to our compounds and data, greater
the Developing World, to apply to other areas We are using our open innovation approach to
flexibility on intellectual property, and As well as our in-house team of researchers
of great unmet medical need and scientific promote research into new treatments for NCDs.
partnerships to share our expertise, processes investigating potential new antibiotics, we
challenge, including infectious disease and
Alzheimer’s disease, by 2015. and infrastructure. Nearly 80% of NCD-related premature deaths collaborate with others through the Innovative
occur in low- and middle-income countries. Medicines Initiative’s (IMI’s) New Drugs 4 Bad
We have screened our entire library of over
In March 2014, as part of our Africa strategy, we Bugs (ND4BB) programme.
two million compounds for signs of activity
announced a £25 million investment to establish
against malaria and TB, two of the world’s In 2014, we contributed to five projects within
Progress overview: Progressing well the world’s first Africa NCD Open Lab. To address
deadliest infectious diseases, and have shared the ND4BB programme, ranging from the design
the specific variations of NCDs in Africa, this
compounds and data with the wider scientific and implementation of efficient clinical trials to
innovative research network will see GSK scientists
community to stimulate research in these areas. understanding how to design compounds that
collaborate with researchers across Africa on high
We also aim to share the results of similar can penetrate multi-drug-resistant pathogens.
quality research from a hub at our R&D facility
screening exercises for several neglected
in Stevenage, UK. GSK, the Medical Research Alzheimer’s and dementia
tropical diseases in the near future.
Councils of South Africa and the UK have together We are extending our open innovation approach
External researchers working alongside GSK pledged £5 million to help South African to target Alzheimer’s and dementia. GSK is part
scientists at our Open Lab in Tres Cantos, researchers study NCDs as part of this Open of the Dementias Platform UK, a £53 million
Spain, have access to our compound library, Lab initiative. As part of the first call for proposals in partnership of pharmaceutical companies and
our facilities and financial support from the Tres November 2014, we committed a further £4 million academics that is conducting a large study in
Cantos Open Lab Foundation – an independent to support successful proposals for NCD research dementia research. The collaboration focuses not
charity with £10 million in funding from GSK. from Cameroon, Côte D’Ivoire, Ghana, Kenya, only on developing treatment, but also on earlier
Projects at the Open Lab focus on diseases Malawi, Nigeria, The Gambia, and Uganda. detection and prevention of this disease.
of the developing world. In 2014, 26 visiting
Tackling antibiotic resistance We are also working to identify indicators of
scientists made use of the Open Lab which has
The discovery of antibiotics revolutionised Alzheimer’s disease through our participation
built up a portfolio of 42 research projects since
modern medicine. Patients no longer die from in the Accelerating Medicines Partnership with
it was established in 2010.
minor infections. But the efficacy of this medical the National Institutes of Health, peer companies
mainstay is increasingly threatened by a steady and academics.
rise in bacteria immune to antibiotics. These
antibiotic-resistant bacteria, such as MRSA, now
causes 25,000 deaths a year in the EU alone.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 13
Health for all
Developing vaccines that don’t need to be kept cold
We are working with partners Vaccines often need to be kept cold to make To do this, we are exploring a number of different
sure they do not degrade during transport and approaches, with the ultimate target to keep
to help overcome barriers
storage. Keeping them refrigerated every step the vaccine stable for three years at up to 30ºC.
to delivering vaccines of the way is a tremendous challenge, particularly Amongst the approaches being considered is
in developing countries where vaccines play such spray drying – an approach used extensively
in developing countries.
an important role. in food manufacturing but not previously used in
the manufacturing of vaccines. Through our work
Inadequate equipment, unreliable power
with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation under
supplies and lack of resources for monitoring
the Vaccines Discovery Partnership, together
temperatures make it very difficult to maintain
we are investing $1.8 million in research to enable
the ‘cold chain’ for vaccines from GSK to
the adjuvant (a critical liquid component) used in
Commitment: Invest in the development the recipient. The cold chain begins in our
our RTS,S candidate malaria vaccine to remain
of vaccines that don’t require continuous manufacturing plant and from there the vaccine
stable at higher temperatures. This will eventually
refrigeration, making distribution easier is transferred to its destination country using
make it easier to transport the vaccine in
and less expensive. a refrigerated unit. Upon arrival, there are often
sub-Saharan African regions where the disease
challenges in transferring the vaccine, which
is most prevalent (see page 20 for more on our
sometimes involves cool boxes taken by boat
malaria vaccine).
to remote islands, or donkey to small villages
Progress overview: Progressing well
in the mountains. Reducing dependence on We have made good progress towards our
the cold chain will be a big step forward in the objective in 2014, and are currently evaluating
delivery of sustainable vaccination programmes. how these findings could be incorporated
into the development of our future vaccines,
including our candidate TB vaccine.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 14
Health for all
Better access to medicines and vaccines
We want our medicines and To improve access to healthcare, we have We reserve our very lowest vaccine prices for Through our ‘catch up’ programme, once
strategies to address affordability, building local Gavi, a public-private alliance to improve access products are approved in Europe and the USA,
vaccines to be accessible to
capacity and supporting vulnerable communities. to vaccines in the world’s poorest countries. we also seek approvals in developing countries
everyone who needs them, Gavi supports countries with a GNI per head where there is a significant unmet medical need
Affordability
of less than $1,570. As countries develop and (where appropriate and permitted to do so
no matter where they live or To improve affordability, our tiered pricing
exceed this GNI threshold, they ‘graduate’ from by national regulations). To combat the rising
strategy enables us to offer our products at
how much they can afford. Gavi support. We have committed to freeze prevalence of respiratory diseases such as
prices that take into account economic factors
vaccine prices for graduating countries for ten Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)
in each country.
years to help them maintain their commitment and asthma, we are making non-patented,
This means we ask countries to pay a fair price to immunisation during this transition. established medicines (such as Ventolin
for our medicines and vaccines based on their and Flixotide) and newly launched patented
We have committed to provide Gavi with more
wealth, as determined by Gross National Income medicines (such as Relvar and Anoro) more
than 850 million vaccine doses at reduced
Commitment: Further embed our flexible (GNI) per capita, which will enable broad access affordable. This will help us in achieving our goal
prices to help protect 300 million children in the
pricing strategy and innovative business to our product globally. Prices in Least of increasing access to our respiratory medicines
developing world by 2024. We supply Gavi with
models for our prescription medicines and Developed Countries (LDCs) represent the to relevant patients in developing countries.
vaccines for rotavirus (Rotarix), pneumococcal
vaccines, to increase usage among those lowest of the tiers, with additional tiers defined
disease (Synflorix) and cervical cancer In middle income countries national incomes
less able to access and afford our products. for lower, upper middle, and high income
(Cervarix). Cervarix is being used in Gavi are higher, but there is often a significant portion
countries. Rather than having a one-size-fits-all
demonstration projects in three African countries of the population who cannot afford medicines.
approach, within each tier we allow country
to understand the most effective way to immunise Our tiered pricing approach means we can
units to develop local pricing strategies that take
Progress overview: Progressing well girls. In 2014, we entered into a three-year offer innovative patient access programmes –
into account economic factors, the country’s
agreement to supply low-cost doses of our for example, in India we introduced a programme
healthcare system, and patient affordability.
Synflorix vaccine to Médecins sans Frontières offering eligible patients suffering from
In 2014, we committed to extend our tiered
to immunise children caught up in ongoing crises. chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura
pricing approach to include our prescription
We also continue to work with the Pan American (an autoimmune condition) four weeks of
medicines as well as vaccines.
Health Organization and the Bill and Melinda treatment free of charge after they receive
We also cap the prices of our patented medicines Gates Foundation to supply Cervarix to countries a 12-week course of Revolade.
and vaccines in LDCs at 25% of prices charged in Latin America and the Caribbean at lower
in developed countries – as long as our prices to support long-term vaccination
manufacturing costs are covered, so we can programmes against cervical cancer.
sustain these prices in the long term. Since
we adopted this approach in 2010, we have
increased the amount of medicines we supply to
LDCs. In Yemen, for example, where we reduced
the price of 11 medicines by an average 30%
in 2013, sales volumes have increased by 56%.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 15
Health for all
Better access to medicines and vaccines – continued
In developed markets it is important that we are Building local capability and capacity In 2014 our support included:
also mindful of the burden of healthcare costs. We promote local manufacturing in developing Our giving in 2014
• Cash: In 2014, we donated £51 million in
In Europe, we tailor our approach to specific countries, and our joint ventures and technology
cash to improve the health and wellbeing 2%
country needs and work with governments to transfer arrangements help build the capabilities
of communities worldwide, for example £m 7%
demonstrate value for patients, payers, of developing countries to research and
by donating £6 million to strengthen
Cash 51
25%
healthcare professionals, taxpayers and our manufacture vaccines and medicines, while Product and
healthcare infrastructure in LDCs, primarily
industry. For example, in the UK, we price our increasing our access to markets. in-kind 133
respiratory medicines Anoro, Relvar and Incruse through training community health workers Time 4
Examples include investing to develop skills, (see page 18). Management 13
for asthma and COPD in line with, or less than,
infrastructure, R&D and manufacturing capability
other alternatives. In the USA, the list price for • Product donations: We donated medicines Total 201 66%
as part of our new Africa strategy (see page 11).
our newly launched diabetes medicine, Tanzeum, valued at £132 million1. This support includes
is lower than medicines in the same class. In Brazil, we partner with FioCruz, a leading our Patient Assistance Programme, which
public health research institution, to manufacture accounted for 49% of our total giving in
We also offer Patient Assistance Programmes
vaccines that address the country’s public health 2014, 858 million albendazole tablets to
(PAPs) for eligible US patients who do not have
priorities and develop a vaccine for dengue fever. fight lymphatic filariasis and soil-transmitted
insurance. In 2014, our PAPs provided
helminths (see page 19) and product donations
prescribed GSK medicines and vaccines valued In India, our joint venture with Biological E, an
to support humanitarian aid in 78 countries,
at $156 million (£95 million) to nearly 183,000 Indian biotechnology company, is developing
distributed through our partners AmeriCares,
patients. Overall, patient enrolment has declined a six-in-one combination vaccine containing
Direct Relief, IMA World Health, MAP
in GSK’s patient assistance programme, primarily the Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine (IPV).
International, and Project HOPE.
as a result of new coverage options available for
Supporting vulnerable communities
patients via the Affordable Care Act. Even with • Time: We also encourage employees to
To improve access to healthcare for people
the new coverage options in the US, GSK volunteer their time and expertise (see page 39)
in vulnerable communities, we make targeted
continues to help support patient access to our and employee volunteering time accounted
product and financial donations to programmes
medicines and also provides services to help for £4 million.
run by local and global partners that are designed
interested and potentially eligible enrollees
to be sustainable in the long term. In 2014, our
understand these alternative coverage options.
global community investment totalled £201.5
million ($332.4 million), compared with £221
million ($347 million) in 2013. The overall 2014
total contribution represents a decline, largely
due to fewer US patients enrolling in GSK’s
patient assistance programmes, which is
primarily a result of the Affordable Care Act.
1 GSK values product donations at the cost of goods, as we believe
this is a truer reflection of the cost to GSK than the wholesale
acquisition cost often used by the pharma industry for valuing
product donations. The total value of product donations in 2014,
based on wholesale acquisition cost, was £466 million.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 16
Health for all
Building products to better meet needs
We aim to better meet the Improving access to our products is not just about In developing countries, the risk of women dying In India, where many low-income and rural
making them affordable. It’s also about making from pregnancy-related causes is 23 times consumers live in hard-to-reach places, we have
needs of people worldwide
sure the right type of products are available in higher than in developed economies, and the significantly expanded our distribution network
by developing new products, the right places to meet patient needs. single biggest cause of death is excessive to now cover 20,000 villages directly with our
bleeding. Oxytocin, a manufactured hormone, range of wellness, oral health and nutritional
formulations and formats. In 2014, we continued to develop new formats for
can be used to stop the bleeding, but this products at an appropriate size and price for
a range of our medicines and consumer products.
requires refrigeration and a trained healthcare everyday purchase and consumption. We have
Many middle-income patients living with worker to administer the product – both often also trained local women to set up their own
respiratory conditions, such as asthma and lacking in resource-poor countries. In 2014, we businesses to sell our products to households
COPD, cannot afford sophisticated multi-dose launched a multi-sector partnership to develop in areas where there are no retailers.
inhalers, so we created a new inhaler product an inhaled form of oxytocin designed to be
Commitment: Continue to build a core We also launched single-serve sachets of our
using single-dose capsules, Ventolin Rotacaps, heat-stable, affordable and easy to administer.
range of products and formats to better Sensodyne toothpaste in the Philippines, and
which are sold in small pack sizes to spread the
meet the needs of people across the globe, To reduce newborn deaths, we are accelerating in the USA we offer a smaller one-week supply
cost. Ventolin Rotacaps is now the most widely
including those less able to access and the development of a common antiseptic found of a number of our Smoking Cessation products.
distributed GSK product in the Philippines and
afford our products. in our Corsodyl mouthwash to prevent umbilical
we are now developing similar single-dose
cord infection leading to sepsis, through our
capsules for another of our respiratory
partnership with Save the Children (see page 17).
medicines, Seretide.
Progress overview: On track Through ViiV Healthcare, we began a new
collaboration with Janssen in 2014, to develop
a two-drug, single-tablet regimen for patients
already virally suppressed after being on a
three-drug regimen. Plans include investigating
potential paediatric fixed-dose formulations of
this regimen (see page 22).GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 17
Health for all
Reducing child mortality
Our innovative partnerships Global efforts to tackle child mortality have In June 2014, we launched our second annual Many of our medicines are recommended for
almost halved death rates among under-fives $1 million Healthcare Innovation Award with paediatric use, including treatments for asthma,
aim to save the lives of
since 1990. But over six million children still died Save the Children to identify innovations that cancer, eczema, epilepsy, HIV/AIDS and
children by increasing before their fifth birthday in 2013 – most of them can improve survival rates among children, and infectious diseases. Our albendazole tablet
in low- and middle-income countries, mainly from newborns in particular, in developing countries. donations are supporting the WHO’s goal
access to essential vaccines
preventable diseases. Two organisations were jointly awarded the to de-worm 75% of school-age children in
and medicines. top prize of $370,000 each. The University of countries where intestinal worms are endemic
Our vaccines, medicines, consumer healthcare
Nairobi received recognition for its bar-coded (see page 19). Building on its commitment
products and expertise can play an important
‘Wellness Cards’ that register babies with a to paediatric HIV, ViiV Healthcare is actively
role in reducing child mortality.
clinic when they are born and encourages carers investigating child-friendly formulations of
Partnering to save one million lives to keep up vaccinations and ongoing care by dolutegravir, that could add to the number of
We are partnering with Save the Children adding credit for food products when they visit medicines available for children living with HIV.
Commitment: Continue to invest in to combine our scientific expertise and global the clinic. And ColaLife, based in Zambia, was See page 22 for more information.
innovative cross-sector partnerships reach with the charity’s child health expertise recognised for an innovative business model
to reduce child mortality. and on-the-ground knowledge. Together, that breaks down the ‘last-mile’ barriers to
we aim to help save the lives of one million access to medicines even in remote areas.
children in the world’s poorest countries.
GSK employees are contributing their time,
Progress overview: On track This partnership, formed in 2013, is exploring expertise and enthusiasm to support our
how one of our existing products, chlorhexidine, partnership with Save the Children through
could be used to reduce deaths among infants. volunteering and fundraising. We match
We are reformulating the antiseptic, used in our employee fundraising up to £1 million a year,
Corsodyl mouthwash, for umbilical cord care and the first £1 million was reached in September
to prevent serious infection, a common cause 2014. Some of the funds raised by employees
of death for many newborns. will be used to support a programme to pilot
an innovative approach to improving the care
Together we are investing in flagship programmes
of premature babies in Kenya.
in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC)
and Kenya that aim to tackle challenges in the Immunising and treating children
supply and demand of effective healthcare and Around 40% of the world’s children are
contribute to a reduction in maternal, newborn immunised against at least one serious disease
and under-five deaths. The programmes focus with a GSK vaccine. We supply vaccines to
on the strengthening of local health facilities Gavi at significantly reduced prices for use
and services, capacity building of front-line in the world’s poorest countries (see page 14).
health workers, and community mobilisation. We have committed to provide Gavi with more
In 2014, we completed a ‘catch up’ vaccination than 850 million vaccine doses at reduced
programme in the DRC for over 2,000 children prices to help protect 300 million children in
in hard-to-reach rural areas. the developing world by 2024. Photo: Jonathan Hyams/Save the Children.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 18
Health for all
Strengthening healthcare infrastructure
GSK is committed to Together with our partners, we are training Projects undertaken in 2014 include: More than 25,000 children in Mozambique
healthcare workers and exploring innovative have now registered in our mVacciNation pilot
strengthening health • Training 200 nurses using innovative distance
delivery models to improve access to programme with Vodafone, which seeks to
e-learning in Tanzania with AMREF Health Africa.
systems to improve healthcare for 20 million people by 2020. improve vaccination rates using mobile phones.
• Advocacy initiatives with Save the Children The mobile app reminds caregivers when
access to healthcare Reinvesting in healthcare
that focused on 168 Ministry of Health officials vaccines are due and enables the government
We reinvest 20% of our profits from sales
in developing countries. of pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare and members of parliament in Burkina Faso. and healthcare workers to better manage vaccine
stocks. Over 42,900 vaccination visits have
products in LDCs into strengthening their • Training over 7,000 health workers with CARE
already been recorded. Having completed
healthcare systems. We have invested £6 million International in rural Bangladesh, reaching over
initial research in five clinics, we will expand
in 2014 (based on 2013 profits) and a total of 1.8 million beneficiaries.
the service to 76 clinics for a one-year pilot
more than £21 million since the reinvestment
GSK also supports the One Million Community in 2015. With funding from USAID and Gavi,
programme began in 2009.
Commitment: Continue to work with partners Health Workers Campaign, led by the UN the pilot will measure impact and assess cost
to support the strengthening of healthcare Training is a key focus as the chronic shortage Sustainable Development Network to train effectiveness to inform decisions about scaling
infrastructure. We anticipate this could of trained healthcare workers is one of the main a million community health workers by the end up the programme in Mozambique and other
improve access to healthcare for 20 million barriers to providing effective healthcare in of 2015. Our investment helps to track progress African countries.
underserved people by 2020 (vs 2012). remote regions. Working with our partners, towards this goal through a virtual ‘Operations
Mobile technology is also at the heart of a major
Amref Health Africa, CARE International and Room’ that will also enable users to share best
collaboration we joined in 2014 with the WHO
Save the Children, we have trained 25,000 practices, successes and challenges.
and the International Telecommunication Union
frontline healthcare workers so far in 34 LDCs
Progress overview: Progressing well Partnering to develop new healthcare to combat NCDs around the world. Better health
across Africa, Asia and the Caribbean. These
delivery models information, education and preventive measures
community health workers, doctors, midwives,
We are exploring ways to improve access to can play an essential role in reducing the global
nurses and volunteers have in turn reached
healthcare and promote economic development incidence of NCDs by addressing common
more than 6.5 million people.
through, for example, our £7 million three-year risk factors including smoking, alcohol, poor diet
Through our reinvestment programmes, partnership with Barclays in Zambia. One year in, and inactivity. Health for NCDs will develop and
we work with partners to educate communities we are finalising plans to test the feasibility of the scale up best practices in online healthcare
about health and also work with governments new a social enterprise model to increase including reminders and support for patients,
to advocate for investment in healthcare. See availability of health services and products in tips to avoid risk factors and technical support
our website for a summary of reinvestment underserved regions as well as plans to pilot to healthcare providers.
programmes in each country. a micro health insurance product for improved
affordability of essential medicines.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 19
Health for all
Eliminating and controlling neglected tropical diseases
We are committed to NTDs affect more than 1.4 billion people in some Albendazole donation Researching new treatments
of the world’s poorest communities. They cause GSK has now donated more than five billion The urgent need for new treatments to combat
defeating neglected tropical
disability, disfiguration and death, they stretch albendazole tablets to help eliminate LF and NTDs requires a flexible and open approach to
diseases (NTDs) to free healthcare budgets and they severely constrain control intestinal worms over the past 15 years. innovation. GSK is a founding member of WIPO
development opportunities. Our donations have reached over 600 million Re:Search, an open innovation platform that
future generations from
people – including 200 million children – and seeks to accelerate the development of new and
The extensive burden of NTDs requires a
their debilitating impacts. 15 countries have completed mass drug better treatments against NTDs such as dengue,
coordinated response to improve access to
administration campaigns for LF. Researchers rabies and Chagas disease, as well as malaria
existing treatments and stimulate research where
estimate the number of people at risk of infection and TB.
none currently exist. GSK is a partner of the
of LF has almost halved since 2000.
London Declaration, joining the Bill and Melinda Our research and development facility in Tres
Gates Foundation, the WHO, other pharmaceutical More than 120 million people are infected with LF Cantos, Spain, (see page 12) prioritises research
companies, donors and national governments and 40 million are living with the pain and stigma on NTDs and other diseases of the developing
Commitment: Help eliminate and control
in a commitment to work together to control or of the debilitating swelling it causes. Intestinal world. In 2014, this research yielded:
ten NTDs that will affect 1.4 billion people
eliminate 10 of the 17 NTDs by 2020. We are worms infect over 800 million children worldwide,
by 2020, including the elimination of • Progress towards identifying a preclinical
leading the work on the ‘first mile’ of the supply with symptoms that can stunt their development
lymphatic filariasis (LF), through our candidate to combat the leishmaniasis parasite
chain to ensure efficient forecasting, manufacturing and prevent them going to school.
continued investment in R&D, ongoing through our collaboration with the University
and shipping of donated products. An annual
product donations and our contribution We have donated albendazole tablets to of Dundee and Wellcome Trust.
scorecard details progress made by all the
to the London Declaration on NTDs. support efforts to eliminate LF in 61 countries
London Declaration partners. • 192 high-quality hits for African
and contribute to the WHO’s goal to regularly
trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness) from
We focus our contribution where we can make de-worm 75% of school-age children in 55
a screening of 1.8 million compounds in the
the biggest difference. Our product donations countries where intestinal worms are endemic.
Progress overview: Progressing well GSK compound library.
of albendazole target LF and soil-transmitted In 2014, we donated 678 million albendazole
helminths (intestinal worms), and we use our tablets for LF elimination and 180 million tablets • A promising hit from our compound library for
open innovation strategy to promote research to treat intestinal worms. Chagas disease identified through an Open
into new treatments for other NTDs. Lab collaboration with New York University,
which is being taken forward to the next stage
Total of the drug discovery process.
Albendazole tablet donations 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (since 1999)
The set of compounds assembled for each
Tablets for LF elimination (m) 609.9 585.7 588.9 647.9 678.6 4,625.4
of these NTDs will be made available to the
Tablets to treat intestinal worms (m) 0.0 16.8 121.0 114.5 180.2 432.5
wider scientific community for further R&D.
Total 609.9 602.6 709.9 762.4 858.8 5,057.9GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 20
Health for all
Fighting malaria
We have supported the Malaria is responsible for more than 550,000 GSK has invested hundreds of millions of dollars to Promoting preventive measures
deaths a year and around 3.2 billion people are at date in RTS,S and the programme has also received Through our African Malaria Partnership,
fight against malaria for
risk. Spread by mosquitos, around 90% of estimated funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. we have invested more than £4.8 million since
30 years, researching new deaths from malaria occur in sub-Saharan Africa In addition, the international non-profit organisation 2001 to support community programmes that
(SSA), and 77% of these are in children under PATH has contributed financial, scientific, managerial aim to prevent malaria by training health workers
treatments and promoting the age of five. and field expertise to the development of RTS,S. and volunteers, distributing insecticide-treated
preventive measures To date there is no licensed vaccine available for the GSK has committed to set the eventual price of bed nets and promoting awareness campaigns.
prevention of malaria. In 2014, GSK reached a major RTS,S at a not for profit price that will cover the cost We work with non-profit partners to deliver
such as treated bed nets. milestone with the submission of a regulatory of manufacturing the vaccine together with a small support on the ground to communities in sub-
application for our candidate malaria vaccine, return of around 5% that will be reinvested in R&D Saharan Africa.
RTS,S, to the European Medicines Agency (EMA). for second generation malaria vaccines, or vaccines
In Sierra Leone, for example, we work with the
against other tropical diseases.
This is a key moment in GSK’s 30-year journey Tony Blair Faith Foundation, which has reached
to develop the world’s first malaria vaccine. This Researching new treatments over two million people – 33% of the population
Commitment: Build on our 30-year submission follows our 2013 announcement of In addition to work on a vaccine to prevent the – by training religious leaders who in turn train
commitment to contribute to the fight against phase III data showing that RTS,S almost halved spread of malaria, we are exploring more effective community volunteers on malaria prevention.
malaria through continued R&D investment the number of cases of clinical malaria in young treatments for those who contract the disease. It is estimated that over 90% of households have
children (aged 5-17 months at first vaccination)
and partnerships on the ground. changed their behaviour as a result. GSK PULSE
GSK researchers are working in collaboration
in the 18 months after vaccination.
volunteers are exploring opportunities to replicate
with Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV) to
If a positive opinion from the EMA is granted, the develop Tafenoquine, a single-dose medicine the model in other parts of Africa.
WHO has indicated that a policy recommendation
Progress overview: Progressing well for the treatment of P. vivax malaria (a strain Our long-standing partnership with The Carter
may be possible by the end of 2015. A positive
widespread in South and South East Asia, Latin Center in Nigeria provides insecticide-treated bed
opinion from EMA will also be the basis for marketing
America and the horn of Africa). The latest stage nets and educates people on how to use them
authorisation applications in SSA.
of our Tafenoquine clinical trial, announced in to effectively tackle both malaria and LF (also
RTS,S’ development involved one of the biggest April 2014, will assess the drug’s efficacy and transmitted by mosquitos). In Ghana, our support
vaccine trials ever conducted in Africa. While safety in adult patients. If successful, Tafenoquine for Family Health International (FHI 360) is training
a number of additional steps still need to be could contribute significantly to eliminating community health workers and volunteers on the
completed, we anticipate that the vaccine could malaria by preventing relapses of the dormant diagnosis, treatment and management of malaria
be available for implementation in early adopter P. vivax parasite. and NTDs such as onchocerciasis,
SSA countries in 2017.
schistosomiasis and intestinal worms.
We are also working on projects to find new
drugs for P. falciparum malaria treatment,
which will approach the next phase of preclinical
discovery and development by the end of 2014.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 21
Health for all
Eradicating polio
GSK has played a key role in The war on polio led by the Global Polio OPV contains a small quantity of weakened,
Eradication Initiative (GPEI) has eradicated the live polio virus. It is being phased out in countries Read more online
tackling polio over the past
disease from many countries and cut the global where polio has already been eradicated
60 years and we remain incidence rate by 99% over the past 25 years. to prevent the very small risk of the disease
We publish more detail online on key
re-emerging from the vaccine itself. Instead,
committed to supporting the Eliminating the final 1% is proving extremely issues including:
these countries administer the inactivated polio
challenging. India was declared polio-free in
WHO’s goal to completely vaccine (IPV). To ensure a long-term supply • Clinical trials in the developing world
2014, a milestone that global health experts
eradicate the disease by 2018. o enn dce e mth ico u ing h At f gu hn aa nc ih si te av na ,b Nle ig. eB ru iat p ano dlio P r ae km isa ti an ns , io nf ap o nl eio w v a IPc Vci n fae cs i, l iw tye i na r We i an vv re es , t Bin eg l g€ iu3 m20 , wm hil elio ren • D tee cv he nl oo lp oi gng y tw rao nr sld fe v raccine production
production is due to begin in 2018.
and there were new outbreaks across Africa • IP and access to medicines in
and the Middle East in 2014. We already produce and supply IPV to developing countries
developed countries, and are exploring ways
Our vaccines have been recognised by the • Pandemic preparedness and developing
to make it more accessible and affordable for
WHO as vital to the eradication effort. In 2014, countries
Commitment: Continue to support the developing countries. Through our joint venture
we delivered 396 million doses of the oral
WHO objective of eradicating polio by with Biological E, an Indian pharmaceutical • Technology transfer, capacity building and
polio vaccine (OPV) via GPEI to the countries
2018 by providing vaccines to UNICEF company, we are creating a combination vaccine developing countries
that most needed it. We have contributed over
until this is achieved. that includes IPV and vaccines for five other
16.2 billion doses since 1988 and we expect • Working together for the health of mothers
to meet at least 30% of UNICEF’s demand diseases in a single dose. We expect this to be and children
available by 2020.
up to 2018 – an anticipated 1.5 billion doses. • GSK briefing on non-communicable diseases
Progress overview: On track We have also stockpiled large amounts of in the developing world
OPV to be kept available for use by UNICEF
• GSK position statement on the post
in the event of an outbreak.
2015 development agenda
• Approach to pricing
• Product donations
• Working together for the health of mothers
and childrenGSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 22
Health for all
Access to antiretroviral treatment for HIV
We are contributing to Global efforts, including important contributions ViiV Healthcare conducted 31 collaborative For children, generic manufacturers now have a
from ViiV Healthcare, have helped to reduce research trials in sub-Saharan Africa, to assess royalty-free voluntary licence to develop paediatric
the global effort to tackle
HIV infection rates by 38% since 2001 and how to treat people living with HIV where formulations of dolutegravir in 121 countries, where
HIV/AIDS through ViiV AIDS-related deaths by 35% since 2005. resources are scarce, including issues such as 99% of children with HIV live. The licence also
But around 35 million people worldwide are mother-to-child HIV transmission, paediatric and includes paediatric formulations and lower-dose
Healthcare, a specialist
still living with HIV and 1.5 million died from adult treatment strategies and the implications tablets currently in clinical development.
HIV company owned by AIDS-related causes in 2013. of HIV, Hepatitis B and Tuberculosis co-infection. Improving outcomes for key affected
Delivering new treatments Increasing access to HIV treatment and care populations
GSK, Pfizer and Shionogi.
In 2014, ViiV Healthcare was granted approval With nearly 90% of people infected with HIV living For vulnerable and marginalised populations,
in the EU for its innovative antiretroviral treatment, in low-income countries, increasing access to care such as sex workers and men who have sex with
Tivicay. Tivicay, the brand name of the compound and treatment is a priority. ViiV Healthcare applies men, it is imperative that access to therapy and
dolutegravir, is an integrase inhibitor used in a uniform approach to all its medicines, with care is combined with support for community-
combination with other antiretroviral medicinal the goal of supporting people in 135 countries based services to combat stigma and provide
Commitment: Through ViiV Healthcare, products for the treatment of adults and affected by HIV. Royalty-free voluntary licences support. ViiV Healthcare works with several
we will continue to research new treatments, adolescents living with HIV. Trials have shown are offered in all low-income least-developed and partners through its Positive Action initiatives
increase access to our medicines and care for that Tivicay is effective for both treatment-naïve sub-Saharan African countries. In middle-income to meet the needs of these communities.
adults and children living with HIV around the and experienced patients. The WHO has cited countries, we apply a flexible pricing policy that
Another vulnerable group are the 3.2 million
world. We will also work with communities to dolutegravir as a long-term developmental factors in Gross Domestic Product and the impact
children under 15 living with HIV, most in
combat stigma and discrimination associated priority for child antiretroviral treatments. of the epidemic on the country.
sub-Saharan Africa. Only 34% of them have
with HIV. We will help the World Health Combining antiretrovirals into a single pill Fourteen royalty-free licence agreements access to appropriate treatment. Treating
Organization (WHO) and UNAIDS achieve improves convenience for patients. In 2014, with generic manufacturing companies enable children requires appropriate formulations
their goal of reaching 15 million people ViiV Healthcare secured approval in the USA international manufacturers to produce because their metabolic rates and feeding
globally with antiretroviral treatment by 2015. and Europe for a new single-pill treatment and market low-cost versions of all ViiV habits differ from adults. ViiV Healthcare works
known as Triumeq that combines dolutegravir Healthcare’s antiretrovirals to donor agency with partners to develop appropriate formulations
and nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, and public-sector programmes. at low prices, including paediatric oral solutions
Progress overview: Progressing well a pb aa rtc na ev ri ir n a gn wd il ta hm Ji av nu sd sin ee n. tV oi i dV e H vee la olt ph c aa nr de sis tu a dls y o In 2014, a few months after regulatory approvals, a ten nd rm esa es ak re cd h fl tra iv ao lsu are sd s es so slu et dio 3n ,s 5. 5In 0 2 p0 a1 e4 d, i a tric
a two-drug single tablet combining dolutegravir ViiV Healthcare entered an agreement with and adolescent patients worldwide.
and rilpivirine, a non-nucleoside reverse the Medicines Patent Pool (MPP) to accelerate
transcriptase inhibitor, for patients already access to dolutegravir for both adults and Over the past five years, ViiV Healthcare’s
virally suppressed on a three-drug regimen. children in countries where the HIV burden is the Positive Action for Children Fund has invested
highest. For adults, ViiV Healthcare has granted £25 million in more than 100 programmes
In 2014, a second study began on the
royalty-free licences for all least-developed, in sub-Saharan Africa to help prevent mothers
experimental long-acting injectable integrase
low-income and sub-Saharan African countries, from passing HIV to their children and £10 million
inhibitor, cabotegravir, also known as GSK744.
while introducing the first-ever MPP licence in the Paediatric Seed Fund.
ViiV Healthcare has also been collaborating
with a tiered royalty structure, where a small
with Janssen to study cabotegravir’s efficacy, See the ViiV Healthcare website for
percentage of the price is based on GDP,
safety and tolerability when combined with a more information.
for specific middle-income countries.
long-acting form of rilpivirine in patients who
are virally suppressed.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 23
Our
behaviour
We work to put our core values – patient
focus, integrity, respect for people and
transparency – at the heart of every decision
we make. We are embedding ethical
behaviour across the business through our
Code of Conduct, training and Speak Up
culture, including at our Stevenage site
where Umesh Kumar works.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 24
Our behaviour
Our approach
We are changing the Our values Ensuring employees
We expect our employees and the third parties understand our expectations 2014 In focus: Code Of Conduct
way we work to further
we work with to act according to our values We aim to create a workplace where everyone
embed our values – patient focus, integrity, respect for people, feels valued, respected and empowered to We updated the Code in 2014 to reinforce
and transparency. make the right decisions. Wherever they work, the critical role our values play in protecting
in everything we do. we want all our employees to understand our our reputation and commercial success.
We want to understand and, where possible, We strengthened the message that employees
expectations of ethical behaviour and have the
exceed society’s expectations of us. We have should feel protected and empowered to report
confidence to report any concerns. Our Code
changed the way we do business, often going concerns through our confidential Speak Up
of Conduct is available in 24 languages and we
beyond industry norms, to further embed channels. As part of our drive to enhance
have created a resource centre with tools and
our values: third-party oversight, we extended the Code
discussion guides to help link our values to local
to cover our complementary workforce.
• Research practices: to advance medical activities and cultures.
science, we have increased access to data Training on the Code of Conduct is already
Employees failing to complete mandatory training
from our clinical research trials – including mandatory for all employees and will also be
on time are subject to disciplinary action, as
providing researchers with anonymised required for complementary workers from 2015.
defined and permitted by local labour laws.
patient-level information (see page 28).
Designated managers also have to fulfil an annual
• Sales and marketing practices: we have Ethical Leadership certification requirement, to
fundamentally changed the compensation ensure that they lead by example and create an
model for our sales teams to reinforce patient- ethical working environment.
focused business practices. In 2016, we will
We schedule global learning programmes through
stop payments to healthcare professionals
the year to make it easier for employees to be
to speak on our behalf to avoid any perceived
trained on our values, policies and regulatory
conflicts of interest (see page 27).
requirements. We classify programmes as
• Employee performance management: living mandatory, expected or elective to ensure key
our values is one of six clear expectations used programmes are prioritised.
to evaluate individuals’ performance through
our new performance management system
(see page 35).GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 25
Our behaviour
Our approach – continued
Working with suppliers and third parties
Suppliers and other third parties such as On completion of every audit, we work with suppliers to develop
agents, distributors and affiliate companies an improvement plan to address any areas of concern and check
that these plans are implemented satisfactorily in an agreed
(where we have an equity stake) play
timeframe. If significant gaps are identified, we may suspend
an essential role in helping us develop,
or terminate our work with an existing supplier, or decide not to
manufacture and distribute our products. work with a potential new supplier.
But working with third parties also exposes
In addition to EHS audits, a specialist commercial insurance
us to risks that could harm our business. company conducted seven assessments to review risks to supply.
To manage these risks, we expect third parties to comply with Our new company-wide third-party oversight risk management
our standards on quality, safety, ethics, labour rights, health and programme will build on established standards and systems that
safety, and the environment. Our Third Party Code of Conduct are currently delivered in a decentralised way. It will streamline
sets out these expectations. our work with third parties and create a standardised approach
to addressing third-party risk across the business.
Our audit teams manage and regularly assess the performance
of over 6,000 suppliers that support our manufacturing supply
Supplier EHS audits 2009-2014 (existing and potential suppliers)
chain. In 2014, more than 1,400 suppliers were assessed for
quality in compliance with GSK’s Quality Management System. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Americas 5 4 3 2 3
We also audit suppliers on ethical, environmental and health
Europe 5 7 0 5 8
and safety (EHS) management systems, and performance.
Asia 29 38 10 26 32
In 2014, we increased the number of EHS audits of our higher
risk supplier facilities from 32 to 43 and created a new team Total number of audits 39 49 13 33 43*
to support more extensive EHS risk-based auditing across our * Each supplier audit is counted as a single audit, even where multiple sites/locations
supplier base. This includes six EHS, human rights and labour are included.
practices audits, conducted in collaboration with other
Payment terms
pharmaceutical companies, as part of the Pharmaceutical
We expect our suppliers to meet our standards, but we also have
Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI).
a responsibility to support them by paying on time. We know that
For more on audits, see our data summary on page 47. small businesses in particular often face cash-flow challenges.
Following a change in our standard payment terms for suppliers,
we reviewed the terms for small and medium companies in 2014.
This resulted in an exception for small and medium suppliers or
small diverse suppliers in the USA from the standard payment
terms. We have also set up a dedicated small-business hotline
to provide advice and support to smaller suppliers.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 26
Our behaviour
Ethical conduct
Preventing bribery and corruption This has been a deeply disappointing matter The Global Ethics and Compliance team
Types of policy violations
Bribery and corruption go against our values for us. The illegal activities of GSKCI are a clear manages investigations into reported concerns
2014
and put our business and reputation at risk. breach of GSK’s governance and compliance and provides tools, oversight and guidance
We therefore take a zero tolerance approach. procedures. They are wholly contrary to the to improve compliance. In 2014, we formed 3%
Attendance/payroll
values and standards expected from our an ABAC Investigations Committee to oversee 3% 6%
Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABAC) Code of conduct
employees. We have published a statement any allegations of bribery and corruption across 5%
programme is designed to prevent non-compliance. Good Manufacturing
We continued to re-evaluate the effectiveness of io tsf a pp eo ol pog ley o t no oth ue r C weh bin se its ee . government and G incS rK ea. W see o a ul rs io n vm ea sd tige as tu ivb es cta ai pn ati bal i li in tyv .e Ost um r e gn lot bto a l DPr isa tc rt ibic ue ts io/ nG Poo rad c tices 65 %% 43%
this programme to ensure it is robust. Employees
Corporate Investigations team investigates all Local work
have access to a handbook that offers practical Our focus is on learning from this issue. regulation violations 8%
allegations of misconduct, including ABAC and
g tou pid ra en vc ee n ta nn od n p -cro oc me pd liu ar ne cs e t h aa nt d i n rc el iu nd foe r cc eo n ot ur ro ls W rece t ih fya v the e t a isk se un e s st e idp es n t to ifi ec do m atp Gre She Kn Cs Ii ,v ie nl cy lu ding fraud issues. Allegations have been raised in p M ra or mke ot ti in og n aa ln ad c tivities 10% 11%
a number of countries that are currently being
policy on Preventing Corrupt Practices. changing engagement activities with healthcare Training completion
followed up on and investigated, including in
professionals and expanding our review and Falsification of documents
People working in high-risk areas complete Poland, Syria, and Lebanon.
monitoring of invoicing and payments. We will Travel and expenses
mandatory online training and additional
face-to-face training is provided, where relevant
use robust compliance systems and work closely In 2014, 3,947 employees were disciplined for Fraud
to the role and the risk faced. Our training uses
with government to continue to innovate, improve policy violations (3,128 in 2013), of these 373 Other
access to medicines and establish GSKCI as a (375 in 2013) were dismissed or agreed to leave
real-world examples to help employees build the
model for reform in China’s healthcare industry. the company voluntarily. Policy violations related
skills they need to identify risks and effectively
We have also sought to apply appropriate to sales and marketing codes accounted for 233
combat both real and perceived corruption. Over Breaches of external codes
lessons to our operations elsewhere, but, given dismissals (161 in 2013). Of the total disciplined,
72,000 GSK employees and complementary GSK was found to be in breach of external
the complex global environment in which we 3,131 employees received a documented
workers completed this additional ABAC training industry or government promotional codes
operate, we will continue to face risks. warning (2,753 in 2013) and the remainder
in 2014, in more depth than covered in the Code 39 times in 2014. Of these, 23 related to
received verbal warnings.
of Conduct training. Reporting and investigating concerns our Consumer Healthcare products, mainly
Our Speak Up programme offers people within The primary reason for the increase in the number breaches of national regulations and codes on
We have a dedicated and independent audit
and outside GSK a range of channels to voice of disciplinary cases (particularly documented advertising. The remaining breaches related to
team who assess our internal controls, to help
concerns and report misconduct without fear warnings related to Code of Conduct violations) our prescription products, including breaches
ensure we maintain our ethical standards.
of reprisal. These include telephone and internet was the increased number of reports from China for promotional materials and advertising.
We continue to invest in other methods of
channels run by independent external operators (652 in 2014, 48 in 2013), the strengthening We investigate every breach of an external
assuring our controls to prevent the risk
to enable anonymous reporting. All concerns are of our monitoring systems, and the introduction code and take steps to prevent a recurrence,
of bribery and corruption.
investigated by GSK management. of a quarterly knowledge test for sales which may include retraining or other corrective
In September 2014, GSK China Investment representatives. Failure to pass the test results in measures, such as disciplinary action.
In 2014, we standardised how we monitor contacts
Co. Ltd (GSKCI) was found guilty, according the employee receiving a documented warning.
made to our global compliance management
to Chinese law, of bribing non-government
system to report potential allegations and ask Employees who remain with the company following
personnel. This verdict followed investigations
questions, and we significantly increased our a policy violation receive retraining and increased
initiated by China’s Ministry of Public Security in
monitoring activities globally. This has led to an monitoring and support. In some cases, retraining
June 2013 and included a fine of £301 million.
increase from 1,865 contacts made in 2013 to is extended to an employee’s colleagues to prevent
3,203 contacts in 2014. them from making similar mistakes.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 27
Our behaviour
Promoting values in sales and marketing practices
We are transforming Creating a sales force that puts patient Secondly, we are changing how we support Direct-to-consumer marketing
needs first education for doctors. Our commitment to of prescription medicines
the way we compensate
We are modernising the way we sell and market medical education remains unchanged, but We advertise our prescription medicines
our sales representatives our medicines, transforming the business model we will move away from direct sponsorship directly to consumers in New Zealand and the
the industry has had for many years. We are of individual HCPs to arm’s length funding, USA. Direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertising of
and engage with
changing how we compensate our sales for example via third-party independent medical prescription medicines is not permitted in other
healthcare professionals. representatives and engage with healthcare organisations. It will be up to these organisations markets. All DTC advertising is governed by our
professionals (HCPs), to meet customer needs to decide how to best deliver education DTC Communications policy, based on the
and to ensure patients interests come first. programmes, without influence from GSK. PhRMA Guiding Principles: Direct to Consumer
In 2014, we made good progress against our Advertisements about Prescription Medicines.
Thirdly, by 2016, we will no longer pay HCPs to
commitments in three key areas, announced
speak to other prescribers about our medicines. All our DTC advertising in the USA is reviewed by
in December 2013.
Instead we are using other channels, including legal, regulatory or medical specialists and new
Commitment: Continue to drive a values-
Firstly, in January 2015, we completed the digital and real-time applications, to provide DTC television advertisements are submitted to
based approach to sales and marketing
roll-out of changes to the way our sales teams are information about our medicines and vaccines the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for
practices across the world, with the interests
compensated. Our sales professionals around the in the way HCPs want it, when they want it. review and comment before broadcast. In 2014,
of consumers and patients at its core.
world no longer have individual sales targets, but The expert medical doctors we have within GSK our US Pharmaceutical business did not receive
instead, are assessed and compensated based will also take a role to talk and answer questions any Notices of Violation or Warning Letters from
on their technical skills, scientific knowledge, about our medicines with their peers. They will be the FDA for advertising or promotion of products.
Progress overview: On track quality of service they deliver to HCPs, and responsible for, and measured on, providing the
Our US Commercial Practices Policies ensure
broader business performance. Our sales teams right information to support the safe and effective
that all sales and marketing activities related
are listening to customers' needs and bringing the use of our medicines.
to pharmaceutical products meet legal
right GSK resources to help improve patient care.
We will continue to pay HCPs for non-promotional requirements and high ethical standards.
In the USA, GSK was ranked first among major
advisory services and clinical research. These In 2014, we revised these policies to make
pharmaceutical companies by HCPs on the value
“ I welcome GSK’s move to transform payments are governed by rigorous controls and them more principles-based and user-friendly.
we bring in our 2014 customer satisfaction survey.
their business model, to ensure that are based on fair market value. We also included new criteria that must be
Our sales and marketing employees, along with met before launching DTC promotions for new
patients’ interests are central to every Publishing payments made to HCPs
relevant third parties acting on our behalf, must medicines, including educating HCPs about
GSK is committed to publishing payments
decision the company takes and follow our Code of Practice for Promotion and the new treatments and alerting them to the
we make to HCPs and healthcare organisations.
Customer Interactions. In 2014, we refreshed upcoming advertising campaign.
to remove any potential concerns We already do so in several countries, including
the Code to further align with our values.
about undue GSK influence on HCP Australia, France, Japan, the Netherlands, Portugal,
Slovakia, the UK and the USA, in line with locally
prescribing behaviour. It’s a bold move
agreed government or industry association
and one that EPF will monitor closely.” standards. We continue to support increased
transparency in other countries as industry
Nicola Bedlington associations or governments establish specific
Secretary General of the European guidelines for disclosure, for example, through the
Patients’ Forum European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries
and Associations code on payments.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 28
Our behaviour
Transparency of clinical research
Sharing information on At any given time, we have over 300,000 The aim is to provide greater access to Researchers must submit research proposals
volunteers and patients, across 75 countries, information on the design, methods and results to an independent review panel to ensure the
our clinical trials supports
participating in nearly 400 of our clinical trials. of our trials, while protecting the personal data will be used responsibly and within a secure
further work to benefit Sharing information about our trials helps to information of participants. The register now environment. By the end of 2014, GSK had over
make sure their involvement contributes to the includes over 5,500 summaries of trial results 1,000 studies listed as available for request, and
medical science and
advancement of medical science and patient and 200 CSRs. Following improvements to the researchers are also able to ask about data from
patient care. care. Their contribution helps researchers, design and utility of the Register, we have this other studies. Over 36 research teams have
within GSK and beyond, better understand year seen an increase in the number of pages already accessed our data using this system.
disease areas and develop new medicines viewed per visit and the duration of each visit.
A survey of researchers’ experience has shown
and treatments for the people who need them.
We were the first company to provide that this secure environment is meeting their key
We make a large amount of information publicly researchers with the detailed data that sit behind needs and has helped us to identify areas for
available, and GSK was the first pharmaceutical clinical trial results to conduct further research. improvement. We also completed an audit of the
Commitment: Be as transparent as possible
company to sign up to the AllTrials campaign We created an online system in 2013 so internal processes we have in place to support
with our clinical trial data, including publishing
for research transparency. Since 2004, we have researchers could request access to detailed our commitment to provide greater access to
clinical study reports (without patient-level
had an online clinical study register. We now anonymised patient-level data from our trials. patient level data.
data) for all outcome trials of medicines
make available information on all our trials, In January 2014, we expanded the system and
conducted by GSK and, within an appropriate
including result summaries, regardless of launched www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com to
process, making available to researchers
whether the outcomes might be considered include data from other companies. By the end of
access to anonymised patient-level data
positive or negative. 2014, GSK and nine other companies used this
to further scientific enquiry.
system. We are encouraging the development of
In 2013, GSK became the first company to make
an independent system that will include studies
Clinical Study Reports (CSRs), formal reports
from across the industry and academia.
that form the basis of submissions to regulatory
Progress overview: Progressing well
agencies, publicly available. CSRs are posted
onto the register with personal information
removed. In 2014, we co-led an initiative
by non-profit organisation, TransCelerate
BioPharma Inc., to develop a recommended
approach for removing and redacting personal
information in CSRs.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 29
Our behaviour
Rigorous patient and consumer safety
Patient safety is our All medicines have potential risks as well as We collaborate with industry peers, regulators, We conduct trials in accordance with the
benefits. We must identify and evaluate any healthcare providers, patients and other interested International Conference on Harmonisation’s
number one priority in
safety concerns, and to ensure these risks are parties to improve communication about our Good Clinical Practice guidelines. All our trial
the development, testing, clearly communicated to patients, prescribers, medicines and enhance pharmacovigilance. protocols are reviewed by an independent ethics
payers and regulators. This science relates to the detection, monitoring, committee, made up of medical professionals,
manufacturing and use
assessment, understanding and prevention scientists, lay people and investigators, which
Our robust policies and governance framework
of our products. of adverse effects or any other drug-related has the power to reject or stop a clinical trial.
help us detect and act on any adverse side effects
problems. As part of our efforts to improve the In 2014, we piloted a risk-based monitoring
that may be associated with our medicines.
pharmacovigilance process, our research teams approach that uses new techniques to identify
We also apply computerised statistical tools
perform benefit/risk evaluations through the and manage emerging risks associated with data
to analyse safety information by, for example,
life cycle of all medicines, and the results are quality and patient safety. We plan to implement
identifying any unexpected adverse events
presented to our Global Safety Board. In 2014, this approach across all our clinical trials in 2015.
being reported on a disproportionate basis.
Commitment: Continue to ensure the we replaced multiple department-specific tools
We maintain a global risk register to share the
interests and safety of patients and consumers GSK’s Global Safety Board, chaired by our with a new global database to improve and
top global risks emerging from our clinical trials
are of paramount importance in the way we Chief Medical Officer and composed of senior standardise our safety processes.
and help our research teams around the world
design and undertake our clinical trials, our physicians and scientists, makes decisions
Putting patient safety first in clinical research monitor quality and safety controls appropriately.
product quality assurance and our monitoring on product safety issues. It ensures that safety
Research is essential to create new and better Our R&D employees are trained on Good Clinical
and reporting of adverse events in ongoing is a key focus for our research teams and reviews
medicines that can transform lives. We conduct Practice before working on any clinical research.
product usage. benefit/risk evaluations of GSK products in
trials with patients and healthy volunteers to We regularly audit our trial sites and those of
development and on the market. We also have
assess potential new medicines and continue to third parties carrying out trials on our behalf to
an internal risk advisory panel to encourage
monitor their efficacy and safety once approved. ensure high ethical quality and safety standards.
sharing of information and best practices
Progress overview: Progressing well Our clinical trials are conducted to the highest We conducted 234 of these audits in 2014
across the business.
ethical standards, wherever they take place, and (see data summary on page 47), and implemented
put patient safety first. a comprehensive programme for managing
outsourced activities that included training for
We only conduct clinical trials in countries where
our partners on GSK’s policies and practices.
the medicines are likely to be suitable for the
wider community. GSK does not conduct clinical In 2014, we explored the use of technologies to
trials of investigational medicines in a country better understand patient adherence to medicines
if it is known at the outset that there is no intent during clinical trials. These included: electronic
to pursue registration to make the medicine reminders to improve patient adherence to trial
available for use in that country. regimens; and sophisticated technologies that
transmit data when a dose of medication is
released in the stomach to help scientists
understand how the medication is used.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 30
Our behaviour
Rigorous patient and consumer safety – continued
Manufacturing and supply Combating risks from counterfeit products In 2014, we introduced Fingerprint, an end-to-end
We produce more than two billion packs of Counterfeit medicines, vaccines and other supply chain serialisation programme that will apply
medicines, over 800 million doses of vaccines healthcare products pose a significant threat unique serial ‘fingerprints’ on many of our products
and nearly five billion packs of consumer to patient and consumer safety. Not only do they and further strengthen our anti-counterfeiting
healthcare products every year. lack the necessary active ingredients and quality measures to help protect patients and consumers.
controls to deliver the health benefits they claim, The unique identifiers will be recorded in a
We have a well-established internal framework
they often contain impurities that can actually database. The product can then be scanned and
in place to ensure compliance, consistency and
cause harm. verified against the database at any point in the
reliability. Our quality culture puts the patient at
supply chain. By the end of 2014, 48 packaging
the centre of our efforts to deliver ‘right first time’. Most counterfeit GSK products originate in China,
lines at 14 of our sites had serialisation capability.
We are also simplifying and rationalising our Colombia, India, Pakistan and Peru, and our most
We will implement Fingerprint across an additional
processes to remove risks that could affect quality. counterfeited products include Sensodyne and
50 lines in 2015 to enable product tracking and
Aquafresh toothpastes and medicines such as
Our end-to-end supply chain model is government reporting.
Augmentin and Panadol.
standardising and improving our controls across
Counterfeiting is a crime and we work closely
our entire supply chain and manufacturing We have a comprehensive global strategy
with appropriate law enforcement and customs
operations – from sourcing raw materials and to identify and prevent counterfeiting, tailoring
agencies to combat large-scale, often highly
making products to quality controls, packaging solutions to requirements in specific markets.
sophisticated, counterfeiters. In 2014, a six-year
and transport to our customers. Technological features such as holograms,
investigation concluded when a Chinese court
security seals and complex background patterns
As well as ensuring patient and consumer convicted and imprisoned a group of counterfeiters
on our packaging help patients and consumers
safety, our commitment to high standards in our who were manufacturing counterfeit GSK
recognise genuine products and avoid
manufacturing is helping us drive progress medicines for sale in Africa. We also collaborated
counterfeits. We use technology to track, monitor
towards our ultimate goal of zero accidents, zero with law enforcement agencies in Colombia,
and investigate the sale of counterfeit products.
defects and zero waste (see more on health and India and Pakistan, which led to raids and arrests
We also support the Fight the Fakes campaign,
safety on page 37, and waste on page 46). in underground counterfeiting factories. For more
a global campaign that raises awareness on the
on reported cases, raids and arrests, see our
In 2014, two GSK manufacturing sites (at Cork dangers of counterfeit medicines, and advocate
data summary on page 47.
in Ireland and Ste. Foy in Canada) received governments to help stop counterfeits.
Warning Letters from the US FDA. We are taking
comprehensive actions to resolve these issues.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 31
Our behaviour
Minimising animal testing
We understand and share When we develop new medicines and vaccines, To encourage uptake of the 3Rs, we recognise Refine
we need to check they have the desired effect employees who make outstanding contributions We have clear standards and processes in place
the ethical concerns
and are safe for people to use. To do this, we to animal welfare. In 2014, a Silver Animal to ensure animal welfare. Our Office of Animal
surrounding animal need to assess how they affect the interactions Welfare award went to an individual whose Welfare, Ethics and Strategy, led by our Chief
between pathways, organs and tissues within work showed that the age of animals used in of Veterinary Medicine, oversees the humane
research. But animal studies
the body, which makes animal tests a critical research may profoundly affect experimental and responsible use of animals across GSK.
continue to provide vital part of our research strategy. results. By applying this knowledge when
Studies conducted by contractors and suppliers
designing studies, fewer animals may be needed
information that cannot We adopt the ‘3Rs’ approach, commonly used because of reduced variability in study groups. on our behalf must adhere to the same high
across the biomedical industry, to replace animal standards of animal welfare we adopt in our
These findings will be explored further by the
be obtained by alternative research where possible, reduce the number own research. Our animal quality assurance
National Centre for 3Rs.
of animals used in a study while still providing group has assessed more than 700 of these
methods, and regulations
precise information, and refine techniques to In 2014, we used 8.5% fewer animals than the organisations’ care and welfare programmes over
require us to test our minimise pain and improve the welfare of animals. previous year and 39% fewer than in 2000. the past seven years. In cases where contractors
Of these, fewer than 1.7% were non-rodents, fail to adopt our recommendations or show
medicines and vaccines Replace
and 0.3% were non-human primates. no commitment to continuous improvement
In 2014, we launched a strategic initiative that
on animals before starting following a site visit, we stop working with them.
has the potential to reduce our reliance on
clinical trials. animal studies. Together with the European
Bioinformatics Institute and the Sanger Institute,
Change in animal use vs. index year of 2000
we are looking for new ways to develop
medicines using human cells and tissues. %
150
As well as using ‘in vitro’ tests on individual cells,
cultures or tissues, we use computer simulations
Commitment: Rigorously challenge the need
instead of animals where possible.
for animal studies and work to minimise the
100
impact on animal welfare, by investing in the Reduce
development of alternative studies and sharing We have continued to rigorously challenge the
animal-based data. need for animal studies and focus on the 3Rs.
For example, while studying multiple sclerosis, 50
our scientists found that changes in the optic
nerve can be used as a proxy for overall nerve
Progress overview: Progressing well degeneration. Instead of studying different
stages of the disease in multiple animals, 0
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
we are developing a method to track loss of
vision in a single animal. n Animals used within GSK facilities n Animals used by contractors on behalf of GSK
Figures are normalised to 2000, the first year of data after the formation of GlaxoSmithKline.
Data includes animal research conducted by external contractors on our behalf, data unavailable for 2000 and 2001.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 32
Our behaviour
Addressing human rights impacts
We support the UN Guiding We are committed to upholding the Universal Activities in embargoed countries
Declaration of Human Rights and the core labour Some stakeholders have concerns about how Read more online
Principles on Business and
standards set out by the International Labour businesses operate in countries targeted by
Human Rights and are Organization. GSK is also a signatory to the sanctions laws, such as Cuba, North Korea,
We publish more detail online on key
UN Global Compact. Iran, Sudan and Syria. There are clear challenges
working to address our issues including:
and risks for the company operating in these
An independent third-party assessment of the
human rights impacts. markets. We believe that people should not • GSK Anti-Bribery and Corruption Handbook
human rights impacts of our business in 2012,
identified seven priority areas: access to health be denied access to medicines because of the • GSK policy on preventing corrupt practices
care, air quality impact relating to propellants, regime operating in their country. We aim to and maintaining standards of documentation
supply medicines and vaccines in all countries
clinical trial standards, employment practices, • GSK Anti-Bribery and Corruption guidelines
that need and wish to purchase them, including
patient safety, product counterfeiting, and use for Third Parties
essential medicines in sanctioned countries, in
of third-party suppliers.
Commitment: Address the UN Guiding compliance with applicable sanctions and export • Cloning technologies and stem cell research
Principles on Business and Human Rights Further work highlighted the potential to improve controls. We also comply with the disclosure
• Disclosure of clinical trial information
across our own operations and our company-wide risk management and controls requirements of the Iran Threat Reduction and
supplier relationships. for use of suppliers. In 2014, we continued to Syria Human Rights Act of 2012. We regularly • The care, welfare and treatment of animals
address this through our new global Third Party look at how best we can address the challenges
• The role of transgenic animals in
Oversight programme (see page 25). of supplying in these countries and meet the biomedical research
needs of patients.
Progress overview: On track We also identified a need to provide more • Use of Non-human Primates (NHPs) in the
support for local markets to effectively implement Privacy and data security Discovery and Development of Medicines
the principles of our global policy on the equal Our global privacy principles require all and Vaccines
and inclusive treatment of employees. In 2014, employees and suppliers to ensure that all
• Counterfeiting of healthcare products
we worked to address this through greater personal data are collected, used, processed,
collaboration, communication and training transferred and stored appropriately, securely and • Pharmacovigilance
(see page 38). in line with legal requirements. See our website
• Criteria for working with public policy groups
for a summary of our Binding Corporate Rules on
safeguarding personally identifiable information. • Global Code of Practice for Promotion and
Customer Interactions
• Code of Conduct
• Clinical trials in the developing worldGSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 33
Our behaviour
Ethical interactions
We regularly interact with Public policy We also trained relevant employees on our Tax
We engage with governments, policymakers, updated Global Policy on Grants and Donations. Businesses are increasingly being challenged
political and other key
multilateral agencies, and professional to ensure they contribute through the tax system
GSK is a member of many trade and
stakeholders and we are associations to advocate for policies that protect to the societies in which they operate, and to
industry associations that primarily represent
the interests of patients, while supporting our provide information on their tax management
committed to doing so pharmaceutical, consumer products and
business. For example, in 2014, we worked to principles and policies. We understand our
vaccine businesses at the national, regional
appropriately, ethically help advance policies that spur innovation and responsibility to pay an appropriate amount of
and international levels. See our website for
accelerate the pace of medical breakthroughs in tax. We fully support efforts to ensure companies
and transparently. the USA through the government’s 21st Century a full list. are appropriately transparent about how their
Cures initiative. We also shared best practices Engaging with patient advocacy groups tax affairs are managed.
on universal mass vaccination strategies with We engage with, and support, patient groups
We have a substantial business and employment
to gain insights from patients, to help us develop
authorities and national immunisation technical presence in many countries around the globe
products and advocate for policies that better
advisory groups in Europe and Adriatic countries. and we pay a significant amount of tax, including
meet their needs.
Commitment: Demonstrate that all GSK GSK registers costs relating to lobbying on corporation and other business taxes, as well as
interactions with patient advocacy groups the EU Transparency Register and the US Our support includes funding, staff training, tax associated with our employees.
and political stakeholders are conducted Federal Lobbying Register. In 2014, the cost educational assistance and collaboration on At the same time we have a responsibility to
appropriately, ethically and transparently. of representing our interests to EU institutions disease awareness and prevention projects, our shareholders to be financially efficient and
was in the range of €700,000 and €800,0001 as outlined in the GSK Code of Practice for deliver a sustainable tax rate. As part of this
and we spent $3,452,0002 on US federal promotion and customer interactions. Grants approach, we look to align our investment
funding from GSK cannot exceed 25% of patient
Progress overview: Progressing well lobbying activities. groups’ annual revenue and we do not exert strategies to those countries where we already
We do not make corporate political contributions. undue influence or promote our products to have substantial economic activity and where
Our US employees can choose to provide these organisations. Grants to patients groups government policies promote tax regimes which
financial support to political groups or individual in 2014 are published here. are attractive to business investment.
candidates through Political Action Committees We pay a considerable amount of tax in the UK
Our Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits (PALS)
(PACs) under the Federal Election Campaign Act. because a significant proportion of our global
continue to build relationships between patient
In 2014, the GSK employees’ PAC contributed corporate functions and R&D and manufacturing
advocates, industry and health policy experts.
$525,900 to state and federal candidates – activities are located there. This includes
In 2014, PALS events were held in Portugal,
65% of those funds were contributed to federal corporation tax on profits generated, as well
Switzerland, Latvia, Germany, Japan, Serbia
candidates and 35% of the funds were as indirect tax and employment taxes, although
and Slovenia. Issues including empowering
contributed to candidates for state offices. the precise amounts fluctuate from year to year.
communities to conduct patient-centred care,
As part of our advocacy efforts, we work with improving access to healthcare and promoting See our Annual Report, page 63 for further details
1 This includes running an advocacy office in Brussels, salaries, appropriate third-party policy groups. We have high-quality strategies for patient advocacy were on our tax payments. Read more about our
ac so sn ofe cr ie an tic oe ns m, t er mav be el ra sn hd ip c fo en es su . l It nin Ag pc ro il s 2ts 0. 1 I 5t ,e tx hc elu rd ae ns g etr a pd ue b l ished clearly defined criteria to guide our selection of discussed. In the USA, a National PALS and five approach to tax on our website.
on the EU Register will change as GSK adjusts our calculations these groups to ensure they share our values and Regional PALS, events focused on healthcare
2 t So e m e a thtc eh U th Se F i en dtr eo rd au l c loti bo bn y o inf gn e rew g iE sU te rr .u Tle hs is f o fir g t uh re e R coe vg eis rt se tr h. e costs align with our priorities. In 2014, we introduced costs and quality. PALS have reached more
of salaries and benefits for all employees registered to lobby the new Standard Operating Procedures to reflect than 7,000 leaders from 55 countries since
tU hS e gG oo vv ee rr nn mm ee nn tt a, flo fab irb sy i on fg fi cc eo n ins u Wlt aa sn ht ic no gs tots n, Dre Cse , a ar nc dh s, uru pn pn oin rtg s taff. these criteria and revised existing ones that they began in 2002.
It also includes the proportion of GSK’s trade association fees govern our interactions with government officials.
that was associated with federal lobbying.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 34
Our
people
Through our PULSE programme, employees
have an opportunity to use their expertise to
support non-profit organisations addressing
major global health challenges, while building
their own skills and experience. Martin Brandt
volunteered with the OGRA Foundation
Kisumu Kenya.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 35
Our people
Our approach
To ensure we have the right Talent Engagement
We are working hard to attract, develop and Engaging employees in our mission and strategy 2014 In focus: supporting
people with the right skills
retain the skilled and talented people we need at gives everyone at GSK a clear sense of how they
our people during integration
to support our business, all levels of our organisation. We are on track to can help drive the business forward. Our CEO
achieve our global target to recruit 450 students and members of the Corporate Executive Team In 2014, we announced a proposed three-part
our people strategy focuses
a year onto our early talent programmes by 2015. (CET) deliver regular live broadcasts and transaction with Novartis. The transaction will
on four areas: talent, Acknowledging our global commitment to messages to keep employees informed about further strengthen our vaccines and consumer
increasing our apprentice population, we have our strategy and progress. We also recognise the healthcare businesses, and will result in
leadership, performance, decided to include them in our early talent importance of listening to employees and acting considerable change for our employees.
and engagement. community, alongside our Future Leaders on feedback to improve their experience. In 2014, Around 12,000 Novartis employees will join our
(graduates) and Esprit (post-graduate) we conducted interim surveys covering around business and employee transfers will take place
programme participants. 33,000 employees that indicated managers were in around 80 countries. Our priorities for
Leadership leading their people more effectively. employees are to:
Our leadership development programmes Engagement and formal consultation with • Limit the number of redundancies: by
provide employees at all levels with the skills they employees and representatives, such as unions applying recruitment freezes and other
need to become leaders – from Management and works councils, is particularly important cost-saving measures. In instances where
Essentials, for those new to management, to during periods of restructuring and we continue redundancies are unavoidable, we are
the more advanced Leading Business for our to work closely with these groups. committed to offering support and advice
experienced leaders. Our coaching programmes to help employees find a new job.
Information on our performance in these areas
helped 4,034 participants strengthen their
can be found in the data summary on page 48. • Provide clear and regular communication:
leadership capabilities in 2014. See page 36 More on our progress against our commitments we held ‘live’ briefings with over 500 local
for more on our approach to leadership. leaders to ensure employees are well
to healthy workplaces, diversity and employee
Performance volunteering is covered in the following pages. informed about any changes and how they
may be affected. These briefings also gave
We are improving the way we manage
employees, works councils and unions the
employees’ performance to promote individual
“ There is a very open culture where opportunity to raise any questions or
responsibility and accelerate the delivery of our
concerns with us.
business strategy. Our new global performance people really accept you for who you
system sets clear objectives for our people, • Ensure a successful cultural integration:
are, and make it a point to develop
aligned with delivering our strategy and we conducted interviews with senior leaders
underpinned by the six GSK Expectations, every one in a way that suits their from both organisations and a survey of
defining what we require of everyone at GSK. individual capabilities.” 17,000 GSK and Novartis employees to
This puts more emphasis not only on results, understand their perspectives on the two
but also the way results are achieved, and Choon businesses’ working cultures and what they
enables us to better engage and motivate our Marketing and Sales, GSK Singapore – would like the future culture to be. We are
people by strengthening the connection between participant in the Future Leaders Programme using the results to develop a cultural
transformation plan.
individual performance and reward.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 36
Our people
Our approach – continued
Creating a pipeline of strong leaders at all levels of our business
We are committed to supporting For experienced, high-potential leaders, our Leading
our leaders in developing best-practice Business programme aims to equip them with the
skills, behaviours, knowledge and mindsets required
management capabilities and values-
to manage and support diverse, cross-cultural and
based decision making, through an
high-performing teams, while translating our strategy
integrated and complementary range into effective actions for their business units. Over an
of leadership programmes. 18-month period, participants undertake an immersive
experience in Mumbai and London focusing on a range
of leadership responsibilities, including building better
Together these programmes clarify what is expected
partnerships, creating shared value, understanding
of our leaders both individually – and, as a community,
key issues (e.g. access to medicines) and giving
in delivering our strategy of helping our patients and
participants first-hand visibility of our NGO work.
customers do more, feel better and live longer.
A key teaching point for our leaders is working with
Strengthened by the common language created through the paradoxes of senior roles, e.g. balancing local
our GSK Leadership Expectations, our leadership and global needs.
programmes also ensure we have exceptional and
The small number of leaders demonstrating the business
diverse leaders at all levels of the business practising
acumen and leadership capabilities to be appointed
inclusive leadership, which means they value and draw
to our Corporate Executive Team or one of its direct
on the differing knowledge, perspectives, experience
reports, are invited to participate in a highly customised,
and styles, contained in our global community.
two-year global learning experience in our bespoke
Our Management Essentials and First Line Leader Enterprise Leadership programme: an intense, highly
programmes provide new managers with a thorough experiential programme combining assessment,
grounding in essential management responsibilities, coaching, training and applied learning elements.
e.g. performance management, to ensure they can
In 2014, we introduced a new programme enabling
confidently take the next step in their careers.
our female leaders to enhance their network, clarify
The Leading Delivery programme helps our middle their career ambitions and build their confidence to
managers, those ‘leading managers’, to translate become strong senior leaders. Combining personal
our business strategy into action, drive performance, and group coaching, senior sponsorship and open
build capabilities and enhance trust with their team honest dialogues, we believe this programme helps
members and colleagues. our organisation to make better decisions by further
reducing risk and increasing innovation.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 37
Our people
Protecting the health and well-being of our people
We take a progressive Protecting our people We also continued to reduce the potential Providing preventive healthcare
We take a progressive approach to protecting exposure of employees to hazardous Our ground-breaking global Partnership for
approach to protecting
the health and well-being of our employees, substances. For example, we eliminated the Prevention (P4P) programme aims to create a
the health and well-being and sustaining a strong health and safety culture use of formaldehyde for fumigation from our healthier and more productive workforce, and
across our operations is an important focus for vaccine manufacturing processes. For more differentiate GSK as an employer. P4P offers up
of our people.
the business. Over the past ten years, we have information, see our public policy positions to 40 preventive healthcare services – such as
more than halved our reportable injury and illness on hazardous chemicals management and immunisations, cancer screenings and routine
rate. In 2014, we reduced this figure by 4% the EU REACH regulation. preventive examinations – to employees and their
to 0.26 incidents per 100,000 hours worked. families at little or no cost as part of their benefits
Building employee resilience
This means we have achieved our 2015 target package. We are the only multinational company
Through our global Energy & Resilience
a year early. to offer such benefits on this scale.
Commitment: Continue to create a working programmes, we are helping our employees
environment that inspires people to grow Our health and safety culture ensures employees build their mental and physical resilience and This year we made good progress towards
and perform in a healthy and resilient way. are aware of health and safety risks and how to lead happier and healthier lives, at home and our target to implement P4P globally by 2018.
stay safe at work. In 2014, we continued to invest at work. The programme was piloted in Ecuador, Ghana,
in leadership training to help leaders identify and Nigeria and Romania in 2012, and has since
Since 2012, 16% of our global workforce across
manage these risks more effectively, with over been implemented in the Middle East and Turkey.
Progress overview: On track 45 countries have participated in one of our
1,500 Global Manufacturing and Supply leaders P4P now provides preventive healthcare to more
programmes to improve their personal resilience.
in 30 countries taking part. than 14,000 employees and family members in
Our research shows that participants experience
15 countries. This will increase to over 30,000
sustained improvements in their personal
Reportable injury and illness rate employees and family members in 35 countries
resilience and well-being over the long term.
(Per 100,000 hours worked) when we launch P4P in Latin America and South
We plan to increase participation in our Energy
America in early 2015. It will then be extended to
0.4 and Resilience programmes in 2015, as we roll
Pakistan and countries in Africa.
them out across the business.
We offer advice, information and counselling
0.3 through our confidential Employee Assistance “ GSK’s approach to promoting energy
Programme to further support employees dealing and resilience is not only novel and
with a wide range of personal health, well-being
innovative; it’s also contributing to
0.2 and professional issues such as stress, financial
the health of the individual and the
and family problems. In 2014, 99.6% of our
employees had access to this service. We bottom line. GSK should be proud of
0.1 are working with employees to emphasise the
the work they are doing in this field
confidentiality of the service and overcome social
– a model for others.”
and cultural issues that may make them reluctant
0 to use it.
2011 2012 2013 2014 Professor Sir Cary Cooper CBE
Distinguished Professor of Organisational
Psychology and Health, Lancaster UniversityGSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 38
Our people
Promoting inclusion and diversity
As an inclusive employer Gender diversity Disability Cultural and ethnic diversity
We aim to improve gender balance at all levels of We are working hard to ensure we understand To ensure our leadership teams represent
we value and draw on
our organisation. In 2014, we focused on creating the needs of people with disabilities when the diverse markets we serve, we are building a
the different knowledge, opportunities for women in management. The developing employment opportunities. We have talent pipeline that includes people from a range
proportion of women in management continued established a Global Disability Council to agree of cultural and ethnic backgrounds. Eight
perspectives, experiences
to increase to 42% (see chart). Women priorities, set objectives and report our progress nationalities are represented on the Corporate
and working styles of continued to represent 21% of our Corporate in becoming a disability confident organisation. Executive Team and Board, and the people we
Executive Team and 31% of our Board. GSK employ in our Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific
a global workforce. ranked joint fifth in the UK Government’s 2014 As a founding member of business disability and Japan, represent 44% of our workforce.
international (bdi), a social enterprise involving
report on women’s representation on the boards In 2014, our consumer healthcare business
several other global businesses, GSK is helping
of FTSE 100 companies. in India and pharmaceutical business in Latin
develop global standards to measure businesses’
America made particularly good progress in
Our employee-led Women’s Leadership disability performance.
attracting and developing local talent.
Initiative brought together 1,500 people and
In addition to our efforts at a global level,
Commitment: Continue to promote over 20 GSK senior leaders at its first global We also increased the proportion of people
we are involved in local initiatives to ensure our
inclusion and diversity globally at GSK. conference in 2014, to encourage action on from emerging markets participating in our
recruitment process is inclusive of people with
accelerating women’s career development. development programmes and joining the
disabilities, for example:
company through our graduate and MBA
Through Accelerating Difference, 118 female
• Japan: we joined an accessible recruitment programmes. In addition, the development of
Progress overview: Progressing well managers completed individual and group search engine called Accessibility for our new regional headquarters in Singapore
coaching sessions in 2014. We also encourage
Disabled Employees. will enable us to attract and develop talent from
senior leaders to sponsor female managers
emerging markets. Developing local talent is
to support their career development. • UK: we have helped 35 young people
also an important focus of our Africa strategy
with learning disabilities to transition from
Women in management positions (%) education to employment through Project (see page 11).
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Search, since 2012.
SVP/VP 25 26 27 28 29 • US: through a partnership with global
Director 37 38 39 40 40 IT company, Computer Aid Inc and Danish
Manager 42 42 43 44 45 company, Specialisterne, we will start
Total 38 39 40 41 42 recruiting people with autism into our
IT services teams in 2015.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 39
Our people
Community volunteering creates change
We encourage our people Our flagship PULSE Volunteer Partnership We encourage employees around the world to
enables employees to work full time with a support their local communities by offering one
to volunteer their time
non-profit organisation or charity for three or paid day off each year to volunteer through our
and expertise to support six months. This builds their leadership skills, Orange Day programme. Orange Day projects
while providing valuable insights and expertise in 2014 included distributing food to homeless
communities around
to organisations working to address major people in Malaysia, organising a careers
the world. healthcare challenges. workshop for unemployed parents in Poland
and doing maintenance work at an orphanage
Since 2009, we have sent 482 employees
in India.
from 51 countries to work with 94 non-profits
and provided over £16 million worth of skilled To extend employee volunteering and bring
services to our partners. In 2014, 98 employees positive change to more communities, we
volunteered with 39 organisations. See the established a new Volunteer Ambassador PULSE Volunteer Partnership –
Commitment: Extend volunteering
PULSE Report. Network in 2014. This includes 130 employees watch the video to find out more
opportunities to bring about positive
in 30 countries working with non-profit partners
change to communities and global health Our partner organisations and volunteers
to understand their needs and develop locally
while providing individual development. both agree PULSE has a positive impact:
relevant programmes. We are also raising
90% of non-profit partners are doing something
awareness about the opportunities we
differently as a result and 98% of volunteers Read more online
offer through a website and a Volunteer
agree their PULSE assignments strengthened
Progress overview: Progressing well Awareness Week.
their leadership skills. See the employee
We publish more detail online on key
volunteering section of our website and blog
issues including:
for more on PULSE and its impact. “ Through my PULSE assignment,
• Hazardous chemical management
Our employees are a key part of our global I was able to recognise and leverage
• GSK and REACH
partnership with Save the Children. Since the collaborative and problem-solving
the launch of the campaign in May 2013,
skills I’ve gained in my 13 years as
GSK employees from more than 80 countries
have raised over £1.2 million, which will be a lawyer at GSK. The experience
matched by funding from GSK. Through PULSE, changed me, as I realised that I can
18 employees were also seconded to work with
offer other professional skills to our
Save the Children to support our partnership
with the charity in 2014 (see page 17). community partners.”
Trish
Assistant General Counsel, worked with
Philadelphia Education Fund in the USGSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 40
Our
planet
We are recovering waste from our sites in
Singapore, using it to produce electricity and
steam that power the Jurong site – where
Tomas Hong Yean works. This is cutting
carbon emissions, waste and costs.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 41
Our planet
Our approach
We are committed to Climate change is one of the world’s most “ GSK has recognised that the vast
reducing the environmental pressing issues and a major threat to people’s majority of the environmental impact 2014 In focus: reducing
health and global economic development.
environmental impacts
of its business occurs outside its
impacts of our operations Impacts like extreme weather and heat waves
affect food production and availability of clean operational control. By working closely We are changing the way we make antibiotics
and our products.
water and sanitation, and threaten hard-won – looking for ways to save energy, reduce water
with its supply chain, GSK is showing
global health improvements. impact and waste, improve yields and reduce
real leadership, taking meaningful costs whilst maintaining the efficacy of the
By using resources more efficiently, and
action on sustainability and driving drug. We have achieved a 15% reduction in
collaborating with others to tackle these
our antibiotics carbon footprint per pack over
challenges, we can reduce costs and change by helping other companies the past five years, while increasing production
enhance competitiveness. to improve their own performance volumes by 40%.
We have set ambitious goals to reduce carbon, through innovation and collaboration.” At our site in Irvine, Scotland, we have
water and waste across our value chain – from the introduced wind turbines and two combined
Tom Delay
sourcing of raw materials and the impacts of our heat and power plants to reduce carbon
own labs and factories, to the use and disposal CEO, Carbon Trust emissions from energy use. We have also
of our products by patients and consumers. installed an anaerobic digester, that will save
GSK is a signatory to the UN Caring for Climate We retained our position in the CDP’s FTSE the site £1.4 million a year. These changes
mean Irvine is now producing around 40%
initiative and the UN CEO Water Mandate. 350 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index
more product using just 5% more energy
Through these and other partnerships, we are for the seventh year. GSK is one of only two
and the same amount of water as in 2010,
sharing knowledge and resources to tackle pharmaceutical companies to be included in with a 10% reduction in carbon emissions.
global environmental challenges together. the index in recognition of the amount and
quality of climate change data we disclosed. At our Quality Road site in Singapore, we
Recertified in 2014, GSK remains the only use the penicillin produced at Irvine to make
pharmaceutical company to have achieved the amoxicillin – one of the most widely prescribed
Carbon Trust’s Carbon Standard and Water antibiotics. By introducing a new process using
Standard for cutting carbon emissions and water enzymes, we will eliminate chlorinated solvents,
use across our operations globally. cut the amount of waste produced and reduce
carbon emissions at the site by 40%. Solvent
waste that cannot be recovered is being used as
fuel to generate electricity and steam at Jurong,
our other factory in Singapore.
REDUCING WATER At our site in Worthing UK, we formulate
YEAR ON YEAR
and package the antibiotic, Augmentin, from
amoxicillin and clavulanic acid. By putting
six tablets in each foil blister strip, instead of four,
we reduced foil use by 30% and pack size by 25%,
enabling us to put more packs on each pallet.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 42
Our planet
Our approach – continued
We have set an ambitious
target to achieve a carbon Understanding our carbon footprint across the value chain
neutral value chain by 2050. Raw materials Operations Logistics Product use Disposal
We are working with suppliers We are investing in We aim to minimise carbon Some of our products, We have established an inhaler
to reduce the impacts technology, efficiency emissions from transporting particularly propellant-based recycling programme and
associated with sourcing raw measures and renewable our products to customers inhalers, generate carbon engage with patients to reduce
materials, as well as exploring energy to reduce carbon by using sea freight rather emissions during use by emissions associated with
ways to use resources more emissions from energy than air and by redesigning patients and consumers. disposal of our products.
efficiently in our products. use in our operations. packaging to make
transportation more efficient.
40% 11% 2% 46% 1%
5.6m* 1.6m 0.2m 6.4m 0.2m*
tonnes COe per annum tonnes COe per annum tonnes COe per annum tonnes COe per annum tonnes COe per annum
2 2 2 2 2
1.2m 5.4m Use of metered
Energy
dose inhalers
tonnes COe per annum tonnes COe per annum
2 2
0.2m HFA and process 1.0m* Use of other
emissions products
tonnes COe per annum tonnes COe per annum
2 2
0.1m
Business travel
tonnes COe per annum
2 Total emissions
15m
0.2m*
Sales force
*Estimated.
tonnes CO 2e per annum tonnes CO 2e per annumGSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 43
Our planet
Carbon
We are reducing operational Performance in 2014 Operational impacts We are also changing the way we manufacture
In 2014, we reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, Reducing energy use and the carbon emissions metered-dose inhalers. At our sites in Spain and
carbon emissions and
those in our operational boundaries, by 11% associated with generating energy that we France we have reduced the amount of propellant
engaging suppliers and to 1.6 million tonnes of COe. This is a 19% purchase is an important focus of our programme used to purge air from our Flixotide, Seretide
2
reduction compared with 2010, achieved through to cut our environmental impacts. We are and Ventolin inhalers by 75%. This has reduced
patients to cut emissions
our continued investment in energy efficiency. investing in infrastructure such as wind turbines GHG emissions associated with this process
associated with sourcing to generate renewable energy, and using waste by around 40,000 tonnes of CO e per year.
Our Scope 3 emissions, such as those associated 2
as fuel for energy. For example, in Ireland we have This innovation was recognised in our CEO
raw materials and use with logistics, business travel and patients’ use installed a 150-metre wind turbine that will cut Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability
of our metered dose inhalers (that use a HFA
the Cork site’s electrical carbon footprint by 30% Awards in 2014.
of our products. propellant), increased by 2% in 2014. This is
and save over £900,000 in energy costs in 2014.
an overall increase of 17% compared to 2010.
In Singapore, we have installed a boiler that is
Tackling our Scope 3 emissions continues to be
fuelled by waste from our Jurong and Quality
a challenge as the sales of our propellant-based
Road sites to provide steam for the Jurong site,
inhalers continue to grow.
cutting its energy costs by 13%.
Commitment: Reduce our overall carbon Product impacts
footprint by 25% by 2020 (vs 2010) and We have been working with the Carbon Trust
Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emission Scope 3 GHG Emission
have a carbon-neutral value chain by 2050. since 2011 to measure and certify the carbon
(tonnes COe) (tonnes COe)
footprints of our 40 biggest selling products to 2 2
identify where we can make the most effective
2,000,000 15,000,000
reductions from emissions associated with our
Progress overview: Work to do products. For example, in 2014, we changed 1,750,000
12,000,000
the process to manufacture the Active 1,500,000
Pharmaceutical Ingredient, Abacavir, used to 1,250,000 9,000,000
treat HIV. This reduced the product’s carbon
1,000,000
footprint by 7%.
750,000 6,000,000
500,000
3,000,000
250,000
0 0
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2020 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2020
Target Target
Gas and other fuel
Purchased materials*
Electricity and steam
Product logistics
Propellant emissions during manufacture of inhalers
Business travel by air
Sales force travel
Propellant emissions during use of inhalers
Other emissions*
Use of other products*
* We are excluding ‘biogenic’ emissions from this year according
Disposal of products*
to current guidance, which accounts for the decrease in emissions. * Estimated data.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 44
Our planet
Carbon – continued
Our supply chain “ When GSK asked if we wanted to take Complete the Cycle
Working with our suppliers to help them reduce Our Complete the Cycle initiative encourages
part in an energy reduction workshop,
their carbon emissions is critical to achieving patients and customers to return their old
I’ll be honest, we were sceptical about
our carbon goals. In 2014, we collected carbon, respiratory inhalers to participating pharmacies
water and waste data from over 200 of our what it would actually deliver. But which are then sent back to us to be recycled.
largest materials suppliers, covering over
we are now very glad we agreed. The This reduces waste sent to landfill as well
£1 billion of our spending on raw materials used
changes we are making as a result of as prevents the remaining propellant in used
in manufacturing and R&D. See page 25 for more
inhalers being released as greenhouse gases,
on our approach to responsible procurement. the workshop could reduce our energy
as we collect it when crushing the cans for
In 2014, we also launched the GSK Supplier use by up to 47% and make significant aluminum which is recycled. The scheme has
Innovation Exchange. Through this online forum, inroads into our operating costs also created an opportunity for pharmacists
around 100 suppliers collaborated to share to talk with their patients about managing their
over the next three years – so it was
practical ideas about improving energy efficiency Use of our products condition, and for us to pilot ways of sharing
and reducing water use. Suppliers have used this definitely worth doing!” Use of our products, such as metered dose information about the inhalers collected with local
insight to make improvements in their operations. inhalers, accounts for 46% of carbon emissions healthcare service providers. This helps inform
Head of Engineering across our value chain. In 2014, the Carbon patient education and reduces medicine waste.
We also offered to run workshops for selected
Aesica Pharmaceuticals Trust certified the carbon footprints of three
suppliers at their own sites to help them identify Launched in 2011, Complete the Cycle is
of our respiratory products according to the
ways of reducing energy use. now running in six countries, with over 2,300
Greenhouse Gas Accounting Sector Guidance
community and hospital pharmacies participating
We recognise our suppliers’ efforts to reduce for Pharmaceutical Products and Medical
in the UK alone.
their environmental impacts through our new Devices. The footprinting compared Relvar/Breo
GSK Supplier Environmental Sustainability Ellipta, Seretide Accuhaler/Advair Diskus, both
Award. In 2014, packaging supplier Albéa, dry powder inhalers, and Seretide Evohaler/ “ The scheme has created a new
which supplies GSK with tubes for our Advair HFA, a metered-dose inhaler.
opportunity for pharmacists to talk
toothpaste, won the award for its comprehensive
The results show that through thoughtful
energy efficiency programme. to their patients about managing their
design of our newer dry powder Ellipta inhaler,
containing Relvar/Breo, we reduced the carbon condition. We are piloting ways of
footprint of one day’s treatment by at least sharing information from the inhalers
35% versus our older inhalers. We have shared
collected with local healthcare services
these product footprints with the UK NHS and
the National Formulary in Denmark. to help inform patient education and
reduce medicines wastage.”
Nikki Yates,
Head of UK PharmaceuticalsGSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 45
Our planet
Water
We are working to reduce Performance in 2014 Operational impacts
Operational water use year on year
In 2014, we cut our operational water use by a We use just under 15 million m3 of water
the water impact associated (million m3)
further 5%. This 20% reduction from the 2010 per year in our operations – research
with our products. baseline means we have met our 2015 target to laboratories, manufacturing sites and offices. 20
cut operational water use by 20% a year early. We systematically audit our sites to identify
opportunities to cut water use. In 2014, we
Measuring and reducing our wider water impact
audited four of our highest water use sites in 15
across the value chain – not just the amount we
India, Italy and Singapore, three of which are in
use – is more challenging. In 2014, we
areas of water scarcity. We have cut water-use
Commitment: By 2020, reduce our water completed an extensive assessment to identify by an average of 10% at each of these sites by, 10
the activities that have the highest water impact
impact across the value chain by 20% for example, introducing more water efficient
across our value chain and prioritised our efforts.
(vs 2010). cleaning procedures, identifying and repairing 5
Mapping water impact across the value chain leaks, and investing in efficient equipment.
Water consumption is just one dimension of
Reducing water use remains an important 0
Progress overview: Progressing well w bea ete nr wim op rka ic nt g. O wiv te hr e t xh te e rp na as l t e t xw po e ry te s a ar ns d w Ne G ha Ov se factor, but we have also developed a tool with 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2 ta0 rg1 e5 t
the Carbon Trust to determine our wider water
to identify the factors that contribute to our total
impact at all of our sites. In 2014, we began
water impact. These are:
piloting the tool at eight sites globally, including Use of our products
• Water scarcity – the amount of freshwater a site in India with a significant water impact. We estimate that 13% of GSK’s value chain
available in the basin in relation to demand. By generating a water impact score, the tool water impact is from consumer use of our
clearly identifies each site’s main impacts and products, in particular people leaving the tap
• Local water quality – the level of pollution
offers guidance to help them put improvement running when cleaning their teeth. In 2014,
in freshwater sources and the threats to
plans in place. we extended our ‘Turn off the Tap’ campaign,
biodiversity as a result, including from the
adding the logo and labelling to our Sensodyne
release of pharmaceuticals from our operations. Our supply chain
toothpaste brand in the UK.
Our supply chain uses an estimated 1,200
• Health and social risks – people’s access
million m3 of water. Raw materials for Horlicks,
to clean water and improved sanitation.
carbohydrates (sugars), wood derived products
• Regulatory and reputational risks – the level and eggs account for 75% of the water impact.
of water governance and regulatory risk related
We have partnered with TERI, an NGO in India,
to water.
to develop a diagnostic water impact tool.
Combining these indicators with water In 2014, we used this to identify opportunities
consumption and data from the WWF Water for our ten largest suppliers to reduce water
Risk Filter, we developed a global water impact impacts. In 2015, we will work with our suppliers
tool that we have used to identify hotspots across and TERI to extend this process to a further
the value chain. 20 suppliers.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 46
Our planet
Waste
Our goal is to halve Performance in 2014 In Australia, for example, we have increased the
Operational waste generated
With a goal to halve operational waste by 2020, amount of ethanol recovered at our Port Fairy site
operational waste by (thousand tonnes)
we are actively eliminating, reusing and recycling by 726,000 litres by reusing ethanol in washing
2020. We are doing this waste, as well as generating energy from waste. processes while maintaining product quality. 200
In 2014, we generated 159,000 tonnes of waste This has also saved the business £500,000
by adopting four simple 175
from our operations, 4% less than in 2013 and per year in operating costs.
steps to eliminate, reuse, 11% less than 2010. We are continuing to 150
We continue to look for innovative ways to reduce
explore ways to cut waste at individual sites 125
recycle and generate to help us to achieve our target of halving our and recycle waste at other sites around the world. 100
For example, we received regulatory approval to
operational waste by 2020.
energy from waste – compost 1,500 tonnes per year of egg waste 75
in that order of priority. Only 6% of our total waste went to landfill in generated from manufacturing flu vaccine at our 50
2014 and three more sites achieved zero waste Sainte Foy site in Canada. Instead of sending it
25
to landfill status, bringing the total to 48 sites. to landfill, the egg waste will be mixed with other
0
This represents 50% of our manufacturing green waste and sold as compost. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2020
and major research and development sites. commitment
Other new ideas to find beneficial uses for our
We recognise we have more work to do to
waste include sending packaging waste from
Commitment: By 2020, reduce our achieve zero to landfill at all our sites by 2020. Total waste generated (thousand tonnes)*
our Poznan site in Poland to make a construction
* In 2013, we changed the way we report on waste and no longer
operational waste by 50% (vs. 2010). Operational waste material for waterproof flooring and running include solvent waste that is recycled and reused on site as part
of the total waste generated.
We recognise the need to continue reducing a pilot to recover the aluminium from waste
waste even as our business grows. The toothpaste tubes at our site in Maidenhead, UK.
processes we use to manufacture medicines
Progress overview: Work to do
are complex and highly regulated by multiple
governments across the globe. It can take Read more online
several years to introduce major changes that
improve manufacturing processes while reducing
We publish more detail online on key • Hazardous chemical management
the amount of waste generated see page 41.
issues including:
• Ozone depletion and metered-dose inhalers
We cannot avoid producing some waste,
• Climate change for asthma
but we recognise that this waste has a value.
We aim to avoid sending waste to landfill, or • Genetically modified micro-organisms • Pharmaceuticals in environment
other disposal with no positive benefit, and and Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) • Use of ozone depleting substances in ancillary
have instead focused on moving waste up the • GSK and REACH plant and equipment
hierarchy by seeking opportunities to reuse
• GSK and the convention on biological diversity • Green chemistry: greener processes in our labs
it where possible, recycling or incinerating
it to generate energy. We are starting to see • GSK public policy on nanotechnology • Assurance statement
some progress. The proportion of waste that is
recycled or disposed of with a positive benefit
has increased from 71% in 2010 to 74% in 2014.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 47
Data summary
Health for all 2011 2012 2013 2014 Notes
Community investment Global community investment £204 million £206 million £221 million £201 million
Strengthening healthcare systems 20% reinvestment in LDCs £3.8 million £3.8 million £5.1 million £6 million
Neglected tropical diseases Albendazole tablet donation for LF elimination and soil-transmitted helminths 603 million 709 million 762.4 million 678 million
Our behaviour 2011 2012 2013 2014 Notes
Compliance Employees disciplined for policy violations 1,828 2,919 3,128 3,947
Employees who were dismissed or agreed to leave the company voluntarily 308 312 375 373
Documented warnings 1,520 2,607 2,753 3,131
Violations of sales and marketing policies and subsequent dismissal 66 123 161 233
Breaches of external codes 35 25 36 39
Number of contacts made to our Speak up channels 2,700 1,600 1,865 3,203 See page 26 for more information
Clinical trial data Publicly available trial result summaries (cumulative) 4,452 5,000 5,400 5,583
Number of Clinical Study Reports posted to the register – – – 200
Number of trials listed for which data are available for request – – – 1,081
Number of research teams with approved data requests accessing GSK trial data – – – 36 May 2013 – Dec 2014
Clinical research Clinical quality assurance assessments 326 293 323 322
Audits of investigator sites conducting GSK-sponsored trials 173 190 254 234
Audits of GSK processes 9 14 20 19
Audits of contract research organisations that carry out clinical trials on our behalf 25 26 34 40
Audits of GSK local operating companies involved in clinical trial activities 7 11 13 16
Investigations of suspected irregularities 34 47 51 13
Inspections of GSK sites by regulatory authorities 65 94 112 73
Anti-counterfeiting Number of reported cases of counterfeiting 378 354 494 491
Number of raids by law enforcement agencies and regulatory authorities 148 208 307 234
Number of arrests by law enforcement agencies and regulatory authorities 181 124 272 273GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 48
Data summary – continued
Our People 2011 2012 2013 2014 Notes
Number of injuries and illness with lost time 429 404 352* 274
Lost-time injury and illness rate 0.21 0.20 0.17* 0.15 Per 100,000 hours worked.
Reportable injury and illness rate 0.36 0.33 0.27* 0.26 Per 100,000 hours worked.
Number of near-miss incidents 29,734* 66,103* 131,727* 176,237 Near-miss incidents were reported
globally from 2012. Data from 2011
relate to results of a pilot project from
Global Manufacturing and Supply.
Number of fatalities 2 2 0 1 Fatality occurred when an employee’s
motor cycle was hit by an SUV carrying
out an overtaking manoeuvre.
Talent and leadership development Number of leaders completing Leading Delivery programme 1,879 1,139 1,333
Total number of coaching assignments 74 538 1,050 1,390
Number of graduates recruited 124 277 287 304 Previously reported combined figure.
Number of employees completing post-graduate Esprit programme 9 26 47 35 Previously reported combined figure.
Number of apprentices recruited 10 50 58 69
Inclusion and diversity Percentage of women in management (total) 39 40 41 42
Percentage of employees from emerging markets, Asia-Pacific and Japan 40 42 43 44
Volunteering Number of employees completing PULSE 80 91 99 98
* Data has been restated where actual data is now available to replace estimated data that was reported previously.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 49
Data summary – continued
Our planet Data 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Notes
Carbon Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions (‘000 tonnes CO2e) Estimated data.
Gas and other fuel 570 572 529 538 485
Electricity and steam 964 881 778 768 726
Propellant emissions during manufacture of inhalers 214 223 244 254 169
Sales force travel 165 169 167 177 187
Other emissions 62 72 77 71 35 We are excluding ‘biogenic’ emissions
according to current guidance, which
accounts for the decrease in emissions.
Total 1,975 1,917 1,795 1,809 1,604
Scope 3 GHG emissions (‘000 tonnes CO2e)
Purchased materials 5,600 5,600 5,600 5,600 5,600 Estimated data.
Product logistics 169 200 203 202 222
Business travel by air 96 97 98 90 94
Propellant emissions during use of inhalers 4,647 4,760 5,198 5,302 5,411
Use of other products 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 Estimated data.
Disposal of products 200 200 200 200 200 Estimated data.
Total 11,712 11,857 12,299 12,397 12,527
Water Net water consumption in operations (million cubic metres) 18.7 17.4 16.3 15.7 14.9
Estimated net water use in value chain (million cubic metres) – – – 1,540 1,472
Waste Total waste generated (thousand tonnes) 178 170 151 166 159
Waste to landfill (thousand tonnes) 17.2 13.1 10.2 10.7 10.2
Compliance Internal audits (number) 17 25 31 27 19
Environmental fines (£) 10,648 410 0 2,100 354,303 * See footnote below.
Environmental remediation Spend (million $) – – 3.8 5 6.6 We take responsibility for removing
pollution and contaminants from soil,
surface and ground water at facilities
we have used previously, and at the
disposal sites of waste management
companies we have used.
* · During a follow-up inspection in 2013 at our Upper Merion site, a regulator discovered a waste tank installed in 2004 that did not comply with local regulations. The resulting fine of $317,500 was levied due to the longevity of the non-compliance.
The waste tank has been taken out of service and we have surveyed all our US sites to confirm compliance against these regulations.
· A settlement fine of $172,900 was paid by our Hamilton site for failure to submit a risk management plan for storage and use of chloroform. The site cooperated with the US EPA in resolving the matter by promptly submitting a viable plan.
· Our Memphis site self-disclosed errors and omissions in our annual air emissions results during 2006, 2010 and 2011. A $90,000 penalty was levied.
· In 2012, we upgraded air emission control systems and improved reporting procedures at the site to ensure compliance.
· Our Upper Providence site self-disclosed in 2013 a failure to comply with record-keeping requirements. A penalty of $4,200 was levied. We have improved our reporting procedures to ensure compliance.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2014 50
Summary of assurance statement
Bureau Veritas’ Summary Independent Opinion and Recommendations GSK’s response to assurance
Assurance Statement As a result of the verification conducted as per We are pleased with Bureau Veritas’ findings About our reporting
Bureau Veritas UK Limited has been engaged the scope of work, it is Bureau Veritas’ opinion on GSK’s established processes in managing
by GSK plc to provide independent assurance that GSK’s 2014 EHS performance data: (EHS) data. We are committed to continue We report our performance annually in
of the Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) improving, with the ultimate goal of providing this report as part of our commitment to
• Provide a fair summary of EHS-related
performance data for 2014 that has been the most accurate EHS data to the public being open and transparent about our
activities and performance.
prepared by GSK plc. The objective of Bureau on our website. In 2015, we will continue to business activities. Responsible business
Veritas’ work is to express an opinion on the • Contain performance metrics and information work towards improving our data accuracy is also covered in our Annual Report.
accuracy and reliability of the EHS data and that are based on established collection and with an emphasis on incorporating the
Data coverage
to provide a summary of findings. collation processes, and are deemed to be recommendations provided by Bureau
All data in this report relates to GSK’s
free from significant error, omission or bias. Veritas. With the implementation of our new
The full assurance statement can be found global operations in the calendar year
reporting system we have seen improvement
here that includes details of the scope of work, The quality of data evidenced at site and 2014, except where otherwise stated.
in data reporting in many areas of the business.
methodology, findings and recommendations consolidated level was seen to be based on Data in the environment and health and
The data in the Responsible Business
for improvement. an up to date and recently implemented data safety sections has been independently
Supplement can be used by sites to improve
Summary of Scope and Methodology management system (EHS Central) and their management of their EHS programmes. verified by Bureau Veritas. Brand names
• Assessment of performance data contained supporting processes and guidance. In 2015, we will continue working with all sites appearing in italics throughout this report
within the ‘EHS Data Table’ and associated The implementation of EHS Central has been to improve their data submission, including are trademarks owned by and/or licensed
data management processes: this involved comprehensive and effective during 2014 and providing comments for the explanation of to GSK or associated companies.
detailed review of the integrity of selected further refinement in EHS reporting can be trends in a complete and timely fashion. Reporting standards
datasets and aggregation and checking through: inclusion of more complete EHS data Our index against the Global Reporting
processes at the corporate level, as well as from the Commercial Operations business; Initiative guidelines shows which elements
sampling data back to source at five GSK review of supporting guidance to fully meet the are covered in the report. As a signatory to the
sites. The sites were chosen to represent requirements of the new system; and completion UN Global Compact, we publish an annual
significant impact, GSK operations and of the revised approach to the detection of Communication on Progress to demonstrate
geographical spread. anomalies in consolidated EHS datasets. how we uphold its ten principles.
• Interviews with senior EHS staff to Statement of independence, impartiality Your feedback counts
understand GSK’s objectives and approach and competence We welcome your feedback on our
to data management. Bureau Veritas is an independent professional responsible business performance and
services company that specialises in quality, reporting. Please contact us at
environmental, health, safety and social csr.contact@gsk.com. You can also request
accountability with over 180 years history. to receive regular updates on our progress.
The assurance team has extensive experience
in environmental, social, ethical, and health and
safety information, systems and processes.
Bureau Veritas’ Code of Ethics ensures that staff
members avoid conflict of interest and maintain
high ethical standards in business activities. London, February 2015