GSK Responsible
Business Supplement
2017
Image HIV virus1 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
About this supplement
By being commercially successful Contents Cover image
and operating responsibly, we Statements from Lynn Elsenhans, Chair of 2 GSK’s dolutegravir-based medicines
provide a much-needed treatment
will improve people’s health and the Corporate Responsibility Committee,
option to people living with HIV. Find
and Emma Walmsley, Chief Executive Officer out more on page 11 about how we
create value for both shareholders
are supporting access to dolutegravir
and society. Our approach to responsible business 3 in Brazil, Botswana and through the
Medicines Patent Pool.
This report provides a performance update against Benchmarks and an external perspective 4
our 23 responsible business commitments across four Independent commentary from Aron Cramer,
key areas: Health for all, Our behaviour, Our people President and CEO, BSR
and Our planet.
2017 overview 5
The information in this report is supplemental Highlights from the last 12 months
to the information in GSK’s Annual Report.
Health for all 7
Developing innovative products and improving access to
healthcare for patients and consumers around the world
Our behaviour 12
Embedding our values throughout the business, including into
the ways we research, develop, sell and market our products
Our people 17
Creating an inspiring and supportive work environment that
encourages our employees to develop their capabilities and
achieve their best
Our planet 19
Managing the environmental impacts of our operations and
products across their life-cycle to reduce carbon emissions,
water use and waste
How we engage with our stakeholders 21
Examples of how we engage with key stakeholder groups
Data summary 22
Our key data from 2014-20172 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
CR Committee Chairman’s statement CEO’s statement
As a global healthcare company, there is an expectation from It is a great honour to be leading GSK and I would like to thank Lynn
our stakeholders for GSK to deliver long-term value for both for her leadership as Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
shareholders and society. Indeed, companies’ contribution to which oversees our responsibility to deliver long-term value to society.
meeting society’s challenges are being scrutinised as never before. I am pleased to introduce our 2017 Responsible Business Supplement.
The challenge to meet these expectations therefore remains of
Our company has an important purpose, to help people do more,
strategic importance to the Company. As Chair of the Corporate
feel better, live longer. We have a long history in tackling some of
Responsibility Committee, together with my fellow Committee
the world’s biggest health challenges. I know this is important to
members, I support the Board in assessing how the Company is
employees, and it was certainly important for me when I joined the
operating in a way that seeks to meet these expectations and the
company. Our commitment to improving global health and being a
extent to which this is embedded with its strategy.
“We have made great “Later this year, we responsible business will continue under my leadership.
In 2017, the Committee worked with Emma and her team to challenge
progress on the 23 will launch a new Investors, patients and consumers, employees and communities
and shape GSK’s responsible business agenda. A key focus during
commitments we set the year has been reviewing activity to support the Company’s new set of focused long- rightly expect companies to consider their social impact as well
as financial impact as they seek to create value over the long term.
five years ago” long-term priorities of Innovation, Performance and Trust, including term commitments
Since starting in this role, I have taken the opportunity to understand
global health and environment, health and safety issues. Building trust
to demonstrate our the views of a broad range of stakeholders. The feedback I received
among partners, customers and society is critical to being a sustainable
played a big part in the development of our new, balanced set of
business and will enable GSK to continue creating value and delivering continuing commitment
long-term priorities for GSK – Innovation, Performance and Trust.
wider economic benefits to society.
to deliver societal value.” We are investing in all three to deliver financial returns and a broader
Part of the role of the Committee is to keep a close eye on the evolving long-term societal contribution.
views of the Company’s key stakeholders. In 2017, the Committee held
Later this year, we will launch a new set of focused, long-term
a discussion on the trends and stakeholder expectations that are likely
commitments to demonstrate our continuing commitment to deliver
to influence trust in and performance of GSK over the long term.
societal value. The biggest impact we can have is to use our scientific
We are pleased to take note that investors are increasingly looking and technical know-how to address global health needs – like HIV
to incorporate environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors and malaria. We need to support sustainable access to our high-quality
alongside traditional financial analysis when determining the long-term products. We must also be a responsible business, with modern
value of a company. The Committee believes ESG issues to be a employer practices, to support our talented people to give their very best.
strong factor in long-term company success and fully supports this
Independent benchmarking is also very important and I am pleased that
direction of travel.
during the year our performance has been recognised by our improved
The role of the Committee includes monitoring the Company’s efforts position in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, our achievement in
to engage effectively with its key stakeholders and I welcome the leading the industry in both the first Access to Vaccines Index and the
enhanced content on stakeholder engagement in this Supplement. Antimicrobial Resistance Benchmark and our number one position in the
I also once again welcome external insight from Aron Cramer, first AllTrials Transparency Index on clinical trials reporting. Of course,
President and CEO of BSR. none of this would be possible without the hard work of our employees
and partners. I am grateful for all their efforts and look forward to working
We have made great progress on the 23 commitments we set five
with them in 2018 and beyond.
years ago and this document sets out our performance on each in
2017. The Company is well positioned to transition to new targets
later in 2018 that support our long-term strategic Trust priority.
Emma Walmsley
Chief Executive Officer
Lynn Elsenhans
Chair of GSK’s Corporate Responsibility Committee3 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Our approach to responsible business
Our approach to responsible business
supports our purpose to help people
do more, feel better and live longer.
Our progress in 2017 Looking forward – focusing where we can have impact
Investors, patients and consumers, employees and communities In this Responsible Business Supplement, we report our progress Given our new long-term priorities, our work over the last five years
expect companies to consider their social and environmental, as well against the set of 23 commitments across four focus areas that we to embed responsible business practices into our operations, and the
as financial, impact as they seek to create value over the long term. set five years ago. direction set for 2030 by the Global Goals, later this year we will launch
a new set of commitments describing the actions we will take to help
Our approach to responsible business supports our purpose to help We have 11 commitments complete, ten progressing well, one on
deliver societal value and earn trust. With these, we will seek to establish
people do more, feel better and live longer. We focus on researching, track and one where work is needed (see page 6). Much of the work
clear, ambitious targets to drive impact and progress in three areas:
developing and extending access to medicines, vaccines and consumer to deliver against these commitments is now embedded into our
healthcare products that improve people’s lives. We strive to run our everyday business practices and operations. — Addressing global health needs through our science
business responsibly and ethically, to invest in our people and protect
Our new long-term priorities — Creating sustainable access to our high-quality products
the environment. In doing so, we are helping millions of people around
In 2017, we announced a new company goal to be one of the world’s
the world, supporting global goals on health, creating value for our — Being a responsible business with modern employer practices
most innovative, best performing and most trusted healthcare
shareholders, and supporting the long-term success of our business. companies. Alongside our goal, we also introduced three new long- We will also continue to seek transparent and trusted engagement with
Governance term priorities for the company – Innovation, Performance and Trust. scientific and medical communities, address our environmental impact,
Our responsible business activities are overseen by our Board-level and maintain the ethical standards to which we conduct our business.
Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC) and management of key Most of the work in the areas covered in this report will continue
risks is overseen by the Audit and Risk Committee. (even if the current commitment is marked completed), either as
Innovation
The CRC, chaired by Non-Executive Director Lynn Elsenhans, part of business as usual, or to contribute directly to one or more
meets four times a year to discuss external issues that could impact of our new targets or operating principles. This means that the set of
our business and reputation, provide strategic guidance and review 23 commitments covered in this report will be either: reframed into
performance. The CEO and Chairman also attend these meetings. Performance a new target that specifically focuses on the same area; integrated
During the year, much of the Committee’s focus has been on to support a new target; or phased out as the activity has been
reviewing the Company’s proposals for future responsible business completed and/or is no longer a priority. When we publish our
activity in support of the Company’s new long-term priority of Trust. new set of targets, we will provide a more detailed analysis.
Trust4 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Benchmarks and an external perspective
Reporting commentary from Aron Cramer,
External benchmarking
President and CEO, BSR
GSK has topped the Access to Medicine
Index since the biennial assessment began
I would like to commend GSK on its 2017 Responsible There are also some areas in which the Supplement could have been
in 2008. In 2017, we also led the industry
Business Supplement. strengthened, including:
in the first ever Access to Vaccines Index,
I was pleased to see the Supplement begin with a clear, well-conceived — Overall, I would welcome more insight from GSK on the collective as well as the first Anti Microbial Resistance
statement of purpose from CEO Emma Walmsley and Lynn Elsenhans, challenges faced in addressing the issues in the Supplement. The Benchmark in early 2018.
the Chair of the Board’s CR Committee. These letters make clear how Supplement correctly provides a report on GSK’s achievements;
the company’s essential purpose and its approach to CR are linked. It is it would be hugely valuable also to touch on where progress needs
We improved our ranking from third to
heartening to see that 2017 included a review of the company’s purpose to be made, and the barriers that present challenges. second in our industry in the Dow Jones
and priorities, and this is well-reflected in the report. — Specifically, the supplement speaks of GSK’s commitment Sustainability World and Europe Indexes
in 2017. This places us in the top 2% of
With respect to the GSK’s new Trust priority, the company has to building healthcare infrastructure, but more context on the
our sector for economic, environmental
staked out important territory in its commitment to being a responsible challenges associated with this would be a valuable contribution
and social performance.
enterprise with “modern employer practices.” At a time when the to public understanding of this crucial issue.
nature and availability of quality employment is undergoing transformative
— More insight into the approach to sales adopted in 2015 would
change, this is an increasingly important dimension of corporate
also be highly valuable. Given GSK’s leadership on this issue,
responsibility, and it is positive to see this called out as an area of focus. GSK ranked third in The Guardian 300
additional analysis of how the new approach is working – or not UK Graduate Employers and made the
GSK’s strong performance against the 23 commitments covered in – would be a contribution to broader understanding of the issue. top ten in the Times Top 100 Graduate
this Supplement is positive. As the company looks ahead, I encourage Employers 2017.
— The section on working with third parties would be enhanced by
GSK to be ambitious as they adopt new targets in 2018. Progress
an overview of the most common issues identified as requiring
towards the Sustainable Development Goals depends in large part
follow up action through the extensive reviews GSK conducts.
on leadership from the private sector, not least at a time when public
sector leaders in many parts of the world are facing political challenges. — Finally, the section on engaging with stakeholders would
The FTSE4Good Index benchmarks
be strengthened by information that provides a picture of
Additional, specific, elements of the Supplement merit positive attention. companies based on their environmental,
stakeholders’ views and perspectives, not only GSK’s actions. social and governance (ESG) practices.
— GSK’s achievements on transparency of clinical trials is a strong point, I greatly appreciate the opportunity to review the Supplement GSK has been a member since 2004.
and it is good to see this recognized by third party assessments.
and present an independent view of how it conveys the company’s
— Similarly, inclusion of a section on its approach to tax, and tax objectives and performance.
authorities is extremely welcome; too few companies include
We were awarded an A- grade in
this important topic in their reports.
CDP’s climate change programme,
— GSK’s performance on diversity and inclusion, a topic that one of 193 global companies to be
rightly received considerable attention in 2017, is strong, and recognised out of the 1,089 companies
the employee engagement figures appear to demonstrate the responding to the survey.
Aron Cramer
business value of these efforts.
President and CEO, BSR
We achieved an ‘A’ score on CDP’s water
programme for the second year running, one
of 74 companies to achieve this recognition.5 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
2017 overview: a year of significant progress
Health for all
8bn
Developing treatments Reducing child Training health Addressing cold Tackling antimicrobial Neglected tropical
for HIV mortality workers chain challenges resistance diseases
We received FDA approval for We have reached 2.7 million We achieved our goal three The new design of our Synflorix In 2017, we trained over 21,000 By the end of 2017, we had
Juluca, the first 2-drug regimen, children in 41 countries years early to reach 20 million vaccine means that it lasts 28 days healthcare professionals on donated nearly eight billion
once daily, single pill treatment for with life-saving interventions under-served people by after opening, rather than six hours. responsible use of antibiotics. albendazole tablets to prevent
HIV, with the potential to make a since the beginning of our 2020 through training This means that clinics and In our Pharmaceuticals pipeline, lymphatic filariasis and intestinal
significant difference to the lives five-year partnership with frontline health workers. healthworkers will be able to gepotidacin, is the first in a new worms since 1999.
of people living with HIV. Save the Children. vaccinate more children per vial. class of antibiotics.
Read more
Our behaviour Our people Our planet
21% 22%
Transparent Working with Employee Inclusive workplace Carbon emissions Water use
clinical trials third parties engagement
We were ranked no.1 in the Our Third Party Oversight Engagement levels have We ranked 21st in the UK We have cut operational carbon We are using 22% less water
AllTrials Transparency Index, programme was successfully increased significantly since our Stonewall Workplace Equality emissions by 21% since 2010. than in 2010, but in 2017 we
building on our long-standing rolled out to 95% of our third last global employee survey, with Index, which lists the top 100 Total value chain emissions have used 1% more water than in 2016.
commitment to transparency parties. We are on track to 85% of employees proud to work most LGBT+ and inclusive risen by 4% as we extend access
in clinical trials. reach 100% by early 2018. for GSK and 76% recommending employers in the UK for 2017. to our medicines, and we are
it as a great place to work. working to address this.
Read more Read more Read more6 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
2017 progress summary
This report covers our 2017 progress against the set of 23 commitments set five years ago.
Later in 2018 we will publish a new set of commitments to drive further impact and progress (see page 3).
Health for all Our behaviour
We are tackling some of the biggest global health challenges by promoting open innovation, Our values – patient focus, transparency, respect and integrity – underpin everything
making our medicines and vaccines more accessible, and strengthening healthcare systems. that we do.
Commitment Progress tracker Commitment Progress tracker
Innovation for unmet medical needs Completed Ethical conduct Progressing well
Better access to medicines and vaccines Completed Promoting values in sales and marketing practices Completed
Building products to better meet needs Completed Transparency in clinical trial data Completed
Strengthening healthcare infrastructure Completed Rigorous patient and consumer safety Progressing well
Reducing child mortality Completed Minimising animal testing Completed
Fighting malaria Completed Respecting human rights Progressing well
Eradicating polio Progressing well Working with third parties Progressing well
Access to antiretroviral treatment for HIV Progressing well Ensuring ethical interactions Completed
Eliminating and controlling neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) Progressing well
Our people Our planet
We aim to create a safe, healthy and inclusive working environment where everyone is able We are working hard to minimise our environmental footprint at every stage of the value
and inspired to realise their potential and help us succeed. chain as we extend access to our products to more people around the world.
Commitment Progress tracker Commitment Progress tracker
Developing our people in healthy and inspiring workplaces Progressing well Aiming to be carbon neutral Work needed
Promoting inclusion and diversity Progressing well Reducing our water impact Progressing well
Community volunteering to create change Completed Reducing our waste On track
Completed: The commitment has been completed Progressing well: Able to demonstrate clear deliverables On track: Work is ongoing Work needed: Work is needed to get the commitment on schedule7 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Health for all
Innovation for unmet medical needs
Tackling antibiotic resistance
Alzheimer’s disease
Commitment: Adapt the open innovation R&D model, Extensive use – and misuse – of antibiotics means that their effectiveness
In 2017, we participated in collaborations to accelerate the development
currently used for Diseases of the Developing World (DDW), has waned. This is fast becoming a major public health crisis. Without
of treatments for Alzheimer’s and dementia, including the $100 million
to apply to other areas of great unmet medical need and action, up to 10 million people could die from drug-resistant infections
Dementia Discovery Fund, the Dementias Platform UK and Accelerating
every year by 2050.1
scientific challenge, including infectious disease and Medicines Partnership. We continued to work with the Wellcome Trust’s
Alzheimer’s disease, by 2015. Neuroimmunology Consortium to investigate whether mood disorders The scale of the task remains significant and it is important that we work
with the pharmaceutical industry and governments to find creative ways
and Alzheimer’s can be treated by targeting the immune system.
to incentivise and reward new research and development in antibiotics.
Non-communicable diseases in Africa Our vaccines play a critical role in avoiding the need for antibiotics by
Completed We support researchers and projects across sub-Saharan Africa to preventing bacterial, viral and other infections. In 2017, we helped to
establish the AMR Industry Alliance, a coalition to drive progress towards
address the increasing burden of non-communicable diseases (NCDs)
the commitments made by the industry in 2016 through the Davos
on the continent through our Africa NCD Open Lab.
Declaration and the Industry Roadmap on AMR.
Progress in 2017
In 2017, we initiated three new clinical research collaborations and In January 2018, we were ranked no.1 of the large pharmaceutical
the lab now has 11 active collaborations that aim to improve our companies in the Access to Medicines Foundation’s first AMR
Diseases of the developing world
understanding of the nature of asthma, cancer, cardiovascular and Benchmark, which assesses 30 pharmaceutical, generics and biotech
Our open lab in Tres Cantos, Spain offers external scientists access to
kidney disease in African patients. Six of these projects form part of company responses to AMR. GSK received top scores in all three
our expertise and resources to discover innovative medicines for DDWs. our collaboration with the Medical Research Councils of South Africa research areas: R&D, Manufacturing and production, and Appropriate
The Tres Cantos Open Lab Foundation has supported 64 research access and stewardship.
and the UK.
projects since it opened in 2010, with seven new projects in 2017.
In our Pharmaceuticals pipeline, gepotidacin, is the first in a new class
Results from the lab have led to the publication of more than 20 papers We have also established a collaboration between the Open Lab of antibiotics and is expected to progress to phase III clinical research
in peer-reviewed scientific journals. and the University of Witwatersrand in South Africa to help build in 2018. It is being developed in collaboration with US government
biostatistics capacity in sub-Saharan Africa. partners, the Biomedical Advanced Research Development Authority
GSK’s DDW centre supported the phase I clinical trials of a new
and the Defense Threat Reduction Agency.
candidate drug for tuberculosis (TB), with phase II studies expected
to begin in 2018. We have begun late-stage pre-clinical studies for To promote responsible use of antibiotics in 2017, we trained over 21,000
healthcare professionals globally on the management of community-
a molecule with the potential to shorten the treatment of TB, with
acquired respiratory tract infections, appropriate usage of antibiotics,
funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.
prescribing guidelines and the importance of surveillance studies.
Bio-preparedness
1 The 2014 Review on Antimicrobial Resistance
We are committed to preparing for global health threats. We maintain
reserve capacity to respond to future influenza pandemics and we are
21,000
involved in the development of a universal influenza vaccine candidate
through a number of research partnerships. We continue to advance
rapid-response vaccine platform technologies to prepare for future
public health emergencies. healthcare professionals trained globally
Vaccines for unmet global health needs on responsible use of antibiotics
The GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health is developing vaccines
to protect against a wide range of diseases, including Shigella, invasive
nontyphoidal salmonella, typhoid and paratyphoid fever, and Group A
streptococcus. We are also participating in a public-private partnership
to develop a vaccine for HIV with clinical trials underway. Our clinical proof
of concept study for a new TB vaccine continues with Aeras, a non-profit Read more online Read more online
research biotech, and phase II primary results will be available in 2018. Open innovation Antibiotic resistance
Africa NCD Open Lab8 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Better access to medicines and vaccines
We have also established contracts to supply Synflorix to Médecins Improving affordability in developed countries
Commitment: Further embed our flexible pricing
Sans Frontières (MSF) and UNICEF at our lowest prices to support Our goal is to ensure that we are working in the best interests of both
strategy and innovative business models for our
immunisation programmes for refugees. our patients and shareholders, and the prices of our new medicines
prescription medicines and vaccines, to increase usage
and vaccines reflect this commitment. When establishing our prices
among those less able to access and afford our products. In 2017, we supplied UNICEF with more than 44 million doses of we aim to balance reward for innovation with access and affordability.
Rotarix to protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis – including doses
that supported the introduction of Pakistan’s vaccination programme. In the US, we negotiate with payers to gain our medicines favourable
We have increased supply by over 20% from 2016 and we are in placement on formularies (the list of products covered by health
Completed discussions with Gavi and UNICEF to determine how we can meet insurers and pharmacy benefit managers). Patients generally have
future demand. lower out-of-pocket costs for medicines that have preferred treatment
under a formulary.
Progress in 2017 We have supported Gavi pilots of our Cervarix vaccine for human
papillomavirus (HPV) in 12 countries since 2012. In 2018, we will be The GSK Patient Assistance Program provided GSK prescribed
GSK has an equitable pricing strategy for medicines and vaccines which supplying Cervarix for the first universal mass vaccination programme medicines and vaccines to 126,419 patients in 2017, valued at
is based on the country, disease area, product type and patient’s ability in Zimbabwe, where cervical cancer is one of the leading causes of $161 million in cost of goods sold. We continue to enhance the
to pay. We also invest in communities around the world through product deaths among women. programme to make it easier for patients to use by simplifying
and cash donations (see page 22). Our global community investment GSK is still the only company committed to a ten year price freeze our digital platforms.
totalled £262 million in 2017. to support countries transitioning from Gavi financing. In Europe, we engage with governments and payers to balance
Supporting affordability in developing and access and affordability while working towards sustainable health
In 2017, the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO)
middle-income countries systems that support ongoing innovation.
and the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers
Since 2010, we have capped the prices of our patented medicines and Associations (IFPMA) launched a new partnership called
in least developed countries at 25% of those in Western Europe as Pat-INFORMED to facilitate access to medicine patent information.
long as our manufacturing costs are covered. GSK played an instrumental role in the development of this partnership,
More than 70% of our vaccine doses go to least developed, low and which was catalysed by our 2016 commitment to make information
middle-income countries. Our lowest vaccine prices are offered to about our patent portfolio freely available.
organisations such as Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, which supports In early 2018, we announced our plans to restructure our pharmaceutical
countries with a GNI per head of less than $1,580. operations in sub-Saharan Africa to improve oversight and efficiency.
We have committed to deliver 720 million doses of our pneumococcal Despite these changes, we maintain our commitment to address the
vaccine, Synflorix, to Gavi at a discounted price up to 2024. We health challenges in sub-Saharan Africa. Patient access remains our
delivered over 75 million doses in 2017 and we also expect to make priority and we will continue to make our medicines and vaccines
a new Synflorix four-dose vial presentation (see page 9) available to widely available across the region.
Gavi-supported countries in 2018.
75m
doses of Synflorix delivered
to Gavi in 2017
Read more online
Access to healthcare9 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Building products to better meet needs Strengthening healthcare infrastructure Reducing child mortality
Commitment: Continue to build a core range of Commitment: Continue to work with partners to Commitment: Continue to invest in innovative cross-sector
products and formats to better meet the needs of people support the strengthening of healthcare infrastructure. partnerships to reduce child mortality.
across the globe, including those less able to access and We anticipate this could improve access to healthcare
afford our products. for 20 million under-served people by 2020 (vs. 2012).
Completed Completed Completed
Progress in 2017 Progress in 2017 Progress in 2017
We have successfully built new products to meet medical needs, Since 2009, we have reinvested 20% of our profits from sales of In 2013, we launched our five-year partnership with Save the Children,
including our new four-dose vial for Synflorix. pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products in least developed with the ambition to help save one million children’s lives in the world’s
countries (LDCs) – £33 million in total – into strengthening local poorest countries.
The need to keep vaccines and medicines refrigerated can be a major
healthcare infrastructure.
obstacle to access in hot countries. In 2017, we received a positive As we approach the end of the first five years of the partnership,
scientific opinion from the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Through our partnerships with Amref Health Africa, CARE we have reached more than 2.7 million children in 41 countries with
a new four-dose vial presentation of our Synflorix pneumococcal International and Save the Children, this has helped to train over life-saving interventions and together we are advocating for universal
vaccine, designed specifically to address cold chain challenges by 65,000 frontline health workers, helping us to exceed our goal health coverage at global and national levels. We have created and
reducing the physical space required during delivery and storage. of reaching 20 million under-served people by 2020. Our new distributed a potentially life-saving medicine to prevent umbilical cord
programmes in Botswana, Cameroon and Namibia are training infections, chlorhexidine gel, that has already benefited over 19,000
We have received prequalification from the WHO – the assessment
frontline health workers in sub-Saharan Africa beyond the LDCs. newborns. GSK employees have also raised over £3 million to
used by the UN and other international procurement agencies for
support the partnership.
distribution in resource-limited countries – and, subject to local In Zambia, the 432 community health entrepreneurs trained
regulatory approvals, we plan to start supplying this vaccine to through Live Well – the social enterprise we established with CARE The next phase of the GSK and Save the Children partnership, which
Gavi-supported countries in 2018. International and Barclays – have reached approximately 660,000 will continue to address child mortality, will launch in 2018.
people with healthcare information. The entrepreneurs have sold
Clinics and healthcare workers will be able to vaccinate more
nearly 100,000 healthcare products in 2017 alone, of which 20%
children per vial compared with the existing Synflorix two-dose
were GSK products, to support their livelihoods.
vial presentation, and the new formulation allows the vaccine to
last for up to 28 days once opened instead of the six hours allowed In 2017, we extended mVaccination pilots with Vodafone to Nigeria
with the existing format. – following a request from the national Ministry of Health – and
Tanzania, and with the support of the integrated SMS reminders,
nearly 200,000 vaccine doses were administered to children using
“ Our new presentation of our Synflorix
the platform. We also partnered with Vodafone and others to set
vaccine helps to address cold chain up a programme in Lesotho that will use mobile technologies to help
more HIV-positive children and pregnant women access treatment.
challenges in developing countries.”
Luc Debruyne, Ilan Godfrey / Save the Children
President, Global Vaccines
Read more online Read more online Read more online
Giving mothers and babies a healthier start Reinvesting in healthcare Save the Children partnership10 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Fighting malaria Eradicating polio
If approved, tafenoquine will be the first new treatment for P. vivax
Commitment: Build on our 30-year commitment to Commitment: Continue to support the WHO objective of
malaria in over 60 years and has the potential to become an important
contribute to the fight against malaria through continued eradicating polio by 2018 by providing vaccines to UNICEF
tool in malaria elimination efforts. To support this, we are working in
R&D investment and partnerships on the ground. until this is achieved.
partnership with the Medicines for Malaria Venture, the Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation and PATH to enable patient access for those who
need it.
Completed To enable use of tafenoquine to treat P. vivax malaria in children, Progressing well
we have completed the first part of a study called TEACH to assess
the appropriate dose using a child-friendly dispersible formulation.
Progress in 2017 Progress in 2017
Investing in local programmes
Developing vaccines to prevent malaria Through our partnership with Comic Relief we are supporting Worldwide, the incidence of polio has declined by 99.9% since the
Our RTS,S vaccine is the only malaria vaccine candidate to date 20 projects across four African countries and the Greater Mekong Global Polio Eradication Initiative was launched 30 years ago. But
that has received a positive scientific opinion from the European sub-region of South East Asia. Focused on fighting malaria and despite enormous strides in combating this potentially debilitating and
Medicines Agency (EMA) and a recommendation for pilot improving health, the partnership aims to help make sure that life-threatening disease, there were still 17 recorded cases in 2017.
implementation by the WHO. interventions to prevent, diagnose and treat malaria get to the people
The final steps to completely eradicate polio are proving extremely
who need them, when they need them. Projects range from youth-led
Following successful phase III trials in 2016, we are supporting plans challenging and the WHO’s goal to end polio by 2018 has not been met.
approaches to increase malaria awareness, to training of frontline
for pilot malaria vaccine implementation programmes in sub-Saharan
community healthcare workers and volunteers. Across the projects In 2017, we have supported eradication efforts by supplying our
Africa. We are working together with the WHO, PATH, the ministries
in Tanzania, Ghana and Mozambique that launched in 2017, we have oral polio vaccine (OPV) – both bivalent (for types 1 and 3) and
of health in Kenya, Ghana and Malawi, and other stakeholders to
reached over 700,000 people. monovalent (for types 1, 2 and 3) – through UNICEF. In 2017,
ensure successful implementation of the pilot programmes. In parallel,
we delivered more than 300 million doses of OPV to UNICEF;
GSK is preparing for the implementation of a phase IV programme and
this brings us to more than 17 billion doses delivered since 1988.
we are starting up manufacturing activities. GSK will donate the first
10 million doses of the RTS,S vaccine, to support pilot programmes
More than
in sub-Saharan Africa.
300m
Our RTS,S vaccine aims to protect children from P. falciparum malaria,
which is most common in sub-Saharan Africa and responsible for most
malarial deaths worldwide. Clinical trials are already underway for a
doses of oral polio vaccine
next-generation vaccine, as well as pre-clinical studies of candidate
delivered to UNICEF in 2017
molecules to treat acute P. falciparum malaria.
Developing new treatments
We are also in the late stage development of tafenoquine, a single- Mia Collis / Comic Relief
dose treatment for P. vivax malaria, which is common in South Asia,
the Horn of Africa and Latin America. Results of our phase III trials
in adults have been presented and a new drug application has been
submitted to the US FDA and the Therapeutic Goods Administration
in Australia seeking its approval for use in the prevention of relapse.
Read more online Read more online
The fight against malaria UNICEF information on polio11 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Access to antiretroviral treatment for HIV Eliminating and controlling neglected
tropical diseases
Accelerating access to treatment
Commitment: Through ViiV Healthcare1, we will continue to
In 2017, our innovative HIV drug, dolutegravir, was made available
research new treatments, increase access to our medicines Commitment: Help eliminate and control ten neglected
in Brazil as a first line treatment for people living with HIV who have
and care for people living with HIV around the world. We never been on treatment as well as in third-line therapy for patients tropical diseases (NTDs) that will affect 1.4 billion people
will support UNAIDS to deliver their 90-90-90 ambition who have previously been on treatment as part of the national health by 2020, including the elimination of lymphatic filariasis
by 20202. We will also work with communities to combat programme. Dolutegravir is now also available as first line treatment (LF), through our continued investment in R&D, ongoing
stigma and discrimination associated with HIV. in Botswana as part of its national ‘Treat All’ HIV programme and it product donations and our contribution to the London
has been added to the Essential Medicines List in Russia. Declaration on NTDs.
Following tentative FDA approval, the first generic version of dolutegravir
has been introduced in selected countries covered by our voluntary
Progressing well
licence agreements with the UN-backed Medicines Patent Pool and Progressing well
Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. Our licenses enable generic formulations of
Progress in 2017 dolutegravir, including fixed-dose combinations containing dolutegravir
that are recommended by WHO or DHHS (US) guidelines, to be made Progress in 2017
In 2017, we received FDA approval for Juluca, our first single-tablet, available through generic manufacturers covering 90%3 of adults and
2 drug regimen of dolutegravir and rilpivirine for the maintenance 99% of children living with HIV in the developing world. GSK has donated nearly eight billion albendazole tablets since 1999
of virologically supressed HIV patients, following positive phase III – including 894 million in 2017 – to reach more than 850 million
The European Commission and the FDA have approved a reduction
results. We have also made a regulatory submission to the European people for LF and intestinal worms. In April, Togo became the first
of the weight limit for treatment of HIV with dolutegravir in children
Medicines Agency. African country to eliminate LF as a public health problem, with seven
and adolescents. This means more 6 to 12-year-olds are eligible to
more countries achieving this later in the year. The WHO estimates
Juluca marks an important milestone in HIV care by providing a new receive treatment.
that the number of people at risk of LF infection and requiring mass
treatment option that could make a significant difference to people
Positive Action for communities drug administration decreased from 1.4 billion people to 856 million
living with HIV by reducing the number of antiretrovirals they have
We continue to support HIV education and prevention through between 2011 and 2016.
to take, as they receive life-long treatment for their chronic condition.
ViiV Healthcare’s Positive Action programmes. In 2017, Positive Action
Our research into other NTDs continues. Two of our candidate molecules
Phase III clinical trials have begun for two other investigational awarded over 120 new grants across our four main global programmes
for the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis, discovered in collaboration
two-drug treatment regimens – dolutegravir plus lamivudine and for men who have sex with men and transgender people, girls and
with Dundee University, are progressing towards clinical studies.
cabotegravir plus rilpivirine (as long-acting formulation). women, adolescents, and children. It also supported community
organisations in Europe through 14 new grants, and two new Positive
We also began a programme of phase III studies to evaluate
Action initiatives were launched to support women and young people
long-acting injectable cabotegravir for the prevention of HIV
in the US.
infection in high-risk populations and resource-poor settings
as part of a public-private collaboration. Through our Positive Action Challenges, we work with global
partners to find innovative solutions on specific pressing issues
affecting the HIV epidemic such as post-rape care for girls in
“ In 2017, we received FDA approval for
emergency settings, antiretroviral adherence for breastfeeding
Juluca, an important milestone in HIV care.” mothers and addressing stigma in healthcare settings.
Deborah Waterhouse, 1 ViiV Healthcare is a global specialist HIV company majority owned by GSK.
CEO, ViiV Healthcare 2 9 0% of people living with HIV to know their HIV status, 90% of those diagnosed to receive
sustained antiretroviral therapy and 90% of those receiving therapy to have an undetectable
viral load.
Read more online 3 A s of 2017, this now covers 90% of adults: see MPP website.
ViiV Healthcare Read more online
Positive Action programmes Tackling NTDs12 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Our behaviour
Ethical conduct Promoting values in sales and
marketing practices
and people feel confident to speak up. We ran a Speak Up campaign
Commitment: We will continue to strengthen our
across the business in 2017 to raise awareness of the multiple
values-based culture by training our people on the Commitment: Continue to drive a values-based approach
channels we offer for people within and outside GSK to voice their
standards expected, encouraging the reporting of any concerns and ask questions through an independent third party – to sales and marketing practices across the world, with the
concerns and embedding our values into the way we confidentially or anonymously if preferred. In 2017, we received 2,679 interests of consumers and patients at its core.
measure employee performance. reports (2,568 in 2016) through the available channels. We reviewed
all of them and 1,919 formal investigations were initiated. The most
frequent categories of reports were employee performance and Completed
Progressing well product promotion.
There have been instances in the past where our commercial practices
Progress in 2017
have brought regulatory sanctions and the company has paid large
Progress in 2017
fines for past behaviours that are inconsistent with our expectations
Promoting our values-based approach to sales
and code of conduct. We have taken several actions and improved
Training our people GSK has eliminated the use of individual sales targets for our
our controls but are aware of the need for constant vigilance.
Mandatory annual training on our values and Code of Conduct pharmaceutical and vaccines sales representatives. This change
is designed to help our employees and complementary workers The UK Serious Fraud Office continues to investigate the Group’s was implemented in the US in 2011, and expanded to all our markets
understand how to put our values into practice in their daily working commercial operations in a number of countries, including China, and globally in 2015. Today, our sales representatives are incentivised
lives and manage ethical dilemmas they may encounter. has requested additional information from the Group regarding third based on their selling competency and broader business performance.
party advisers engaged by the Company in the course of the China
The Living our Values training emphasises our zero tolerance approach This values-based approach is proving effective. An independent
Investigations. The US Securities and Exchange Commission and the
to bribery and corruption, highlights our commitment on issues such as assessment of GSK’s respiratory and vaccines salesforce showed
Department of Justice are also investigating these matters. Please
product quality and data protection, and provides an overview of our key that their effectiveness is continuing to improve with sales outcomes
refer to the Legal proceedings note on page 230 of the Company’s
risks. In 2017, 98% of our employees and 91% of our complementary ranking within the top quartile compared with peers in several of our
2017 Annual Report for further information.
workers completed the training. More than 86,300 people also priority markets.
underwent additional training on anti-bribery and corruption to help them Disciplinary action
Engaging with healthcare professionals
manage the specific risks inherent in their roles and responsibilities. If employees behave in ways that do not align with our policies, we
In 2013, we introduced a policy to stop paying HCPs to speak to
take appropriate disciplinary action. In 2017, 3,200 employees were
Almost 400 ethics and compliance professionals at GSK have other prescribers about our prescription medicines and vaccines.
disciplined for policy violations (3,600 in 2016), including 935 for
certified their skills through our Ethics and Compliance Academy We believe our policy has improved transparency and trust, but
failing to complete our mandatory Living our Values and Anti-bribery
since its launch in 2015. feedback from scientific experts is that important scientific dialogue
and Corruption training within the required timeframe.
between GSK and them has reduced. This was not the intent of the
We have continued to assess how well our values are embedded
Of those disciplined, 1,801 employees received a documented warning policy. Transparent scientific dialogue and engagement with experts
in specific parts of the businesses, with around 260 values maturity
(2,499 in 2016), 901 received verbal warnings (547 in 2016) and 233 is in the interests of all those working to develop new medicines and
assessments conducted over the past two years. Individual areas of the
were dismissed or agreed to leave the company voluntarily (221 in 2016). improve care for patients.
business are using insights from the assessments to continue enhancing
the way our values are embedded into ways of working at GSK. Discussion Employees disciplined in 2017: breakdown of types of policy violation To address this feedback and having consulted with HCPs, we
guides to facilitate conversations about our values between business have decided to change our policy. We now allow fair market value
Training completion
leaders and their teams were widely used across the business in 2017. payments to be made by GSK to expert researchers and HCPs to
18% Code of Conduct
Reporting and investigating concerns 29% Attendance/payroll speak about the science behind our products, disease and clinical
4% practice in a limited number of GSK-sponsored, medical-led meetings.
We want to maintain an open environment where concerns can be raised Good manufacturing practices/
6%
good distribution practices
12% Marketing and promotional activities
Read more online 18%
Ethical conduct 13% Local work regulations Continued overleaf
GSK policies, codes and standards Other policy violations13 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Promoting values in sales and marketing practices Transparency in clinical trial data
continued
After approval and a signed data-sharing agreement, researchers
Commitment: Be as transparent as possible with our
We believe that this change is in the best interests of patients as can access and analyse the data in a secure computer system.
clinical trial data, including publishing clinical study
it helps effective, transparent scientific dialogue by allowing HCPs By the end of 2017, we had listed more than 2,100 trials on
reports (without patient-level data) for all outcome trials
to share new science with each other. Our primary focus remains www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com, which is also used by 12 other
on internal medical experts speaking about our products and we of medicines conducted by GSK and, within an appropriate sponsors. Since 2013, 108 proposals have been approved related
will not pay HCPs to talk about our products outside of an approved, process, making available to researchers access to to GSK trial data. As a result, ten research papers have been
medical-led scientific workshop or symposium. anonymised patient level data to further scientific enquiry. published. We also continued efforts to develop plain language
summaries of our studies that communicate results in a way that is
We have continued to strengthen our online resources and in-house
readily understandable to people outside the scientific community.
medical capabilities to provide bespoke product information for
HCPs. By using all of our existing channels, we increased our overall Completed Nine have been posted to date on the GSK clinical study register.
interactions with customers by 15% in 2017 with digital interactions
growing by 50%.
Progress in 2017
Disclosing payments made to HCPs
We are committed to disclosing the payments we make to HCPs In 2017, we were ranked number one on the AllTrials Transparency
for activities such as advisory boards, scientific symposiums and Index for clinical trials transparency. The index, published in the BMJ,
market research, that help us to develop medicines and vaccines is based on the first systematic assessment of 42 pharmaceutical
to meet patients’ needs. We fulfil all requirements of the European companies including the world’s largest companies published
Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) policies on clinical trial registration and reporting. We came first in
Disclosure Code by disclosing payments to named individuals and the assessment which looked at trial registration, summary results,
disclosing on an aggregate basis for payments related to research clinical study reports and individual patient level data. This builds
and development. on our long-standing commitment to clinical trial transparency.
GSK publishes payments made to HCPs in 32 markets across GSK is one of the few companies that publishes clinical study
Europe (including Russia and Ukraine) as well as Australia, Japan reports. These reports form the basis of submissions to regulatory
and the US. In 2016, the latest year of reporting, more than 95% agencies. At the end of 2017, 2,310 of these reports and more than “ GSK has a long-standing commitment
of HCPs consented to disclose individual-named transfers of value 6,305 result summaries from our trials were publicly available on our
to clinical trial transparency and our
in countries where this is possible under local disclosure rules. clinical study register. We also introduced a new mobile application
to enable access to the register from mobile devices. efforts in 2017 continue to reflect that.”
In Europe, we have a ‘no consent, no contract’ policy which means
we will not work with HCPs who withhold their consent for GSK to In 2013, we launched the first trial sponsor data sharing platform to Patrick Vallance,
publish payments they have received from us for reportable activities. share access to our anonymised patient-level data, sharing access Outgoing President, R&D
to our data within six months of publication for our interventional
phase I-IV clinical trials. To access this data, external researchers
submit a research proposal which is reviewed for scientific merit
by an independent review panel appointed by the Wellcome Trust.
Read more online Read more online
Sales and marketing practices Data transparency
European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations GSK study register14 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Rigorous patient and consumer safety Minimising animal testing
In addition, we continue to support wider efforts to enhance the
Commitment: Continue to ensure the interests and safety Commitment: Rigorously challenge the need for animal
detection, monitoring, understanding and prevention of side effects
of patients and consumers are of paramount importance studies and work to minimise the impact on animal
with pharmaceutical products (known as pharmacovigilance).
in the way we design and undertake our clinical trials, welfare, by investing in the development of alternative
our product quality assurance and our monitoring and We continued to work with the WHO and other partners in 2017 studies and sharing animal-based data.
to develop infrastructure for reporting side effects in the developing
reporting of adverse events in ongoing product usage.
world, where we are extending access to our medicines and vaccines.
Through the TransCelerate Collaboration, we are working with others
Completed
to promote harmonised approaches and procedures for the clinical
Progressing well development of drugs and to implement key regulations.
Reducing the risks of falsified medicines and Progress in 2017
Progress in 2017 counterfeit products
We supported the WHO’s revised definitions of ‘substandard’ Animal research is essential in the discovery of new medicines and
Our robust policies and processes to ensure the safety of patients, and ‘falsified’ medicines which more clearly categorise the two main is required legally to test the safety of our medicines and vaccines.
consumers and clinical trial participants remained paramount in the types of unsafe healthcare products that pose an important public We are committed to applying the ‘3Rs’ approach to replace, reduce
development, testing and manufacturing of the medicines, vaccines health issue. and refine our animal studies, as well as demonstrating respect and
and consumer healthcare products we produced in 2017. responsibility towards animals.
To address the distribution of counterfeit products, we collaborate
We follow a strict Quality Management System in our manufacturing with customs authorities to prevent the import, export and availability Following a one-off increase in 2015 related to the integration of the
and we comply with regulations on Good Manufacturing Practice. of illicit products. Our primary focus is on countries where counterfeit Novartis vaccines business, we have maintained our long-standing
In recent years we have proactively invested in several quality products are known to be manufactured and those known to be major downward trend in the number of animals used. In 2017, we used
improvement programmes across our sites in terms of facilities and transit hubs for these illicit products. approximately 329,000 animals – 11% fewer than the previous year.
infrastructure, ways of working and staff training and awareness. Around 98% were rodents.
We conducted training sessions for 950 customs officials at 36 key
The results of this are increasingly being borne out by fewer supply
ports and border crossings in 20 countries in 2017. By working together, We collaborated with clinical experts in regenerative medicine at
interruptions and an improving regulatory inspection record based
we aim to help authorities identify and seize shipments of counterfeit University College London to develop an artificial human lung to
on a like-for-like comparison across our business units. In 2017,
products before they are distributed to markets around the world. enable the study of human respiratory pathology and physiology in
194 regulatory inspections were held at our manufacturing sites and
vitro. We also worked with clinical oncologists and bio-engineers
while the majority resulted in zero or only minor observations, we are
at Queen Mary University London to develop a tumour model as
committed to addressing issues raised in all inspections as part of
a human-relevant tool for the identification of innovative cancer
our continual improvement programme. Regulatory authorities have
therapies. Both systems reduce the need for animal studies by
accepted our proposed plans for corrective actions.
mimicking the disease as seen in human organs and tissues.
Understanding the risks
Over the past decade, our Vaccines division has been working to
We keep track of risks to quality and safety standards through our
reduce the number of animals needed for quality control purposes.
global risk register. In 2017, we performed 273 audits on our own
Our efforts include the Innovative Medicine Initiative’s Vaccine to
trials and those conducted by third parties on our behalf (see data
Vaccine project, a collaborative initiative which aims to reduce animal
summary on page 22). We also enhanced our policy on Management
testing required for batch releases of vaccines. In 2017, GSK
of Human Safety Information for GSK Products and trained all
activities led to EU approval for a quality control test resulting in
relevant staff to safeguard the people who take our products or
a reduction of 60% in the number of rabbits needed in testing.
take part in our clinical research.
Read more online Read more online
Pharmacovigilance Our use of animals15 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Respecting human rights Working with third parties
Based on our initial risk assessment, over 4,200 third parties have
Commitment: Address the UN Guiding Principles on Commitment: We seek to work with third parties that
undergone an extensive independent assessment by EcoVadis,
Business and Human Rights across our own operations share our commitment to high ethical standards and
which covers the management of labour rights, fair business practices,
and our supplier relationships. operate in a responsible way. If performance gaps are
anti-bribery and corruption, environment and sustainable procurement.
identified, where appropriate, we commit to working with
Monitoring risk and compliance through audits
the third party to improve performance.
We conducted 60 third party audits in 2017 on health and safety,
ethics, environment and labour rights. We also conducted a further
1,592 third party audits focused specifically on the quality processes.
Progressing well Progressing well
Where we identify areas that require improvement, we engage with
the relevant third parties to develop improvement plans and track their
Progress in 2017 Progress in 2017 progress. If significant issues are identified and remain unresolved,
we may choose to suspend or terminate work with a third party.
We focus our activities on seven areas based on where our operations We spend over £11 billion every year with suppliers, distributors and
have the biggest potential to affect human rights – healthcare, air quality other organisations including more than 38,000 vendors that provide
impact relating to propellants, clinical trial standards, employment us with a wide range of goods and services. We have continued to
practices, patient safety, product counterfeiting and use of third-party optimise and increase the spend with our preferred supplier base,
suppliers. Progress on each is outlined in the relevant sections of to enable us to build strong relationships with the suppliers that are
this report. most critical to our business.
In 2017, we included more in-depth information on our expectations Overseeing third parties
related to human rights within our mandatory annual Living our Values At GSK, our third parties include suppliers, distributors and other
training (see page 12), particularly in relation to labour rights in our organisations with which there is a transfer of value. Our Third Party
supply chain. We also held a workshop with senior managers to Oversight programme strengthens our management of risk in the
build awareness and understanding of labour rights risks in GSK’s supply chain, by driving improvements in our third party network
operations and supply chains and to identify further training to ensure that they share our values and work to the ethical and
requirements for teams across the business. business standards expected by GSK. By the end of 2017, we had
deployed the rollout of the programme globally, covering 95% of our
We continued to monitor existing suppliers and screen new suppliers
third parties. We expect the remainder to be complete by early 2018.
through the Third Party Oversight programme that has been rolled out
globally (see Working with third parties). We have also standardised Over 100,000 risk assessments of our third parties have been
labour rights clauses in our contracts with third parties and updated conducted since the inception of the programme in 2015. Over 5,000
our supplier portal and human rights policy with more information on improvement plans have been agreed and we are working with our
labour rights to support with compliance. third parties to implement these plans.
Our second annual Modern Slavery Act statement, published in line
with UK legislation, outlines our policies and processes to minimise Over
the risk of modern slavery within our operations and our supply chain. 5,000
improvement plans have been
agreed since the inception of our
Read more online
Third Party Oversight programme
Human rights statement Read more online
Modern Slavery Act Statement Ethical conduct and third parties16 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Ensuring ethical interactions
Commitment: Demonstrate that all GSK interactions with We register all lobbying costs relating to GSK activities in Brussels Our approach to tax
and the US on the EU Transparency Register and US Federal
patient advocacy groups and political stakeholders are
Lobbying Register respectively. In 20161, the cost of representing We have a substantial business and employment
conducted appropriately, ethically and transparently.
our interest to EU institutions was €1.48 million. In 2017, in the presence in many countries around the globe
US we spent $4.18 million on lobbying activities. This cost includes
and pay a significant amount of tax, including
operating our advocacy offices in Brussels and Washington DC,
corporation and other business taxes, as well as
Completed and the cost of travel and consulting. Industry bodies may also
the taxes associated with our employees.
lobby indirectly on our behalf and we publish a list of our main trade
association memberships on our website.
Progress in 2017 We understand our responsibility to pay an appropriate amount of tax and
GSK does not make corporate political contributions. However, under fully support efforts to ensure that companies are appropriately transparent
Working with patient advocacy groups the Federal Election Campaign Act, our US employees can financially about how their tax affairs are managed. We provide more detail on our
By engaging with and supporting patient organisations, we can gain support individual candidates or political groups through a Political approach to tax in our published tax strategy and Annual Report.
insights that help us to develop products and advocate for policies Action Committee (PAC). In 2017, our employees’ PAC contributed As part of our approach we align our investment strategies to those
that better meet patient needs. Information about all the support we $384,875 to candidates – 30% of which went to state candidates countries where we already have substantial economic activity and
provide to patient groups is published on our website. and 70% to federal candidates. where government policies promote tax regimes which are attractive
to business investment, transparent in their intent and available to all
1 T hese are the latest available figures, and 2017 figures will be available in April 2018 for
In 2017, we held Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits in the Czech submission to the EU’s Transparency Register. relevant tax payers, such as the UK patent box.
Republic, Germany, Japan and Switzerland to build relationships
Relationship with tax authorities
between GSK employees, patient advocates, health policy experts
We seek to maintain open, positive relationships with governments
and industry representatives. and tax authorities worldwide and we welcome constructive debate
We have launched a respiratory health advisory board made up of on taxation policy.
representatives from patient organisations to provide perspectives International tax framework
and expert insights about the needs of patients that allow us to We support the OECD and G20 principle that tax should be paid
develop better medicines and advocate policies based on those throughout the supply chain where the profit-making activities take place.
needs. We also supported the second Asia Pacific Patient Lung Transfer pricing
Summit to connect with patient leaders who advocate for lung health In line with OECD guidelines we base our transfer pricing policy on the
in their communities and improve our understanding of conditions arm’s-length principle and support our transfer prices with economic
like asthma. analysis and reports.
Tax havens
Engaging with political stakeholders
We do not engage in artificial tax arrangements – those without business
We expect everyone at GSK to follow the guidelines in our Code
or commercial substance – and we do not seek to avoid tax using ‘tax havens’
of Conduct in all their interactions with stakeholders. Political
or transactions we would not fully disclose to a tax authority. We have a
stakeholders are no exception. The same rules apply to any public zero-tolerance approach to tax evasion and the facilitation of tax evasion.
policy groups that engage on our behalf and we have comprehensive
Corporation tax
criteria to guide the selection of these groups to ensure they share
In 2017, the Group paid corporate income tax of £1,340 million
our values.
(£1,609 million in 2016) on profits of £3,525 million (£1,939 million
in 2016). The corresponding tax charge on profits was £1,356 million
(£877 million in 2016).
Read more online
Read more online Our tax strategy
Patient group funding Annual Report (page 56)
Public policy and patient advocacy17 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Our people
Developing our people in healthy and
Employee engagement
inspiring workplaces
We know that listening and responding to our
Protecting our people
Commitment: Continue to create a working environment people is critical to our success.
Our reportable injury and illness rate in 2017 was 0.23 per 100,000
that inspires people to grow and perform in a healthy and
hours worked, compared with 0.26 in 2016. This rate is comparable
sustainable way. with other leading companies in our sector1 and has remained low In 2017, more than 84,000 (83%) of our employees shared their views in
for several years. our global employee survey – our best response rate yet. We aligned the
survey questions with our new long-term business priorities: Innovation,
But we want to prevent anyone getting hurt at work. To help us Performance and Trust.
Progressing well
better identify and manage risks, we have begun analysing not just The results give us valuable insights into how our people feel about working
what happened, but the worst case scenarios in specific incidents, at GSK. Engagement levels have increased significantly since the last
Progress in 2017 in order to improve the effectiveness of our prevention measures. survey in 2015, with 76% of employees recommending GSK as a great
place to work – a 12 increase – and 85% proud to work for GSK.
Road safety remains one of our biggest risks and, tragically, a member of
Developing talent our sales force died in 2017 as a result of a road traffic accident in the US. Employees felt we are doing particularly well on ethical behaviour,
In 2017, we strengthened our focus on identifying key roles in the As part of our efforts to reduce this risk, we continue to focus on training quality, and health and safety. But they wanted to see us create better
business, monitoring top talent and supporting their development at GSK. drivers in road safety. opportunities for development and improve our systems and processes.
Results from the survey are being discussed by leaders and employees
We also trained around 3,300 people to support their promotion to Health and wellbeing across the business to identify priority focus areas. From 2018, we
roles as first or second line leaders and over 1,600 leaders have shared We are committed to providing health programmes and services plan to survey our people twice a year to help us gauge the progress
their knowledge and helped to improve colleagues’ performance to help our people make healthy choices, assess their own health, we are making.
through our coaching programmes. Over 65,000 employees have now stop smoking, do enough physical activity, eat healthily and focus Our new engagement programme, Let’s Talk, aims to get our people
used our business skills training modules, which are part of our suite their energy where it matters. Ultimately, we want them to feel talking about what matters most and encourage them to share different
of training and leadership programmes to develop talent at GSK. healthier, happier and more energised – at work and at home. views and ideas on how we can make GSK even stronger.
In 2017, 434 graduates and postgraduates joined our Future Leaders In 2017, we made more than 75% of these programmes and services Leaders across the business have been hosting conversations with
and Esprit development programmes. GSK ranked third in The available in our top 24 countries, covering 85% of employees globally, their teams on a range of topics. Feedback and insights from these
Guardian 300 UK Graduate Employers and made the top ten in and made access easier through an online hub. We are also piloting sessions is collated and shared with all employees and senior leaders
to help shape future plans for our organisation.
The Times Top 100 Graduate Employers 2017. a personalised interactive digital health platform in Belgium that helps
We welcomed 97 apprentices in the UK, Canada, Ireland, Singapore employees to assess their health and adopt healthier behaviours. As part
and the US as we continue to expand our apprenticeship programmes of the Virgin Pulse Global Challenge in 2017, 11,494 GSK participants
internationally in 2017. In the UK, GSK was voted Top Employer in took over 11 million steps, and as a result we were named the ‘most active
Science by school leavers, and entered the Top 100 Apprenticeship organisation’ for the second year running, above 228 other companies.
Employers list for the first time. We are also contributing to the Our Partnership for Prevention (P4P) programme offers over 119,000
development of national apprenticeship standards, chairing the employees and family members unprecedented access to up to 40
Lifesciences Trailblazer group. preventive healthcare services, such as immunisations and cancer
screening, at little or no extra cost. We extended the programme to
“ Investing in our people is critical to ensuring the Asia Pacific region in 2017 and prepared to extend it in Europe.
P4P is now available in 93 countries and we will complete our global
the long-term sustainability of our business.”
roll-out in 2018 as planned. Over the last five years, employees and
Claire Thomas, their families have accessed around 95,000 health services through
Senior Vice President, Human Resources this programme.
Read more online 1. Based on benchmarking data from the Pharmaceutical Safety Group.
Working at GSK18 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Promoting inclusion and diversity Community volunteering to create change
Women in management (%) 2014 2015 2016 2017
Commitment: Continue to promote inclusion and diversity Commitment: Extend volunteering opportunities to bring
globally at GSK. SVP/VP 29 29 30 31 about positive change to communities and global health
Director 40 40 42 43 while providing individual development.
Manager 45 45 46 47
Progressing well
Total 42 42 43 44 Completed
Progress in 2017 Our global LGBT+ Council continued to engage people across
GSK on LGBT+ issues. It is supported by our LGBT+ ERG, Progress in 2017
In 2017, the independent Hampton Alexander Review of FTSE 100
Spectrum, which now has over 900 employee members across
companies found that GSK has the eighth highest proportion of 29 countries around the world. Through skills-based volunteering, we give our people the opportunity
women on the Board at 41.7%, and that we are in line with the to support communities and global health – and build their own
FTSE 100 average with 25.7% female representation among In 2017, we achieved full marks in the Human Rights Campaign abilities and experience.
executive committee members and their direct reports. Corporate Equality Index for the second consecutive year in the US,
where we also won a Best of the Best Award for inclusion from the In 2017, 73 volunteers from 21 countries took part in our flagship
The proportion of women in management roles at GSK is 44% National Business Inclusion Consortium and LGBT+ Chamber of PULSE Volunteer Partnership programme. In total, they provided
globally. We provided coaching and support for 209 high-performing Commerce. We achieved Rainbow Tick certification in New Zealand £2.7 million worth of skilled services to 26 non-profit partners in
female managers through our Accelerating Difference programme. and, in early 2018, were ranked 21st in the UK Stonewall Workplace 29 countries.
Around 40% of those who started the programme in 2013 have been
Equality Index, which lists the top 100 most LGBT+ and inclusive Through PULSE, individuals work with a non-profit organisation
promoted and 49% of those who began in 2014 (compared with 31%
employers in the UK for 2017. for three to six months to share their expertise and learn new skills.
of women and 29% of men across GSK during the same period).
Our new Singapore Asia Headquarters is designed to be fully In the latest survey on our PULSE programme, 91% of volunteers
Women made up 54% of our new graduates and Esprit participants accessible for people with disabilities and we have developed completing their assignments in 2016 agreed that they brought back
in 2017, and 38% of our new apprentices in science, technology an inclusive design guide for future buildings and refurbishments. new ideas and fresh ways of working to GSK. Non-profit partners
and engineering roles, where women have traditionally been We have also introduced a service in the UK to make it easier for also benefit, with 98% agreeing that our volunteers either met or
underrepresented. Additionally, our Women’s Leadership Initiative employees to request any workplace adaptations, such as flexible exceeded their expectations.
employee resource group (ERG) now has more than 4,000 employee
working, assistive technology, furniture and access. The service Everyone at GSK also has the opportunity to volunteer one day
members in more than 70 countries.
will be rolled out in other countries over the next few years. a year to support their local communities through Orange Days
Under new UK legislation, we have published data on our gender pay The Disability Confidence Network ERG now has more than 250 and other skills-based volunteering opportunities. In October 2017,
gap in the UK for the first time. Based on the comparison of salaries, employee members across 22 countries, who support our Global 5,000 of our people contributed 40,000 hours during our global
our gender pay gap for all GSK permanent UK-based employees is Disability Council in driving change and promoting disability month of volunteering.
2.81% (mean) which is below the national average of 17.4%. We will
confidence throughout the business.
also continue to review pay equity at a global level during 2018.
In 2017, 18 more young people with learning disabilities developed 40,000
Currently, seven nationalities are represented on our Board and
their employment skills through our Project Search programme,
executive committee. Seventy-eight nationalities are represented on
which now operates in the US as well as the UK. Through our Orange
our Future Leaders graduate programme and more than 60 people
Senior Programme, we employed 12 people with disabilities over the
hours contributed by our people during
have completed our Emerging Leaders Programme in Singapore to
age of 60 in Japan.
our global month of volunteering
develop our Asia leadership pipeline.
Read more online
Inclusion and diversity Read more online
Gender pay gap report Employee volunteering19 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Our planet
Aiming to be carbon neutral
Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions (thousand tonnes COe)
Our indirect emissions 2
Commitment: Reduce our overall carbon footprint by
Our Scope 3 emissions fell from 18.7 to 17.9 million tonnes of COe 2,500
25% by 2020 (vs 2010) and have a carbon neutral value 2
from 2015 to 2016, however they were up 4% from our 2010 baseline
chain by 2050.
year. This is a result of the Novartis integration in 2015 and increasing
2,000
sales of our propellant-based inhalers. We engage with suppliers to
drive improvement, for example we encourage suppliers to monitor
Work needed and disclose performance through Ecodesk. This external resource 1,500
offers benchmarking information and helps them develop improvement
plans – 209 suppliers, representing over £1 billion of our spend on
Progress in 2017 1,000
raw materials, now use Ecodesk to report environmental data.
Our overall value chain carbon footprint is made up of Scope 1 and 2 We also have our own platform to encourage our suppliers to
emissions from our direct operations (18%), and Scope 3 emissions share best practices on sustainability, the GSK Supplier Exchange. 500
from our supplier base (49%) and from the use of our products (33%). We recognise outstanding performance through our annual Supplier
Environmental Sustainability Awards. In 2017, the awards went to
As we provide medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare 0
Paharpur 3P, a small packaging supplier in India, for its efforts to 2010 2015 2016 2017 2020
products to more of the people who need them around the world, target
reduce water use and to Model AG, a larger packaging supplier, for
it is proving extremely challenging to reduce our overall value
the installation of a paper recycling facility at its site in Switzerland. Electricity and steam Propellant emissions during
chain footprint. Gas and other fuel manufacture of inhalers
Our latest analysis shows that our total value chain carbon footprint The use of our products also has a significant impact on our Scope 3 Sales force travel Other emissions
emissions. The majority is from patient use of a propellant-based
for 20161 is an estimated 19.5 million tonnes of COe. While this
2 inhaler Ventolin, where the propellant is a greenhouse gas released
is a reduction of 4.2% on 2015, compared with our 2010 baseline,
our value chain footprint has increased by 4%. during use. Reducing the impact of the propellant is complex. Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions (thousand tonnes CO 2e)
We continue to research feasible solutions to this issue, including
Our operations changing the way we manufacture, to reducing the amount of 20,000
In 2017, our operational emissions (Scope 1 and 2) were reduced propellant used while maintaining efficacy and safety for patients.
by 2% compared with the previous year, as a result of our continuing
GSK’s new generation of inhaler products, using our Ellipta device,
focus on energy efficiency measures and purchasing renewable 15,000
were developed and launched as dry powder inhalers (DPIs) and
energy. Since our 2010 baseline we have reduced annual carbon
do not release greenhouse gas emissions. In 2017, a certified
emissions from energy use by 25% saving a cumulative 1.9 million
assessment of our respiratory inhaler portfolio by the Carbon Trust
tonnes of COe.
2 showed that the lifecycle carbon footprint of our DPI is around 24 times 10,000
lower than propellant-based inhaler2 for one month’s treatment.
“ As a global healthcare company, we
1. O ur most recently available Scope 3 data is from 2016. 5,000
can contribute to tackling both the
2. For one month’s treatment, a 120 dose propellant inhaler has a carbon footprint
effects and causes of climate change.”
ao f
c
1 a9 rbkg
o
nC fO oo2e
tp
p rie nr
t
p oa
f
c 0k
.8
c ko gm Cp Oar 2e ed
p
w erit h
p
aa
c
3 k.0 dose once daily Ellipta DPI which has
0
Roger Connor, 2010 2014 2015 2016 2020
President, Global Manufacturing and Supply target
Purchased goods and services U se of other products
Product logistics Disposal of products
Business travel by air and commuting Other emissions
Read more online
Propellant emissions during
Aiming to be carbon neutral
use of inhalers20 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Reducing our water impact Reducing our waste
Commitment: Reduce our water impact across the value Commitment: By 2020, reduce our operational waste
Waste water pollution in the supply chain
chain by 20% by 2020 (vs 2010). by 50% (vs. 2010).
The risk of pharmaceuticals – and particularly antibiotics –
entering the environment through waste water pollution is a
Progressing well On track
growing concern and an active area of research. GSK is part of
the Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) Industry Alliance launched
Progress in 2017 Progress in 2017 in 2017 and a signatory to the Industry Roadmap for Progress
on Combating AMR.
We continue to seek ways to use less water in our own operations, Since 2010, we have cut operational waste by 23%, producing We have robust controls in our own manufacturing and we are
in our supply chain and in the use of our products. We have reduced 10% less hazardous waste and 29% less non-hazardous waste. working with our supply chain partners to audit compliance and
water use by 22% since 2010 but water use increased by 1% in 2017 However, progress towards our 2020 target has slowed and the share best practice on managing environmental discharges.
driven by growth in our Vaccines business. amount of waste produced remained the same in 2017 as last year. Read more about our AMR efforts on page 7 and online.
We have therefore increased our focus on reclaiming more waste
For example, in South Africa, we cut water use by 9% over just
for beneficial use through reuse, recycling and recovery. Examples
12 months at our site in Cape Town, as well as running a campaign
include redistributing consumer products close to their expiry date
to encourage employees to save water at work and at home during a
in the UK and selling waste gelatine from capsule production to a
drought. In the UK, we are piloting a campaign with a utility company
paintball manufacturer in Poland.
to encourage consumers to turn off the tap when brushing their teeth.
Around 70% of our sites worldwide have achieved zero waste to
From water use to water impact
landfill and just 4% of our 136,000 tonnes of operational waste
The amount of water used across our value chain is only one part of
ended up in landfill – 25% less waste was sent to landfill than in
the story. We measure our overall water impact across four different
2016. Most (71%) was recycled or incinerated to recover energy.
categories: water scarcity, local water quality, health and social risks,
and regulatory and reputational risks.
70%
By the end of 2017, all our pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare
manufacturing sites had completed water risk assessments against
all four categories in line with our water stewardship standard. These
sites are now in the process of developing plans to address any risks of our sites worldwide achieved
that have been identified which may include, in some situations, in zero waste to landfill in 2017
working with local communities and other stakeholders. Our efforts to
enhance water stewardship will prioritise sites in areas of water stress.
We are already addressing impacts in water-stressed regions in India,
where our value chain for Horlicks makes up almost a third of our
entire value chain water footprint globally. Over the past five years,
we have assessed our top ten milk, malt and wheat suppliers in India
to understand their water impacts and have implemented projects to
recharge over 200,000m3 of water per year.
Read more online
Water stewardship policy Read more online
Reducing our water impact Reducing our waste21 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
How we engage with our stakeholders
“ We welcome insights from
Stakeholder relationships Examples of how we listen and engage
external stakeholders to help
us better understand their
— Listening to our people through our global employee survey and responding to their feedback
Employees
expectations, identify societal (see p. 17).
We listen and respond to our people to help us — Promoting dialogue and asking for ideas through Let’s Talk (see p. 17).
trends and inform our approach maintain strong employee engagement and retain — Communicating regular updates on our purpose, strategy and progress with live broadcasts,
talented people.
Q&A sessions, and messages from our CEO and members of the Corporate Executive Team.
on responsible business.”
Phil Thomson, Government and multi-lateral
President, Global Affairs — Driving progress in key global health priority areas at the World Health Assembly.
organisations
— Joining a coalition focused on ending pneumonia deaths of children under five.
We interact with governments and policymakers – — Working with the UK Government and the NHS to establish the future for the UK Life Sciences
In 2017, engaging with stakeholders played following clear, transparent standards – to advocate sector post Brexit.
for policies that encourage innovation, promote — Partnering with key stakeholders to develop vaccine procurement mechanisms in humanitarian
a key part in the development of our new efficient management of healthcare spending and settings (see p. 8).
long-term priorities: Innovation, Performance give patients the support they need.
and Trust. Here we provide examples of how
we engage with key stakeholder groups, Investors
with links to further information on specific We communicate our strategy, responsible — Running investor roadshows, conferences and events (see gsk.com).
engagement and outcomes in 2017. business approach and performance to the investor — Holding one-to-one meetings with individual investors, including SRIs.
community – including socially responsible investors — Responding to investor surveys, such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) (see p. 4).
(SRIs) – through various channels.
— Partnering with non-profits to implement programmes to strengthen healthcare infrastructure (see p. 8).
NGOs and local communities
— Supporting people living with HIV through ViiV Healthcare’s Positive Action programmes (see p. 11).
We work with partners to strengthen — Working with Malaria No More and Comic Relief to advocate with the UK government for
healthcare infrastructure and improve a Malaria Summit at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in 2018.
access to healthcare through our global
— Working with Save the Children; combining our expertise, resources and influence to reduce
and local community programmes.
child mortality (see p. 9).
Patient groups and healthcare — Running Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits (see p. 16).
professionals — Setting up advisory boards with representatives of patient organisations (see p. 16).
— Providing financial support to patient groups (disclosed on our website).
We engage with, and support, patient organisations to
gain insights that enable us to develop products and — Online resources and in-house medical capabilities to provide information about our medicines
advocate for policies that better meet patient needs. and vaccines how and when healthcare professionals want it (see p. 13).
— Communicating our values and expectations on responsible business through our supplier portal.
Suppliers and third parties
— Sharing best practices and supporting improvements in environmental performance through our
We aim to build strong relationships Supplier Exchange.
with suppliers and third parties that
— Engaging with suppliers on their social and environmental performance through our Third Party
share our values.
Oversight programme and external platforms such as EcoVadis and Ecodesk (see p. 15 and 19).22 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Data summary
2014 2015 2016 2017
Health for all Better access to Number of doses of Synflorix vaccine supplied to Gavi (million) 50 62 75 75
medicines and vaccines
Number of doses of Rotarix vaccine supplied to Gavi (million) 31 33 37 44
Value of GSK medicine and vaccines prescribed through our US Patient Assistance 156 147 110 161
programme (cost of goods sold in million USD)
Number of patients reached through our US Patient Assistance programme 183,000 150,148 137,659 126,419
Community investment Cash (million £) 51 57 67 80
Product and in-kind (million £) 133 137 127 165
Time (million £) 4 4 3 3
Management costs (million £) 13 11 12 13.4
Strengthening healthcare Health worker training programmes (million £) 6 6.5 11* 11
infrastructure
Health workers our partners have trained (cumulative) 25,000 40,000 43,000 65,000
Number of people reached through our 20% reinvestment programme 6.5 11 17.5 21.8
(million, cumulative)
Neglected tropical diseases Albendazole tablets to help lymphatic filariasis (LF) elimination (million) 679 644 649 770
Albendazole tablets to help treat intestinal worms (million) 180 258 367 123.7
Eradicating polio Number of doses of oral polio vaccine delivered to Global Polio Eradication Initiative
397 220 470 300
(million)
Our behaviour Compliance Employees disciplined for policy violations 3,947 3,574 3,294 3,200
Employees who were dismissed or agreed to leave the company voluntarily 373 387 221 233
Documented warnings 3,131 2,890 2,499 901
Total number of marketing and promotional activity violations 233 237 178 188
Number of contacts made to our Speak Up channels 1,865 3,203 2,568 2,679
Clinical trial data Publicly available trial result summaries 5,583 5,800 6,040 6,305
(cumulative)
Number of studies with Clinical Study Reports posted to the register 200 663 1,941 2,310
Number of trials listed for which patient level data is available for request 1,081 1,727 1,953 2,117
Number of research teams approved for access to GSK trial data 36 82 106** 108***
* 2016 figures include healthworker programmes beyond our least developed country (LDC) programmes.
** This figure includes 18 projects related to Novartis assets. These projects were fully transitioned to Novartis during 2016.
*** This figure now excludes 18 projects related to Novartis projects.23 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
2014 2015 2016 2017
Our behaviour Clinical research Audits of investigator sites 234 175 138 152
Audits of GSK processes 19 26 25 16
Audits of GSK local operating companies 16 41 32 39
Investigations of suspected irregularities 13 29 23 19
Audits of contract research organisations 40 23 45 47
Total audits undertaken 322 265 263 273
Anti-counterfeiting Number of trainings for customs officials – – 38 36
Ensuring quality in manufacturing Number of regulatory inspections of our Pharmaceutical business 96 86 66 73
and supply
Number of regulatory inspections of our Vaccines business 45 49 45 46
Number of regulatory inspections of our Consumer Healthcare business 46 40 56 75
Our people Health and safety* Number of fatalities 1 2 1 1
Reportable incidents with lost time 281 318 353 258
Lost time reportable injury and illness rate 0.15 0.15 0.17 0.13
Reportable incidents with and without lost time 498 566 525 457
Reportable injury and illness rate 0.26 0.28 0.26 0.23
Talent and leadership development Total number of coaching assignments 1,390 1,554 1,923 1,600
Number of graduates recruited through our Future Leaders programme 304 444 441 410
Number of postgraduates recruited through the Esprit programme 35 26 24 24
Number of apprentices recruited 69 74 99 97
Inclusion and diversity Percentage of women in management (total) 42 42 43 44
Volunteering Number of employees completing PULSE 98 78 73 73
* 2 015 health and safety data has been restated to include former Novartis sites acquired in 2015.24 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
2014 2015 2016 2017
Our planet Carbon Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions (‘000 tonnes COe)
2
Gas and other fuel 490 499 483 461
Electricity and steam 706 713 700 694
Propellant emissions during manufacture of inhalers 169 224 228 223
Sales force travel 131 138 150 147
Other emissions 61 27 28 34
Total 1,556 1,602 1,589 1,558
Scope 3 GHG emissions (‘000 tonnes COe)*
2
Purchased goods and services 7,998 10,514 9,494 –
Product logistics 717 805 676 –
Business travel by air and commuting 356 373 417 –
Propellant emissions during use of inhalers 5,411 5,132 5,447 5,530
Use of other products 743 983 1,077 –
Disposal of products 97 105 100 –
Other emissions 780 777 686 –
Total 16,093 18,690 17,897 –
Water Water use in operations (million cubic metres) 15.2 14.9 14.5 14.6
Waste Total waste generated (thousand tonnes) 158 142 137 136
Waste to landfill (thousand tonnes) 10 8 6 5
Compliance Internal audits (number) 19 16 42 37
Environmental fines (£) 354,303** 500 5,800 4,000
Environmental remediation*** Spend (million $) 6.6 4.5 2.3 2.3
* Other than propellant emissions data (which is collected through our internal systems) we will not have an accurate picture of Scope 3 GHG emissions until later in the year.
** A detailed breakdown of 2014 environmental fines is available in the 2014 Responsible Business Supplement. These fines were mostly due to the discovery of a waste tank at our Upper Merrion site that did not comply with local
regulations, plus a fine paid by our Hamilton site for failure to submit a risk management plan for storage and use of chloroform.
*** We take responsibility for removing pollution and contaminants from soil, surface and ground water at facilities we have used previously, and at the disposal sites of waste management companies we have used.25 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2017
About our reporting
We report our performance annually in this report as part of our commitment
to being open and transparent about our business activities. Responsible business
is also covered in our Annual Report.
Data coverage Your feedback counts
All data in this report relates to GSK’s global operations in the We welcome your feedback on our responsible business
calendar year 2017, except where otherwise stated. Data in the performance and reporting. You can also request to receive Contributing to the global goals
environment and health and safety sections has been independently regular updates on our progress.
verified by DNV GL. Brand names appearing in italics throughout Summary of assurance statement GSK has an opportunity to make a significant contribution
this report are trade marks either owned by or licensed to GSK or The independent assurance provider DNV GL has provided to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and we
associated companies. limited assurance in accordance with the assurance standard are fully committed to using our expertise and experience to
Reporting standards ISAE 3000 (revised). Their assurance scope included selected support them which is why our latest materiality assessment
Our index against the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines shows EHS performance data disclosed on pages 23-24 of our used the SDGs as a key input.
which elements are covered in the report. As a signatory to the Responsible Business Supplement.
As a leading global healthcare business, we can make the
UN Global Compact, we publish an annual Communication on
DNV GL’s full statement, including their assurance conclusion and biggest difference to SDG 3: to ensure healthy lives and
Progress to demonstrate how we uphold its ten principles. These
a summary of the work performed, can be found on our website. promote well-being for all. In particular, a key target within
are both available on GSK.com.
Please contact us at csr.contact@gsk.com SDG 3 is achieving universal health coverage - our portfolio,
Policies, codes and standards alongside our commitments to access, innovation and flexible
We have a number of policies, codes and standards accessible pricing, clearly support this target.
on our website covering a range of different areas from public health,
to business integrity and the environment. These can be found, and We also aim to contribute to several of the other SDGs –
downloaded here. including those on gender equality, good jobs and economic
growth and environmental challenges.
Read more online
Public policy on SDGs
SDG factsheet