Responsible Business
Supplement 2016
Progress against
our commitments2 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
About this supplement
By being commercially successful and
Contents
operating responsibly, we will improve
Statements from Lynn Elsenhans, 3 Cover image
people’s health and benefit society, as Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee,
and Sir Andrew Witty, CEO
well as create value for shareholders.
Independent commentary from Aron Cramer, 4
This report provides a performance President and CEO, BSR
update on our 23 responsible business
commitments across four key focus Our corporate responsibility priorities 5
areas: Health for all, Our behaviour, Our approach to responsible business at GSK.
Our people and Our planet. It is
2016 overview 6
supplemental to the information in
Highlights and emerging issues in 2016.
GSK’s Annual Report on our approach
to responsible business.
Health for all 7 Arthur is a biologist working on Cancer Cell Biology at our
new smart lab in Pennsylvania, USA.
Developing innovative products and improving access to
healthcare for patients and consumers around the world. In 2016, GSK outlined its intent to commit its future portfolio
We indicate progress against our commitments using
of cancer treatments to patent pooling and will explore
the following key:
Our behaviour 13 the concept with the Medicines Patent Pool (MPP) to help
Work needed Embedding our values throughout the business, including into address the increasing burden of cancer in developing
the ways we research, develop, sell and market our products. countries. We would be the first company to take this step.
Work is needed to get the commitment on schedule
Since it was established in 2010, the MPP has been
On track Our people 19 successful in accelerating access to HIV, TB and hepatitis C
Work is ongoing Creating an inspiring and supportive work environment that medicines in low-income and middle-income countries
encourages our employees to develop their capabilities and through voluntary licensing arrangements. Expanding this
Progressing well achieve their best. approach to oncology would enable generic versions of our
next generation immuno-oncology and epigenetic therapies,
Able to demonstrate clear deliverables and good progress Our planet 22
currently in clinical development, to be made available in
towards completing the commitment
Managing the environmental impacts of our operations and least developed countries, lower-income countries and
products across their life cycle to reduce carbon emissions, certain middle-income countries, if and when they receive
Completed
water use and waste. regulatory approval.
The commitment has been completed
Data summary 26
Our key data from 2013-2016.3 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
CR Committee Chairman’s statement CEO’s statement
As Chair of GSK’s Corporate Responsibility Committee, my role is to GSK has a strong commitment to operating responsibly and playing
help GSK identify how it works to meet the needs of both shareholders our part in meeting some of society’s biggest healthcare challenges.
and wider society.
Over the past decade, this has been seen in our commitment to place
In 2016, the Committee reviewed performance against the company’s access to medicines at the centre of our business approach, in our
responsible business commitments and the evolving challenges and innovation focused on diseases that impact the poorest countries – such
opportunities across each of the four focus areas covered in this report. as malaria – and in the changes we have made to our commercial model
A key topic continued to be how to balance the need for a return on and sales and marketing practices.
investment for innovation with the need to price products affordably
Addressing global health challenges in 2016
“ In 2016, the Corporate to support access for patients. “ Responding to the In 2016, we took further steps to address some of the most serious
Responsibility Providing a clear update on our commitments humanitarian crisis global health challenges. Responding to the humanitarian crisis in
This report is designed to supplement the information on responsible areas such as Syria and Southern Sudan, we pledged to offer essential
Committee reviewed in areas such as Syria
business in the Annual Report, and is focused tightly on performance vaccines at our lowest price for organisations supporting refugees.
performance against against GSK’s 23 responsible business commitments. and Southern Sudan,
In the wake of recent global health threats from Ebola and Zika, we
the company’s we pledged to offer
It is important that the Company remains open to objective feedback announced proposals for a Biopreparedness Organisation dedicated to
responsible business related to its responsible business reporting and this year, I welcome the essential vaccines developing new vaccines to prevent future outbreaks. In early 2017, we
commitments and the valuable insight provided by Aron Cramer, President and CEO of BSR. at our lowest price also pledged our support for the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness
For his complete letter see page 4. Innovation (CEPI), a global collaboration to research and develop new
evolving challenges for organisations
vaccines against future epidemics.
Looking to the future
and opportunities supporting refugees.”
Over the past decade, the company has made great progress on its We also understand patient concerns on the pricing of medicines in
across each of the four responsible business priorities. I would like to take this opportunity to developed countries, and we take a thoughtful and responsible approach
focus areas covered thank Andrew Witty for his outstanding personal leadership in this area. to this. For example, in the US, our six latest new medicines were launched
at similar to or below the prices of the medicines they aim to supersede.
in this report.” Looking forward, the Committee will work with the new CEO,
In developing countries, we introduced a new approach to filing and
Emma Walmsley, and the business to continue to embed its
enforcing patents and IP based on a country’s economic maturity.
responsible business priorities. Where necessary, we will seek
to evolve the responsible business commitments to ensure they We continued to play an important role in the fight against antimicrobial
support the company’s future strategy and meet the changing resistance, and the most advanced new antibiotic in our pipeline has
expectations of society. moved towards phase III trials after positive phase II results.
Building on our achievements
I’m pleased our actions have been recognised once again in 2016,
with GSK topping Fortune’s Change the World list and the Access
to Medicine Index – the latter for the fifth consecutive time.
Lynn Elsenhans
This is my last report before I retire. After nearly 10 years as CEO and
Chair of GSK’s Corporate Responsibility Committee
30 years as an employee, I leave GSK confident that the company is
well-positioned to build on the progress we have made.
Sir Andrew Witty
Chief Executive Officer4 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Benchmarks and an external perspective
Reporting commentary from Aron Cramer,
President and CEO, BSR
External benchmarking
GSK’s Responsible Business Supplement 2016 is a strong statement There are also areas in which GSK could stretch its efforts:
of its intentions, actions and achievements. GSK topped the Access to Medicine
• Transparency on GSK’s approach to tax is welcome. Given the
Index in 2016, for the fifth consecutive
One of its signal accomplishments is the clear link between GSK’s complexity of this issue, however, additional detail would help
time since the biennial assessment began
business strategy and the central public health issues the strategy readers understand better both GSK’s approach and this
in 2008. At the beginning of 2017 we also
is designed to address. GSK has distinguished itself over the past important issue overall.
performed well in the first ever Access
several years by staying resolutely focused on the most important
• T he past year saw numerous political developments with great to Vaccines Index, leading in all three
issues it faces as a global healthcare company, and that approach
significance to GSK, public health, and the position of global categories under consideration.
is well represented in this document.
companies generally. It would be good to hear GSK’s vision
GSK’s approach captures both the most important ways it can for public health with reference to these developments.
contribute to a thriving global population, health challenges in more We scored within the top 5% of our sector
• As the company itself notes, further progress on carbon emissions
mature economies, and also the questions the public is most likely in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index,
is needed to meet targets. More clarity about the plan to get there
to have about a company of GSK’s profile and purpose. In this regard, which assesses companies for economic,
would be welcome.
its approach passes the first and most important test of any company’s environmental and social performance.
efforts on responsible business. • W ith respect to GSK’s people, it would be valuable to include an We were included in the World and Europe
assessment from the employee base, along the lines of engagement Indexes in 2016.
Several elements covered in the Supplement are particularly
survey results or a comparable measure to understand how the
laudable, including:
workforce views their own situations.
We have been a member of the
• G SK’s performance on access to medicines, as recognised by the
In closing, it is also worth noting the importance of the leadership FTSE4Good index since 2004. The index
Access to Medicines Index, is an important strong point. Access
of Andrew Witty. He has demonstrated how the vision of a CEO, is designed to measure the performance
and pricing are perhaps the most important questions the sector
coupled with follow through across the organisation, makes a real of companies demonstrating strong
faces, and GSK’s continued leadership is to be commended.
difference. As Emma Walmsley takes up the CEO post, it is clear that environmental, social and governance
• G SK is focusing on a wide array of the most crucial public health she is well-positioned to maintain – and extend – GSK’s leadership. (ESG) practices.
challenges, including pandemics, non-communicable diseases, and
problems associated with changing demographics, e.g. Alzheimer’s.
• T here is a clear storyline in GSK’s leading approaches to We were awarded an A-grade in
transparency in several domains, including payments to health CDP’s climate change programme; one
professionals, tax and clinical trials. GSK has long been a leader Aron Cramer of 193 global companies to be recognised
in this area, and it is excellent to see its ongoing commitment. President and CEO, BSR out of the 1,089 companies responding
to the survey.
• G SK distinguishes itself by focusing attention on the overall
healthcare system. It is increasingly important for business
to dedicate itself to strengthening infrastructure to enable
systemic improvements.
We achieved an ‘A’ score on CDP’s water
• The detail provided on compliance with business principles and
programme for the first time, one of only
ethical behaviour is very welcome.
24 global companies to do so.5 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach
Our corporate responsibility priorities
Our responsible business priorities are
aligned to our business strategy and
informed by stakeholder insights.
Key: Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet
Our mission is to help people do more, feel better and live longer.
Very high
We do this by researching and developing medicines, vaccines
and consumer healthcare products that improve people’s lives.
Pricing Anti-bribery and corruption
By growing our business and extending access to our medicines,
we are ensuring long-term commercial success as well as improving Access to healthcare
people’s health, creating value for our shareholders and delivering
Sales and marketing practices
economic benefits to society. Transparent reporting Product innovation
and communications
Operating responsibly also supports our ability to attract and retain
talent, build trust with patients and consumers, our customers, Clinical trial conduct
payers and stakeholders who influence our licence to operate. Product safety,
quality and supply
GSK contributes directly and indirectly to economic growth in more
than 150 countries, through tax, charitable support and employing Human rights (labour) Intellectual property
99,300 people. Counterfeiting
Inclusion and diversity
We have well-established, long-term responsible commitments
Energy use and
which sit across four areas: Health for all, Our behaviour, Our people climate change Tax and economic
contribution
and Our planet. We established our priorities in these areas through
a comprehensive materiality assessment to identify the issues that
Charitable donations
are most important to our stakeholders and have the most impact High
on our business success.
In 2016, we reviewed and validated this analysis, using a range
Privacy and data security
of sources including employee feedback, investor insights, the UN’s
Animal research
Sustainable Development Goals and our global reputation research. Ethical supplier standards
We also conducted in-depth interviews with representatives of our Water use Employee safety
key stakeholder groups including: patient advocacy groups, NGOs, Waste and recycling and wellbeing
peer groups, investors and think tanks and academia. All material Talent attraction
issues were considered in relation to our commercial strategy and and retention
their impact on the business.
Biodiversity
Medium
R ead more Impact on business success
Materiality process
Public policy on SDGs
sredlohekats
ot
ecnatropmI
Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Prioritising our most material issues6 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
2016 overview
Health for all Read more
Emerging issues
Expanding our Reducing Responding to Fighting malaria Tackling antimicrobial Neglected tropical
graduated approach child mortality new diseases resistance diseases Companies like ours continued to face a range of
to IP challenges in 2016, including:
1bn
Stakeholder concerns on pricing and value of medicines
The pressure on, and public debate about, the pharmaceutical
We expanded our The European We are proposing The World Health We opened the Institute In 2016, we industry’s approach to pricing continued during 2016 across
graduated approach Medicines Agency to create a Organization confirmed for Infectious Diseases donated over one all key markets. This was particularly the case in the US where
to filing and enforcing endorsed chlorhexidine, biopreparedness that funding has been and Public Health in billion albendazole there is uncertainty as to how the new administration will shape
patents and IP to widen our antiseptic gel for organisation to develop committed to enable China to address local tablets to prevent healthcare. We understand payer and patient concerns about
access to medicines in newborn umbilical vaccines for major pilot implementation health threats posed lymphatic filariasis affordability of healthcare and are leading efforts to develop
the poorest countries. cord infections in global health threats of our RTS,S malaria by antibiotic resistance and intestinal worms.
sustainable solutions. See page 9 for more detail.
developing countries. of the future. vaccine in three settings and infectious diseases.
in sub-Saharan Africa.
Humanitarian crisis
The humanitarian crisis affecting areas such as Syria and
South Sudan continued in 2016, potentially leaving displaced
people unable to access healthcare, and vulnerable to
vaccine-preventable disease. In response, we pledged to
offer essential vaccines at our lowest price for organisations
Our behaviour Read more Our people Read more Our planet Read more supporting refugees where governments are unable to assist.
See page 9 for more detail.
Code of conduct Working with Graduate employees Partnership Carbon emissions Water use
HCPs for Prevention Global pandemics
In 2016, the World Health Organization declared the Zika
99%* 75 18% 23% virus an international public health emergency. It is becoming
increasingly important to improve the preparedness of global
health systems as we continue to see a rise in such public
health outbreaks. We are seeking to work with governments,
Our mandatory annual We no longer pay GSK topped The Our Partnership We have cut In 2016, we used
multinational organisations and NGOs to enhance
training on our code prescribing healthcare Times Top 100 for Prevention operational carbon 3% less water in
of conduct was professionals to Graduate Employers programme is offering emissions (Scope our operations than preparedness against potential future outbreaks of diseases.
completed by 99% of speak to other list for R&D in 2016 unprecedented 1 and 2) by 18% 2015 – and 23% See page 8 for more detail.
our employees and prescribers about and ranked 13th overall. access to preventive since 2010. Total less than 2010.
complementary workers. our medicines healthcare for almost value chain emissions
Tax
and vaccines. 100,000 employees have risen by 1% as
There continues to be scrutiny from key stakeholders on
and family members we extend access
in 75 countries. to our medicines, and the approach to tax taken by multinational companies. We
we are working to understand our responsibility to pay an appropriate amount of
address this. tax and are transparent about how we manage our tax affairs.
See page 14 for more on our approach.
* The remaining 1% represents employees who did not complete the training in the required timeframe and are subject to disciplinary action (see page 14) and employees still within the completion
timeframe (e.g. new starters).7 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Health for all
We are tackling some of the biggest
global health challenges by promoting
open innovation to meet unmet medical
needs, making our medicines and vaccines
more accessible, and strengthening
healthcare systems.
In this section
Innovation for unmet medical needs Completed
Better access to medicines Progressing well
and vaccines
Building products to better meet needs Progressing well
Strengthening healthcare infrastructure Progressing well
Fighting malaria Progressing well
Eliminating and controlling neglected Progressing well
tropical diseases
Eradicating polio Progressing well
Access to antiretroviral treatment for HIV Progressing well
Reducing child mortality Progressing well
Improving We offer our lowest vaccine prices
for organisations such as Gavi, the
affordability Vaccine Alliance, which supports
countries with a low gross national
in developing
income. Since 2010, we have
countries pledged to deliver 720 million doses
of our pneumococcal vaccine, at a
deeply discounted price until 2024.8 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Commitment performance update
Innovation for unmet medical needs
Combatting antibiotic resistance
We are using our 70 years’ experience in antibiotics
Examples of projects include completing the latter stages of
Commitment: Adapt the open innovation R&D pre-clinical development for a new tuberculosis (TB) candidate to tackle resistance.
model, currently used for Diseases of the Developing drug that will begin phase I clinical trials in 2017 and an anti-TB
World (DDW), to apply to other areas of great unmet molecule which will be progressed towards pre-clinical candidate
selection in 2017.
medical need and scientific challenge, including
infectious disease and Alzheimer’s disease, by 2015. Further TB development tools discovered through PreDiCT-TB,
a cross-industry collaboration with 21 partners and co-led by GSK,
will be transferred to GSK for further research on completion of
Completed and ongoing
the project in 2017.
Non-communicable diseases (NCDs)
In 2016, we outlined our intent to commit our future portfolio of cancer
Progress in 2016 treatments to patent pooling to help address the increasing burden
of cancer in developing countries (see page 9). In addition, in early
In 2016, we committed to working with governments, multinational
2017 we were one of 22 pharmaceutical companies to sign up to
organisations and NGOs to enhance preparedness against potential
the ‘Access Accelerated’ initiative – a commitment to jointly invest
future outbreaks of disease. In the wake of recent global health
$50 million over three years to fight cancer and other NCDs in
threats such as Ebola and Zika, there is growing consensus that low- and lower middle income countries. Resistance to antibiotics is a major public health crisis, with 700,000
the world needs to be better prepared for global health threats. people dying every year from drug resistant infections. We have
Through our Africa NCD Open Lab, following a review process 70 years of expertise in antibiotics and we’re committed to continuing
We are proposing to create a permanent ‘biopreparedness
involving external experts, five projects covering cardiovascular our research in this area.
organisation’ (BPO) at our Rockville, Maryland Vaccines Global
disease, oncology, chronic respiratory disease, chronic kidney
R&D centre to develop vaccines for major global health threats of The most advanced antibiotic in our pipeline, gepotidacin, is moving
disease and diabetes have been recommended for funding so far. into the final phase of clinical testing and in 2016 was granted Qualified
the future. The BPO would operate on a no-profit, no-loss basis with
The first of these projects, looking at severe asthma across East Infectious Disease Product status by the Food and Drug Administration
funding from both governments and non-governmental organisations.
Africa and led by Makerere University in Uganda, began in April (FDA), which would expedite review of a future US filing. This novel drug
We have also pledged our support for the Coalition for Epidemic 2016. In November 2016, we launched a further call for proposals, was developed in collaboration with the US government’s Biomedical
Preparedness Innovation (CEPI), a global partnership between with £1 million available to provide seed funding for ten early career Advanced Research Development Authority.
governments, industry and other funders to research and develop African scientists. Our vaccines can also make a key contribution in this area by preventing
new vaccines against future epidemics. bacterial and viral infections and averting the need for antibiotics.
Through PharmaCog, the Innovative Medicines Initiative’s six-year
In addition, we have 15 potential new vaccines in our pipeline, including
In response to the outbreak of Zika, we are working with the pan-European partnership on dementia, we are developing new
those targeting diseases like B Streptococcus bacterium.
Vaccines Research Center at the National Institutes of Health methods to track the progression of Alzheimer’s disease and identify
in the US to evaluate a potential vaccine. patients at risk of rapid onset. We have identified criteria that will In 2016, we opened the Institute for Infectious Diseases and Public Health
in China to address local health threats posed by antibiotic resistance.
reduce the cost of drug development through better identification of
Open innovation
symptoms. GSK is a founding partner of the $100 million Dementia We are working with other companies and government organisations to
At our open innovation lab in Tres Cantos, Spain, external scientists
Discovery Fund and we continue to work with the Wellcome Trust’s set targets to reduce antibacterial resistance, building on our commitment
can access our expertise and resources to develop new and
Neuroimmunology Consortium, launched in 2015, on a £5 million to the Davos Declaration on Combating Antimicrobial Resistance.
innovative medicines for diseases of the developing world.
project to investigate whether mood disorders and Alzheimer’s can As members of the Innovative Medicines Initiative’s NewDrugs4BadBugs
Since 2010, Tres Cantos has supported 63 research projects, be treated by targeting the immune system. programme, we work in partnership with industry, academia and biotech
and in 2016 had 20 visiting scientists. Results from the lab have organisations to combat antibiotic resistance in Europe.
led to papers in more than 50 scientific publications and four patent
applications are included in the WIPO Re-Search patent pool. Read more online
Open innovation Read more online
Our open innovation approach to TB Antibiotic resistance9 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Better access to medicines and vaccines
A graduated approach to intellectual property
We have expanded our approach to filing and enforcing
Once fully implemented, the price of Viread in China for the treatment
Commitment: Further embed our flexible pricing of CHB will be lower than all other countries and will be covered by the patents to reflect a country's economic maturity.
strategy and innovative business models for our country’s reimbursement policies. This commitment will significantly
prescription medicines and vaccines, to increase expand access for CHB patients living in China to this internationally
recommended first-line treatment.
usage among those less able to access and afford
our products. Supporting affordability in developed countries
We understand payer and patient concerns about affordability of
healthcare and we are leading efforts to develop sustainable solutions.
Progressing well
In the US, our six latest new medicines were launched at similar to or
below the prices of the medicines we aim to supersede. We have also
integrated three of our Patient Assistance Programs (PAPs) into one
Progress in 2016 GSK Patient Assistance Program (GSKforyou.com) which is designed
to simplify and improve the programme experience for eligible uninsured
Improving affordability in developing and middle-income countries patients and patients with a Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan.
Our equitable pricing strategy for medicines and vaccines is based In 2016, our PAPs provided GSK prescribed medicines and vaccines
on the country, disease area, product type and patient’s ability to pay. valued at cost of goods sold at $110 million to 137,659 patients.
In 2016, we expanded our existing approach to filing and enforcing
In least developed countries, since 2010 we have capped the prices
We also continued to engage with payers in all EU markets to patents to ensure we balance the need to protect our intellectual
of our patented medicines and vaccines at 25% of those in the EU5 balance affordability to ensure access for patients today while property with a country’s economic maturity.
(France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK) as long as our manufacturing
we work with governments to build health system sustainability We will no longer file patents for medicines in least-developed countries
costs are covered. We offer our lowest vaccine prices for organisations
to support ongoing innovation for medicines. We have achieved (LDCs) and low-income countries. In lower middle income countries
such as Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, which supports countries with a
reimbursement in most EU markets for our Ellipta portfolio. (LMICs), we will apply for patents when we believe it is appropriate,
GNI per head of less than $1,570. Since 2010, we have pledged to but we will also offer licences that allow supplies of generic versions of
deliver 720 million doses of Synflorix, our pneumococcal vaccine, at Supporting refugees medicines to these countries (other than G20 countries) for 10 years.
a deeply discounted price until 2024. Manufacturing at this scale has In response to the humanitarian crisis, in 2016 we committed to supply We will continue to seek full patent protection in high-income countries,
allowed us to make incremental cost efficiencies that have enabled us our essential vaccines at the lowest price to internationally recognised upper-middle-income countries and G20 countries when we think it is
to offer an additional price reduction. In 2016, we delivered more than civil society organisations (CSOs) for use in acute humanitarian appropriate to do so.
74 million doses of our Synflorix vaccine and more than 35 million situations. The first vaccine to be covered by this commitment is In line with this approach, in 2016 ViiV Healthcare1 extended their existing
doses of our vaccine against rotavirus gastroenteritis, Rotarix. our pneumococcal vaccine, Synflorix. This helps to maintain stable licence agreement with the Medicines Patent Pool (MPP) for the adult
vaccination programmes during times of great humanitarian need formulation of dolutegravir for the treatment of HIV to include the vast
In middle-income countries, patients benefit from our equitable
where governments are unable to assist. majority of LMICs (see page 12).
pricing strategy where the prices are established based upon
socio-economic factors within the country. For example, in Egypt, Investing in communities We have also outlined our intent to commit to patent pooling for our
differentiated products within the respiratory portfolio have been In 2016, our global community investment totalled £210 million, future portfolio of cancer treatments and are exploring with the MPP
how this concept could help address the increasing burden of cancer
offered to mirror income levels and meet all socio-economic compared with £208 million in 2015. We donated medicines
in developing countries. We are working towards making information
segments within society. This approach has enabled the number worth £127 million (valued by cost of goods sold). This support
about our current and future patent portfolio freely available.
of respiratory patients treated to double in the last five years. includes product donations to support humanitarian aid, distributed
1. ViiV Healthcare is a global specialist HIV company majority owned by GSK.
by our partners AmeriCares, Direct Relief, IMA World Health, MAP
During the year, we committed to reduce the price of Viread, our
International and Project HOPE. In 2016, we donated £67 million
first-line chronic hepatitis B (CHB) treatment in China by up to 67%.
in cash to communities worldwide. This figure includes our response
to world-wide humanitarian relief; for example, contributing £127,000
in cash for Zika-affected countries in Latin America.
Read more online Read more online
Access to healthcare | Our Gavi commitment | Our work with refugees IP and access to medicines in developing countries10 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Building products to better meet needs Strengthening healthcare infrastructure Fighting malaria
Commitment: Continue to build a core range of Commitment: Continue to work with partners Commitment: Build on our 30-year commitment
products and formats to better meet the needs to support the strengthening of healthcare to contribute to the fight against malaria through
of people across the globe, including those less infrastructure. We anticipate this could improve continued R&D investment and partnerships on
able to access and afford our products. access to healthcare for 20 million under-served the ground.
people by 2020 (vs. 2012).
Progressing well Progressing well Progressing well
Progress in 2016 Progress in 2016 Progress in 2016
In 2016, a committee of the European Medicines Agency granted GSK reinvests 20% of profits from our pharmaceuticals and Our RTS,S vaccine aims to protect children from P. falciparum,
a positive scientific opinion for our antiseptic gel that can help to consumer healthcare products in least developed countries the most common strain of malaria, responsible for 85% of cases
prevent umbilical cord infections in newborns. We created the gel (LDC) to strengthen healthcare infrastructure. We do this through globally. Phase III trials of RTS,S, which received a positive opinion
by reformulating the antiseptic ingredient chlorhexidine used in our strategic partnerships with Amref Health Africa, CARE International from the European Medicines Agency in 2015, have shown the
Corsodyl mouthwash. Working with Save the Children, we will and Save the Children. Since 2009, we have invested £21 million vaccine could have a considerable public health impact when
make sure the gel will reach the most vulnerable and marginalised in 39 countries, reached 17.5 million people and trained 43,000 used in combination with other malaria control measures. In 2016,
children. If approved through local regulatory applications, we frontline health workers. We are continuing to expand the frontline the World Health Organization confirmed that funding has been
will make the gel available at a not-for-profit price and share health workers programme beyond the LDCs to include all countries committed to enable the pilot implementation of RTS,S in three
manufacturing knowledge so it can be made by others. in sub-Saharan Africa such as Nigeria, South Africa and Ghana. settings in sub-Saharan Africa, due to begin in early 2018.
In partnership with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, In Zambia, we have trained over 400 entrepreneurs to sell 57,000 We have also begun a paediatric study to assess the safety and
we are developing thermostable vaccines to prevent diseases products in underserved communities through Live Well, the social pharmacokinetics of tafenoquine – a treatment for P. vivax, a strain
that are endemic in hot areas. Preliminary results show that our enterprise set up with Barclays and CARE International. Over of malaria found primarily in Asia and Latin America – in patients
pneumococcal vaccine, Synflorix, can remain stable for eight 52,870 children in Mozambique are now registered for mobile from six months to 16 years old. Our phase III trial of tafenoquine
weeks at 45˚C. reminders and 72,234 vaccination visits have been recorded in adults has completed patient recruitment and results will be
We are also developing products that help patients manage the through our mVacciNation pilot with Vodafone. We are also presented in 2017. Our research has also resulted in the discovery
cost of their treatment by enabling them to buy a little at a time. supporting preventative measures for cervical cancer through of a pre-clinical antimalarial candidate which will be evaluated for
In 2016, our single-unit inhaler products, Ventolin Rotacaps and our work with Marie Stopes International – providing over 7,750 progression into the clinic this year.
Rotahaler, were registered in three further countries to support vaccinations, 5,600 screenings and treatment for 215 women In 2016, we completed our work with the Africa Malaria Partnership
access to this critical medication. in Bangladesh, Madagascar and Sierra Leone – and the Pink which reached over 1.5 million people through increased knowledge
Ribbon, Red Ribbon partnership. of malaria prevention, control and early treatment among
We now have over 20 collaborations with African universities, communities in sub-Saharan Africa. Our work with malaria has
expanded through our five-year, £17 million commitment to Comic
including the training of 67 scientists with the Pan African
Relief. The partnership launched in December 2015 and in 2016
Chemistry Network and partnering in the establishment of the
announced its first grants to organisations fighting malaria and
East African Supply Chain Centre of Excellence in Rwanda.
improving health in Tanzania and Mozambique.
Read more online
Giving mothers and babies a healthier start Read more online Read more online
Protecting mothers and their newborn babies Reinvesting in healthcare | Corporate partnerships How we’re fighting malaria on all fronts11 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Eliminating and controlling neglected tropical diseases Eradicating polio
Access to Medicines Index
We are harnessing our partnerships, expertise and
Commitment: Help eliminate and control ten Commitment: Continue to support the WHO global reach to extend access to healthcare.
neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) that will affect objective of eradicating polio by 2018 by providing
1.4 billion people by 2020, including the elimination vaccines to UNICEF until this is achieved.
of lymphatic filariasis (LF), through our continued
investment in R&D, ongoing product donations and
our contribution to the London Declaration on NTDs.
Progressing well Progressing well
Progress in 2016 Progress in 2016
In 2016, we donated over one billion tablets of albendazole In 2016, we supplied more than 470 million doses of our oral
(648.7 million for LF and 366.5 million for de-worming) bringing polio vaccine to the global eradication effort. We also supported In 2016, we topped the Access to Medicine Index for the fifth
consecutive time since it began in 2008. The index is an independent
the total donated since 1999 to seven billion. Researchers the switch from the trivalent to the bivalent vaccine which was
measure of the top 20 pharmaceutical companies’ efforts to improve
estimate the number of people at risk of LF has almost halved since undertaken globally in April-May of 2016. Scientists from the
access to healthcare in developing countries.
2000, with 175 million fewer life years lost due to ill-health, disability World Health Organization (WHO) recommended the transition
or early death and a potential US$100 billion savings in long-term to a vaccine targeting types 1 and 3 only because polio type 2 Described as “the most access-oriented company”, GSK is recognised
healthcare costs and income loss as a result of the programme. had not been detected since 1999. This reduces the risk of the for a clear strategy on increasing access to medicines that aligns with
its corporate strategy. We are leading our peers in three of the index’s
Our Kinetoplastid Discovery Performance Unit (DPU) at Tres re-emergence of type 2 from the vaccine itself. seven categories: research and development; pricing, manufacturing
Cantos is collaborating with researchers from the University of GSK maintains a stockpile of monovalent type 2 vaccine (mOPV2) and distribution; and product donations. We also made significant
Dundee, Scotland, to develop new treatments for another NTD, in case of an unexpected outbreak. In May 2016, we were able to strides in capacity development.
visceral leishmaniasis. Two candidates are currently in pre-clinical respond rapidly to the WHO’s request when there was a type 2 The index cites company-wide ownership for access as a key strength,
development, the step prior to clinical trials. outbreak in Nigeria, by getting mOPV2 vaccines ready for together with our commitment to research and development for low and
As part of our Novartis transaction we acquired Rabipur, a rabies shipment in just three days. middle-income countries and high-priority medical needs.
vaccine. In 2016, we were the main supplier to UNICEF of WHO Despite polio cases decreasing by 99% since 1988, the final steps GSK CEO Sir Andrew Witty commented that: “The fundamental
prequalified rabies vaccines. in the eradication of polio have been extraordinarily challenging changes we have made to our business model enable us to make our
products as available and affordable as possible while generating the
The GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health continued to make and the WHO’s goal of ending polio by 2018 is unlikely to be met. returns we need to sustain our business and invest in research.”
progress with additional grant monies received and our Shigella GSK will continue to support the eradication effort by providing a
Since the previous assessment in 2014, achievements include the
candidate vaccine advancing into clinical trials. significant additional volume of oral polio vaccine doses from our
progression of our malaria candidate vaccine, the creation of our
reserve stock, and working with partners to find longer-term
Africa Open Lab for non-communicable diseases, and the extension
solutions for bulk oral polio vaccine production.
of equitable pricing strategies for more products.
We are delighted by this recognition of our achievements to date,
but we know there is more to do and we remain focused on extending
access to healthcare through the programmes outlined in this report.
Read more online
Tackling NTDs Read more online Read more online
Reaching the Unreached (report from London Declaration) UNICEF information on polio GSK on Access to Medicine Index12 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Access to antiretroviral treatment for HIV Reducing child mortality
Supporting children living with HIV
Commitment: Through ViiV Healthcare1, we will In 2016, we began a new collaboration with the Paediatric European Commitment: Continue to invest in innovative
continue to research new treatments, increase access Network for Treatment of AIDS Foundation which will increase cross-sector partnerships to reduce child mortality.
to our medicines and care for people living with HIV funding to develop optimal treatment strategies to achieve remission
specifically for children living with HIV.
around the world. We will support UNAIDS to deliver Progressing well
their 90-90-90 ambition by 20202. We will also work During the AIDS 2016 conference in Durban, ViiV Healthcare
received the first ever Public Recognition Award from the Global
with communities to combat stigma and
Paediatric Antiretroviral Commitment to Action to recognise
discrimination associated with HIV.
exceptional efforts to expand access to HIV/AIDS treatment Progress in 2016
for children.
We are committed to help save one million children’s lives
Progressing well
Working with communities through our pioneering £25 million partnership with Save the
In 2016, we further developed our ambition to go beyond Children. In 2016, we reached an additional 1.3 million children
pharmaceutical solutions by supporting efforts to improve care with life-saving interventions, bringing the total to 2.6 million
and control of the epidemic through our initiative on Mapping an children since the partnership began in 2013. Since then, over
Progress in 2016
HIV Free Future. We also continue to support over 300 community- one million children have been screened for malnutrition, more
In 2016, ViiV Healthcare extended its existing licence agreement based HIV education and prevention programmes around the world than 86,500 under-fives have been immunised, over 290,000
with the Medicines Patent Pool to cover all lower middle income through ViiV Healthcare’s Positive Action programmes. children have been vaccinated against measles or polio, and over
countries for the adult formulation of HIV drug dolutegravir. This Advancing HIV treatment 183,000 have been treated for diarrhoea, malaria or pneumonia.
means 94% of adults living with HIV in the developing world are
In December 2016, ViiV Healthcare announced positive results from Together, we are establishing models to tackle child mortality in the
now covered by licence agreements. The policy for lower middle
first phase III studies of two-drug HIV treatment regimen, the first Democratic Republic of Congo and Kenya that can be replicated
income countries enables the adult formulation of dolutegravir
of various phase III studies to evaluate this innovative treatment elsewhere. Since 2013, we have trained over 13,000 community
to be made available through generic manufacturers, with royalty
option. We also launched, in partnership with the National Institute for and professional health workers and equipped, improved or
fees tiered depending on national GDP, following approval by the
Health, the first large phase III trial to study cabotegravir as a single upgraded 119 health clinics as we continue to improve healthcare
relevant regulatory authorities.
agent in prevention. Finally, we have continued the development for mothers and children. We are now working together in over
In 2016, both the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and of an investigative attachment inhibitor for patients who have failed 37 countries, including in humanitarian crisis and disaster zones.
European Medicines Agency approved a reduction in the weight treatment and can no longer keep their HIV under control using In 2016, we received the Ethical Corporation Award for the best
limit for the treatment of HIV with dolutegravir, meaning more current medicines. Private Sector NGO Partnership for our collaboration with Save
children and adolescents aged 6-12 years old will now be eligible the Children.
to receive treatment. 1. ViiV Healthcare is a global specialist HIV company majority owned by GSK. In Burkina Faso, years of campaigning from Save the Children with
2. 9 0% of people living with HIV to know their HIV status, 90% of those diagnosed to receive
The FDA also approved the first generic version of dolutegravir, support from GSK culminated in 2016 with ground-breaking new
sustained antiretroviral therapy and 90% of those receiving therapy to have an undetectable
manufactured by Aurobindo Pharma, which can now be made viral load. legislation that will offer free healthcare for children under five and
available to countries covered by our licence. In addition, dolutegravir pregnant women.
will be made available as first line HIV treatment as part of national
In addition to our work with Save the Children, we have provided over
health programmes in Brazil and Botswana in 2017.
110 million reduced-price vaccines to protect children from diseases
in 2016 through our long-running work with Gavi (see page 9).
94%
Read more online of adults living with HIV in the
ViiV Healthcare developing world are now covered by Read more online
Positive Action programmes our licence agreement for dolutegravir Save the Children partnership13 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Our behaviour
Our values underpin everything we do –
from ensuring rigorous safety standards
in the development and manufacture of
new medicines to interacting ethically
with healthcare professionals, patient
groups and political stakeholders.
In this section
Ethical conduct Progressing well
Promoting values in sales Progressing well
and marketing practices
Transparency in clinical trial data Completed
Rigorous patient and consumer safety Progressing well
Minimising animal testing On track
Ensuring ethical interactions Progressing well
Promoting human rights On track
Working with third parties On track
An industry- We have fundamentally changed
our commercial practices to
leading approach ensure our sales and marketing
is underpinned by the values in
to working
which we operate. Since January
with healthcare 2016, we have stopped paying
healthcare professionals to speak
professionals to other prescribers about our
medicines and vaccines.14 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Commitment performance update
Ethical conduct Our approach to tax
We have a substantial business and employment presence in
Reporting and investigating concerns
many countries around the world and pay a significant amount
Commitment: We will continue to strengthen our We centrally track misconduct allegations and concerns. Our
of tax, including corporation and other business taxes, as well
values-based culture by training our people on the multiple speak up channels offer people within and outside GSK the as the taxes associated with our employees. We understand our
standards expected, encouraging the reporting of opportunity to ask questions and voice concerns anonymously or responsibility to pay an appropriate amount of tax and fully support
confidentially through an independent third party by phone or online.
any concerns and embedding our values into the efforts to ensure companies are appropriately transparent about
During 2016, we continued to raise awareness of the channels for
how their tax affairs are managed. We provide more detail on our
way we measure employee performance.
reporting concerns about misconduct. In 2016, we received 2,568
approach to tax in our tax policy and Annual Report.
reports through our multiple speak up channels, which is a 21%
Progressing well reduction from 2015. All concerns raised are reviewed and over As part of our approach we align our investment strategies to
2,130 formal investigations were initiated in response. The most those countries where we already have substantial economic
frequent categories of allegation were employee performance and activity and where government policies promote tax regimes which
relations and product promotion. are attractive to business investment, transparent in their intent and
Progress in 2016 available to all relevant tax payers, such as the UK patent box.
Disciplinary action
We expect all our employees to live our values of patient focus, We take disciplinary action when employees fail to act in line with Relationship with tax authorities: We seek to maintain
integrity, respect and transparency. our policies. In 2016, 3,600 employees were disciplined for policy open, positive relationships with governments and tax authorities
violations (3,547 in 2015), including 499 employees disciplined for worldwide and we welcome constructive debate on taxation policy.
In 2016, we updated our code of conduct and accompanying annual failing to complete mandatory training (on code of conduct and International tax framework: We support the OECD and G20
training to give people a deeper understanding of how to apply our anti-bribery and corruption) within the required timeframe. Of the principle that tax should be paid throughout the supply chain
values in their everyday activities. total disciplined, 2,499 employees received a documented warning where the profit making activities take place.
Training our people (2,890 in 2015), 547 received verbal warnings (297 in 2015) and 221
Transfer pricing: In line with OECD guidelines we base our
In 2016, 99% of our employees and complementary workers were dismissed or agreed to leave the company voluntarily (387 in
transfer pricing policy on the arm’s-length principle and support
completed mandatory training on the code of conduct. The code of 2015). Attendance and payroll remains the biggest type of violation
our transfer prices with economic analysis and reports.
conduct training helps employees understand and manage the range at 44% (48% in 2015) which includes disciplinary actions related
of risks associated with their daily business activities, including our to employee absence, punctuality or misstating hours worked. Tax havens: We do not engage in artificial tax arrangements –
zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. More than 70,000 those without business or commercial substance.
people working in high risk roles also completed additional in-depth EEmmpploloyyeeeess d disicsicpilpinliende idn i2n0 2160:1 6: Corporation tax: In 2016, the Group paid corporate income
training on anti-bribery and corruption to help them understand how bbrreeaakkddoowwnn o of tfy tpyepse osf opfo pliocyli cviyo vlaiotiolantion. tax of £1,609 million (£2,062 million in 2015) on profits of
to manage particular challenges they may face in their daily work. £1,939 million (£10,526 million in 2015). The corresponding tax
In 2016, a further 113 ethics and compliance professionals across 2% charge on profits was £877 million (£2,154 million in 2015).
the business enhanced their skills and knowledge through our Ethics 2% Attendance and payroll
and Compliance Academy; bringing the total number of certified 2 3% % 8% Training completion
ethics and compliance professionals to 300. Good manufacturing and
5% distribution practices
During 2016, we conducted 200 senior management assessments Local work regulation violations
44%
to evaluate how well our values are embedded within specific 8%
Marketing and promotional activities
business areas. We also continued our independent values
12% Code of conduct
assurance programme that provides an assessment of our progress
Falsification of documents
in embedding the values throughout the organisation. 14%
Travel and expense
Environment, health and safety Read more online
Read more online Other Our approach to tax
GSK policies, codes and standards Annual Report (page 55)15 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Promoting values in sales and marketing practices Transparency in clinical trial data
Publishing payments made to HCPs
Commitment: Continue to drive a values-based We transparently report payments to HCPs for activities such as Commitment: Be as transparent as possible
approach to sales and marketing practices across advisory boards and market research, that help us develop medicines with our clinical trial data, including publishing
the world, with the interests of consumers and and vaccines to meet patients’ needs. We are now disclosing all clinical study reports (without patient-level data)
payments made to HCPs in 32 markets across Europe (including
patients at its core. for all outcome trials of medicines conducted by
Russia and Ukraine), Australia, Japan and the USA.
GSK and, within an appropriate process, making
We are fulfilling all requirements of the European Federation of
Progressing well available to researchers access to anonymised
Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations’ Disclosure Code
patient level data to further scientific enquiry.
by disclosing payments to named individuals and disclosing on
an aggregate basis only for payments relating to research and
development. In 2016, we achieved more than 90% named disclosure Completed and ongoing
Progress in 2016
– significantly higher than most other companies across our industry.
We have fundamentally changed our commercial practices to
We have also adopted a ‘no consent, no contract’ policy in Europe.
ensure our sales and marketing is underpinned by our values
This means we will not work with HCPs who withhold their consent
wherever we operate. As we continued to make strong progress Progress in 2016
for GSK to publish transfers of value they have received from us for
in this area in 2016, we anticipate marking this commitment as
reportable activities. We continue to lead the industry in clinical study transparency,
complete in our 2017 report.
Embedding a values-based approach to sales making information available on all our trials, whether positive
Engaging with healthcare professionals or negative. GSK was the first company to publish the clinical
Our sales teams worldwide are incentivised based on their technical
Since January 2016, we have stopped paying prescribing healthcare study reports (CSRs) that form the basis of submissions to
knowledge and support for HCPs to improve patient care, rather than
professionals (HCPs) to speak to other prescribers about our regulatory agencies.
by individual sales targets. This values-based approach has received
medicines and vaccines. This is a key milestone we have been working
positive feedback from HCPs and in a survey of US HCPs in 2016, More than 1,900 of these reports and more than 6,000 summaries
towards since announcing in December 2013 our industry-leading
GSK ranked first for customer trust for the fourth year in a row, and of trial results are now publicly available. In 2016, we also began
approach to how we work with HCPs.
for customer value for the third time. providing plain language summaries of our clinical studies that
We have strengthened our online resources to supplement Reaching a resolution with the Securities and Exchange present the results in a way that is readily understandable to
information provided by our salesforce and we have significantly Commission (SEC) a general audience, including study participants.
expanded our global team of in-house medical experts to provide
We have reached a resolution with the US SEC regarding their Researchers can submit proposals to request access to
information about our medicines and vaccines to HCPs in ways that
investigation into our commercial practices in countries outside of the the anonymised patient-level data behind the results of around
are convenient to them. We now have around 400 medical experts
US. The SEC investigation was conducted with full cooperation from 2,000 of our clinical trials through clinicalstudydatarequest.com,
dedicated to engaging with HCPs and a further 900 who also
us, and we have accepted the outcome of the resolution. The US a website which provides this data from 12 industry sponsors,
engage with HCPs as part of their roles.
Department of Justice (DOJ) has also concluded its investigation into including GSK. They can also request combined data from trials
Following medical product information sessions with GSK experts these matters and will be taking no further action. The SEC and DOJ by one or more of the 12 industry sponsors. An independent panel
in over 60 countries, 92% of more than 42,000 HCPs agreed the investigations were initiated as part of an industry-wide inquiry in 2010. appointed by the Wellcome Trust reviews research proposals
interaction helped them make a more informed decision benefiting In reaching the resolution, the SEC took account of the changes we for scientific merit. By the end of 2016, 88 proposals had been
patient care. Around 79% rated their experience as superior to have made to our commercial practices over the last few years. approved and 66 research teams had been granted access to
similar interactions with other pharmaceutical companies. anonymised patient-level data.
Investigations by the UK Serious Fraud Office (SFO) regarding
our China and other business operations are ongoing and the Group
is responding to the SFO’s requests.
Read more online Read more online
Sales and marketing practices Clinical study register
European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations Data transparency16 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Rigorous patient and consumer safety
Harnessing online networks to improve patient care
Understanding the risks Many people share personal information on social media
Commitment: Continue to ensure the interests and As our medicines and vaccines reach an increasing number – including their experiences of using medicines. This is
safety of patients and consumers are of paramount of people in low- and middle-income countries in Africa, we are valuable data that can help us improve patient care.
importance in the way we design and undertake supporting efforts to strengthen national infrastructures for
reporting safety information about our products. We aim to do this
our clinical trials, our product quality assurance and
by building capacity for medicine and vaccine safety, enhancing
our monitoring and reporting of adverse events in
safety assessments and establishing a global safety support
ongoing product usage. structure. For example, we are collaborating with the government
in Malawi to facilitate the development of a pharmacovigilance
Progressing well reporting system for our vaccines to enhance the detection,
monitoring, understanding and prevention of adverse effects.
In 2016, we established a pharmacovigilance centre of excellence
in the US that brings together data from electronic health databases,
Progress in 2016 patient reported data and social media (see case study) to give us a
more holistic view of the risks and benefits of our products.
In 2016, we produced nearly two billion packs of medicines,
833 million doses of vaccines, and five billion packs of consumer We keep track of risks to quality and safety standards on our global
healthcare products. We manufacture all of our medicines and risk register to ensure patient safety in clinical research. In 2016,
vaccines according to our internal Quality Management System we performed 263 audits of our own trials and those conducted Our pharmacovigilance centre of excellence collects publically available
data from social media and filters out unrelated information and anything
and Good Manufacturing Practice regulations. on our behalf by third parties (see Data summary on page 27).
that would infringe patient privacy. The Centre’s analysis is helping us to
In 2016, we had 167 regulatory inspections of our manufacturing sites Reducing the risks of counterfeit products understand the benefits of our products, alert us to unexpected adverse
and 86% of these received no observations or minor observations.1 In 2016, we increased our work with border controls to improve our effects, and evaluate the misuse of drugs.
11 of the inspections were conducted by the US Food and Drug anti-counterfeiting strategy. We are focusing on targeted intelligence In a two-year period, we found approximately 22 million Twitter
Administration (FDA), of which five resulted in a Form 483 being gathering and strategic enforcement in order to prevent counterfeits and Facebook posts discussing potential adverse events for 1,000
issued to sites, citing deficiencies to current Good Manufacturing from getting onto the market and reaching consumers. medicines. As well as highlighting adverse effects, this information
Practices (cGMP). None of these observations had any direct impact has given us significant insight into the inappropriate use of drugs;
An important aspect of the strategy is collaboration with global
on product supply from our sites, and corrective action plans to for example, discovering that some patients are crushing and injecting
mitigate the observations have been submitted to the FDA in all cases. customs authorities, especially in countries where counterfeit medicines that are meant to be swallowed. Being aware of common
products are known to be manufactured or those known to be major misuse of treatments helps us to make decisions on appropriate
In July 2016, our Worthing facility in the UK received a warning letter transit hubs for counterfeit products. We have recorded trade mark labelling and further guidance.
from the FDA arising from an inspection that had been conducted registrations with customs authorities in over 64 countries and during
Analysis of the ever-growing amount of social media data is likely to
12 months previously. We responded promptly to the FDA to address 2016 we conducted 38 training sessions for customs officials at key
provide essential insights into ways we can develop better medicines
the points raised and advised them of the programme of work which ports in 15 countries. This enables the authorities to identify and and enhance patient care.
is now well advanced. seize large shipments of counterfeit products destined for markets
around the world.
In 2016 we performed
263
Read more online
Pharmacovigilance
audits of our own trials and those Read more online
1. At this time we are still awaiting 11 reports from 2016 inspections. conducted on our behalf by third parties Can social media help us hear patients?17 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Minimising animal testing Ensuring ethical interactions
Building trust with patient advocacy groups
Commitment: Rigorously challenge the need for Commitment: Demonstrate that all GSK We engage with, and support, patient organisations to gain insights
animal studies and work to minimise the impact on interactions with patient advocacy groups and that enable us to develop products and advocate for policies that
animal welfare, by investing in the development of political stakeholders are conducted appropriately, better meet patient needs. In 2016, we issued a public policy position
outlining how and why we work with patient organisations, and the
alternative studies and sharing animal-based data. ethically and transparently.
high ethical standards we apply in our interactions. We publish
information about all the support we provide on our website.
On track Progressing well
We held Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits (PALS) in the Czech
Republic, Germany, Japan and Portugal in 2016. The PALS gather
GSK employees and patient advocacy leaders together to build
relationships between health policy experts, patient advocates and
Progress in 2016 Progress in 2016
industry. In 2016, we supported the first Asia Pacific Lung Summit
Animal studies are a critical part of the discovery of new medicines In 2016, we remained committed to transparent and ethical interactions to connect with patient leaders who advocate for lung health in their
and are legally required to test the safety of our medicines and with political stakeholders and patient advocacy groups. communities and improve our understanding of conditions like asthma.
vaccines. We remain committed to applying the ‘3Rs’ approach
Engaging with political stakeholders
to replace, reduce and refine our animal research.
We have clear guidelines in our code of conduct to ensure all
In response to stakeholder feedback, we are disclosing the total employee interactions with political stakeholders are in line with
number of animals used in our research for the first time and will do our values and anti-bribery and corruption policy. We also expect
so annually. In 2016, we used 368,000 animals, of which 98% were any third-party policy groups that engage on our behalf to share our
rodents. Between 2005-2015, the number of animals used was values and we have comprehensive criteria to guide the selection
more than halved; however, in 2016 we saw an increase following of these groups.
the integration of the Novartis vaccines business. Excluding this,
As part of our commitment to transparency, we publish our position on
the downward trend has continued and we have now integrated
more than 40 public policy issues on our website, including intellectual
our new vaccines sites into our existing animal programmes.
property, pricing, human rights and environmental standards.
Developing alternatives to animal studies
All our lobbying costs relating to GSK activities in Brussels and
We continue to support research into new testing systems that
the US are registered on the EU Transparency Register and the
mimic the form and function of living human tissue and organs
US Federal Lobbying Register. In 2016, the cost of representing
to avoid the need for animal studies. For example, in 2016 we
our interests to EU institutions was in the range of €1,500,000 and
co-sponsored a challenge set by the National Centre for the
€1,749,999, and we spent $3,641,000 on lobbying activities in the
Replacement, Refinement and Reduction of animals in Research
US. This includes operating our advocacy offices in Brussels and
to develop a non-animal model for osteoarthritis.
Washington DC, and the cost of travel and consulting. We publish
We also began a five-year collaboration with the Innovative a full list of our memberships of industry trade associations that may
Medicine Initiative’s Vaccine to Vaccine project which aims to lobby indirectly on our behalf online here.
reduce animal testing for batch releases of vaccines. As one
Although GSK does not make corporate political contributions,
of the partner companies we will provide researchers’ time and
our US employees can financially support individual candidates
access to research facilities and resources amounting to over
or political groups through a Political Action Committee (PAC)
£2.6 million over the duration of the project.
under the Federal Election Campaign Act. Our employees’ PAC
Read more online
contributed $380,360 to state and federal candidates in 2016 Public policy position on political advocacy
Read more online – 29% of those funds were contributed to state candidates and Patient group funding
Our use of animals | The ‘3Rs’ in medicine research 71% to federal candidates. Public policy and patient advocacy18 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Promoting human rights Working with third parties
We have completed more than 8,700 third-party risk assessments.
Commitment: Address the UN Guiding Principles Commitment: We seek to work with third parties that This includes an extensive assessment on labour rights, fair business
on Business and Human Rights across our own share our commitment to high ethical standards and practices, anti-bribery and corruption, environment and sustainable
operations and our supplier relationships. operate in a responsible way. If performance gaps are procurement for over 1,000 third parties. Further risk assessments
are underway, with the programme scheduled to complete global
identified, where appropriate we commit to working
roll-out by the end of 2017. To date, we have identified activities
with the third party to improve performance.
across 700 of our third-party engagements which have required
improvements to address risk management and concerns about
On track On track ways of working. During 2016, we also commenced the anti-bribery
and corruption training initiative for third parties, seeking to ensure
that the third parties we work with have the appropriate risk
awareness and therefore ability to manage it.
Progress in 2016 Progress in 2016
In 2016, we conducted over 70 third-party audits on health and
We focus on seven areas that we have prioritised based Each year we spend billions of pounds with tens of thousands of safety, ethics, environment and labour rights. We also conducted
on where our operations have the biggest potential to affect third parties for the provision of a wide range of goods and services. a further 1,850 audits focused specifically on quality processes.
human rights: access to healthcare, air quality impact relating to In 2016, we increased our use of preferred suppliers, bringing it to Where we identify areas for improvement, we engage with the
propellants, clinical trial standards, employment practices, patient more than 90% of our purchase order spend. This enables us to respective third parties to develop improvement plans and track
safety, product counterfeiting and use of third-party suppliers. build strong relationships with the suppliers that are most critical their completion with the overall aim of enhancing performance in
Our progress in each area is outlined in the relevant sections to our business. the supply chain. We may also suspend or terminate work with a
of this report. third party if significant issues are identified.
Overseeing third parties
We are managing human rights risks in the supply chain by At GSK, our third parties include suppliers, distributors and other
reinforcing our requirements on labour rights and health and safety, organisations with which there is a transfer of value. In 2016, we
and ensuring these are communicated consistently through our continued the roll-out of our global third-party oversight programme
contracts with third parties. We continue to monitor existing which reached a total of 43 countries across Latin America and
suppliers and screen new suppliers, and continued the roll-out South East Asia. The programme aims to drive improvements in our
of our third-party oversight programme across Latin America and supply chain and distributor network and ensures that the third parties
South East Asia in 2016 (see Working with third parties). we engage with are aligned with our values.
We have published a statement in response to the UK
government’s Modern Slavery Act 2015 which outlines our policies
and processes to minimise the risk of modern slavery within our
operations and our supply chain. We aim to ensure compliance
with these policies through our wider programmes on ethical
behaviour, including Speak Up channels for people to raise any
concerns. We have found no indications of slavery, trafficking or
child labour in our organisation.
We conducted more than
8,700
Read more online Read more online
Human rights statement Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI)
Modern slavery statement assessments through our Ethical conduct and third parties
Ethical conduct and supply chain third-party oversight programme Working with third parties19 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Our people
We aim to create a safe and inclusive
workplace where everyone at GSK can feel
able and inspired to realise their potential
and help us meet global health challenges.
In this section
Developing our people in inspiring Progressing well
and healthy workplaces
Promoting inclusion and diversity On track
Community volunteering to create change Completed
Building the Our Future Leaders programme
provides a consistent, high-quality
next generation approach to our global graduate
recruitment. In 2016, we had
of leaders
441 new recruits representing
59 nationalities and 58 countries.20 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Commitment performance update
Developing our people in inspiring and healthy workplaces
Building the next generation of leaders
Protecting our people Our Future Leaders programme is delivering the
Commitment: Continue to create a working In 2016, we had a reportable injury and illness rate of 0.26 per 100,000 fresh ideas and talent needed to continue driving our
environment that inspires people to grow and hours worked which, according to Pharmaceutical Safety Group success across key markets.
perform in a healthy and resilient way. (PSG) data, is comparable to other leading companies in our sector.
Road safety remains one of our biggest risks, particularly in emerging
markets where the majority of our sales representatives use two-wheel
Progressing well
vehicles. Sadly, in 2016 one of our sales force died as a result of a
road traffic incident in India. To try to prevent tragedies like this from
reoccurring we have driver safety programmes in India, Indonesia
and Vietnam, with 4,000 people taking part in 2016.
Progress in 2016
Health and wellbeing
Attracting and retaining talent As a healthcare company, we think hard about how we can best
In 2016, we welcomed 465 graduates and postgraduates into our support not only the health of our patients and consumers but
Future Leaders and Esprit programmes, including 164 from emerging also our employees. Through the success of our global energy and
markets. GSK was voted top graduate employer for Research and resilience training programmes, and our innovative and ambitious
Development in The Times Top 100 Graduate Employers 2016 Partnership for Prevention programme (P4P), we have created strong
(for the 19th successive year) and ranked 13th overall. In 2016, we foundations. This progress has been recognised externally as we The programme was launched in 2012 to ensure a consistent, high-quality
recruited 83 apprentices in the UK and 16 in Canada, Ireland and were named ‘Britain’s Healthiest Employer’ in Vitality Health’s approach to our global graduate recruitment and development. The
three-year programme consolidated and replaced several existing
the US as we expand our apprenticeship programmes in further ‘Britain’s Healthiest Workplace 2016’ awards.
schemes with varied approaches. It provides a breadth of potential
markets. GSK was ranked 6th overall in the ‘Rate My Apprenticeship’
Through P4P we now offer almost 100,000 employees and family career pathways – from R&D and finance, to marketing and procurement
awards in the UK for the best apprentice employers.
– with the option to move between functions during several job rotations.
members in 75 countries unprecedented access to preventive
In 2016, we trained around 3,500 people to support their promotion healthcare services, such as immunisations and cancer screening, Job rotations make up 70% of the programme, with feedback,
to first and second line leader roles. We have continued to evolve at little or no extra cost. In 2016, we extended these services to India mentoring and coaching constituting a further 20%, and formal training
our global leadership development programmes and have found that and Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States, keeping the remainder. This balance enables graduates to develop the specific
managers who complete them show significant improvement in us on track to achieve our goal of global coverage by 2018. skills to be effective in their individual role and business, while getting
effectiveness based on feedback from their teams. a broad grasp of the company and learning GSK’s distinctive global
leadership approach.
By coaching their colleagues, our leaders enable others to improve
Reportable injury and illness rate The programme is rated highly by participants. A recent survey of alumni
their performance and achieve their potential. In 2016, we trained
(per 100,000 hours worked) from the Future Leaders programme found that 89% of respondents felt
245 leaders to become coaches and our strategic use of coaching
the rotations helped them to develop relevant skills and experience for
was recognised as world-class by the International Coach 0.4
their career at GSK. They also indicated they felt supported by their line
Federation’s Prism Award. Internal analysis has shown that individuals manager and team, and would recommend the programme to friends.
who experience either our internal ‘Job Plus’ coaching or external
The benefits to the business are also clear. The number and geographical
executive coaching believe they significantly improve their ability to 0.2 spread of the intake means we have young, home-grown and diverse
demonstrate all of the GSK Leadership Expectations.
leaders rooted in all our markets, including the faster growing emerging
In 2016, we responded to insights from our 2015 global employee survey, countries. In 2016, we had 441 new recruits representing 59 nationalities
which 78% of employees completed. Our Corporate Executive Team 0.0 from 58 countries – up from 130 from eight nations in 2012.
also hosted ‘listening sessions’ with senior leaders and conducted follow 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
up discussions, and we also introduced ‘pulse’ surveys to better
understand employee engagement at more regular intervals.
Read more online Read more online
Working at GSK Future Leaders website21 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Promoting inclusion and diversity Community volunteering to create change
The percentage of women in management rose to 43% in 2016,
Commitment: Continue to promote inclusion and and women represented 15% of our Corporate Executive Team Commitment: Extend volunteering opportunities
diversity globally at GSK. (CET) and 31% of our Board (this compares with an average of to bring about positive change to communities and
26% among FTSE100 boards, according to the Cranfield Board global health while providing individual development.
report). We also want our leaders to represent the diverse markets
On track
we serve and we recruited 441 people from 58 countries for
Completed
our Future Leaders graduate programme in 2016. Five different
nationalities are currently represented on the CET and the Board.
Progress in 2016
Women in management (%) Progress in 2016
In 2016, more than 200 female managers began our Accelerating
Difference programme, which supports the progression of high 2013 2014 2015 2016 Our PULSE Volunteer Partnership programme provides a
performing female leaders into senior roles through individual and SVP/VP 28 29 29 30 skills-based volunteering opportunity where eligible employees
group coaching, and sessions with male and female leaders to Director 40 40 40 42 are matched with a non-profit organisation for three or six months
discuss career progression and share experiences. Around 48% full-time. In 2016, 73 volunteers from 25 countries contributed
Manager 44 45 45 46
of participants in 2013 have since been promoted and are more £3.4 million worth of skilled services to 31 non-profit partners
likely to stay at GSK than their colleagues (male or female), with Total 41 42 42 43 in 27 countries. They worked on assignments that help to meet
80% retention rate over the last three years. global healthcare challenges and support the UN Sustainable
Employees by gender
Development Goals, particularly on health and education.
The Accelerating Difference programme was recognised as best Male Female Total
practice by the 2016 Female FTSE Board Report by Cranfield Our PULSE programme is creating positive change for our
Total employees 56,104 43,196 99,300
University, a study of women’s representation on the boards of non-profit partners, with 78% agreeing that our volunteers
the UK’s top companies. Total employees % 57% 43% delivered something unique that their employees could not have
delivered and 91% stating that the impact of the volunteer was felt
As part of our efforts to promote an environment where everyone even six months after the assignment ended. Our employees also
feels included, we established a global Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, benefit, with 91% of PULSE volunteers saying they are doing
and Transgender (LGBT) Council in 2016, chaired by our President something differently at GSK after their return from assignment.
of R&D and endorsed by the CET. The Council aims to engage and
educate on LGBT issues and consider GSK’s potential involvement
in LGBT issues that impact our employees and the patients and
customers we serve. We achieved a 100% score in the Human
Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index, which
rates workplaces on LGBT equality in the US. £3.4m
We are working with the Global Disability Council to develop an
online accessibility portal that allows employees to find information
on support or adjustments to their working environments. In 2016, worth of skilled services to 31 non-profit partners
we expanded our internship programme for young people with through our PULSE Partnership programme
learning difficulties to our Stevenage bioscience hub in the UK.
43% Read more online
Employee volunteering
Read more online women in PULSE volunteers
Inclusion and diversity management PULSE Impact Report22 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Our planet
We aim to reduce environmental impacts
across our value chain while extending
access to our products for the people who
need them – by minimising our carbon
footprint, reducing local water impacts
and cutting operational waste.
In this section
Aiming to be carbon neutral Work needed
Reducing our water impact Progressing well
Reducing our waste On track
Reducing emissions We are investing in renewable
energy infrastructure, converting
in our own to low-emission fuels and
improving energy efficiency to cut
operations
emissions in our own operations.
We have reduced our operational
emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by
18% since our 2010 baseline.23 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
CCoommmmiittmmeenntt ppeerrffoorrmmaannccee uuppddaattee
Aiming to be carbon neutral
Our supply chain represents the largest part of our value chain footprint Our 2016 Supplier Environmental Sustainability Awards went to
Commitment: Reduce our overall carbon footprint (51%) followed by the use of our products (30%). Our own operations, Aitken Spence, a printing and packaging company in Sri Lanka,
by 25% by 2020 (vs 2010) and have a carbon logistics and end of life disposal make up the remaining 19%. and the Dow Chemical Company.
neutral value chain by 2050. As our largest value chain impact, we focus on helping our suppliers Certain products have a disproportionate effect on our value chain
make environmental improvements. For example, 188 suppliers emissions, particularly our Ventolin propellant-based inhalers, which
Work needed (covering £1 billion of our spend on direct raw materials) disclose emit greenhouse gases during use. We continue to research solutions
information through Ecodesk, an online platform to monitor and to this issue, including changing the way we manufacture, to reduce
promote environmental improvements in our supply chain. In addition, the amount of propellant used, while maintaining efficacy for patients.
more than 350 suppliers use our online sustainability collaboration
Progress in 2016 platform, the GSK Supplier Exchange, to share best practice.
In 2016, our operational emissions (Scope 1 and 2) totalled
1.6 million tonnes of CO e. This is broadly the same as the previous Scope 1 and 2 GHG emission Scope 3 GHG emission
2
year and represents an 18% decrease against our 2010 baseline. (thousand tonnes CO 2e) (thousand tonnes CO 2e)
We reduce our emissions through a continued focus on energy
2,500 20,000
efficiency, renewable energy and investment in sustainable
buildings (see case study on page 24).
In 2016, we revised our calculation method for our Scope 3 emissions 2,000
with the current GHG protocol methodology which now includes 15,000
the impact of purchased services, capital investments, fuel and
energy related activities, logistics upstream in the supply chain, all 1,500
business travel and commuting. Based on this latest methodology,
10,000
we increased our 2010 baseline figure to 18.7 million tonnes of
CO 2e from 15 million tonnes of CO 2e. 1,000
In 20151 our overall carbon footprint (Scope 1, 2 and 3) increased
from 17.8 million tonnes CO e in 2014 to 20.3 million tonnes of 5,000
2 500
CO e due to the Novartis integration. This represents an 8.5%
2
increase to our overall footprint versus our 2010 baseline. Excluding
Novartis, our footprint has remained flat from 2010-2015 despite the
0 0
volume of medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare products 2010 2014 2015 2016 2020 2010 2013 2014 20151 2020
shipped from our factories having increased by approximately 40% target target
over the same period.
On-site fuel use Other Scope 1 emissions Purchased goods and services Energy related
Sales force vehicles Electricity and steam Business travel and commuting Product use
Inhaler propellant losses D ownstrean logistics End of life
(emissions) Investments
Read more online
1. O ur most recently available scope 3 data is from 2015. We will publish 2016 data online
in late 2017. Aiming to be carbon neutral24 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Reducing our water impact
Investing in sustainable buildings
Sawaipura with nearly 200,000m3 water, which is around a quarter of Designing sustainable buildings across our global
Commitment: Reduce our water impact across the the amount of water that our three Horlicks factories across India use operations to minimise our environmental impact.
value chain by 20% by 2020 (vs 2010). in their operations.
In the Punjab region of India, we partner with others to improve local
Progressing well farmers’ water management through conservation practices such
as fixing leaks, harvesting rainwater and managing the timing of crop
sowing to coincide with rainfall. We are raising awareness through
education programmes in over 60 villages across the region. Water
Progress in 2016 is also needed to produce food crops used as fodder for cows, so we
are training farmers to make use of surplus grass that can be used as
We used 14.5 million m3 of water across our operations in 2016, which cow feed during droughts. This means they do not have to buy fodder
was 3% less than in 2015, representing a 23% reduction compared and are able to sustain their milk yields all year-round.
to our 2010 baseline. We continue to look for ways to use water more
efficiently and reduce total water consumption across our operations.
Operational water use
Over the last five years, we have refined an approach to assessing
(million m3)
water impact in our value chain, taking into consideration four Our new building in Ware, UK, needs carefully controlled ambient
areas: water scarcity, local water quality, health and social risks and 20 temperature and humidity to store pharmaceutical samples. The building
design makes it resilient against outdoor temperature changes, while
regulatory and reputational risks for the value chain. We were able
minimising environmental impacts.
to use this to identify where across our value chain we should focus
our interventions. 15 The 200m2 of solar panels on the roof generate twice as much energy
as the building needs, feeding the rest back into the grid. Inside, the
Whilst it remains difficult to report specific reductions in water impact rooms have plenty of natural light and ventilation, heated by the sun
across the value chain, we are able to identify the regions where our through clever building design. Hot water comes from an on-site
water use has the highest impact. We continue to focus on reducing 10 combined heat and power plant. This is our most innovative building
water use in our own operations and in our supply chain, with design to date and continues the transformation of sites across our
particular focus on GSK’s sites in water-scarce regions and our global network.
agricultural supply chain for Horlicks India. In addition, our new 5 One of our US regional operations hubs in Philadelphia was awarded
Water Stewardship Policy reinforces our commitment to reduce LEED Platinum – the highest rating from the international green
our water impact across our value chain through engagement and buildings certification – and uses just 70% of the energy of a traditional
collaboration with key stakeholders. 0 building. At our state of the art factory in Bangalore, India, solar panels
2010 2014 2015 2016 2020
target will generate over 500kW of power and will discharge no liquids.
Together with Alternative Development Initiatives, an Indian
As we learn more about how sustainable building techniques can be
sustainable development NGO, we are also supporting communities
used for industrial purposes, we are putting this knowledge into practice
in the Horlicks supply chain to improve water management and
with similar projects in the UK, where GSK funding led to the construction
agricultural yields. An innovative project in Rajasthan, an arid region
of the country’s first ever carbon neutral laboratory in Nottingham.
of India, is now replenishing the local water source for the village of
We have reduced our water
use across our operations by
23%
70%
Read more online the energy of a traditional
Water stewardship policy building at our operations
Reducing our water impact compared to 2010 hub in Philadelphia25 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Reducing our waste Emerging environmental issues in 2016
External recognition for our climate change and
water efforts
Microbeads and microplastics
GSK is committed to managing and reducing the environmental
Commitment: By 2020, reduce our operational GSK included in prestigious CDP ‘A lists’ for climate
impacts of our products.
waste by 50% (vs. 2010). and water.
Microbeads are defined as solid plastic particles less than 5mm
in size which are used in rinse off cosmetic and personal care
On track
products that cleanse and exfoliate.
GSK does not use such microbeads in its products and we have
no have plans to do so in the future.
Progress in 2016 As an additional step, we are evaluating our portfolio to determine
reformulation opportunities for products that use other inactive
In 2016, our operations produced 137,000 tonnes of waste – 4%
plastic ingredients. To date, we have identified a small number of
less than the previous year and 23% below our 2010 baseline.
products that we plan to reformulate. These initiatives will take
The majority of this (73%) was recycled or incinerated to recover
approximately three years to complete and phase into the market.
energy, with only 5% sent to landfill. Around 70% of our sites have
now achieved zero waste to landfill by repurposing materials that We continue to work closely with industry associations to ensure
would otherwise go to waste or by using waste-to-energy services. that appropriate definitions are consistently applied and that
industry has enough time to reformulate and transition new
Working with Company Shop, an organisation that redistributes
products into the marketplace.
surplus food and products in the UK, we diverted 23 tonnes of
consumer products from going to waste because they were too Waste water pollution in the supply chain
close to their expiry date for conventional retailers to sell. These There is also increasing pressure on the pharmaceutical industry
Our efforts to reduce carbon emissions were acknowledged in 2016 with
are distributed through stores, including those targeting people in from a broad group of stakeholders to tackle waste water pollution
our inclusion in the ‘Climate A List’. CDP assessed companies globally
poverty. We are now exploring ways to expand this pilot to more in the supply chain and in particular the links it has to anti-microbial
from across 10 industry sectors; we were one of only 193 companies
locations and products. resistance (AMR). (9% of applicants) and seven healthcare companies to be A-listed.
We have stringent policies in place to manage the environmental Our high rating reflects the significant steps we have taken to help meet
Operational waste impact of all of our pharmaceutical manufacturing, including our goal of becoming carbon neutral by 2050, while continuing to grow
(thousand tonnes) antibiotics, and we’re committed to carrying out due diligence, our business and meet the healthcare needs of more people. For example,
close monitoring and auditing of our third-party suppliers’ we have moved towards a more environmentally sustainable approach to
200 environmental practices. treating respiratory disease. This has included reducing emissions during
the manufacture of inhalers and launching our Complete the Cycle
AMR is a complex problem, driven by a number of diverse factors, scheme, the first of its kind to work with pharmacists and patients to
150 and it’s essential that united, global efforts are maintained, recover and recycle inhalers. Such steps have helped us to reduce our
to address the practices driving resistance and to encourage operational emissions by 18% since 2010.
investment to create a future pipeline of new treatments. Read
100 We were also one of only 24 (3% of applicants) companies, and the only
more about our AMR efforts on page 8. healthcare company to be included in the Water A List. This success
reflects our achievements in reducing water usage by 23% since 2010
50 and our commitment to water stewardship.
0
2010 2014 2015 2016 2020
commitment
Read more online Read more online
Reducing our waste | Pharmaceuticals in the environment External recognition26 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Data summary
2013 2014 2015 2016 Notes
Health for all Better access to Number of doses of Synflorix supplied to Gavi (million) 31 50 62 75
medicines and vaccines
Number of doses of Rotarix vaccine supplied to Gavi (million) 16 31 33 37
Value of GSK medicine and vaccines prescribed through our 176 156 147 110
US Patient Assistance programme (cost of goods sold in million USD)
Number of patients reached through our US Patient Assistance programme 316,580 183,000 150,148 137,659
Community investment Cash (million £) 54 51 57 67
Product and in-kind (million £) 146 133 137 127
Time (million £) 4 4 4 3
Management costs (million £) 17 13 11 12
Strengthening healthcare Health worker training programmes (million £) 5.1 6 6.5 11*
infrastructure
Healthcare workers our partners have trained (cumulative) 12,000 25,000 40,000 43,000
Number of people reached through our 20% reinvestment programme 3 6.5 11 17.5
(million, cumulative)
Neglected tropical diseases Albendazole tablets to help LF elimination (million) 648 679 644 649
Albendazole tablets to help treat intestinal worms (million) 115 180 258 367
Eradicating polio Number of doses of oral polio vaccine delivered to Global Polio – – 220 470
Eradication Initiative (million)
Our behaviour Compliance Employees disciplined for policy violations 3,128 3,947 3,574 3,294
Employees who were dismissed or agreed to leave the company voluntarily 375 373 387 221
Documented warnings 2,753 3,131 2,890 2,499
Total number of marketing and promotional activity violations 161 233 237 178
Number of contacts made to our Speak Up channels 1,600 1,865 3,203 2,568
Clinical trial data Publicly available trial result summaries 5,400 5,583 5,800 6,040
(cumulative)
Number of studies with Clinical Study Reports posted to the register – 200 663 1,941
Number of trials listed for which patient level data is available for request – 1,081 1,727 1,953
Number of research teams granted access to GSK trial data – 36 82 106**
* 2016 figures include healthworker programmes beyond our least developed country (LDC) programmes.
** This figure includes 18 projects related to Novartis assets. These projects were fully transitioned to Novartis during 2016. The 2017 report will therefore incorporate a removal of these 18 projects from the total.27 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
2013 2014 2015 2016 Notes
Our behaviour Clinical research Audits of investigator sites 254 234 175 138
Audits of GSK processes 20 19 26 25
Audits of GSK local operating companies 13 16 41 32
Investigations of suspected irregularities 51 13 29 23
Audits of contract research organisations 34 40 23 45
Total audits undertaken 323 322 265 263
Anti-counterfeiting Number of trainings for customs officials – – – 38
Ensuring quality in manufacturing Number of regulatory inspections of our pharmaceutical business 88 96 86 66
and supply
Number of regulatory inspections of our vaccines business 40 45 49 45
Number of regulatory inspections of our consumer healthcare business 69 46 40 56
Our people Health and safety* Number of fatalities 0 1 2 1
Reportable incidents with lost time 353 281 318 353
Lost time reportable injury and illness rate 0.17 0.15 0.15 0.17
Reportable incidents with and without lost time 567 498 566 525
Reportable injury and illness rate 0.27 0.26 0.28 0.26
Talent and leadership development Total number of coaching assignments 1,050 1,390 1,554 1,923
Number of graduates recruited through our Future Leaders programme 287 304 444 441
Number of postgraduates recruited through the Esprit programme 47 35 26 24
Number of apprentices recruited 58 69 74 99
Inclusion and diversity Percentage of women in management (total) 41 42 42 43
Percentage of employees from emerging markets, Asia-Pacific and Japan 43 44 43 42
Volunteering Number of employees completing PULSE 99 98 78 73
* 2 015 health and safety data has been restated to include former Novartis sites acquired in 2015.28 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
2010 2014 2015 2016 Notes
Our planet Carbon Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions (‘000 tonnes CO 2e)
Gas and other fuel 570 490 499 480
Electricity and steam 962 723 703 716
Propellant emissions during manufacture of inhalers 214 169 224 243
Sales force travel 165 131 135 144
Other emissions 62 35 27 26
Total 1,974 1,548 1,615 1,610
Scope 3 GHG emissions (‘000 tonnes COe)*
2
Purchased goods and services 9,483 8,053 10,514 –
Product logistics 406 717 805 –
Business travel by air and commuting 423 356 373 –
Propellant emissions during use of inhalers 4,647 5,411 5,132 5,447
Use of other products 834 743 984 –
Disposal of products 124 97 105 –
Other emissions 856 715 777 –
Total 16,773 16,093 18,690 –
Water Water use in operations (million cubic metres) 18.7 15.2 14.9 14.5
Waste Total waste generated (thousand tonnes) 178 158 142 137
Waste to landfill (thousand tonnes) 17 10 8 7
Compliance Internal audits (number) 25 19 16 42
Environmental fines (£) 2,100 354,303** 500 5,800
Environmental remediation*** Spend (million $) 5 6.6 4.5 2.3
* Other than propellant emissions data (which is collected through our internal systems) we will not have an accurate picture of Scope 3 GHG emissions until later in the year.
** A detailed breakdown of 2014 environmental fines is available in the 2014 Responsible Business Supplement. These fines were mostly due to the discovery of a waste tank at our Upper Merrion site that did not
comply with local regulations, plus a fine paid by our Hamilton site for failure to submit a risk management plan for storage and use of chloroform.
*** We take responsibility for removing pollution and contaminants from soil, surface and ground water at facilities we have used previously, and at the disposal sites of waste management companies we have used.29 GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Summary of assurance statement
Bureau veritas’ summary independent assurance statement Statement of independence, impartiality and competence About our reporting
Bureau Veritas UK Ltd has been engaged by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company
We report our performance annually in this report as
plc to provide independent assurance of its Environment, Health and that specialises in quality, environment, health, safety and social
Safety (EHS) performance data for 2016. The objective of Bureau accountability with over 185 years history. The assurance team has part of our commitment to being open and transparent
Veritas’ work is to express an opinion on the accuracy and reliability extensive experience in environmental, social, ethical and health and about our business activities. Responsible business is also
of the EHS data and to provide a summary of findings. safety information, systems and processes. Bureau Veritas’ Code of covered in our Annual Report.
Ethics ensures that staff members avoid conflict of interest and
The full assurance statement can be found here, which includes details
maintain high ethical standards in business activities. Data coverage
of the scope of work, methodology, findings and recommendations
All data in this report relates to GSK’s global operations
for improvement. GSK’s response to assurance
in the calendar year 2016, except where otherwise stated.
We are pleased with Bureau Veritas’ findings on GSK’s established
Summary of scope and methodology Data in the environment and health and safety sections has
processes in managing (EHS) data. We thank them for their
• A ssessment of performance data contained within the ‘EHS been independently verified by Bureau Veritas. Brand names
recommendations, as we are committed to continuously improving
Data Table’ and associated data management processes: this appearing in italics throughout this report are trade marks either
our data collection and reporting processes in order to provide
involved detailed review of the integrity of selected datasets and owned by and/or licensed to GSK or associated companies.
accurate EHS data to the public in the Responsible Business
aggregation and checking processes at the corporate level, as
Supplement and on our website. Reporting standards
well as sampling data back to source at five GSK sites. The sites
Our index against the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines shows
were chosen to represent significant impact, GSK operations
which elements are covered in the report. As a signatory to the
and geographical spread;
UN Global Compact, we publish an annual Communication on
• I nterviews with senior EHS staff to understand GSK’s objectives Progress to demonstrate how we uphold its ten principles. These
and approach to data collation and management. are both available on GSK.com.
Opinion and recommendations Policies, codes and standards
Based on the assurance work we carried out and the evidence we We have a number of policies, codes and standards accessible
were presented with, as per the scope of work, nothing came to our on our website covering a range of different areas from public
attention to suggest that: health, to business integrity and the environment. These can be
found, and downloaded here.
• t he reported data does not provide a fair representation GSK’s
EHS-related activities and performance during the defined Your feedback counts
period; and We welcome your feedback on our responsible business
performance and reporting. You can also request to receive
• there are significant omissions or material misstatements which
regular updates on our progress.
could affect stakeholders’ ability to make informed judgements
on GSK’s EHS performance.
Please contact us at csr.contact@gsk.com
Since its implementation, EHS Central has been comprehensive and
effective in improving submissions and data. Further refinement in
EHS reporting can be through: unifying the hours worked calculation
methodology across all business groups; ensuring that all emission
factors used are up to date, particularly the ones used by the
third-party data providers e.g. for business travel.
London, February 2017