Responsible Business
Supplement 2015
Our success depends on our
ability to research and develop
innovative products and make
them accessible for more
people in a responsible way.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 2
About this supplement
Learn about how we embed responsible business
practice within our business.
We report key information on our approach
to responsible business alongside our financial
performance within the Annual Report.
This supplementary document provides additional
context and details of our progress against our
responsible business commitments.
Cover image
Nadeen, Debbie and Lindsay from our Weybridge
lab in the UK worked on the reformulation of
chlorhexidine solution, used in our Corsodyl
mouthwash, into an antiseptic gel which could
be used to help prevent umbilical cord infections
in developing countries.
Guide to using this report Guide to the navigation buttons Dynamic links Full screen mode
This interactive PDF is designed to help Click on the dynamic links to access further The PDF is set up to view in full screen mode.
you easily navigate the report and find Go to main contents page relevant information within the report or online, To exit full screen mode, press Escape to view
the information you are looking for. and use the tabs at the top of the page to the full toolbar.
Search this pdf navigate between sections.
Printer-friendly PDF
You can use the print icon in the navigation
Print
to print the whole or part of the document in
a print-friendly format.
Go to preceding page
Go to next page
Return to last page visitedGSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 3
Contents
Inside this report
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Data summary
Learn about how we ensure Find out how we are Read about how we are Learn how we create an Find out how we are managing Read our key data from
our business operates developing innovative products embedding our values inspiring and supportive work the environmental impacts of 2012-2015.
responsibly. and improving access to throughout the business, environment that encourages our operations and products
healthcare for patients around including into the ways we our employees to develop across their life cycle to reduce
the world. research, develop, sell and their capabilities and achieve carbon emissions, water use
market our products. their best. and waste.
Chairman’s statement 4 Our approach 13 Our approach 27 Our approach 40 Our approach 47 Data summary 54
CEO’s statement 5 Innovation for unmet Ethical conduct 29 Developing our people Understanding our Summary of
medical needs 15 in inspiring and healthy value chain carbon footprint 49 assurance statement 58
2015 performance highlights 6 Promoting values in sales
workplaces 42
Better access to medicines and marketing practices 31 Aiming to be carbon neutral 50
Responsible business
and vaccines 17 Promoting inclusion
in practice 7 Transparency in Reducing our water impact 52
and diversity 44
Building products to better clinical trial data 32
Progress against commitments 9 Reducing our waste 53
meet needs 19 Community volunteering
Rigorous patient and
to create change 45
Reducing child mortality 20 consumer safety 33
Strengthening healthcare Minimising animal testing 34
infrastructure 21
Promoting human rights 35
Eliminating and controlling
Ensuring ethical interactions 36
neglected tropical diseases 22
Our approach to tax 37
Fighting malaria 23
Working with third parties 38
Eradicating polio 24
Access to antiretroviral
treatment for HIV 25GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 4
Chairman’s statement
Operating responsibly is fundamental to the GSK’s strong performance on responsible
Group’s strategy and since becoming Chairman business is evident in the company’s high External benchmarking
in 2015 I have witnessed the significant strides rankings in external benchmarking exercises.
GSK is making in promoting innovation, improving GSK has topped the Access to Medicine Index GSK topped the Access to
access to healthcare and challenging industry since its inception, and maintained its position Medicine Index in 2014, for
norms on issues such as sales practices. in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and as the fourth consecutive time
a long-standing member of FTSE4Good. since the biennial assessment
The Board aims to reinforce and support
began in 2008.
management’s commitment to operating ethically The company’s efforts to reduce environmental
and responsibly worldwide. The Board and its impacts were also recognised in 2015 with
Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC) a score of 100 for carbon disclosure from the We were included in the Dow
oversee policies and programmes across the CDP, reflecting extensive reporting on how GSK Jones Sustainability World
business to ensure that the Company is taking manages the risks and opportunities associated Index with a score of 82 for
action that is in the interests of society and with climate change. The approach to managing economic, environmental and
its shareholders. In May 2015, Non-Executive water impacts was also acknowledged with social performance.
Director, Lynn Elsenhans, took over as Chair a B score in the CDP Water Index.
of the CRC following Sir Christopher Gent’s We improved our score
Information about the Group’s responsible
retirement from the Board. from 96 to 100 B to secure
business approach and performance is detailed
a place in the CDP’s FTSE
In 2015, amongst several topics and issues, in the Annual Report. This Responsible Business
350 Climate Disclosure
the CRC reviewed the company’s commitment Supplement provides further detail on the most
Leadership Index for the
to operating transparently and with integrity material social and environmental topics, and
eighth consecutive year,
through the transformation of its commercial sets out progress made towards these
in recognition of the quality
model. It also explored the critical issue of how commitments during 2015.
of our disclosure on climate
to balance the need for a return on investment
We continue to welcome dialogue with all the change impacts.
for innovation with the need to price products
company’s stakeholders in matters related to
appropriately and improve access for patients.
this supplement.
GSK continues to be the
only pharmaceutical company
to hold the Carbon Trust’s
RE YD EU AC R I ON NG YW EA AT RER Carbon Standard for cutting
carbon emissions and its
Water Standard for reducing
water use across our
Philip Hampton operations globally.
Chairman
Member of FTSE4Good
since 2004.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 5
CEO’s statement
Whilst 2015 has been a year of substantial There was also increased attention on the Whilst our absolute carbon footprint has
change for GSK, we have remained fully price of medicines in 2015, notably in the USA. increased during the year, we have reduced the
focussed on progressing our responsible We seek to price our medicines and vaccines value chain carbon footprint of the products we
business commitments whether it be through responsibly and sustainably to reflect both the shipped in 2015 by an average of 25% compared
proactive measures such as new ways of value they deliver – to patients, healthcare to 2010. We have also reduced direct carbon
working with healthcare professionals or systems and wider society – and the customer’s emissions by 21% since 2010. As we extend
responding to some of society’s most ability to pay. Our tiered pricing approach for access to our products, particularly propellant-
pressing health needs like Ebola. vaccines and our commitment to price medicines based inhalers, reducing our environmental
in Least Developed Countries at 25% or less impact across the value chain is increasingly
GSK’s malaria candidate vaccine, the product
of European prices are strong examples of this challenging. We continue to look at ways to
of 30 years of research, received a positive
approach. In developed markets we continue minimise this impact.
scientific opinion from European regulators this
to seek flexible approaches to pricing and look
year for use in the prevention of malaria in young Given the significant level of restructuring within
for opportunities to price according to value.
children in sub-Saharan Africa. This is an the Group, we have sought to provide support
In the USA all of our six most recently launched
important step towards making the vaccine for those leaving the company and invested in
medicines were priced at parity or at a discount
available, alongside other tools, to protect listening to our employees. Our global staff survey
to the medicines they aim to supercede.
children from malaria. We will provide the had a 78% participation rate this year. We scored
vaccine at a not-for-profit price, to ensure In January 2015, we completed the roll out of a well on measures for empowerment and resilience,
price is not a barrier to access. new compensation model for our sales teams and however scores for employee engagement
in January 2016, we stopped paying doctors to understandably fell. Senior leaders across the
Our partnership with Save the Children achieved
speak on our behalf, instead engaging with them Group are already taking steps to address this.
a major milestone when we submitted for approval
through digital channels and providing direct
an antiseptic gel to prevent potentially fatal In conclusion, I would like to thank all our
contact with our own medical teams. Not only are
umbilical cord infections in newborns in developing employees and partners for their continued hard
these changes in step with the high expectations
countries. We also accelerated the development work in supporting our goals as a responsible
society has of healthcare companies, they also
of our candidate vaccine for Ebola in response business. It is only through their efforts that we
support improving our performance.
to the outbreak in West Africa and provided have been able to achieve so much again this year.
humanitarian support for regions affected. We have clear expectations of the ethical conduct
of our people, and in 2015 we strengthened our
2015 saw increased focus on antibiotic resistance.
code of conduct training increasing its relevance
In spite of the scientific challenges in this area,
to different cultures, while maintaining global
GSK has an active pipeline, which includes a
standards. We remain vigilant on this, aware of the
potential new and first-in-class treatment that is
complex risk factors in many of the markets in which
moving towards phase III development. We are
we operate. We have fulfilled our commitment to
taking a collaborative approach to this research Sir Andrew Witty
and want to work with governments to create clinical trial transparency. Three years on since its Chief Executive Officer
inception, our clinical trials database lists more
new economic models that can help to secure
than 1,700 trials and 62 research teams have been
a new supply of antibiotics for the future.
given access to our detailed trial data.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 6
Our approach
2015 performance highlights
As a global healthcare company, the biggest
contribution we can make to society is to Fighting Malaria Transparency in clinical trial data Carbon
innovate and drive access to our medicines, The European Medicines Agency adopted 62 research teams have been given access We have reduced direct carbon emissions
vaccines and consumer healthcare products. a positive scientific opinion for our malaria to GSK trial data since 2013. (scope 1 and 2) by 21% since 2010, saving
We seek to bring health benefits to more candidate vaccine, Mosquirix, in children 62 over 1 million tonnes of COe over five years.
people around the world through our open, aged six weeks to 17 months. 21% 2
flexible and collaborative approach.
Read more on page 23
We are breaking down barriers to effective
healthcare by opening up our innovation process
to accelerate drug discovery in areas of great
Read more on page 32
unmet medical need and scientific challenge
Increasing access to HIV medication Read more on page 50
and working to address both infectious and Granted 16 royalty-free voluntary licences
non communicable diseases. We also continue that enable generic manufacturers to sell HIV Increasing transparency
medicines at significantly reduced prices. Water
to work on urgent public health emergencies, Ranked in the top three most transparent
such as the Zika and Ebola viruses, whilst FTSE 100 companies by Transparency Hit our 2015 water target a year early,
working with the global community to prevent
Read more on page 25
International in their Corporate Political reducing our usage by 25% since 2010.
or quickly control future disease outbreaks. Engagement Index. 25%
To bring new vaccines and medicines to more Reducing child mortality Read more on page 29
patients we are bringing together partners to
Through our partnership with Save the
create new delivery models and flexible pricing
Children, we have reached over 1.3 million
strategies to increase access to our products.
children with life-saving immunisations, Ethical conduct Read more on page 52
treatments and other interventions since 2013.
As of January 2016 we no longer pay
1.3m HCPs to speak to other prescribers about
our medicines and vaccines. Waste
Produced 15% less waste in 2015
Read more on page 29
versus 2014.
15%
Read more on page 23
Engagement
Over 76,000 employees, 78% of our
Tackling antibiotic resistance workforce, took part in our global employee
Our most advanced antibiotic asset is survey, providing valuable feedback. Read more on page 53
moving towards phase III studies, following 78%
positive phase II results.
Read more on page 16
Read more on page 42Our approach
Responsible business in practice
Our values, strong governance Creating value for society and shareholders
Our mission is to help people do more, feel
and stakeholder dialogue
better, live longer. We do this by researching and
inform our approach. developing medicines and vaccines that improve
people’s lives. We are working to make our
products available and affordable for the people
who need them, no matter where they live or what
they can afford. We do this through investing in
R&D, adopting flexible approaches to pricing,
promoting open innovation, and strengthening
healthcare systems. By growing our business
and extending access to our medicines, we are
ensuring long term commercial success as well
as improving people’s health, creating value for
our shareholders and delivering economic
benefits to wider society.
GSK contributes directly and indirectly to
economic growth in more than 150 countries,
through tax, charitable support and employment
of 101,255 people around the world.
Operating responsibly also supports our ability
to attract and retain talent, manage costs and
build trust with patients and consumers, our Low Medium
customers, payers and stakeholders who
influence our license to operate.
Listening to stakeholders
We welcome engagement with a range of Responding to stakeholder expectations, over The key areas identified through this process
external stakeholders to better understand their the last several years we have fundamentally as having considerable financial, operational
expectations and societal trends. Teams across changed the way we operate – from transforming or reputational impacts on the business are
GSK regularly engage with our stakeholders our sales and marketing practices (see page 31) shown in the diagram.
through exchanges with customers, suppliers to promoting open innovation to encourage
This materiality analysis is reviewed and validated
(see page 38), partners and investors, and research into unmet needs (see page 15).
annually through engagement with stakeholders.
formal engagement with patient advocacy
Identifying our priorities A detailed description of our materiality analysis
groups and policymakers (see page 36).
To identify our responsible business priorities, is available. This process helps us prioritise our
Listening and responding to our employees
we undertook a formal materiality analysis efforts on the issues that matter most to our
is also critical to help us run our business
based on the importance of each issue to business and our stakeholders.
effectively and retain the most talented people
stakeholders and the relevance to our business
(see page 42).
goals, using internal and external inputs.
sredlohekats
ot
ecnatropmI
hgiH
GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 7
Prioritising our most material issues
Access to healthcare
Ethical conduct Transparency
Product innovation
Clinical trials conduct
Responsible sales and marketing
Intellectual property rights
Lobbying and advocacy practices Product safety and quality
Energy and climate change Tax and
Community investment Diversity and inclusion economic
Animal research
Anti-counterfeiting contribution
Training and development
Waste and recycling Privacy and data security
Water use
Human rights (labour) Ethical supplier standards
Talent, attraction and reward
Health, safety and well-being
Biodiversity Security of supply
Importance to business success
To see how our Responsible Business commitments align to our material issues, see page 6.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 8
Our approach
Responsible business in practice
Our commitments Governance and conduct
We have well established, long-term responsible Our Board-level Corporate Responsibility Our governance structure and systems
business commitments which sit across four Committee (CRC) oversees our responsible
key focus areas: Health for all, Our behaviour, business activities. It meets four times a year Board
Our people and Our planet. The table on the to provide high-level guidance and reviews
(Chairman, 3 Executive Directors and 12 independent
following page shows how these are linked performance against our commitments. Both the Non-Executive Directors)
to our material issues. Chairman and CEO are amongst its members.
In 2015, Non-Executive Director Lynn Elsenhans,
We regularly review our responsible business
a long-standing member of the CRC, took over
commitments in response to stakeholder
as its Chair when Sir Christopher Gent retired
feedback and as business strategy evolves.
from the Board.
In 2015 this review resulted in two new
commitments regarding ethical conduct and Management of key non-financial risks is Corporate
Corporate Administration
working with third parties. We updated our governed by our Audit and Risk Committee. Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Finance & Transactions
commitment on access to antiretroviral treatment The Audit and Assurance team supports this Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee
for HIV, and subsumed our commitment to committee by providing an independent view
develop vaccines that don’t need to be kept cold to the Board and senior management of how
into our wider goal to build products that better risk is being managed across the business
meet people’s needs. We no longer have a consistent with an agreed Assurance Plan.
commitment to build sustainable supply lines for
Our values are: integrity, transparency, focus
our nutrition portfolio. Instead, we are tackling
on patients and respect for people. Our leaders
the environmental impacts of our product range
motivate employees to put these core values at
through our existing commitments for carbon,
the heart of their decision making. This applies
water and waste. See page 50 for how we have
to everyone at GSK, wherever they work and
substantially reduced the carbon emissions for
whatever their role is – from conducting clinical
Horlicks. In this report, we summarise progress
research to selling our medicines or interacting
in 2015 against these 23 commitments.
with patients, doctors and governments. All
employees must complete our Code of Conduct
training annually to ensure they understand how
to integrate our values into their everyday work.
We encourage the reporting of any concerns
about behaviour that goes against our values
through our Speak Up channels. We also expect
the suppliers and third parties we work with to
share our values as set out in our public policy
statement on working with Third Parties.Commitments
Our progress
Commitment Progress in 2015 Progress Link to GSK
tracker material issue
lla
rof
htlaeH
GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 9
User Key
Work needed On track Progressing well Completed
Innovation for unmet medical needs Created the world’s first Open Lab for non-communicable diseases in Africa, which has Access to healthcare
Adapt the open innovation R&D model, currently used for Diseases of the Developing appointed an independent scientific advisory board as well as selected research projects. Page 15 Product innovation
World, to apply to other areas of great unmet medical need and scientific challenge, Accelerated the development of new antibiotics, with our most advanced asset, developed Transparency
including infectious disease and Alzheimer’s disease, by 2015. in partnership, moving towards phase III development. Collaborative approach to dementia Intellectual property rights
research, supporting scientific partnerships and novel funding mechanisms to accelerate
research projects.
Better access to medicines and vaccines Partnered with Desano Pharmaceuticals to enable production of our HIV treatment in Access to healthcare
Further embed our flexible pricing strategy and innovative business models for our China and a number of developing countries; extended our price freeze commitment Page 17 Community investment
prescription medicines and vaccines, to increase usage among those less able to to 10 years for countries ‘graduating’ from Gavi support; as well as pricing all of our
access and afford our products. six most recently launched new medicines in the USA at parity or at a discount to the
medicines we aim to supercede.
Building products to better meet needs Began a clinical trial of a heat-stable, low-cost inhaled form of oxytocin, developed in Access to healthcare
Continue to build a core range of products & formats to better meet the needs of collaboration with Monash University and other partners. Submitted a regulatory application Page 19 Product innovation
people across the globe, including those less able to access and afford our products. to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for an antiseptic gel to prevent umbilical cord
infections in newborns, based on the chlorhexidine solution used in our Corsodyl mouthwash.
Reducing child mortality Through our partnership with Save the Children we have reached over 1.3 million Access to healthcare
Continue to invest in innovative cross-sector partnerships to reduce child mortality. children in the world’s poorest countries. Rewarded sustainable and scalable healthcare Page 20
innovations to improve under-five child survival rates through our annual $1 million
Healthcare Innovation Award.
Strengthening healthcare infrastructure Continued to reinvest 20% of LDC profits in 35 countries, training an additional 15,000 Access to healthcare
Continue to work with partners to support the strengthening of healthcare frontline health workers (40,000 since 2009) and reaching 5.5m people (11 million since Page 21 Community investment
infrastructure. We anticipate this could improve access to healthcare for 20 million 2009). Expanded health worker training beyond LDCs to other countries in sub-Saharan Africa.
underserved people by 2020 (vs. 2012).
Eliminating and controlling NTDs Reached over 760 million people with over 902 million albendazole tablets to eliminate Access to healthcare
Help eliminate and control 10 neglected tropical diseases that affect 1.4 billion lymphatic filariasis and control intestinal worms. Published data on 600 high-quality hits Page 22 Community investment
people, by 2020 – including the elimination of lymphatic filariasis, through our against neglected tropical diseases in 2015, after screening over two million compounds
continued investment in R&D, ongoing product donations and our contribution from our collection.
to the London Declaration on Neglected Tropical Diseases.
Fighting malaria Received a positive scientific opinion from the European Medicines Agency for our malaria Access to healthcare
Build on our 30-year commitment to contribute to the fight against malaria through candidate vaccine RTS,S, in children aged six weeks to 17 months. Launched a new Page 23 Product innovation
continued R&D investment and partnerships on the ground. £22 million partnership with Comic Relief to fight malaria in five endemic countries.Commitments
Our progress – continued
Commitment Progress in 2015 Progress Link to GSK
tracker material issue
lla
rof
htlaeH
Eradicating polio Delivered 220 million doses of oral polio vaccine in 2015, and since 1988, we have Access to healthcare
Continue to support the WHO objective of eradicating polio by 2018 by providing contributed over 16 billion doses. Invested in an inactivated polio vaccine facility in Belgium. Page 24
vaccines to UNICEF until this is achieved.
Access to antiretroviral treatment for HIV Reached 138 countries worldwide through ViiV Healthcare’s access programmes. Access to healthcare
Through ViiV Healthcare, we will continue to research new treatments, increase Granted 16 royalty-free voluntary licences that enable generic manufacturers to sell Page 25 Product innovation
access to our medicines and care for people living with HIV around the world. ViiV Healthcare products at significantly reduced prices. Together with the Clinton
We will support UNAIDS to deliver their 90-90-90 ambition by 2020. We will also Health Access Initiative, enabled pharmaceutical company Aurobindo to file an
work with communities to combat stigma and discrimination associated with HIV.* application to the US FDA for generic approval of dolutegravir in 2015.
ruoivaheb
ruO
GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 10
User Key
Work needed On track Progressing well Completed
Ethical conduct 99.9% of employees completed mandatory annual training on our Code of Conduct. Ethical conduct
We will continue to strengthen our values based culture by training our people on the Extended the training to over 30,600 complementary workers. Strengthened training Page 29
standards expected, encouraging the reporting of any concerns and embedding our with external certification for members of our Ethics and Compliance team.
values into the way we measure employee performance.
Promoting values in sales and marketing Completed the global roll-out of changes to sales team compensation. No longer pay Ethical conduct
Continue to drive a value-based approach to sales and marketing practices across healthcare professionals to speak to other prescribers about our medicines. Page 31 Responsible sales
the world, with the interests of consumers and patients at its core. and marketing
Transparency of clinical research The Wellcome Trust took over the management of the panel of external independent experts Transparency in clinical
Be as transparent as possible with our clinical trial data, including publishing that review proposals to access data on www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com, an important Page 32 trial data
clinical study reports (without patient-level data) for all outcome trials of medicines step towards creating an independent data-sharing system that includes studies from Intellectual property rights
conducted by GSK and, within an appropriate process, making available to across industry and academia. In 2015 we also met our commitment to make available
researchers access to anonymised patient level data to further scientific enquiry. global studies going back to the formation of GSK in 2000 – 1,700 studies in all.
Rigorous patient and consumer safety Recognised for our collaboration with informatics company, Epidemico, to monitor publicly Anti-counterfeiting
Continue to ensure the interests and safety of patients and consumers are of paramount available information on social media to gain insights into the adverse effects of our medicines. Page 33 Product safety and quality
importance in the way we design and undertake our clinical trials, our product quality Extended our supply chain serialisation programme, Fingerprint, across 86 packaging lines to
assurance and our monitoring and reporting of adverse events in ongoing product usage. verify products anywhere in the supply chain and help to combat counterfeiting.
Minimising animal testing Used 26% fewer animals than in 2014, a continuation of a downward trend over nine years. Animal research
Rigorously challenge the need for animal studies and work to minimise the impact 98% of animals used were rodents. Page 34
on animal welfare, by investing in the development of alternative studies and sharing
animal based data.
* Commitment updated as previous commitment ended in 2015Commitments
Our progress – continued
Commitment Progress in 2015 Progress Link to GSK
tracker material issue
ruoivaheb
ruO
Promoting human rights Labour rights included in comprehensive new programme to strengthen our management of Human rights (labour)
Address the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights across our own third party risks in the supply chain. Became a Living Wage accredited employer in the UK. Page 35
operations and our supplier relationships.
Ensuring ethical interactions Ranked in the top three most transparent FTSE 100 companies by Transparency Ethical conduct
Demonstrate that all GSK interactions with patient advocacy groups and political International in their Corporate Political Engagement Index. Produced a new Global Page 36 Lobbying and advocacy
stakeholders are conducted appropriately, ethically and transparently. Standard for Interactions with Patient Organisations. practices
Tax and Economic
Contribution
Working with third parties Introduced a comprehensive new programme to strengthen our management of third party Ethical conduct
We seek to work with third parties that share our commitment to high ethical risks in the supply chain. Identified over 1,300 high-risk suppliers that must undergo an Page 38 Human rights (labour)
standards and operate in a responsible way. If performance gaps are identified, assessment of responsible business policies and practices. Assessed around 200
where appropriate we commit to working with the third party to improve performance. high-risk distributors.
elpoep
ruO
Creating inspiring and healthy workplaces More employees than ever shared their views in our employee survey with a 78% response Health, safety and
Continue to create a working environment that inspires people to grow and perform rate. Refreshed and simplified our health and safety standards. Exceeded our graduate Page 42 wellbeing
in a healthy and resilient way. recruitment target by hiring 470 graduates and postgraduates onto our Future Leaders Training and development
and Esprit programmes globally.
Promoting inclusion and diversity Welcomed 118 more women into our Accelerating Difference programme which supports Diversity and inclusion
Continue to promote inclusion and diversity globally at GSK. career advancement for female leaders. Partnered with the UK Government’s Disability Page 44
Confident campaign to raise disability awareness across our company.
Community volunteering to create change Enabled 560 employees from 57 countries to provide over £19 million worth of skilled Community investment
Extend volunteering opportunities to bring about positive change to communities services for our non-profit partners through our PULSE volunteering programme since Page 45
and global health while providing individual development. 2009. 92% of participants’ line managers and colleagues agreed that the experience had
helped them develop their skills and performance.
tenalp
ruO
GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 11
User Key
Work needed On track Progressing well Completed
Carbon Our value chain carbon footprint has grown by 2%, largely due to continued growth in sales Energy use and climate
Reduce our overall carbon footprint by 25% by 2020 (vs. 2010) and have a carbon of our propellant-based inhalers. Direct carbon emissions declined in 2015, bringing the total Page 50 change
neutral value chain by 2050. reduction to 21% over five years. Scored 100% for our environment disclosure in the CDP.
Water Hit our 2015 water target a year early, reducing our usage by 25% since 2010 – saving Water use
By 2020, reduce our water impact across the value chain by 20% (vs. 2010). over 15 million m3, more water than we use in a whole year. Partnered with The Energy Page 52
and Resource Institute to develop water saving initiatives in rural Indian communities.
Waste Produced 15% less waste in 2015 compared to the previous year. Over 60% of our Waste and recycling
By 2020, reduce our operational waste by 50% (vs. 2010). manufacturing and R&D sites have achieved zero waste to landfill. Page 53GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 12
H ealth
for all
Our Positive Action programmes target key
affected populations to reach those at the
greatest risk of HIV infection.
Image is courtesy of International Centre for Research on Women.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 13
Health for all
Our approach
Our medicines, vaccines and consumer health
2015 highlights
products are improving quality of life for patients Increasing access to HIV medication
and consumers around the world, however Following agreement with the Medicines
many people are still not getting the treatments Patent Pool, extended access to dolutegravir
they need. Challenges include affordability, the to countries where 93% of adults with HIV
fact that there are still many diseases without Open innovation in the developing world live.
treatments, and under-resourced health systems.
We shared data with researchers on 600
We are addressing these challenges by tackling compounds that showed signs of activity
Read more on page 25
barriers to affordability and accessibility through against neglected tropical diseases, to
our flexible pricing approach, and through our support research into new treatments both
within and outside GSK. Reducing child mortality
work with key partners. We are stimulating open
innovation to target areas of unmet medical 600 Through our partnership with Save the
need, from neglected tropical diseases which Children, we have reached over 3.6 million Fighting Malaria
people including 1.3 million children with
mainly affect those in the developing world The European Medicines Agency adopted
life-saving immunisations, treatments and
to non-communicable diseases such as cancer a positive scientific opinion for our malaria
other interventions since 2013.
and diabetes. candidate vaccine, Mosquirix, and the
Read more on page 15 1.3m WHO has recommended a pilot roll-out
We are also strengthening healthcare systems
in countries in sub-Saharan Africa.
around the world through our continued
reinvestment of 20% of our profits generated We launched a new £22 million partnership
Flexible pricing
in the world’s poorest countries into training with Comic Relief to fight malaria and
front-line health workers in these regions. T cohi ms mye ita mr ew ne
t
te ox t 1e 0n d yee ad
r
so u for rp cri oc ue
n
f tr re iee sz e Read more on page 20 strengthen health systems.
In the UN’s new Global Goals for Sustainable ‘graduating’ from Gavi support, and
Read more on page 23
Development (SDGs) health is explicitly included maintained our commitment to cap the
in goal number three “ensure healthy lives and prices of our patented medicines and Strengthening healthcare infrastructure
promote wellbeing for all at all ages.” We will vaccines in Least Developed Countries at Trained an additional 15,000 front-line “ This vaccine is an historic achievement
support this by tackling some of the biggest 25% of developed world prices. All of our six health workers (40,000 since 2009) in and a welcome addition to the arsenal
global health challenges – from newborn most recently launched new medicines in the 35 least developed countries and reached of preventive tools in the fight against
mortality to malaria – and extending the benefits USA were priced at parity or at a discount 5.5m people (11 million since 2009). malaria. And I commend GlaxoSmithKline
to the medicines we aim to supercede.
of our products to more people, regardless of 11m for demonstrating resilience and ingenuity
where they live or their ability to pay. Read more on page 17 in developing this valuable asset.”
Ray Chambers
The UN Secretary-General’s Special Envoy
Read more on page 21 for Health in Agenda 2030 and for MalariaGSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 14
Health for all
In focus
Responding to Ebola and Zika Humanitarian emergency response
2014 saw a critical public health emergency GSK is committed to working with partners Every year millions of people are displaced The unit began in the UK and has been
with the outbreak of Ebola in West Africa, to help ensure a more proactive approach to by disasters and emergency situations. extended to the Asia Pacific region. In the USA,
which demanded an urgent response and the planning for global health threats so that we These crises can devastate families, leaving we recently announced a partnership with Save
impact continued in 2015. As well as providing can respond faster in the event of similar them without access to adequate food, the Children and the National Center for
humanitarian support to affected regions, GSK crises. For example we have worked with shelter or healthcare. Disaster Preparedness to help communities
accelerated the development of our candidate the US Government’s Biomedical Advanced better plan to protect and care for children
GSK works with partners and humanitarian
vaccine for Ebola at an unprecedented rate, Research and Development Authority (BARDA), in the event of a disaster.
organisations to prepare for and respond to
with trials now underway. since its inception.
emergency situations. In some instances,
Collaboration has been critical – we have been we fast-track the development of life-saving
able to fast track development of the Ebola vaccines, and in others, we contribute by
vaccine due to the fact that many different donating cash, products and our employees’
organisations, including the National Institutes time. We also invest in long-term rebuilding and
of Health in the USA, the WHO, the Wellcome reconstruction in the aftermath of a disaster.
Trust and the UK Government, have worked
In 2015, GSK worked with Save the Children
together with a common goal.
to create a strategic and operational framework
We have been closely monitoring the outbreak for humanitarian action and to mobilise the
of the Zika virus in Brazil since it began in the resources and expertise of both organisations
Autumn of 2015. We have reached out to our to strengthen our response. This included
partners and collaborators in Brazil and across providing seed funding to help Save the
the world to assess the situation and feasibility Children establish an Emergency Health Unit
of potential vaccine development. We are also – a team of specialist health workers who
evaluating our existing technology platforms, deliver basic healthcare within 72 hours after
which we believe could potentially be suitable disaster strikes.
for working on a Zika virus vaccine.
While our experience, particularly with
developing the Ebola vaccine, will be useful Anna Pantelia
in the event of future outbreaks, we recognise Save the Children
that the global community must improve
its capacity to prevent or quickly control
unpredictable disease outbreaks. This will help £1.1m
avoid devastating consequences for human
health, economies and global security.
Aubrey Wade Donated to support efforts
Save the Children
to address the global refugee crisis.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 15
Health for all
Innovation for unmet medical needs
We are breaking down Our open innovation approach In 2015 our Tres Cantos researchers screened
Our approach is based on three principles: access our library of over two million compounds for
barriers to effective
to our compounds and data, greater flexibility on signs of activity against kinetoplastids – a
healthcare by opening up intellectual property, and partnerships to share group of parasitic diseases estimated to infect
our expertise, processes and infrastructure. approximately 20 million people in the developing
our innovation process to
world – and have shared the 600 ‘hits’ identified
Diseases of the developing world
accelerate drug discovery with researchers, to encourage further research
Our open innovation model continues to advance
in this field both within and outside GSK. This
in areas of great unmet research in diseases of the developing world builds on similar exercises we have already
(DDWs) such as malaria, tuberculosis (TB)
carried out for malaria.
medical need and and neglected tropical diseases (NTDs).
scientific challenge. At our dedicated research centre in Tres Cantos,
Spain, we work exclusively on developing new Read about how we are
and innovative medicines for diseases of the eliminating and controlling
developing world, supported by and collaborating NTDs on page 22.
with other organisations including the Wellcome
Trust and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
Non-communicable diseases (NCDs)
In 2010 we took the unprecedented step of
We are also using our open innovation model to
opening these facilities to external scientists,
accelerate research into NCDs in Africa. NCDs
creating the world’s first ‘Open Lab’ where visiting
include some of the world’s biggest killers such
scientists can work on their own projects The Africa NCD Open Lab has appointed an
as cancer, diabetes, heart disease and chronic
Commitment: Adapt the open innovation while accessing GSK’s expertise, resources independent external scientific advisory board,
respiratory diseases like COPD. Most healthcare
R&D model, currently used for Diseases of capabilities. In the five years since it opened, the chaired by a leading African scientist, which will
research in Africa has focused on communicable
the Developing World, to apply to other areas Open Lab has built a portfolio of 51 research provide input into the strategy. Its first research
diseases, but NCDs are emerging as the
of great unmet medical need and scientific projects, supported 64 visiting scientists, and projects have been selected from eight sub-
continent’s next biggest killers. Recognising this
challenge, including infectious disease and resulted in 44 scientific publications and several Saharan African countries and the Lab will
gap, in 2014 we created the Africa NCD Open
Alzheimer’s disease, by 2015. promising drug discovery leads. Additionally, these also support researchers from South African
Lab, which will work in partnership with major
projects have contributed towards generating institutions in partnership with the Medical
funders, academic groups and governments to
£38 million in follow up grants to enable Research Councils of South Africa and UK.
conduct NCD research in Africa. This effort will
researchers to further their DDW research.
Progress overview: Completed be critical to achieve the World Health Assembly In the UK we are also partnering with the Medical
goal to reduce avoidable mortality from NCDs by Research Council and five universities on the
25% by 2025 and to increase understanding of Experimental Medicine Initiative to Explore New
the unique attributes of NCDs in African patients. Therapies (EMINENT). This open innovation
research initiative aims to support up to ten
experimental medicine projects on inflammatory
diseases, such as Chronic Obstructive
Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and fibrosis.
For more on our approach to NCDs, see our
policy paper.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 16
Health for all
Innovation for unmet medical needs – continued
Research into Tuberculosis Tackling antibiotic resistance
Research into Tuberculosis (TB) has stalled in Increasing resistance to existing antibiotics Alzheimer’s and dementia
the last 40 years. Yet 9 million people – many is an emerging and urgent public health crisis, Dementia is one of the leading causes
living in poverty – contracted the disease in with drug resistant infections responsible of disability and dependency among older
2013 and 1.5 million died as a result. At the for 500,000 deaths a year. This problem people globally. Alzheimer’s disease is the
same time, the emergence and spread of multi is exacerbated by scientific and economic most prevalent cause of dementia and we are
drug-resistant TB presents an increasing public obstacles that discourage research to develop extending our open innovation model to tackle
health threat and current treatments are typically new antibiotics. this challenge. Our focus is on public-private
less effective, more toxic and costlier. partnerships and new collaborative models.
Despite these challenges, we are committed
We led the ORCHID alliance (Open Collaborative to advancing research in this field. We have In 2015, we became a founding partner,
Model for Tuberculosis Lead Optimization) to our own research unit focused on developing with a £17 million Investment, in the UK
address this urgent medical need. This four-year the next generation of antibiotics and an government’s Dementia Discovery Fund
multi-sector partnership, co-funded by the active pipeline of potential new medicines – a global fund for dementia research. The
European Union and completed in 2015, aimed in development. Our most advanced asset fund, designed to speed up the discovery and
to develop new medicines against drug-resistant – a topoisomerase inhibitor, gepotidacin development of new treatments for dementia,
TB and make them available to patients quickly (GSK2140944) – has been developed in will identify and promote new avenues for
and efficiently. collaboration with the US government’s research from around the world.
Biomedical Advanced Research Development
The work of the alliance included repurposing We also continue to participate in the
Authority (BARDA). This asset has a novel
beta-lactam compounds as potential anti- US Accelerating Medicines Partnership on
mechanism of action and the potential to
tubercular drugs, using the 180 TB ‘hits’ from Alzheimer’s and the UK Dementia Platform,
address multiple indications, is now moving
our compound collection to identify targets for and to lead IMI’s PharmaCog project to
towards phase III studies, following positive In January 2016, we signed up to a declaration
future TB drug discovery programmes, creating develop new tools for testing candidate
phase II results. of more than 80 pharmaceutical and diagnostics
a portfolio of lead compounds and moving two drugs to treat Alzheimer’s.
companies, committing to work with governments
‘hits’ to pre-candidate selection stage. Our collaboration with BARDA is one of
and in parallel to develop sustainable economic
several partnerships we are involved in with
We are also advancing the phase II clinical models for antibiotics to ensure a sustainable
governments, scientific institutions and other
trial for our candidate TB vaccine, developed supply of these medicines for the future. As this commitment ended in 2015,
companies to accelerate the development of
in partnership with Aeras, with funding from we will be replacing it with a new
new antibiotics. Another key public-private
the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. commitment that will focus on important
collaboration in this field that we are active
£17m global health challenges, including
members of is the Innovative Medicines
tackling antibiotic resistance and
Initiative’s NewDrugs4BadBugs initiative,
diseases of the developing world.
which was launched in 2012 to address
all of the key issues associated with the
Investment in the
development of new antibiotics.
UK government’s Dementia Discovery FundGSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 17
Health for all
Better access to medicines and vaccines
We are working to make Affordability in low- and middle-income We supply Gavi with vaccines for cervical In middle-income countries, where many people
countries cancer (Cervarix) and for pneumococcal disease are still living in poverty, our flexible pricing
our medicines and vaccines
Six billion people live in emerging markets and (Synflorix), which has now been introduced in approach enables more people to access our
available and affordable for 300 million of them will begin using healthcare 13 countries. In 2015, we committed to freezing products. By halving the price of our Seretide
for the first time in the next five years. Our flexible our prices for developing countries that graduate inhaler devices (Accuhaler and Evohaler) in
the people who need them,
pricing strategy seeks to meet their healthcare from Gavi support so they can continue to India, we increased sales volumes by 25%
no matter where they live needs by providing more products at lower prices. purchase our vaccines at significantly discounted and 68% year-on-year during 2015. In the
We can extend access in this way because our prices for a decade after graduation. We also Philippines, GSK has introduced a card and
or what they can afford. global footprint and broad product offering allows supplied 62 million low-cost doses of Synflorix to coupon patient programme, offering discounts
us to sell high volumes of products. Gavi and over 100,000 doses to Médecins sans of between 10-60% for selected products.
Frontières to immunise children caught up in crises. In 2015, more than 58,000 patients accessed
Since 2010, we have capped the prices of
products, including antibiotics Augmentin and
our patented medicines and vaccines in Least In 2014, we extended the tiered pricing model to
Zinnat, as well as our Seretide inhaler, through
Developed Countries (LDCs) at 25% of developed include our prescription medicines. We develop
the programme.
world prices, as long as our manufacturing costs pricing strategies based on country-specific
are covered. We also have a tiered pricing circumstances, such as patient affordability, We have also participated in the Groundwork
approach for our products, where countries pay the local healthcare system, and other social Dialogue, a multi-stakeholder platform alongside
a price based on their Gross National Income and economic actors. Whilst we have increased national representatives from Colombia, Ghana,
Commitment: Further embed our flexible (GNI) per capita. access to some of our products through this Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam, to improve
pricing strategy and innovative business GSK pioneered the tiered pricing model to strategy, we know there is more work to do. In evidence-based decision-making in health
models for our prescription medicines and improve access to our vaccines and enable Bangladesh, for example, sales of GSK’s brand systems in low- and middle-income countries.
vaccines, to increase usage among those low-income countries to roll out national for cefixime have grown by 60% over four years The resulting Groundwork Framework, released
less able to access and afford our products. immunisation programmes. We offer our lowest since we reduced the price to help more people in 2015, outlines a plan for governments and
access this oral antibiotic. industry to enable people to obtain the medicines
prices on vaccines for organisations such as Gavi,
they need at a price they can afford.
the Vaccine Alliance, which supports countries
with a GNI per head of less than $1,570. Since A UN High Level Panel on Innovation and Access
Progress overview: Progressing well
2012, we have supplied nearly 89 million doses will also issue a report in 2016. Our CEO Andrew
of Rotarix vaccine to Gavi, enabling 33 LDCs Witty sits on the panel, which was convened by
to launch immunisation programmes to combat the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
rotavirus gastroenteritis, a common cause of
diarrhoea and childhood mortality.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 18
Health for all
Better access to medicines and vaccines – continued
Affordability in developed countries Building local capability and capacity Supporting community access to healthcare
Affordability can also hinder access for people Building local capabilities improves access Our targeted product and financial donations Our giving in 2015
in developed countries. We broaden access in developing countries by providing patients help local and global partners provide community
2%
to our products in these markets by having a and consumers with locally relevant products access to healthcare. In 2015, our global 5%
flexible approach, while retaining returns for our while enhancing domestic manufacturing community investment totalled £208.3 million, £m
Cash 56.6 27%
investment in innovation. For example, in the capacity and capability. compared with £201.5 million in 2014.
Product and
USA all of our six most recently launched new
Increasing local access and supply is an In 2015 our support included: in-kind 136.9
medicines were priced at parity or at a discount important part of our commitment to Africa, Time (PULSE) 3.7
to the medicines we aim to supercede. • Cash: In 2015, we donated £56.6 million in Management 11.1
and in 2015 we continued to evaluate options
cash to communities worldwide, including
In the USA, we offer various types of patient for manufacturing in Nigeria. We are also Total 208.3 66%
£40.8 million on health, wellbeing and
assistance to help ensure appropriate access investing in academia in Africa, such as through
education programmes. This includes
to our medicines. GSK has programmes for collaborating with the Royal Society of
donating £6.5 million to strengthen healthcare
eligible patients who do not have prescription Chemistry’s Pan African Chemistry Network,
infrastructure in LDCs, primarily through training
drug coverage, those with a Medicare Part D and Universities across Sub-Saharan Africa,
community health workers (see page 21).
Prescription Drug Plan and we now offer to train over 500 scientists. The collaboration
specialty product assistance for eligible insured aims to support the development of a skilled • Product donations: We donated medicines
patients. As a result of new coverage options workforce which will in turn support vibrant valued at £136.9 million. This support includes
available following the Affordable Care Act, more local healthcare economies. our Patient Assistance Programmes, over
patients are insured and fewer are requiring 900 million albendazole tablets to fight
In 2015, we announced our plans to establish
our Patient Assistance Programmes (PAP). lymphatic filariasis and soil-transmitted helminths
a new global headquarters for Asia in
However, as part of our commitment to access, (see page 22) and product donations to support
Singapore and started work on a £100 million
we continue to provide services to help patients humanitarian aid, distributed through our
pharmaceutical factory in India. Once operational,
understand alternative coverage options. partners AmeriCares, Direct Relief, IMA World
the factory will manufacture eight billion tablets
In 2015, our PAPs provided prescribed GSK Health, MAP International and Project HOPE.
and one billion capsules of anti-inflammatory
medicines and vaccines valued at $146,655,296* and gastroenterology medicines, per year, for • Expertise: Our employees volunteered time,
to 150,148 patients.
the Indian market. skills and expertise worth £3.7 million.
In 2015, we reached an agreement with the UK
In Brazil, we are collaborating with FioCruz
government to make Britain the first country with
to develop vaccines that tackle the country’s
a nationwide vaccination programme against
health priorities, and in India our joint venture
meningitis B, a potentially deadly infectious
with Biological E is developing a combination
disease. It offers fair value for the National Health
vaccine for six diseases in one. Through ViiV
Service, while ensuring GSK can continue to
Healthcare we have signed an innovative
invest in creating new treatments and vaccines.
manufacturing partnership with Desano,
a Pharmaceuticals manufacturer, to provide
our HIV treatment dolutegravir at a competitive
* GSK values product donations at the cost of goods, as we believe this
is a truer reflection of the cost to GSK than the wholesale acquisition price to China and other countries where the
cost often used by the pharma industry for valuing product donations. need is greatest.
The total value of prescribed GSK medicines and vaccines provided
through PAPs in 2015 based on wholesale acquisition cost, was
$467,055,083.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 19
Health for all
Building products to better meet needs
We are developing Making our medicines, vaccines and consumer Developing new formulations and formats Smaller pack sizes to make products
products available in appropriate formats is an We are exploring ways that our existing more affordable
new formulations and
important part of our strategy to increase access products can be reformulated to tackle different We sell smaller sachets of our products
formats that can overcome to healthcare and better meet the diverse needs health challenges. in emerging markets in order to make them
of patients and healthcare systems worldwide. more affordable, for example our Sensodyne
accessibility barriers and Through our partnership with Save the Children,
toothpaste in the Philippines and our Horlicks
Developing vaccines and medicines that we are investigating the use of a skin emollient
extend the reach of our don’t need to be kept cold containing sunflower seed oil to reduce the nutritional supplement in India. Our single-unit
inhaler products, Ventolin Rotacaps and
life-saving products. Most vaccines need to be kept cool (between risk of infection, dehydration and hypothermia Rotahaler devices, help patients living with
2°C and 8°C) during storage and distribution caused by severe and acute malnutrition in
asthma and COPD to manage the cost of their
to remain effective. In developing countries, children. We have also submitted a regulatory
treatment by buying a little at a time. This enables
maintaining this ‘cold chain’ right through to application to the European Medicines Agency
patients, particularly those who receive wages
the patient can be very challenging. for an antiseptic gel to prevent umbilical cord
on a daily or weekly basis, to access this critical
infections in newborns that has been reformulated
Through our partnership with the Bill and Melinda medication. Ventolin Rotacaps and Rotahaler
from the chlorhexidine solution used in our
Gates Foundation, we are reformulating a critical devices are registered in 32 countries, and we
Corsodyl mouthwash. See page 20 for more
liquid component used in our RTS,S candidate are expanding reach to patients in Philippines,
on our work to reduce child mortality.
malaria vaccine to enable it to remain stable for Indonesia, Vietnam, Nigeria and Kenya.
three years even at temperatures of up to 30°C. Combining more than one vaccine or treatment
Commitment: Continue to build a core By June 2015, we had demonstrated this stability can extend coverage, reduce the number
range of products and formats to better for up to one year at 30°C and for a month at up of doses that need to be transported and
meet the needs of people across the globe, to 45°C. We aim to integrate this thermostable administered by health workers, or simplify
including those less able to access and formulation into our global malaria strategy to complex drug regimens for patients.
afford our products. make it easier to transport and store the vaccine
Our flu vaccine now protects people against four
in hot regions like sub-Saharan Africa where
strains of influenza, rather than three, in a single
people are most at risk of the disease.
dose. In Bangladesh, we began a clinical study
Progress overview: Progressing well Some medicines also need to be refrigerated, in 2015 to test a four-dose vial of Synflorix,
such as oxytocin, a manufactured hormone used the pneumococcal vaccine we supply to Gavi.
to reduce excessive bleeding during or after birth If successful, this new format will reduce the
– the single biggest cause of maternal mortality. storage space and the cold chain capacity
The liquid oxytocin is hard to access in developing required for transport and use of the vaccine.
countries because of the lack of proper refrigeration
Through ViiV Healthcare, we are investigating
and trained healthcare workers to administer
the combination of multiple drugs to provide
injections. We are collaborating with Monash
more treatment options and simplify complex
University in Australia and other partners to
drug regimens for people living with HIV. ViiV
develop a heat-stable and low-cost inhaled form
Healthcare has a dedicated paediatrics group
of oxytocin. In 2015, we began a clinical trial of
focused on developing antiretroviral treatments
this new dry powder formulation.
adapted for infants and children (see page 25).GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 20
Health for all
Reducing child mortality
Through our vaccines, Approximately 16,000 children under five Using insights and on-the-ground knowledge Through our PULSE volunteering programme
die every day, many from preventable causes. from Save the Children, we have been working to (see page 45), over 45 GSK employees have
medicines and pioneering
Due to social and economic inequalities, reformulate the antiseptic chlorhexidine solution volunteered with Save the Children since 2013.
partnership with Save under-five mortality in low-income countries is used in GSK’s Corsodyl mouthwash into a gel to
We also encourage employee fundraising, and
11 times higher than in high-income countries. prevent umbilical cord infections. This issue is
the Children, we are since the partnership began GSK employees
exacerbated in developing countries, where many
We are committed to helping to save one million have raised over £1.65 million, which has been
contributing to the urgent births take place at home and without proper
children’s lives in the world’s poorest countries increased to £3.3 million through matched
health care. In October 2015, we submitted a
effort to reduce child through our ground-breaking partnership with regulatory application to the European Medicines funding from GSK. The money raised is used
Save the Children. Our efforts include developing to support the health programmes in Kenya
Agency. If approved for use, we will offer the
mortality globally. child-friendly medicines, widening immunisation and the DRC, as well as Save the Children’s
antiseptic gel at a not-for-profit price and we will
coverage, accelerating access to treatments humanitarian relief efforts and local programmes
share our knowledge with others so it can be
and strengthening healthcare systems. This in other countries around the world.
manufactured locally. Read more about our work
commitment is an important contribution to the
with Save the Children on pages 14, 19 and 45. Other efforts to reduce child mortality
UN Global Goals for Sustainable Development
Vaccines to immunise children are critical
to end preventable deaths of newborns and Our programmes with Save the Children in the
to reducing childhood mortality. Through our
children under five years of age by 2030. Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Kenya
work with Gavi, we provide reduced-price
aim to establish models that can be replicated
Partnering to help save one million vaccines to help protect more than 300 million
in other developing countries. For example, in
children’s lives children from diseases such as rotavirus and
the DRC, where over 300,000 children a year
Through our partnership with Save the pneumococcal disease.
Commitment: Continue to invest in innovative die before reaching their fifth birthday, we are
Children we are combining our capabilities in
cross-sector partnerships to reduce child delivering essential services for neonatal, We have also committed to donate up to
R&D, supply chain, procurement and vaccines
mortality. maternal and child health. In Kenya, where we are 400 million tablets of albendazole each year until
with the charity’s expertise working with the most
supporting the charity’s newborn child survival 2020 in support of the WHO’s goal to de-worm
vulnerable children. Together we are delivering
programme, we have trained over 570 community 75% of children in countries where intestinal
tangible results. To date, we have reached over
health workers, set up 57 community health units worms are endemic (see page 22).
Progress overview: On track 1.3 million children. Over 23,500 under-fives
and refurbished over 33 maternity centres.
have been fully immunised, over 125,000 children Many of our health worker training programmes
have been treated for diarrhoea, malaria or In February 2016, we announced the winners of (see page 21) focus on reducing child and
pneumonia, and over one million children have the third annual $1 million Healthcare Innovation maternal mortality in rural communities.
been screened for malnutrition. Award, set up by GSK and Save the Children to For example, in Nepal, we work with CARE
reward sustainable and scalable healthcare International and the government to improve
innovations that have resulted in tangible maternal, neonatal and reproductive health.
improvements to under-five child survival We are improving the skills of frontline health
rates. The 2016 winners include innovations workers, providing health equipment, and
in strengthening health systems, community enabling local communities to feedback on
programmes and treatment strategies from how health centres perform and the quality of
Africa, Asia and South America. The overall services provided. Through our support, over
winner was a digital immunisation system 6,000 health workers in Nepal have been trained,
developed by PATH in South Vietnam. reaching more than one million beneficiaries.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 21
Health for all
Strengthening healthcare infrastructure
Our reinvestment in Least By 2035, the world will face an estimated shortfall • Amref Health Africa supported elearning More than 35,000 children in Mozambique have
of nearly 13 million frontline health workers. A lack training for 500 nurses and midwives in now been registered in our mVacciNation pilot
Developed Countries (LDCs)
of trained health workers already presents a Tanzania and Uganda. programme with Vodafone, which seeks to improve
has trained over 40,000 fundamental barrier to accessing quality healthcare vaccination rates using mobile phones. Parents
GSK is supporting the UN One Million Community
for people in the world’s poorest countries. and caregivers receive updates on their phones to
frontline health workers, Health Workers Campaign that advocates for
remind them when vaccinations are due, and over
With our partners, we are training frontline health recruitment and formal recognition by Ministries
supporting 11 million workers, supporting community education and of Health of one million community health workers. 55,000 vaccination visits have been recorded.
underserved people. advocating for increased investment in health We are funding a pilot to train 1,800 health workers In addition, healthcare workers are responsible
system strengthening. in Ghana, which the Campaign aims to showcase for recording vaccination stock levels and
to catalyse further investment in the programme. refrigerator temperatures on a weekly basis
Reinvesting in healthcare
through the phone. An average of five stock
In the LDCs where we operate, we reinvest 20% In 2015, to increase access to healthcare and
updates, and three cold chain updates, per week
of our profits from the sales of our pharmaceutical deliver long-term economic growth across Africa,
were recorded by 17 facilities. In December the
and consumer healthcare products to train and we expanded health worker training beyond
service was expanded to 76 facilities.
educate community frontline health workers in LDCs to Ghana, Kenya and Nigeria. We are
those countries. Since 2009, we have reinvested supporting Amref Health Africa train 2,500 health With funding from USAID and Gavi, a randomized
£21 million of our LDC profits in 35 countries, workers in Kenya on managing diabetes and control trial will measure the impact of the pilot
training 40,000 frontline health workers, childhood asthma. We are also working with and assess cost effectiveness to inform decisions
Commitment: Continue to work with partners including midwives, nurses and community Save the Children to build the capacity of 5,000 about scaling up the programme in Mozambique
to support the strengthening of healthcare health workers and volunteers, who have in frontline health workers across three Nigerian and other African countries.
infrastructure. We anticipate this could improve turn reached 11 million people. states to reach more than 400,000 children
We are also contributing to a joint initiative by the
access to healthcare for 20 million underserved under five and their mothers. By end 2017,
To ensure the sustainability of our reinvestment WHO and International Telecommunications Union
people by 2020 (vs. 2012). we aim to have trained 75,000 health workers,
programmes, they are tailored to meet specific to assist governments to use mobile technology
benefitting millions of underserved patients.
community needs and align with government health to prevent and treat non-communicable diseases
priorities. Working with our partners, Amref Health Partnering to develop new healthcare in both developed and developing countries. The
Progress overview: Progressing well Africa, CARE International and Save the Children, delivery models initiative targets risk factors and conditions such
we focus on training frontline health workers and We are exploring how technology and new as smoking, hypertension, diabetes and poor diets.
educating communities on basic preventative business models can be used to transform In Costa Rica, for example, a campaign using
health. We build capacity by improving health the way healthcare is delivered in developing text messages to help people stop smoking
facilities, equipping training centres and advocating countries around the world. encouraged 12% of participants to quit.
for improved policies and increased investments
GSK’s three-year partnership with Barclays In 2015, we began working with Marie Stopes
from governments. In 2015, with our support:
seeks to develop new business models that International, an NGO, to pilot a scalable
• CARE International trained 170 midwives from increase access to healthcare and stimulate women’s health intervention programme in
local communities in Bangladesh, who have been economic development in Zambia. In 2015, Bangladesh, Madagascar and Sierra Leone to
formally accredited and salaried by the government. we worked together to launch a one-year pilot screen, prevent and treat cervical cancer. The
of a social enterprise with CARE International programme will target 45,500 women, aged
• Save the Children successfully lobbied the Mali
to train community entrepreneurs to sell health 30 to 49, and will expand the roll out of our
government to recruit 637 health professionals
products door-to-door. Cervarix cervical cancer vaccine for young girls.
by demonstrating the effectiveness of our
community health worker training programme.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 22
Health for all
Eliminating and controlling neglected tropical diseases
We are partnering with NTDs are a group of communicable diseases Albendazole donation Researching new treatments
prevalent in 149 developing countries and We have pledged to donate albendazole for as long The scale and complexity of NTDs requires
others to free millions of
affecting over one billion people. Nearly one as needed to help eliminate LF, a mosquito-borne an open and flexible approach to innovation.
people from the debilitating in six people worldwide suffers from at least worm disease that causes disfiguring swelling of In addition to our own R&D group dedicated
one NTD. The debilitating effects – including limbs and genitals known as elephantiasis. We to NTDs and other diseases of the developing
effects of neglected tropical
disability, disfiguration and death – have are also committed to providing up to 400 million world (DDWs), we are prioritising research in
diseases (NTDs). a detrimental impact on the health and albendazole tablets a year to help treat school this area at the Tres Cantos Open Lab (see page
economies of the world’s poorest countries. age children at risk of intestinal worms where 15). GSK is also a founding member of WIPO
these soil-transmitted helminths are endemic. Re:Search, an open innovation platform that
Together with our partners in the London
seeks to accelerate the development of new
Declaration on NTDs, we are committed to In 2015, we donated 644 million albendazole
and better treatments against NTDs.
controlling or eliminating at least 10 of these tablets for LF elimination and 258 million tablets to
NTDs by 2020. In 2015, this partnership of major treat intestinal worms. In total, we have donated Our open innovation process resulted in the
pharmaceutical companies, UN organisations, nearly six billion tablets over 16 years, reaching publication of 600 high-quality hits against
academics, NGOs and national governments over 760 million people including 212 million NTDs in 2015, after screening over two million
released its third annual report and scorecard. school aged children. compounds from our collection. Scientists
While progress is being made towards the WHO working at Tres Cantos have also made progress
Commitment: Help eliminate and control ten
targets, challenges remain. Our contribution on developing the first preclinical candidate to
NTDs that will affect 1.4 billion people by 2020,
focuses on our large-scale donation of albendazole, treat Visceral Leishmaniasis and a promising
including the elimination of lymphatic filariasis
efficient forecasting, manufacturing and shipping pre-candidate drug to combat Chagas disease.
(LF), through our continued investment in R&D,
of donated products, global research and advocacy.
ongoing product donations and our contribution
to the London Declaration on NTDs. Our donation of albendazole enables de-worming
of school age children in all endemic countries.
We also have an extensive R&D effort on NTDs,
which focuses on African sleeping sickness,
Progress overview: Progressing well Chagas disease and Leishmaniasis. Through
our efforts, we hope to make a significant
contribution to new targets to end NTDs by
2030 that form part of the UN Global Goals
for Sustainable Development.
Albendazole tablet donations 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total (since 1999)
Tablets for LF elimination (m) 585.7 588.9 647.9 678.6 643.6 5,269
Tablets to treat intestinal worms (m) 16.8 121.0 114.5 180.2 258.3 690.8
Total 602.6 709.9 762.4 858.8 901.8 5,959.7GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 23
Health for all
Fighting malaria
After 30 years of research, A child in Africa dies from malaria every two Using our open innovation approach Partnerships to fight malaria
minutes. Most are under the age of five. Malaria In addition to our significant investment in the Since 2001, we have supported the Africa
we are now closer than ever
and poverty are closely linked, so the communities development of a vaccine to prevent malaria, Malaria Partnership to promote the use of existing
to making available the at highest risk from the disease are often those we are also continuing our research into new interventions, such as bed nets, indoor residual
with the least access to prevention, diagnosis and better treatments for those who contract spraying, and anti-malarial treatments.
world’s first vaccine against
and treatment. the disease. Our research has resulted in the
In 2015, we continued our partnerships with
this devastating disease. discovery of a pre-clinical candidate that is
For the last 30 years, together with our partners, Amref Health Africa and Save the Children to
effective against current malarial parasites.
we have been working to develop a vaccine to train health professionals and community health
protect young children from this deadly parasite. To stimulate external drug discovery research workers in Tanzania and Kenya respectively.
In 2015, we reached a significant milestone for malaria, we published over 13,500 promising We also continued our work with FHI 360 and
on our journey. The European Medicines Agency ‘hits’ from our compound collection in 2010. The Carter Center to combine interventions to
adopted a positive scientific opinion for our control malaria and NTDs in Ghana and Nigeria,
We have also been working with MMV to
malaria candidate vaccine Mosquirix, or RTS,S, and with the Faiths Act Sierra Leone to train 47
progress the development of tafenoquine,
in children aged six weeks to 17 months. faith leaders to become malaria ambassadors.
a drug to treat and prevent P. vivax malaria,
WHO has recommended that RTS,S should a strain occurring primarily in South and South In December 2015, we launched a new
be introduced through a pilot roll-out. WHO is East Asia, Latin America and the horn of Africa. partnership with Comic Relief, a UK charity,
now actively working with financing bodies, and The phase III trial programme is currently to fight malaria and strengthen health systems.
Commitment: Build on our 30-year the malaria vaccine clinical trials partnership investigating Tafenoquine in adult patients This £22 million partnership, created by a
commitment to contribute to the fight (including PATH and GSK) to generate support with P. vivax malaria. £17 million donation from GSK and £5 million
against malaria through continued R&D for the pilots, and to finalise the design of the from Comic Relief, will make grants to frontline
investment and partnerships on the ground. pilot implementation programme. organisations in five malaria endemic countries.
This complements interventions by other global
GSK developed RTS,S in partnership with the
health funders and grassroots organisations.
PATH Malaria Vaccine Initiative and with funding
Through this collaboration, we aim to support
Progress overview: Progressing well from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
the WHO target to reduce malaria cases and
The vaccine candidate targets a malarial parasite,
deaths by at least 90% by 2030 and support
P. falciparum, which is most prevalent in sub-
the Global Goals for Sustainable Development.
Saharan Africa. Trials have shown that its use,
along with bed nets and insecticides, can help
protect the region’s most vulnerable children.
GSK has committed to supply RTS,S at a
not-for-profit price. The price will cover the cost
of manufacturing the vaccine together with
a small return of around five per cent that will
be reinvested in research and development.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 24
Health for all
Eradicating polio
We are using our vaccines Polio is an infectious viral disease that mainly
affects children and has no known cure. In many
and technologies to support
instances, it can cause life-long paralysis. For
the eradication of polio. the past 25 years, 99% of the world has been
polio-free. GSK played a key role in achieving
this, in partnership with other organisations,
and we are committed to supporting the WHO’s
goal to completely eradicate the disease.
In September 2015, the WHO announced
that polio is no longer endemic in Nigeria.
This follows the 2014 milestone of India being
declared polio-free. This is good news, however
the virus remains endemic in two countries:
Commitment: Continue to support the
Afghanistan and Pakistan. Without eradication
WHO objective of eradicating polio by
the global threat of polio remains. In 2015, new
2018 by providing vaccines to UNICEF
outbreaks were confirmed in Madagascar.
until this is achieved.
Through the Global Polio Eradication Initiative
(GPEI), we supply the oral polio vaccine (OPV)
to the countries that most need it.
Progress overview: Progressing well
In 2015, we delivered 220 million doses of OPV, Inactivated polio vaccine (IPV) is replacing
2 20m and since 1988, we have contributed over OPV in countries where the disease has been
16 billion doses. We expect to meet our full, eradicated to prevent re-emergence of the
three-year contractual commitment to GPEI disease. We already supply IPV to developed
by delivering 300 million doses in 2016 and countries and we are investing in a new IPV facility
In 2015, we supplied 220 million another 150 million in 2017. in Belgium, due to begin production in 2018.
doses of the oral polio vaccine.
In 2015, WHO scientists recommended the In 2013 we formed Qualivax, a joint venture with
transition to an OPV that targets only two disease Indian pharmaceutical company, Biological E,
strains, instead of the usual three. By removing to create a combination vaccine that includes
the type 2 strain (which has not been detected inactivated polio virus (IPV) and vaccines for five
since 1999) the very small risk of the disease other diseases in a single dose. We expect the
re-emerging from the vaccine itself is eliminated. vaccine to be available by 2020. Following the
In line with this strategy, we are ready for a eradication of polio, this combination vaccine
successful switch to the two-strain vaccine will be an important tool to help prevent a
in April 2016. We have also stockpiled large resurgence of the disease, particularly in the
amounts of OPV to be kept available for use developing world.
by UNICEF in the event of an outbreak.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 25
Health for all
Access to antiretroviral treatment for HIV
Through research and Worldwide, 35 million people are living with HIV but Increasing access to HIV treatment and care Improving outcomes for key affected
only 38% of adults and 24% of children are getting Extending access to HIV treatment and care is populations
collaboration we are
treatment. We are supporting efforts to work a priority, particularly in low-income countries Stigma remains one of the biggest barriers to
developing and increasing towards universal coverage. Our priority is to where nearly 90% of people affected by HIV live. people getting tested, disclosing their HIV status
develop new medicines for HIV/AIDS and ensure ViiV Healthcare’s access programmes reach 138 and starting treatment. Since 1992, we have
access to treatments for
they can be accessed by the people who need countries worldwide and 16 royalty-free voluntary supported the HIV community to fight stigma and
HIV/AIDS. them most. licences enable generic manufacturers to sell its discrimination, and promote healthcare access
products to donor agencies and public sector by working with more than 350 community based
Delivering new treatments
programmes at a significantly reduced price. organisations and other stakeholders.
Tivicay (dolutegravir) was first approved by the US
FDA in 2013 and is now available in 61 countries. Following a 2014 agreement with the Medicines We target our efforts in key affected populations
Triumeq, a combined antiretroviral drug, was Patent Pool (MPP), a UN-backed organisation to reach those at the greatest risk of HIV infection.
approved in 2014, and is available in 31. that encourages voluntary licencing and patent Our programmes include the £25 million Positive
pooling, ViiV Healthcare has introduced the first Action for Children Fund, support for prevention
Innovative formulations and delivery methods are
ever MPP licence with a tiered royalty system of mother-to-child transmission; and raising
vital for people living with HIV. ViiV Healthcare is
tailored to national GDPs. This strategy extends awareness of HIV prevention, testing and care
working with Janssen, a pharmaceutical research
access to dolutegravir to countries where 93% among adolescents, girls, women, men who have
Commitment: Through ViiV Healthcare, company, to develop a two-drug single tablet
of adults with HIV in the developing world live, sex with men and the transgender community. For
we will continue to research new treatments, regimen combining dolutegravir and rilpivirine
and to paediatric formulations of the drug in the example, in 2015 we announced a US$10 million
increase access to our medicines and care for patients who are already virally suppressed.
121 countries where more than 99% of children (£6.7 million), four-year ACCELERATE! Initiative
for people living with HIV around the world. We are also exploring combining cabotegravir
with HIV live. to catalyse community support for black gay and
We will support UNAIDS to deliver their and rilpivirine, two long-acting formulations
bisexual men in the US cities hardest hit by HIV.
90-90-90 ambition by 2020*. We will also that could be administered much less frequently We are also helping to improve access by
work with communities to combat stigma than existing medicines, making it easier for facilitating the approval process for generic Antiretroviral treatment coverage is often lower
and discrimination associated with HIV. people to adhere to treatment. In addition, versions of dolutegravir. In 2015, our partnership for children than adults. ViiV Healthcare has
we are investigating the use of cabotegravir with the Clinton Health Access Initiative enabled a dedicated R&D work stream to develop
as a prevention in high-risk populations. Indian pharmaceutical company Aurobindo to file formulations and therapies better suited for infants
an application to the US FDA for generic and children under the age of 15. We developed
As part of our ongoing research into antiretroviral
Progress overview: Progressing well approval of dolutegravir. With FDA approval, paediatric taste-masked formulations of abacavir
treatments, we support more than 20 clinical
generic dolutegravir could be supplied through and lamivudine to improve adherence of children
studies involving over 25,000 patients across
the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief to therapy. Since receiving tentative approval from
Africa and Asia. These studies address
in licensed countries outside of the USA. the FDA in 2014 for the treatment, our partners
areas for patients in these regions, including
In the US and Europe, Tivicay and Triumeq Mylan and the Clinton Health Access Initiative
prevention of mother-to-child transmission,
are available to patients through the relevant have been working to make it available to
TB co-infection, paediatrics and adolescents.
national health services. countries covered by the license agreement.
Findings from these studies will be used to
inform local and global HIV treatment programmes
See the ViiV Healthcare website
and improve access for patients in these regions.
for more information, including
our new series of policy
* 90% of people living with HIV to know their HIV status, 90%
documents on key issues.
of those diagnosed to receive sustained antiretroviral therapy and
90% of those receiving therapy to have an undetectable viral load.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 26
Our
behaviour
As of January 2016, we no longer pay HCPs
to speak to other prescribers about our
medicines and vaccines.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 27
Our behaviour
Our approach
We are driven by our values in everything we do
2015 highlights
– from developing, testing and manufacturing Working with third parties
new medicines to engaging with governments We introduced a comprehensive new
on appropriate policies. programme to strengthen management
of environmental and social risks in the
Using rigorous standards and controls, we
Transparency in clinical trial data supply chain, and identified around 1,300
prioritise patient safety, transparency and acting
high risk suppliers and 200 distributors that
with integrity in all our research and clinical trials. We have given 62 research teams access
must undergo further assessment through
We then continuously monitor and report any to clinical trial data, enabling further
this programme.
potential adverse effects from our medicines research and maximising the contribution
and vaccines when prescribed by physicians made by the thousands of volunteers 1,300
and patients participating in our studies.
and used by patients.
62
We expect all our employees and suppliers A sales force that puts patient
to live our values. Mandatory annual training needs first
ensures our people know our Code of Conduct,
In January 2015, we completed the roll-out
Read more on page 38
and we measure their performance not just by
of changes to the way our sales teams are
what they deliver, but how they deliver them in Read more on page 32 compensated globally. Our pharmaceutical
line with our values. medical representatives no longer have Increasing transparency
We have significantly changed our commercial individual sales targets. In 2015, GSK was ranked among the
model to lead the industry in the way we sell Ethical conduct top three most transparent FTSE 100
and market our medicines, to ensure patients’ 99.9% of our people completed mandatory Read more on page 31 companies in Transparency International’s
needs come first. Our pharmaceutical medical annual training on our Code of Conduct Corporate Political Engagement Index.
representatives the world no longer have in 2015, including complementary workers Top 3
“ I think the interaction between the
individual sales targets. Instead, they are who were required to take the training for
pharmaceutical industry and doctors is open
assessed and compensated based on their the first time.
to critique. Any interaction between industry
knowledge and quality of service they deliver 99.9%
and the health professional community
to healthcare professionals (HCPs) and
needs to be open and transparent.”
broader business performance. Read more on page 32
One of our core values is respect for people and Sir Michael Rawlins
human rights are fundamental to this. GSK is a Chair of the Medicines and Healthcare
signatory to the UN Global Compact and we are
Read more on page 29 Products Regulatory Agency.
exploring how to implement the UN Guiding
Principles on Business and Human Rights
across our value chain.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 28
Our behaviour
In focus
The ethics and compliance academy
Our values dictate how we behave and guide Nick Hirons, Head of Global Ethics and
the decisions we make. Our Global Ethics and Compliance, said: “We wanted to go beyond
Compliance team play a major role in embedding training, to take people on a development
a values-based culture by providing tools to journey from compliance professionals to ethics
establish robust internal controls and create an and compliance experts. Our goal is to help
ethical culture where people feel comfortable participants help the business make values-
raising concerns. based decisions, and recognise and confidently
navigate in ethical grey zones.”
In 2015, we introduced a new Ethics and
Compliance Academy that provides in-depth Through the Academy, we are building a network
training and external certification for members of informed, engaged and effective ethics and
of this team worldwide. The aim of this innovative compliance officers. In 2015, we ran five Academy
model is to strengthen compliance and ethics sessions with 198 employees from 90 countries –
by promoting a common approach on ethics 97% agreed that they had learned new skills and
and compliance across the business. 98% agreed that the Academy was a valuable
use of their time.
Over five days of interactive activities, case
studies and presentations from internal and We plan to develop a less specialised version of
external experts, participants learn how to the Academy for senior leaders and employees in
apply GSK’s values practically on a day to day our legal, human resources and audit functions.
basis and how to detect potential risk areas By enhancing their knowledge in ethics and
across the business. On completion of the compliance, we can create an even stronger
course, participants must successfully pass an ethical culture across GSK.
examination to receive a Leading Professional
in Ethics and Compliance (LPEC) certification
issued by the Ethics & Compliance Initiative
(ECI), a non-profit organisation. Those who
have completed the course have achieved a
98% pass rate, with an average score of 88%.
90
In 2015, we ran Academy sessions
with 198 employees from 90 countries.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 29
Our behaviour
Ethical conduct
We are guided by our Training employees on our expectations Embedding our values in performance
We train our people to put our values into measurement
values – integrity,
practice and make the right choices if they Living our values is one of the six expectations
transparency, focus on are faced with ethical dilemmas. Our Code of we use to measure employees’ performance
Conduct and a dedicated online resource centre through our global performance system.
patients and respect for
provide the guidance and tools they need to This puts the emphasis on the way employees
people – in everything apply our values in their everyday activities, achieve results, rather than just the results
wherever they work around the world. themselves. As part of this continued focus
we do. on embedding values in our performance
In 2015, 99.9% of employees completed
management, in 2015 we extended our existing
mandatory annual training on our Code
recoupment programme to cover approximately
of Conduct. The online course is available
1,100 senior managers globally. We have also
in 23 languages and includes training on
fundamentally changed the compensation model
our values, ethical leadership, anti-bribery
for our sales teams to focus on patient needs.
and corruption, and reporting any issues
See page 31 for more on promoting values in
or concerns.
sales and marketing practices.
We have increased managers’ accountability
Anti-bribery and Corruption
to ensure that their employees take part in the
Commitment: We will continue to strengthen training, and in 2015 we extended this mandatory We have zero tolerance for bribery or corruption
our values-based culture by training training to over 30,600 complementary workers in any form. Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption
our people on the standards expected, for the first time. Employees who fail to complete (ABAC) programme includes risk assessments,
encouraging the reporting of any concerns, the course may face disciplinary action, as standards and additional training for people
and embedding our values into the way defined and permitted by local labour laws. working in high risk areas. More than 54,000
we measure employee performance. In 2015, 97 people received written or verbal employees completed this training in 2015.
We are now rolling out a new and simpler
warnings after failing to complete the course
framework to engage and train third parties
in the required time frame, even after being
based on their risk profile.
granted an extension.
Progress overview: Progressing well
In our 2015 employee survey, 85% of respondents
agreed that their work environment encourages
ethical behaviour even in the face of pressures
to meet business objectives.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 30
Our behaviour
Ethical conduct – continued
Reporting and investigating misconduct Disciplinary Action
We centrally track misconduct allegations, Disciplinary action is taken when employees Employees disciplined in 2015:
concerns and security incidents received fail to act in line with our policies. In 2015 3,574 breakdown of types of policy violation.
through our Speak Up channels, monitoring, employees were disciplined for policy violations
and other routes. In 2015 we received over (3,947 in 2014). The types of policy violations 1%
5,780 such reports or allegations. The majority (see chart) in 2015 remained broadly the same 1% Attendance/payroll
2% 7%
of these, 3,257 (3,203 in 2014) were through as in 2014. Attendance and payroll remains G ood Manufacturing Practices/
4% Good Distribution Practices
our Speak Up channels which offer people the biggest type of violation at 48% of the total 4%
T ravel and expenses
within and outside GSK the opportunity to ask (43% in 2014), followed by good manufacturing 5%
48% Marketing and promotional activities
questions and voice concerns anonymously practices at 11% (10% in 2014). Travel and 7%
or confidentially through an independent third expenses violations increased to 10% (3% in
Code of conduct
party by phone or online. 2014), due to increased frequency of monitoring. 10% Local work regulations
11% Unauthorised absenteeism
All concerns raised are reviewed and over Of the total disciplined, 297 received verbal
EHS/safety
2,670 formal investigations were initiated warnings, 2,890 employees received a
Falsification of documents
in response to these allegations. The five documented warning (3,131 in 2014) and 387
Training completion
most frequent categories of allegation were (373 in 2014) were dismissed or agreed to leave
Other
employee performance/relations, product the company voluntarily. The highest number of
promotion, interactions with HCPs, fraud dismissals were related to travel and expense
and ABAC. policy violations which accounted for 130
dismissals, followed by 31 dismissals related
to Code of Conduct violations and 22 for
attendance/payroll violations.
Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are
faced with various complex product liability,
anti-trust and patent litigation, as well as
investigations of its operations conducted
by various governmental regulatory agencies.
Further details of ongoing investigations are
set out on page 71 of the Annual Report.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 31
Our behaviour
Promoting values in sales and marketing practices
We have transformed the Creating a sales force that puts patient Changing the way we engage with HCPs Disclosing payments made to HCPs
needs first We remain committed to ongoing dialogue GSK is committed to disclosing the payments
way we compensate our
In January 2015, we completed the roll-out with the scientific community and supporting we make to HCPs and healthcare organisations,
salesforce and engage with of changes to the way our sales teams are medical education, but we are making changes on an individual or aggregate basis. We already
compensated globally. Our pharmaceutical to transform and modernise the way we engage do so in several countries, including Australia,
healthcare professionals
medical representatives around the world no with HCPs. As of January 2016, we no longer Denmark, France, Japan, the Netherlands,
to ensure patient needs longer have individual sales targets. Instead, pay HCPs to speak to other prescribers about Portugal, Slovakia, the UK and the US, in line
they are incentivised based on their technical our prescription medicines and vaccines. We will with locally agreed government or industry
come first. knowledge, the quality of service they deliver continue to pay HCPs for providing services and association codes. In 2017, we plan to disclose
to healthcare professionals (HCPs) to support for participating in our clinical research. These payments on an aggregate basis in Canada.
improved patient care, and a broader set of payments are governed by rigorous controls
We support increased transparency in other
business performance measures. Our sales and are based on fair market value.
countries where industry associations or
teams are listening to customers’ needs and
GSK is also changing the way it supports medical governments establish specific guidelines
using the right GSK resources to help support
education by no longer playing a role in choosing for disclosure. For example, the new code
the delivery of improved patient care.
which healthcare professionals are sponsored on disclosure of payments to HCPs from
In the USA, the approach has generated strong to attend scientific congresses. Instead, the the European Federation of Pharmaceutical
positive customer feedback. In a survey of 3,599 company will provide funding to independent Industries and Associations (EFPIA) requires
Commitment: Continue to drive a values- US HCPs in July 2015, GSK ranked first in both professional bodies who will allocate funding any payments made from 1st January 2015
based approach to sales and marketing trust and customer value for the second time in to individuals – another industry first. We will onwards to be reported on an annual basis.
practices across the world, with the interests a row. Simplifying the system has resulted in a also support independent medical education by The first reports are expected to be published
of consumers and patients at its core. significant increase in engagement levels among providing grant funding to recognised education in June 2016.
our US sales teams. In a 2015 employee survey, providers. These programmes are independent
75% of respondents agreed that US Pharma is and we do not influence the programme content.
making the changes necessary to compete and
To provide information about our medicines
Progress overview: Progressing well 81% said they were proud to work for GSK.
and vaccines in the way HCPs want it, when they
Our sales and marketing employees, along with want it, we are making significant investments in
relevant third parties, must follow our Code of digital platform and capabilities, as well as in our
Practice for Promotion and Customer Interactions. in-house medical capabilities.
In markets where GSK experts are speaking,
HCPs have found them to be highly effective
and informative. In Canada, where we stopped
payments to HCPs in early 2015, GSK expert
speakers had delivered the same number of
Medical Product Information Sessions by June as
external HCPs had during all of 2014. Attendees
commented on the strong scientific knowledge
and communication skills of GSK speakers.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 32
Our behaviour
Transparency in clinical trial data
We are advancing medical The safety and effectiveness of new medicines We were also the first pharmaceutical company Initially, proposals were reviewed by a panel
must be demonstrated through clinical trials. to sign up to the AllTrials campaign for trials to of external independent experts appointed by
science and patient care by
Providing greater access to data from these be registered and results reported. In 2015, the GSK. In 2015, the Wellcome Trust took over
providing greater access trials – regardless of whether the results might campaign received support from 85 investors, management of this panel and appointed new
be considered positive or negative – allows representing more than £2.5 trillion of assets, members. This is an important step towards
to clinical trial information.
others to conduct further research. This also in the USA, Europe and Australia. achieving our vision of an independent data-
helps us ensure we maximise the contribution sharing system that includes studies from across
In 2012, we committed to share the detailed
made by the thousands of volunteers and industry and academia. We are in discussions with
patient-level data that sit behind clinical trial
patients participating in our studies. groups that are driving progress on this, such as
results to support further research that can
the Harvard Multi-Regional Clinical Trials Centre,
Since 2004, we have had an online clinical study advance science and improve patient care.
the Wellcome Trust, the Arnold Foundation and
register where we make available information on This data is anonymised to protect patient
the National Academy of Medicine.
our trials, including summaries of results. confidentiality. To access it, researchers must
submit research proposals to an independent
For the past number of years we have led the
review panel to ensure the data will be used
industry in sharing information and data about
Commitment: Be as transparent as possible for valid scientific enquiry.
trials to advance medical science and patient
with our clinical trial data, including publishing
care. We were the first company to make Clinical
clinical study reports (without patient-level Study Reports (CSRs) publicly available. These 1 18
data) for all outcome trials of medicines
formal reports are the basis of submissions
conducted by GSK and, within an appropriate
to regulatory agencies and include detailed
process, making available to researchers Research proposals have
information on the design, methods and results
access to anonymised patient level data to been submitted to access
of our trials. We post them on our clinical study
further scientific enquiry. GSK trial data
register with patients’ personal information
removed. The register now includes over 5,800
Three years on, the system set up by GSK
summaries of trial results and 663 CSRs.
for researchers to request access to data
Progress overview: Completed
www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com, lists over
1,700 of our global clinical trials conducted since
the formation of GSK and includes clinical trials
from 12 other companies. By the end of 2015,
118 research proposals had been submitted to
access data from GSK trials. We have already given
62 research teams access to detailed trial data.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 33
Our behaviour
Rigorous patient and consumer safety
Patient safety is paramount Understanding the risks Our global risk register helps research Combating risks from counterfeit products
Before prescribing or taking any medicine, teams keep track of risks to quality and safety No company is immune to the threat of
throughout the development,
health workers and patients need to know standards. These risks are often identified counterfeit products. While it is impossible to
testing and manufacturing the associated risks as well as the benefits. through regular audits of both our own trials eliminate the risk completely, we are committed
We have extensive controls in place designed and those conducted by a third party on our to minimise it so patients and consumers receive
of our products.
to detect, evaluate and communicate benefits, behalf. We performed 381 of these audits in authentic medicines and healthcare products.
risks and any potential safety concerns about 2015 (see data summary on page 55). We collaborate with multiple stakeholders to
our products. more effectively tackle this public health threat
Ensuring quality in manufacturing and supply
and support the global ‘Fight the Fakes’
Our research teams assess the benefit/risk In 2015, we produced 690 million doses of
campaign which aims to raise awareness
profile of a medicine throughout its development vaccines, around two billion packs of medicines
about the dangers of counterfeit medicines.
and once it is in use. The results are reviewed by and more than five billion packs of consumer
our Global Safety Board, which makes decisions healthcare products in our 89 manufacturing During 2015 331 cases were reported
on product safety issues. Chaired by our Chief sites around the world. with confirmed counterfeit GSK products in
Medical Officer and composed of senior 29 countries. Raid actions were conducted
We are committed to meeting the highest
Commitment: Continue to ensure the physicians and scientists, this Board oversees against 198 targets involved in the manufacture,
standards through stringent quality control
interests and safety of patients and consumers our policies and controls on product safety. Best distribution and/or sale of counterfeit GSK
and quality assurance processes. Our medicines
are of paramount importance in the way we practices are also shared across the business products and resulted in 161 arrests.
and vaccines are manufactured according
design and undertake our clinical trials, our through our internal risk advisory panel.
to Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) We continued to support Interpol along
product quality assurance and our monitoring
We also collaborate with industry peers, regulators regulations, and our internal quality management with 28 other pharmaceutical companies
and reporting of adverse events in ongoing
and healthcare providers to enhance the detection, system. In 2015, we had 86 regulatory on a three-year industry initiative to combat
product usage.
monitoring, understanding and prevention of inspections at our pharmaceutical supply sites, counterfeiting of both brand and generic
adverse effects (known as pharmacovigilance). and the vast majority concluded with satisfactory drugs. The initiative targets organised crime’s
In 2015, GSK was awarded the Bio-IT World outcomes. We are working with regulators to involvement in the manufacture, distribution and
Best Practices Award for our collaboration with bring those inspections with remaining concerns sale of counterfeit pharmaceuticals, as well
Progress overview: Progressing well
informatics company, Epidemico, to monitor publicly to an acceptable conclusion. In our vaccines as raising public awareness on the dangers of
available information on social media to gain business we had 49 regulatory inspections and purchasing counterfeit drugs, particularly those
insights into the adverse effects of our medicines. 45 at our consumer healthcare supply sites, all purchased on-line.
with satisfactory outcomes.
Putting patient safety first in clinical research We have extended our supply chain serialisation
Our trials are conducted in accordance with the Along with our internal controls, our supplier programme, Fingerprint, across 86 packaging
International Conference on Harmonisation’s requirements are also designed to ensure lines in over 18 manufacturing sites. The
Good Clinical Practice guidelines and consistent high quality and safety in the programme applies unique serial ‘fingerprints’
employees involved in the trials are trained production of our products. This end-to-end on many of our products and logs them into a
on Good Clinical Practice. Before trials start, approach safeguards patient and consumer government-managed database. Products can
an independent ethics committee reviews the safety, and helps us to deliver the highest quality be verified at any point in the supply chain.
protocols. This committee can prevent a trial products, improve our safety performance and
from being conducted. reduce waste.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 34
Our behaviour
Minimising animal testing
We are working on All new medicines and vaccines undergo careful Developing alternatives to animal studies
checks to assess their effects on the human To reduce the need for in vivo (within the Change in animal use vs. index year of 2000
alternatives to using animals
body. Animal studies provide vital information living body) animal studies, researchers need
in our research and ensuring that cannot be obtained by alternative methods non-animal testing methods that model the form %
and we are legally required to test our medicines and function of living human tissue. 150
that animals are used only
and vaccines on animals before starting clinical
We have sponsored development of a computer
where required. trials, to protect patients from unexpected 100
model to predict drug concentration in humans
and potentially life-threatening adverse effects.
based on in vitro (outside the body) data. We
We are also required to use animals for releasing
have also sponsored a collaboration that uses 50
some of our vaccines.
amoeba to replace rodents in certain studies.
We apply the established ‘3Rs’ approach 0
We are partnering with University College London
to replace animal research where possible, 2000 2005 2010 2015
to explore how human cells and tissues could
reduce the number of animals needed and refine
techniques to improve animal welfare. Scientific be used to enable in vitro testing as a potential n Animals used within GSK facilities
replacement for animal studies. We also have n Animals used by contractors on behalf of GSK
peer review challenges the need for animal
ongoing experimental projects with the European
studies, integrating non-animal and animal Figures are normalised to 2000, the first year of data after the
Commitment: Rigorously challenge the need Bioinformatics Institute and the Sanger Centre, formation of GSK.
testing approaches, and ensuring studies
for animal studies and work to minimise the and in this area GSK scientists are leading a Due to the variation in the methods for collection and collation
are relevant and reproducible. of animal numbers between GSK and Novartis, the 2015 animal
impact on animal welfare, by investing in the cross-pharmaceutical group partnered with the numbers for former Novartis sites are not being included within
development of alternative studies and sharing In 2015 we used 26% fewer animals than National Institute of Health in the USA to design the animal number figures for the 2015 reporting cycle. This will
be resolved for the next reporting cycle.
animal-based data. in 2014, a continuation of a downward trend and test artificial organ systems (so called organ
over nine years, tied to changes in projects ‘chips’) for drug safety testing.
and programs and our commitment to the 3Rs. Ensuring animal welfare
We sponsor two projects through the National
98% of animals used were rodents. Our Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics and
Centre for the Replacement, Refinement and
Progress overview: Progressing well Strategy, led by our Chief of Veterinary Medicine,
Reduction of Animals in Research (NC3Rs): to
oversees the humane and responsible use of
create an in vitro system that replicates the ability
animals. Our teams are trained and motivated to
of human skin’s ability to metabolise substances
prioritise animal welfare and we recognise their
and to explore non-animal methods for assessing
innovative ideas with Animal Welfare Awards.
the safety of new gene therapy treatments.
Our standards and processes to ensure animal
We increasingly use in vitro methods in the
welfare apply to animal studies conducted within
quality control of vaccines – one of the biggest
GSK and by our contractors and suppliers.
requirements for animal testing in our sector
We do not work with contractors who fail to
– and we support the European Commission’s
implement our recommendations or show no
partnership to accelerate the acceptance of
commitment to improve.
alternatives to animal use in regulatory testing.
Animal programmes for Care, Welfare and
Treatment of Animals for GSK and former
Novartis Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare
are currently being integrated.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 35
Our behaviour
Promoting human rights
We are working to address GSK is a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Our human rights steering group provides Activities in embargoed countries
which sets out key principles for business on company-wide direction and oversight to help Operating in countries targeted by sanction
our human rights impacts
human rights. We are committed to upholding ensure we meet our commitments on human laws such as Cuba, Iran, North Korea,
as part of our commitment the Universal Declaration of Human Rights rights as set out in our Human Rights Statement. Sudan and Syria, raises concerns for some
and the core labour standards set out by the In 2015, the steering group focused on managing stakeholders, and represents challenges and
to support the UN Guiding
International Labour Organization. third-party risk, with particular emphasis on our risks for the business. Although some sanctions
Principles on Business and public policy statement on working with Third have been lifted in Iran, others remain in force.
The UN Guiding Principles on Business
Parties, labour rights and health and safety. The We comply with the disclosure requirements
Human Rights. and Human Rights set a clear expectation for steering group also addressed GSK’s position of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human
business to respect human rights. We undertook
on the living wage, ensuring children’s rights are Rights Act of 2012.
an independent third-party assessment in 2012
an integral part of our consideration of human
to help us understand the potential human rights We believe that people should have access to
rights more broadly, and the transparency
impacts associated with our business. This essential medicines regardless of their country’s
requirements of the Modern Slavery Act.
identified seven priority areas: access to health regime. Wherever people need medicines and
care, air quality impact relating to propellants, GSK is now a living wage accredited employer vaccines, we aim to supply them, including
clinical trial standards, employment practices, in the UK. Although we already pay all UK essential medicines in sanctioned countries,
patient safety, product counterfeiting and use employees above the Living Wage, this in compliance with applicable sanctions and
of third-party suppliers. accreditation extended this commitment to all export controls. Where appropriate we work
Commitment: Address the UN Guiding Our efforts in each of these areas are outlined third-party contracted employees in the UK. in partnership to make GSK medicines and
Principles on Business and Human in the relevant sections of this report. Since vaccines available, in particular where no such
Rights across our own operations and 2012, a particular focus has been on improving alternatives exist, for supply to supra-national
our supplier relationships. company-wide risk management and controls groups like Unicef or direct to government.
for the use of third-party suppliers. We have Privacy and data security
identified key risks in this area and introduced All employees and suppliers must ensure that
a comprehensive new programme to strengthen personal data are collected, used, processed,
Progress overview: On track
our management of these risks. To find out more transferred and stored appropriately and securely,
about this programme and what we are doing, in line with our global privacy principles and legal
see page 38. requirements. See our website for a summary
of our Binding Corporate Rules on safeguarding
personally identifiable information.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 36
Our behaviour
Ensuring ethical interactions
We are committed to Political advocacy GSK does not make corporate political Our European Health Advisory Board (HAB) brings
We interact regularly with governments, contributions, nor do we sponsor political patient group leaders together into GSK to give
engaging ethically and
policymakers and other stakeholders to advocate meetings anywhere around the world. Our US insights on key policies, initiatives and issues that
transparently with political for policies that encourage innovation, promote employees can financially support political groups reflect the best interests of patients. In 2015, the
efficient management of healthcare spending or individual candidates through Political Action HAB discussed patient involvement in research
and other key stakeholders.
and give patients the support they need. Committees (PACs) under the Federal Election and the changes we are making to how we work
Campaign Act. In 2015, the GSK employees’ with healthcare professionals (see page 31).
All employees involved in lobbying activities
PAC contributed $446,727, to state and Federal
must follow the relevant requirements set Through our Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits
candidates. 73% of those funds were contributed
out in our Code of Conduct. We also expect (PALS), we bring together a diverse group of
to Federal candidates and 27% of the funds were
any third-party policy groups that engage on patient advocacy leaders and GSK employees
contributed to candidates for state offices.
our behalf to share our values and we have to build understanding and develop skills,
comprehensive criteria to guide the selection To find out more, see GSK’s Public Policy and identify ways to collaborate appropriately.
of these groups. Our Standard Operating Position on Political Advocacy. In 2015, PALS events were held in Germany,
Procedure on Managing Public Policy Groups Japan, Slovenia, Switzerland and the USA,
Engaging with patient advocacy groups
Commitment: Demonstrate that all GSK reflects these criteria and we also train relevant focusing on the critical role of patient advocacy.
We engage with, and support, patient
interactions with patient advocacy groups employees on our related Global Policy on
organisations to gain insights that enable us GSK is a founding member of the Patient
and political stakeholders are conducted Grants and Donations.
to develop products and advocate for policies Focused Medicines Development initiative
appropriately, ethically and transparently.
In 2015, GSK ranked in the top three that better meet patient needs. which is bringing together stakeholders
most transparent FTSE 100 companies by including patient organisations in research and
Our new Global Standard for Interactions with
Transparency International in their Corporate development to work for a more comprehensive
Patient Organisations outlines how we work
Political Engagement Index. The Index assesses and systematic approach to patient involvement
Progress overview: Progressing well with patient groups, collaborate on projects
how open companies are about their political in clinical development.
and gather insights ethically and transparently.
engagement and the quality of their reporting
Funding from GSK cannot exceed 25% of
on how their political activities are governed,
a patient group’s annual revenue and, to
managed and implemented.
respect their independence, we do not seek
We register lobbying costs on the EU Transparency endorsement for or promote our medicines.
Register and the US Federal Lobbying Register.
We publish all information (financial and
In 2015, the cost of representing our interests to
non-financial) about the support we provide
EU institutions was in the range of €1,500,000
to patient organisations on our website.
and €1,999,9991 and $4,075,000 ($4,370,000
in 2014) on US federal lobbying activities2.
These activities include running our advocacy
offices in Brussels and Washington DC as
well as the cost of consulting and travel. We 1. This includes running an advocacy office in Brussels, salaries, trade association membership fees, representation and consulting costs. While our
activities in 2015 did not increase year on year, the declared figures are higher than those published in 2014 because of the new rules and guidelines
also publicly list our membership of trade and
of the EU Transparency Register. GSK followed the European Trade Association’s (EFPIA) interpretation and guidance on implementing the newly
industry associations that may lobby indirectly revised guidelines.
on our behalf. See our website for a full list. 2. See the US Federal lobbying register. This figure covers the costs of salaries and benefits for all employees registered to lobby the US Government,
lobbying consultant costs, research, running the government affairs office in Washington DC, and support staff. It also includes the proportion
of GSK’s trade association fees that was associated with federal lobbying. Due to a reporting error, the amount spent on US federal lobbying
activities was incorrectly stated in the 2014 Responsible Business Supplement. The correct figure is stated here.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 37
Our behaviour
Our approach to tax
We understand our responsibility to pay an Relationship with tax authorities As such, a figure for any given country in any
appropriate amount of tax and we fully support We seek to maintain open, positive relationships given year, viewed in isolation, may not accurately Corporation tax:
efforts to ensure companies are appropriately with governments and tax authorities worldwide represent the full picture. The amounts reported Over the last 15 years we have paid
transparent about how their tax affairs are managed. and we welcome constructive debate on taxation in our core financial results will be most £27.3 billion in corporation tax globally.
policy. Where appropriate this means the group representative of GSK’s tax position over time. In the UK, we have paid £2.7 billion since
We have a substantial business and employment
has entered into arrangements such as 2001, nearly 10% of the global total. In 2015
presence in many countries around the world Transfer pricing
Continuous Audit Programmes and Advance UK net sales were 4.2% of global net sales.
and we pay a significant amount of tax, including In line with current OECD guidelines we base
Pricing Agreements. These agreements provide
corporation and other business taxes, as well our transfer pricing policy on the arm’s length In 2015 the Group paid corporate
long-term certainty for both tax authorities and for
as tax associated with our employees. At the principle and support our transfer prices with income tax of £2,062m (£1,108m in 2014)
GSK over the tax treatment of GSK’s business.
same time we have a responsibility to our economic analysis and reports. The worldwide on profits of £10,526m (£2,968m in 2014)
shareholders to be financially efficient and International tax framework nature of our operations means that our representing a cash tax rate of 19.6%
deliver a sustainable tax rate. We support the OECD and G20 principle that intellectual property, R&D and manufacturing (37.3% in 2014). The corresponding
tax should be paid throughout the supply chain, operations are centred in a number of key accounting tax charge on profits was
As part of this approach, we look to align our
commensurate with where the profit making locations. A consequence of this is that our £2,154m (£137m in 2014).
investment strategies to those countries where
activity takes place. The Base Erosion and cross-border supply routes, necessary to
we already have substantial economic activity, Other taxes:
Profit Shifting (BEPS) project was a constructive ensure supplies of medicines into numerous
and where government policies promote tax In 2014, as well as corporation tax, we paid
modernisation of that principle, addressing end markets, can be complex.
regimes which are attractive to business additional business taxes of £146m – with
anomalies which had grown up over time.
investment, such as the UK Patent Box. Tax Havens another £173m of tax collected eg through
We believe that a multinational has economic
We do not engage in artificial tax arrangements employee income tax.
We pay a considerable amount of tax in the UK activity in many countries around the world –
– those without business or commercial
because a significant proportion of our global and that basic principle means profits should
substance. We have a substantial local business
corporate functions, R&D and manufacturing arise, and be taxed, in those different locations.
presence in the vast majority of the territories £27bn
activities are located there. This includes
Country by country reporting where we operate whether through business
corporation tax on profits generated, as well
We support the implementation of the OECD’s offices, sales force, manufacturing, R&D facilities
as indirect tax and employment taxes, although
recommendations on country-by-country or local distribution of our products, all of which
the precise amounts fluctuate from year to year. Corporation tax paid
reporting (CBCR) as being key to the success of contribute to economic development and create
over 15 years
Governance BEPS project, and aligned with our core values shared value for the region and our business.
We have robust internal policies, processes, of transparency and integrity. We support the
training and compliance programmes to ensure exchange of CBCR data between tax authorities.
we have alignment across our business and This data, validated against existing information
meet our tax obligations. Our Audit and Risk held on taxpayers, will support their ability to
Committee, and the Board, are responsible for ensure multinational groups pay the right amount
approving our tax policies and risk management. of tax. However, tax payments vary from year
to year as investments are made and returns
generated over a long term investment cycle.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 38
Our behaviour
Working with third parties
We aim to build strong Our suppliers and other third parties – including With a large supplier base, we need to focus We also expect our suppliers and third parties to
agents, distributors and affiliate companies (where our effort on working with those at highest comply with GSK’s quality and safety standards.
relationships with third
we have an equity stake) – help us develop and risk of non-compliance with our standards on Our global manufacturing and supply team continue
parties that support distribute the medicines, vaccines and products responsible business. Following a review of our to manage and regularly assess the performance
that patients and consumers need. suppliers, we identified around 1,300 that are of the suppliers that support our manufacturing,
our business and share
considered high-risk based on the country where specifically on quality and ethical, environmental,
Every year, we spend billions of pounds with tens
our values. they operate, the type of product or service they health and safety (EHS) management systems.
of thousands of suppliers on a wide range of goods
provide, and the value of the contract. We also In 2015, we assessed more than 1,300 suppliers
and services. It is essential that we strengthen the
identified 200 high-risk distributors and have been in line with our quality management system and
relationships with the suppliers and third parties
conducting assessments focusing on four key audited 85 suppliers specifically on EHS.
that are critical to our business and work with those
risks: anti-bribery and corruption, labour rights,
that share our values and operate in a responsible On completion of all audits, we identify areas
promotional activities and information protection.
and ethical manner. To support this commitment, for improvement, work with suppliers to develop
in 2015 we increased the use of preferred All 1,300 of the suppliers identified as high-risk improvement plans and check this plan is
suppliers from 70% to 84%. must undergo further assessment, in the form implemented within an agreed time frame. If a
of an extensive questionnaire on environment, significant concern is identified, we may suspend
We are also collaborating with suppliers to manage
labour and human rights, fair business practices or terminate our work with an existing supplier, or
Commitment: We seek to work with third the environmental impact of creating our products
and sustainable procurement (how they manage decide not to work with a potential new supplier.
parties that share our commitment to high and medicines through, for example, our Supplier
risks in their own supply chain). Their responses
ethical standards and operate in a responsible Innovation Forum (see page 50). Supporting suppliers
will be assessed by external experts and
way. If performance gaps are identified, where Managing third-party risk suppliers must provide supporting evidence We have a responsibility to support our suppliers
appropriate we commit to working with the In addition to meeting GSK’s Anti-Bribery to demonstrate they have appropriate policies by paying on time. We have put in place an
third party to improve performance. and Corruption and Labour Rights standards, and management systems in place. exception to our standard payment terms for
small and medium sized companies in the
where relevant, we expect Third Parties to
Based on our risk assessment and the UK, and small diverse suppliers in the USA.
comply with our standards on quality, safety,
questionnaire scores, additional due diligence We have a number of initiatives underway in
health and safety and the environment. These
Progress overview: On track may be required, including a detailed review 2016 to continuously improve the experience
and other ‘Principles’ are clearly set out in our
of contract clauses, monitoring activities and, of suppliers who work with us.
public statement on ‘Working with Third Parties’.
for the highest risk suppliers, on-site audits.
In 2015 we introduced a comprehensive new As part of our commitment to diversity and
At the same time as strengthening management
programme to strengthen our management inclusion, we support suppliers run by groups
of risk with existing suppliers, as part of the
of risk in the supply chain. The focus of this that are under-represented in the supply chain
global deployment of the programme we will
programme is to ensure that all Third Parties such as those owned by women, minorities and
ensure each country has the capabilities and
will be risk assessed against the GSK Principles disabled veterans. Through our supplier diversity
processes in place to assess third-party risks
and contracts amended, as necessary, by the programmes, we engage with and mentor small
for new suppliers.
end of 2017. and diverse businesses in our supply chain, and
help them identify potential areas for growth. In
the USA, 12.4% of our procurement spend was
with small businesses in 2015.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 39
Our
people
Through our PULSE Volunteer Partnership,
our employees use their professional skills to
create sustainable change for our non-profit
partners and the communities they serve.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 40
Our people
Our approach
We invest in our people to ensure the long-term
2015 highlights
sustainability of our business. In order to help us Engagement Inclusion
tackle the biggest global health challenges, we Over 76,000 employees, 78% of We signed up to the UK Government’s
need a talented, motivated and resilient workforce. our workforce, took part in our global Disability Confident campaign as part of our
employee survey. commitment to remove barriers to employment
Our aim is to create a working environment
where employees feel valued, respected, 78% opportunities for disabled people.
empowered and inspired. Listening to and
Read more on page 44
supporting our people has been particularly
important during a year of significant changes
in the business. “ Too many disabled people find themselves
Read more on page 42
We take a progressive approach to locked out of employment and that is why
employee health, going beyond conventional initiatives such as Disability Confident,
health and safety – which remains fundamental Healthy workforce and employers like GSK setting the bar,
– to focus on energy and resilience, and are really important.”
20% of our people have taken part in
provide unprecedented access to preventive
one of our global Energy and Resilience Mark Atkinson
health services.
programmes since 2011. CEO, Scope
We help our employees learn new skills and Talent development
gain new experiences to support their personal We recruited 74 apprentices and 470 Read more on page 42
ambitions and drive the business forward. graduates and postgraduates in 2015. Volunteering
Combining development opportunities with
Since 2009, 560 employees from 57 countries
volunteering, for example through our PULSE Read more on page 42 Providing preventive healthcare
have provided over £19 million worth of skilled
programme, benefits our people, our business In addition to healthcare benefits in services for our non-profit partners through
and our non-profit partners. established markets, our global Partnership our PULSE volunteering programme.
for Prevention programme now provides
Our early talent community is gifted and
diverse – representing the future of our dynamic
preventive healthcare to over 38,000 Read more on page 45
employees and family members.
organisation. The business benefits of a diverse
38,000
workforce are clear, with fresh ideas and varied
experiences promoting better decision making.
We are developing leaders that reflect and
understand the markets we serve by developing
local talent, mentoring aspiring female leaders Read more on page 43
and becoming more disability confident.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 41
Our people
In focus
Inspiring the next generation of scientists
By 2020, the UK alone will need 1 million In 2016, we aim to build on our experience
new scientists and engineers to solve future in the UK by creating global STEM education
challenges, including some of the biggest health programmes to give our employees the tools
challenges of tomorrow. As a research-led they need to inspire and foster the next
healthcare company, GSK is playing a leading generation of scientists and engineers worldwide.
role in inspiring young people to get into science,
GSK offers a range of career opportunities in the
technology, engineering and maths (STEM) as
STEM areas; ranging from summer internships,
well as providing a range of career opportunities.
to apprenticeships, graduate and postgraduate
Our Science Education and Early Talent team, along programmes. Our apprenticeship programme
with our 362 STEM ambassadors across the UK, offers school and college leavers the opportunity
engage young people by demonstrating real-world to join the company in a variety of roles from
science and engineering in schools, and manage our Finance and IT to Laboratory Science and
graduate and apprenticeship programmes. Engineering. Apprentices learn on-the-job and
become valued members of the team as they
Rhiannon Lowe heads up a team of 150
progress, working towards nationally recognised
ambassadors, all volunteer GSK employees from
qualifications and ultimately transition into a
our site in Ware, Hertfordshire. She has been part
permanent role.
of the programme since it began in 1999 alongside
her job as an investigator in Investigative Safety The scheme has grown steadily in the UK
and Drug Metabolism, where she focuses on and our ambition is to continually expand the
diseases of the developing world and gene therapy. programme into new geographies, helping
nurture this new generation of talent and
She and her team put their expertise into practice
adding to the diversity of our business.
to inspire people of all ages. They go into schools
to demonstrate scientific experiments and host
visits to GSK labs where students are given
an opportunity to get involved in science that
connects directly to our work and the real world.
Rhiannon encourages girls, in particular, to
pursue these subjects from a young age as women
represent only 14% of all STEM jobs in the UK.
“When I was young I was told by one of my teachers
to study drama, but I always enjoyed sciences and
362
maths and ended up completing a PhD in Virology
and Immunology, part-time, whilst at GSK,” she said. We have 362 STEM
ambassadors across the UKGSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 42
Our people
Developing our people in inspiring and healthy workplaces
To attract and retain the We need motivated, talented people with the Performance
right skills and knowledge to help us tackle some Through our global performance system, Listening to our employees
best people, we foster
of the world’s most important health challenges. employees set objectives to support their own In 2015, more employees than ever before
a resilient and healthy Our people strategy focuses on four areas: development and the business strategy. This is shared their views in our employee survey
talent, leadership, performance and engagement. underpinned by a set of clear expectations that with a 78% response rate, up from 72% in
workforce and create an
emphasise not just the results people achieve but 2012, providing us with valuable feedback.
Talent
inspiring place to work. the way they achieve them in line with our values.
The number of graduates and postgraduates Results from the survey tell us employees
joining our programmes is increasing. In 2015, Engagement are clear on their accountabilities and feel
we recruited 470 graduates and postgraduates To help people understand how they can empowered to perform their roles in the
onto our Future Leaders and Esprit programmes contribute to the success of the business, right way.
globally, exceeding our target of 450. We also we provide regular updates on our mission,
We are also encouraged by a marked
welcomed 74 apprentices in the UK, 34% of strategy and progress through live broadcasts
improvement in our managers supporting
which are women, across a number of disciplines and messages from our CEO and members of
work/life balance and how they communicate
and locations. We are looking to expand the Corporate Executive Team. Listening to our
reasons for important changes, both of
our apprenticeship programme into other people is also critical to our success. In 2015 over
which are above the external benchmark.
geographies in 2016. 76,000 people, a record 78% of our workforce,
Commitment: Continue to create a working
took part in our employee survey. This provided However results also showed that engagement
environment that inspires people to grow Leadership
valuable feedback to help us become a better scores whilst remaining positive, have fallen,
and perform in a healthy and resilient way. We provide employees at all levels with the skills
employer (see box). To thank staff for sharing their and given the amount of significant change
they need to advance their careers and we put
views we donated £1 to Save the Children for in GSK, this was not unexpected.
particular emphasis on leadership development
each person who completed the survey.
to support succession planning for the business. We are now putting in place a strategy
Progress overview: Progressing well In 2015, over 3,300 line leaders completed In 2015 we welcomed 12,000 Novartis employees to improve engagement, and will track
leadership programmes to help them transition into to GSK. Clear, regular communication was critical progress through a range of measures,
managerial roles. Since 2010, we have trained over whilst onboarding our new colleagues into our including more active use of interim
1,000 of our people globally to act as coaches values, expectations, performance system and surveys during 2016.
to help others fulfil their leadership potential. local employee practices and programmes. With
the major reshaping of our global pharmaceuticals
In 2015, we launched the Enterprise Talent
business occurring at the same time, we placed an
initiative to strengthen our leadership pipeline.
equal focus on supporting employees leaving the
The initiative accelerates the development of
company, with our outplacement service providing
leaders who have the potential, and aspiration,
effective coaching and assistance. We consult
to move into executive roles within the next
employees and their representatives, including
four to eight years. Participants are sponsored
unions and work councils, on any changes to the
by their business leadership team and attend
business that might affect them.
events that are designed to develop their
enterprise and external perspectives.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 43
Our people
Developing our people in inspiring and healthy workplaces – continued
Protecting our people As a global business operating in more than Building employee resilience Providing preventive healthcare
Protecting the health and safety of our people 150 markets, serious incidents do occur. In August Our business is health and this starts with To complement the employee healthcare
is an important focus. In 2015, we refreshed and 2015, one of our employees tragically died in a our own people. By the end of 2015, we had benefits in our established markets, our
simplified our standards to help everyone at GSK boiler explosion at our site in Rixensaart, Belgium. assessed the health needs of employees at Partnership for Prevention (P4P) programme aims
understand what they need to do to safeguard In addition to supporting the Belgian authorities 95% of our sites. We are using insights from to provide all our employees and their families with
our people, our business and the environment. with their investigations, we are taking steps to these assessments to target more than 250 unprecedented access to preventive healthcare
Our global health and wellbeing strategy was check the operations of every boiler across GSK. health needs identified across the business to services at little or no cost. Implementation
also reviewed, setting out our plan to ensure that design our employee health plans for the coming is being prioritised in regions where access
In October, a sales employee in India, who
every GSK employee has access to a consistent year and raise awareness among leaders about to preventive services is unavailable or limited,
was travelling on business, sadly died after their
and comprehensive health service. We continue local health programmes. particularly in developing markets.
motorcycle collided with another vehicle.
to be recognised as a leader in health and
To help our people achieve a healthy lifestyle, The services, including immunisations and
wellbeing, and in May 2015, GSK won the In August, an explosion at a nearby chemical
we are working with our major sites in the cancer screenings, are recommended by the
Multinational Healthy Workplace Award from warehouse damaged several buildings at our site
countries where we have the most employees World Health Organization and are now available
the Global Centre for Healthy Workplaces. in Tianjin, China, and two employees suffered
to ensure that core programmes are available, to over 38,000 employees and family members
minor injuries. Before allowing staff to return,
We have been working hard to address road such as exercise classes, discounted fitness in 52 countries. This places us halfway towards
we checked the structural integrity of the site
safety; a significant risk for our employees, centres, labelled healthy food options, nutrition our target to implement P4P globally by 2018.
and monitored the air quality for toxic chemicals.
particularly in emerging markets. Last year we education and support to quit smoking. Since
Employees are surveyed approximately six
launched a driver safety programme in India to 2011, 20% of our workforce have taken part
months after P4P is implemented in their country,
help employees protect themselves and their in one of our global Energy and Resilience
Reportable injury and illness rate and results have shown that almost a third of
families. This programme combines online programmes and feedback indicates that
employees or their family member have used
learning with practical road safety activities for 0.5 our focus on energy and resilience is helping
the services, with a 78% satisfaction rate.
both driver and motorcyclists, and will be rolled employees improve their personal resilience and
out to Bangladesh, Cambodia, Indonesia, 0.4 wellbeing over time. 70% of those who took part In countries such as Turkey, where P4P has been
Pakistan and Vietnam. in our 2015 employee survey agreed they have in place for a longer period of time, we have seen
0.3
sufficient energy to invest in the things that incremental increases in both awareness and uptake
We have seen a steady reduction in our
0.2 matter most at work and in life. of services while maintaining high satisfaction.
reportable injury and illness rate over the past
10 years. A slight increase occurred in 2015 We also offer counselling through our confidential The programme was piloted in Ecuador, Ghana,
0.1
which was mainly due to a large number of Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) to support Nigeria and Romania in 2012, and has since
Semicircular Lipoatrophy cases, a treatable 0.0 employees dealing with personal health, wellbeing been expanded to the Middle East, Turkey, most
condition associated with localised pressure 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and professional issues. All our employees now of Africa and Latin America. In early 2016, we
from office furniture, identified at our offices in have access to this service and we continue to will launch P4P in India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh,
n Reportable injury and illness rate
Brazil. We have taken comprehensive steps to (per 100,000 hours worked) work to overcome cultural barriers that could Russia and members of the Commonwealth of
support those impacted and prevent recurrence. make some people reluctant to use the service. Independent States.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 44
Our people
Promoting inclusion and diversity
The diverse knowledge, We value diversity and aim to offer an inclusive Employees by gender In December 2015, we partnered with the UK
working environment that welcomes people Government’s Disability Confident campaign to
perspectives, experiences Male Female Total
from all walks of life. In our 2015 survey, the raise disability awareness across our company,
57,715 43,539 101,255
and working styles of our proportion of employees agreeing they work in remove barriers, increase understanding and
an organisation in which diverse perspectives % of total 57 43 ensure that people with disabilities have the
global workforce support
are valued rose five points to 77%. right opportunities.
Women in management positions (%)
our business and help us Gender diversity Through our membership of business disability
better meet the needs of We aim to improve gender balance by 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 international, a social enterprise involving
encouraging more women to join our business SVP/VP 26 27 28 29 29 several global standards to measure businesses’
patients and consumers and develop as leaders. In 2015, women Director 38 39 40 40 40 disability performance.
represented 52% of recruits to our Future Manager 42 43 44 45 45
around the world. Cultural and ethnic diversity
Leaders programme, 42% of management, Total 39 40 41 42 42
Six nationalities are represented on the Corporate
17% of our Corporate Executive Team and
Disability Executive Team and Board, and the people we
29%* of our Board.
Enhancing the attractiveness and accessibility employ in our Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific and
Our Accelerating Difference programme of our business to people with disabilities is a Japan represent 43% of our workforce.
supports the development of high performing priority for GSK. Our Global Disability Council
We aim to attract and develop local talent across
female leaders to help them advance their (GDC) has identified a range of opportunities
our markets by partnering with universities and
careers and take on more senior roles. In to increase GSK’s disability confidence – from
offering opportunities within our business. This
2015, 118 more female managers began the making our facilities and technology more
is a particular focus of our Africa strategy to build
programme, which includes individual and group accessible to addressing our culture and
capability across the continent. The creation
Commitment: Continue to promote inclusion coaching sessions with internal and external employee attitudes about disability.
of our new regional headquarters in Singapore
and diversity globally at GSK. coaches, supported by their line managers
We have set up a new Disability Confidence also provides a further opportunity to attract
and senior sponsors. Group dialogue sessions
Network to provide a forum for employees and develop talent from Asia.
provide a platform for both male and female
to find out more about accessibility and raise
leaders to discuss career progression at To build a strong pipeline, it is important that
Progress overview: On track awareness of local initiatives. We have also
GSK and share their experiences, as well as our future leaders represent the diverse markets
launched an online accessibility portal that
prompting actions to address gender-related we serve to stay close to patient needs around
enables employees in the UK to request
issues. Nearly 60% of female participants in the world. In 2015, we recruited 444 people
additional support or adjustments to their
2013 and 2014 have since achieved a promotion from 53 countries for our Future Leaders
working environment. We are looking to roll
or taken on more responsibility in their role. graduate programme.
out this service to other countries.
Our Women’s Leadership Initiative, one of our
Our UK business welcomed 12 more students
Employee Resource Groups, supports a culture
with learning disabilities to transition from
of inclusion and aims to empower women
education to employment through Project Search.
to achieve their potential. It now has 2,721
Of the 31 students who have completed the
members, with new groups launching in
placements at GSK since they began in 2012,
Africa, Europe and Singapore during 2015.
60% are now in employment. Discussions are
* As at 31st December 2015 taking place to explore the feasibility of setting
up Project Search at other GSK locations.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 45
Our people
Community volunteering to create change
Our people develop their Through our PULSE Volunteer Partnership, We also encourage employees around the world to
employees lend their professional skills to support their local communities by offering one paid PULSE Volunteer Partnership
skills and support
non-profit partners to help meet healthcare day off each year to volunteer through our Orange Through our PULSE Volunteer Partnership,
communities around the challenges at home and abroad. Working with Day programme. In 2015, our people volunteered our employees use their professional skills to
our partners full-time over three or six months, their time all over the world, from supporting a create sustainable change for our non-profit
world by volunteering
our people are challenged to think differently, recreation camp for young girls in India to packing partners and the communities they serve.
their time and expertise. develop their leadership skills and bring new school supplies for children in the USA. Many of our
In 2015, Avinash Mohanty, Product Group
experiences and fresh ideas back to GSK. employees use their Orange Days for activities
Manager at GSK India, worked with the
supporting STEM education (see case study
In the six years since we launched PULSE, 560 Clinton Health Access Initiative, Inc. (CHAI)
on page 41) and in the UK, one of our scientists
employees have contributed over £19 million in Abuja, Nigeria to develop a comprehensive
worked on a project to develop the Natural History
worth of skilled services to 103 non-profit strategy to increase treatment access for
Museum’s molecular laboratory facilities to best suit
partners in 62 countries. These PULSE children with pneumonia. After conducting
current and future demands and opportunities.
volunteers have come from 57 countries with baseline assessments of current practices
more than half of the 2015 volunteers from We continued to leverage our global infrastructure and key issues, he interviewed key
outside of the UK and the USA, where the of ambassadors to promote volunteering at GSK stakeholders and formulated a plan that
programme first started. through our annual volunteer awareness week. will have a direct impact on policy, resource
Commitment: Extend volunteering
In 2015, a total of 94 activities were carried out mobilisation and market shaping. He
opportunities to bring about positive change The PULSE programme aims to create a
across 49 GSK sites in 30 countries, including reports that the assignment exceeded his
to communities and global health while positive and sustainable change for our partner
a town hall in Serbia, a farmers market in Finland, expectations: “It increased my awareness
providing individual development. organisations and the communities they serve.
a ‘measure your footprint day’ in Colombia and of the importance of being patient-focused
In a survey of non-profit partners, six months
information stands in Dubai and Uganda. and inspired me to find innovative and
after our 2014 volunteers had completed
insightful solutions to impact more lives.
their assignments, 94% of partners said that In 2015, GSK was invited to be a founding partner
Progress overview: Progressing well
the volunteers’ contribution was having a of IMPACT 2030, a global collaboration with the My time with the Clinton Health Access
lasting impact. UN led by the private sector that aims to mobilise Initiative, Inc. has helped increase our
corporate volunteers to contribute to the Global geographical reach and partnerships
Our volunteers are also bringing back valuable
Goals for Sustainable Development. with key stakeholders in India, while my
skills that support their own development and
collaboration with the Nigerian government
benefit the business. In 2015, 87% of volunteers
“ To have a high-performing staff on a disease of national interest has been
say they are doing something different at GSK
after they return and 92% of their line managers member located with us for six a valuable experience that I can transfer
directly to my role at GSK.”
and colleagues agree that the experience had
months, entirely paid for, bringing
helped them develop their skills and performance.
new skills and experience to our
Since our partnership with Save the Children
began in 2013, GSK employees have raised organisation, is very valuable. It also Go to our website to hear from our
over £1.65 million, which has been increased leads to a much deeper partnership people about their experiences
to £3.3 million through matched funding from as PULSE volunteers and
GSK. Find out more about our Save the Children between our organisations.” read the PULSE impact report.
partnership on page x and on our website.
Simon Wright,
Head of Child Survival, Save the ChildrenGSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 46
Our
planet
In 2015, we announced the investment
of a further £35 million to enhance the
antibiotic manufacturing facility at Quality
Road in Singapore.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 47
Our planet
Our approach
Major global environmental challenges like climate
2015 highlights
change and deforestation are exacerbating health Carbon Trust Water
issues and undermining efforts to overcome GSK is still the only pharmaceutical company 25% reduction in water usage since 2010
inequalities around the world. The consequences to hold the Carbon Trust’s Carbon Standard – hitting our 2015 water target a year early.
for current and future generations are likely to be for cutting carbon emissions and its Water 25%
severe and the poorest are particularly vulnerable. Carbon Standard for reducing water use across our
The new UN Global Goals for Sustainable operations globally.
We have reduced direct carbon emissions
Development draw clear links between health
(scope 1 and 2) by 21% since 2010, saving
and the environment.
over 1 million tonnes of CO e over five years.
A changing environment can lead to higher levels 21% 2 Read more on page 52
of air pollution, the spread of disease vectors,
food insecurity and under-nutrition, displacement REDUCING WATER
YEAR ON YEAR
Supplier engagement
and forced migration, and socio-economic
stresses that all contribute to health issues. Read more on page 50 Our Sustainable Supplier Programme won
Read more on page 53 the award for Best Supplier Engagement
As a global healthcare company, we can
at the Ethical Corporation Responsible
contribute to tackling both the effects of
Waste Business Awards 2015.
environmental change – as part of our work to
CDP results
deliver health for all – and the causes. We are 15% less waste produced in 2015. Over
targeting a carbon neutral value chain by 2050 100% score for climate change disclosure 60% of our manufacturing and R&D sites
Read more on page 50
with ambitious goals to reduce carbon, water and a B for performance in the CDP’s FTSE have achieved zero waste to landfill.
and waste in the meantime. In the last five years, 350 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index. 60%
we have made significant progress. 100% Feedback from Ethical Corporation judges
for our work with suppliers:
GSK is also making a contribution to
environmental challenges by sharing knowledge “ A comprehensive programme that focuses
and resources through our participation in the on reducing Scope 3 carbon emissions
Read more on page 53
UN Caring for Climate Initiative and the UN CEO using Ecodesk evaluation, supplier
Water Mandate, a business-led movement to exchanging and workshops, as well as
advance water stewardship and sanitation. Carbon footprint supplier awards. GSK have not solved
We have reduced the value chain carbon every problem, but are making good
footprint of the products we shipped in progress in areas where they hold
2015 by an average of 25% versus 2010. influence. The judges appreciated
25% GSK’s candid approach.”GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 48
Our planet
In focus
Horlicks takes a Green Leap in India
Horlicks is one of our best-known brands. We have also installed effluent treatment
Used as a nutritional supplement in India, plants and rainwater harvesting systems
it provides essential vitamins and minerals that enable water to be reused and disposed
for growing children. of safely, cutting water use by 30% and
helping to replenish groundwater and restore
But in 2012, we discovered through lifecycle
local water sources.
analysis that Horlicks had the second largest
carbon footprint of all our products. One reason “We identified a huge
for this was that our three Horlicks factories
opportunity and have reduced
in India – in Nabha, Rajahmundry and Sonepat
– were powered by coal. carbon emissions at Sonepat by
We are investing £9.6 million in Project Green more than 5,000 tonnes between
Leap to reduce carbon emissions and water use
2014 and 2015.”
at these three Horlicks factories. For example,
we continue to increase the amount of waste
Satyaprakash Punia
biomass we buy to replace coal as a fuel in our
Utilities and Site Energy Manager, Sonepat, India
boilers. We will be constructing a new 1MW
combined heat and power plant at Rajahmundry
that will also be fuelled with waste biomass.
This plant will improve efficiency by capturing
heat from power generation that would
otherwise be wasted.
At Sonepat, we are installing photovoltaic cells
that generate 0.5MW of power from solar energy,
and we are investing in efficient LED lighting
across all three sites to cut our energy use.
Since the project began in April 2014, we have
cut carbon emissions by 14%.
£9.6m
Investment to improve carbon and water management
at these three Horlicks factories.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 49
Our planet
Understanding our value chain carbon footprint
Raw materials GSK’s operations Logistics Use of our products Disposal
The sourcing of the raw materials The impacts of what we do in Delivering medicines, vaccines Patients and consumers using The disposal of our products by
GSK buys from other companies. our labs, factories and offices. and consumer health products our products. GSK, patients and consumers.
across the globe.
40% 12% 2% 45% 1%
5.6m* 1.7m 0.2m 6.3m 0.2m*
tonnes CO₂e per annum tonnes CO₂e per annum tonnes CO₂e per annum tonnes CO₂e per annum tonnes CO₂e per annum
1.2m 5.3m Use of metered
Energy
tonnes CO₂e per annum tonnes CO₂e per annum dose inhalers
0.25m HFA and process 1.0m* Use of other
tonnes CO₂e per annum emissions tonnes CO₂e per annum products
0.1m
Business travel
tonnes CO₂e per annum
0.1m
Sales force
tonnes CO₂e per annum Total estimated emissions
15m
* Estimated. tonnes of COe per annum
2
Data excludes former Novartis sites.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 50
Our planet
Aiming to be carbon neutral
We are working to reduce Performance in 2015 We have therefore reduced the value chain Raw materials
In 2015, we reduced our operational emissions carbon footprint of the products we shipped Engaging with suppliers is crucial to reduce
emissions from our entire
(Scope 1 and 2) by a further 2% to 1.6 million in 2015 by an average of 25% versus 2010. emissions from raw materials. Our approach,
value chain while extending tonnes of COe. That is 21% less than 2010, with a recognised at the 2015 Ethical Corporation
2 The continued growth in sales of our
cumulative saving of over 1 million tonnes of COe Responsible Business Awards, is founded on
access to our products for 2 Ventolin propellant-based inhalers which emit
over five years. We have achieved these reductions data collection, collaboration and recognition.
greenhouse gases during the administration of
the people who need them. through continued focus on energy efficiency We use Ecodesk, an online platform, to gather
medication to patients is impacting our emissions
and investment in renewable energy, which now data on carbon, water and waste from around
(scope 3). We continue to research solutions
provides around 4% of our total energy use. 180 suppliers representing approximately
to this issue including changing the way we
£775 million of our raw materials.
We have begun to decouple environmental manufacture, to reduce the amount of propellant
impacts from business growth and increased used, while maintaining efficacy for patients. Around 320 suppliers are using our online
access to our medicines. In 2015, the volume Tackling emissions from the use of this medication Supplier Exchange Platform to share best
of medicines, consumer health products and remains a challenge, which impacts our ability to practices and, in 2015, we worked directly
vaccines we sent out from our factories was 40% meet our target to cut absolute emissions across with five suppliers to identify ways to reduce
higher than 2010. At the same time, our value chain the value chain. their carbon emissions from energy. Our 2015
carbon footprint has only grown by 2% (vs. 2010). Supplier Environmental Sustainability Award
Commitment: Reduce our overall carbon
went to flavourings supplier Firmenich SA for
footprint by 25% by 2020 (vs. 2010) and
its comprehensive environmental programme
have a carbon neutral value chain by 2050.
Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emission Scope 3 GHG Emission and engagement with its own suppliers.
(tonnes COe) (tonnes COe)
2 2
2,000,000 15,000,000
Progress overview: Work to do
1,750,000
12,000,000
1,500,000
1,250,000 9,000,000
1,000,000
750,000 6,000,000
500,000
3,000,000
250,000
0 0
2010 2013 2014 2015 2020 2010 2013 2014 2015 2020
target target
Gas and other fuel Purchased materials* 25%
Electricity and steam Product logistics
Propellant emissions during manufacture of inhalers Business travel by air
Sales force travel Propellant emissions during use of inhalers
Other emissions* Use of other products* We have reduced the value chain carbon footprint
* We are excluding ‘biogenic’ emissions from this year according
Disposal of products*
of the products we shipped in 2015 by an average
to current guidance, which accounts for the decrease in emissions. * Estimated data.
All data excludes former Novartis sites. of 25% versus 2010.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 51
Our planet
Aiming to be carbon neutral – continued
Our operations Logistics Disposal
We are investing in renewable energy We are partnering with our logistics providers The biggest carbon impact from customer Deforestation
infrastructure, converting to low-emission to reduce emissions from transportation of our disposal of our products also comes from Deforestation is a major contributor to climate
fuels and improving energy efficiency to cut products, which account for around 2% of our inhalers because there is often a small amount change. We are taking steps to ensure that
emissions from our own operations. The wind carbon footprint. For example, we encouraged of propellant (greenhouse gases) left in them raw materials such as wood-based packaging
turbine installed at our site in Cork, Ireland, our suppliers to invest in specialised trailers after use. Since 2012, we have encouraged materials and palm oil are sourced responsibly.
is now generating 28% of the site’s electricity that can support storage at two different UK patients to return more than 500,000 used
We have been working with the Rainforest
and in 2015 it delivered savings of €1 million temperatures so products requiring different inhalers to pharmacies where they are sent
Alliance to map risk in our packaging supply
and 4,100 tonnes of CO e. levels of refrigeration can be transported back to us to be recycled through our Complete
2 chain. We used this analysis to support our
together. This has enabled us to take more the Cycle scheme. We are also working with
In 2015, we announced the investment of a new sourcing standard for packaging, and
than 1,500 vehicles off the road and cut carbon healthcare trusts across the UK to combine
further £35 million to enhance the antibiotic we regularly assess suppliers to ensure they
emissions by 1,000 tonnes COe per year. health and environmental messages through
manufacturing facility at Quality Road in 2 meet the standard1. In 2015, 71% of our
We are also using a route planning tool that projects like ‘Don’t waste a breath’ in the
Singapore, in addition to the £28 million paper packaging materials used in our own
enables our vehicles to reduce journey times Grampian region and ‘Breathe better, waste less’
announced in 2012. We have developed operations were sourced responsibly, an
and make trips more efficient, further reducing in Brighton, which support patients to get the
and will roll out a process to manufacture the increase of 6% from 2012. We achieved this
carbon emissions. most out of their inhalers – reducing the need
antibiotic amoxicillin using enzyme technology. by sourcing more materials from suppliers
for emergency care and cutting waste.
This will increase production by 50% and and paper mills that are certified by the
reduce the site’s carbon emissions by 25%. 1 ,000 Forest Stewardship Council. Our 2020
Moving away from using a chemical process Biodiversity goal is to source at least 90% of our paper
will also eliminate chlorinated solvents and Biological materials, including genetic packaging for GSK branded products
80% of other organic waste. resources, are commonly used in the according to the standard.
Our £7.7 million investment in a combined heat tonnes of CO 2e saved annually development of new medicines and Palm oil production can have damaging
and power (CHP) boiler in Stevenage, UK, is vaccines. GSK is not directly involved in effects in important rainforest areas. In
expected to save £1.6 million a year in energy any bioprospecting although we do source 2015, we purchased GreenPalm certificates
Patient use
costs and reduce the site’s carbon emissions materials that are derived from natural covering 100% of the 260 tonnes of palm oil
We worked with the Carbon Trust to quantify
by 10%. It brings our total number of CHP products. We uphold the Nagoya Protocol, we use to make Horlicks in the UK. These
the carbon footprints of our 40 biggest-selling
boilers to 20. taking care that these biological resources certify that we are supporting the production
products at different stages of the value chain.
are obtained legitimately and used in the of sustainable palm oil. For every tonne
Patient use of our metered dose inhalers is the
way they are intended. of palm oil we buy, an equivalent mass of
most carbon-intensive activity across our whole
sustainable palm oil is produced.
portfolio, because the aerosol propellant used
to administer the medication is a powerful 1 GSK minimum conditions for virgin wood fibre specify the
material must be from legal origin and must not be harvested
greenhouse gas. We are continuing to explore
in violation of traditional and civil rights, in high conservation
ways to reduce these impacts, while extending value forests, or from forests being converted to plantations
or non-forest use.
access to this essential medication.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 52
Our planet
Reducing our water impact
By better understanding Performance in 2015 Our operations
We met our 2015 target to cut water use across GSK laboratories, manufacturing sites and Operational water use
our water use across the
our operations by 20% (compared to 2010) offices used 14 million m3 of water in 2015 (million m3)
value chain, we can focus a year early. During 2015 we reduced this by – around 1% of our total value chain water
20
a further 5%. Our investment in water-saving footprint. We are making major investments
our efforts where we can
initiatives over the past five years has helped to reduce this across our sites. For example,
make the biggest difference. us achieve these reductions by targeting sites we identified several areas at our Nairobi site 15
with the highest water use and those located in Kenya where we can collect and reuse water,
in regions of water scarcity. and installed a more efficient system to heat
10
water. Between 2013 and 2014 the site’s water
To meet our 2020 commitment, we are working
consumption decreased by 16%.
with experts and NGOs to understand how best
to reduce our water impact across the entire value Consumer use 5
chain. We combined data from the WWF Water Consumers and patients need water to use
Risk Filter with four focus areas – water scarcity, many of our products – making a cup of
0
local water quality, health and social risks, and Horlicks, brushing teeth, or to help swallow 2010 2013 2014 2015 2015
target
regulatory and reputational risks – to identify tablets. We estimate that consumer use
Commitment: By 2020, reduce our water
hotspots of high water impact. Many of the accounts for 13% of our water footprint – most
impact across the value chain by 20%
projects below emerged from this assessment. from the water used in cleaning teeth. In 2015,
(vs. 2010).
we continued to promote ‘Turn off the Tap’
Raw materials
campaign on the Sensodyne UK website and
Around 86% of the water used across our value
by printing the logo on our Sensodyne Pronamel
chain - an estimated 1,200 million m3 a year – is
Progress overview: Progressing well toothpaste, to encourage people not to leave
in producing raw materials. Much of this is from
the water running while brushing their teeth.
agricultural produce such as milk, sugars and eggs.
Consumer use of our products can potentially
We partnered with The Energy and Resources
alter water quality, as well as quantity. The
Institute (TERI), a sustainable development NGO
pharmaceutical products they use are not always
in India, to assess how we can help reduce
completely absorbed or broken down by the
water impact in the rural Indian communities that
body, and residues can find their way into the
supply us with the wheat, barley and milk used
environment – particularly water courses –
to manufacture Horlicks. In 2014, we piloted the
when medicines are excreted or disposed of.
approach with 10 of our direct suppliers and in
We assess the environmental risk associated
2015 we extended this work further down the
with patients’ use of our products to help ensure
supply chain to 20 suppliers at a rural community
that potential concentrations in the environment
level. We have identified projects to address
do not exceed safe levels. This includes testing
water conservation, rainwater harvesting, waste
the active pharmaceutical ingredients for
water treatment, groundwater recharge and
eco-toxic properties. Since 2014, we have
rehabilitation of water bodies, and are investigating
published data summaries of our environmental
options to implement this research.
risk assessments for many of our products.
All data excludes former Novartis sites.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 53
Our planet
Reducing our waste
We are changing our Performance in 2015 In Singapore, our Quality Road site partnered Packaging
We have continued to make progress towards with the National University of Singapore to We also want to reduce waste beyond our own
manufacturing to halve
our 2020 commitment, cutting our operational install an on-site treatment facility for hazardous operations and we work with suppliers to do
the amount of operational waste (hazardous and non-hazardous) by 25% waste that uses photo-oxidation to break down this by buying less material and sharing best
over the last five years. potentially harmful chemicals and organic practices on sustainability through our Supplier
waste we generate by
substances so they can be safely released into Exchange (see page 50). In 2015, we focused
Our investment in infrastructure and technology
2020 and are shifting the environment. This process has cut 7,000 on packaging, asking suppliers to submit ideas
has yielded results. In 2015, we produced
tonnes of waste and saved 9,800 tonnes of to reduce the amount of paper packaging
perceptions to see waste 134,000 tonnes of waste, 15% less than the COe and £680,000 by eliminating the need for needed for our Consumer Healthcare products.
previous year. 6,900 tonnes, representing 5% 2
incineration by third parties. More than 3,000
as a potential resource. of our total waste, was sent to landfill in 2015,
tonnes of waste from our Quality Road and
a reduction of 2,600 tonnes compared to 2014
Jurong sites, also in Singapore, are used to fuel Operational waste to landfill
and 60% lower than 2010 (17,000 tonnes).
Jurong’s steam boiler, generating 9 million kWh (thousand tonnes)
Our operations of energy in 2015 and cutting the site’s energy
20
We encourage our sites to think differently about costs by 13%.
waste and view it as a resource. Instead of being
discarded, it can be reused, recycled or used 15
to generate energy. We turned a corner in 2014 Operational waste generated
when more than half our manufacturing and (thousand tonnes)
R&D sites achieved zero waste to landfill and 10
Commitment: By 2020, reduce our
200
by the end of 2015, 60% of our sites sent no
operational waste by 50% (vs. 2010).
waste to landfill. 175
5
We have been sharing best practice to help our 150
sites learn from each other’s achievements as they 125
Progress overview: On track 0
all work towards this goal by 2020. For example, 2010 2013 2014 2015
100
our site in East Durham in the USA, is building
75
on insights shared by our Dungarvan site in
Ireland and will install a machine that will recycle 50
fibre drums used for packaging, storage and 25
transport, saving more than US$300,000 a year.
0
2010 2013 2014 2015 2020
Many sites are introducing innovative solutions commitment
to cut their waste streams. Our facility in Sainte-
Foy, Canada, is sending all its egg waste from
vaccine production – 1,500 tonnes in 2015 – to
be sold as compost, having secured regulatory
approval to do so in 2014. Our St Louis site in
the USA is also sending manufacturing waste
for composting instead of landfill.
All data excludes former Novartis sites.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 54
Data summary
Health for all 2012 2013 2014 2015 Notes
Better access to medicines and vaccines Number of doses of Rotarix vaccine donated to GAVI (million, cumulative) 89
Value of GSK medicine and vaccines prescribed through our 159 176 156 147
US Patient Assistance programme (million USD)
Number of patients reached through our US Patient Assistance programme 356,512 316,580 183,000 150,148
Community investment Total global community investment (million £) 206 221 201 208
Strengthening healthcare systems 20% reinvestment in LDCs (million £) 3.8 5.1 6 6.5
Healthcare workers our partners have trained (cumulative) 2,000 12,000 25,000 40,000
Number of people reached through our 20% reinvestment programme (million, cumulative) 1 3 6.5 11
Neglected tropical diseases Albendazole tablets to help LF elimination (million) 589 648 679 644
Albendazole tablets to help treat intestinal worms (million) 121 114.5 180.2 258.3
Total albendazole tablet donation 710 762 859 902 Total albendazole tablet donation since
1999: 5,960 million
Eradicating polio Number of doses of oral polio vaccine delivered to Global Polio Eradication Initiative (million) 220
Access to antiretroviral treatment for HIV Number of countries where ViiV Healthcare access programmes operate 139 139 139 139
Number of royalty-free voluntary licenses available for ViiV Healthcare products 14 16 16 16
Our behaviour 2012 2013 2014 2015 Notes
Compliance Employees disciplined for policy violations 2,919 3,128 3,947 3,574
Employees who were dismissed or agreed to leave the company voluntarily 312 375 373 387
Documented warnings 2,607 2,753 3,131 2,890
Total number of marketing and promotional activity violations 123 161 233 237
Breaches of external codes 25 36 39 17
Number of contacts made to our Speak up channels 1,600 1,865 3,203 3,257
Clinical trial data (cumulative) Publicly available trial result summaries 5,000 5,400 5,583 5,800
Number of studies with Clinical Study Reports posted to the register – – 200 663
Number of trials listed for which data are available for request – – 1,081 1,727
Number of research teams with approved requests for access to GSK trial data – – 36 62GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 55
Data summary
Our behaviour 2012 2013 2014 2015 Notes
Clinical research Clinical quality assurance assessments 293 323 322 265
Audits of investigator sites conducting GSK-sponsored trials 190 254 234 175
Audits of GSK processes 14 20 19 26
Audits of contract research organisations that carry out clinical trials on our behalf 26 34 40 23
Audits of GSK local operating companies involved in clinical trial activities 11 13 16 41
Investigations of suspected irregularities 47 51 13 29
Inspections of GSK sites by regulatory authorities 94 112 73 84
Anti-counterfeiting Number of reported cases with confirmed counterfeits 354 494 491 331
Number of raids by law enforcement authorities 208 307 234 198
Number of arrests by law enforcement authorities 124 272 273 161
Ensuring quality in manufacturing and supply Number of regulatory inspections of our pharmaceutical business 72 88 96 86
Number of regulatory inspections of our vaccines business 45 40 45 49
Number of regulatory inspections of our consumer healthcare business 54 69 46 40
Our People 2012 2013 2014 2015 Notes
Number of fatalities 2 0 1 2
Reportable incidents with lost time 404 353 281 311
Lost time reportable injury and illness rate 0.20 0.17 0.15 0.16 Per 100,000 hours worked.
Reportable incidents with and without lost time 682 567 499 537
Reportable injury and illness rate 0.33 0.27 0.26 0.28 Per 100,000 hours worked.
Talent and leadership development Total number of coaching assignments 538 1,050 1,390 1,554
Number of graduates recruited 277 287 304 444
Number of postgraduates recruited 26 47 35 26
Number of apprentices recruited 50 58 69 74
Inclusion and diversity Percentage of women in management (total) 40 41 42 42
Percentage of employees from emerging markets, Asia-Pacific and Japan 42 43 44 43
Volunteering Number of employees completing PULSE 91 99 98 78GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 56
Data summary
Our planet Data 2010 Baseline 2013 2014 2015 Notes
Carbon Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions (‘000 tonnes COe)
2
Gas and other fuel 570 538 490 477
Electricity and steam 962 788 745 703
Propellant emissions during manufacture of inhalers 214 254 169 222
Sales force travel 165 177 131 136
Other emissions 62 71 35 27
Total 1,974 1,829 1,596 1,565
Scope 3 GHG emissions (‘000 tonnes COe)
2
Purchased materials 5,600 5,600 5,600 5,600 Estimated data.
Product logistics 169 202 229 236
Business travel by air 96 90 94 102
Propellant emissions during use of inhalers 4,647 5,302 5,411 5,262
Use of other products 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 Estimated data.
Disposal of products 200 200 200 200 Estimated data.
Total 11,712 12,397 12,534 12,400
Water Water use in operations (million cubic metres) 18.7 15.7 15.2 14
Waste Total waste generated (thousand tonnes) 178 166 158 134
Waste to landfill (thousand tonnes) 17 11 10 7
Compliance Internal audits (number) 25 27 19 16
Environmental fines (£) 410 2,100 354,303* 500
Environmental remediation** Spend (million $) 5 6.6 4.5
* A detailed breakdown of 2014 environmental fines is available in the 2014 Responsible Business Supplement. These fines were mostly due to the discovery of a waste tank at our Upper Merrion site that did not comply with local regulations,
plus a fine paid by our Hamilton site for failure to submit a risk management plan for storage and use of chloroform.
** We take responsibility for removing pollution and contaminants from soil, surface and ground water at facilities we have used previously, and at the disposal sites of waste management companies we have used.GSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 57
Read more online
We publish more detail on many of the topics in this report on our website
Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet
• Clinical trials in the developing world • GSK Anti-Bribery and Corruption • Hazardous chemical management • Climate change
Handbook
• Developing world vaccine production • GSK and REACH • Genetically modified micro-organisms
technology transfer • GSK Anti-Bribery and Corruption
• Employee volunteering • Ozone depletion and metered-dose
guidelines for Third Parties
• IP and access to medicines in inhalers for asthma
• GSK future leaders programme
developing countries • Direct to consumer marketing of
• Pharmaceuticals in environment
prescription medicines • GSK careers site
• Pandemic preparedness and developing
• Use of ozone depleting substances
countries • Cloning technologies and stem
in ancillary plant and equipment
cell research
• Technology transfer, capacity building
• Green chemistry: greener processes
and developing countries • Disclosure of clinical trial information
in our labs
• Working together for the health of mothers • The care, welfare and treatment of animals
• Detailed environment data table
and children
• The role of transgenic animals in
• Assurance statement
• GSK briefing on non-communicable biomedical research
diseases in the developing world • GSK response to assurance statement
• Use of Non-human Primates (NHPs) in the
• GSK position statement on the post Discovery and Development of Medicines
2015 development agenda and Vaccines
• Tiered pricing for vaccines • Counterfeiting of healthcare products
• Product donations • Pharmacovigilance
• Non-communicable diseases • Criteria for working with public
policy groups
• Code of Conduct
• Clinical trials in the developing worldGSK Responsible Business Supplement 2015 58
Summary of assurance statement
Bureau Veritas’ Summary Independent Opinion and Recommendations Statement of independence, impartiality
Assurance Statement • Based on the assurance work we carried out and competence About our reporting
Bureau Veritas UK Limited has been engaged and the evidence we were presented with, Bureau Veritas is an independent professional We report our performance annually
by GSK plc to provide independent assurance as per the scope of work, nothing came to our services company that specialises in quality, in this report as part of our commitment
of its Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) attention to suggest that factual information, environment, health, safety and social to being open and transparent about our
performance data for 2015. The objective of performance metrics and data contained within accountability with over 185 years history. business activities. Responsible business
Bureau Veritas’ work is to express an opinion the GSK’s 2015 EHS performance data do not; The assurance team has extensive experience is also covered in our Annual Report.
on the accuracy and reliability of the EHS in environmental, social, ethical and health and
• provide a fair summary of EHS-related activities Data coverage
data and to provide a summary of findings. safety information, systems and processes.
and performance; All data in this report relates to GSK’s
Bureau Veritas’ Code of Ethics ensures that staff
The full assurance statement can be found • contain performance metrics and information members avoid conflict of interest and maintain global operations in the calendar year
here that includes details of the scope of work, that are based on established collection and high ethical standards in business activities. 2015, except where otherwise stated.
methodology, findings and recommendations collation processes, and are deemed to be Data in the environment and health and
for improvement. free from significant error, omission or bias. GSK’s response to assurance safety sections has been independently
We are pleased with Bureau Veritas’ findings verified by Bureau Veritas. Brand names
Summary of Scope and Methodology
The quality of data evidenced at site and on GSK’s established processes in managing appearing in italics throughout this report
• Assessment of performance data contained consolidated level was seen to be based (EHS) data. We are committed to continue are trade marks either owned by and/or
within the ‘EHS Data Table’ and associated on an up to date and recently implemented improving, with the ultimate goal of providing licensed to GSK or associated companies.
data management processes: this involved data management system (EHS Central) the most accurate EHS data to the public on
detailed review of the integrity of selected and supporting processes and guidance. our website. In 2016, we will continue to work Reporting standards
datasets and aggregation and checking Our index against the Global Reporting
processes at the corporate level, as well as The implementation of EHS Central has towards improving our data accuracy with an Initiative guidelines shows which elements
sampling data back to source at five GSK been comprehensive and effective in improving emphasis on incorporating the recommendations are covered in the report. As a signatory
sites. The sites were chosen to represent submissions and data accuracy during 2015. provided by Bureau Veritas. With the to the UN Global Compact, we publish
significant impact, GSK operations and Further refinement in EHS reporting can be implementation of our new reporting system an annual Communication on Progress to
geographical spread. through; inclusion of more complete EHS data we have seen improvements in data reporting demonstrate how we uphold its ten principles.
from the Commercial Operations business; in many areas of the business. The data in
• Interviews with senior EHS staff to understand review of supporting guidance and procedures the Responsible Business Supplement can Your feedback counts
GSK’s objectives and approach to data to fully meet the requirements of the new system; be used by sites to improve their management We welcome your feedback on our
collation and management. and completion of the revised approach to the of their EHS programmes. In 2016, we will responsible business performance
detection of anomalies and logging change in continue working with all sites to improve their and reporting. Please contact us at
consolidated EHS datasets. data submission, including providing comments csr.contact@gsk.com. You can also request
for the explanation of trends in a complete and to receive regular updates on our progress.
timely fashion.
London, February 2015