As filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28, 2007
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1) Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2006
or
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934
For the transition period from ________ to ________
Commission File No. 1-3305
Merck & Co., Inc.
One Merck Drive
Whitehouse Station, N. J. 08889-0100
(908) 423-1000
Incorporated in New Jersey I.R.S. Employer
Identification No. 22-1109110
Securities Registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Name of Each Exchange
Title of Each Class on which Registered
Common Stock New York and Philadelphia Stock Exchanges
($0.01 par value)
Number of shares of Common Stock ($0.01 par value) outstanding as of January 31, 2007: 2,166,483,163.
Aggregate market value of Common Stock ($0.01 par value) held by non-affiliates on June 30, 2006 based on closing price
on June 30, 2006: $79,306,000,000.
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes (cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1) No (cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Yes (cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) No (cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes (cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1) No (cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. (cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer.
Large accelerated filer (cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1) Accelerated filer (cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) Non-accelerated filer (cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes (cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
No (cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)
Documents Incorporated by Reference:
Document Part of Form 10-K
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Part III
Stockholders to be held April 24, 2007, to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the
close of the fiscal year covered by this reportTable of Contents
Pag e
Part I
Item 1. Business 2
Item 1A. Risk Factors 16
Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results 21
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22
Item 2. Properties 22
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22
Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 35
Executive Officers of the Registrant 36
Part II
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Item 5. Equity Securities 40
Item 6. Selected Financial Data 44
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 45
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 73
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 74
(a) F inancial Statements 74
N otes to Consolidated Financial Statements 77
R eport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 122
(b) S upplementary Data 124
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 125
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 125
M anagement’s Report 125
Item 9B. Other Information 126
Part III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 126
Item 11. Executive Compensation 126
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Item 12. Matters 127
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 127
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 127
Part IV
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 127
Signatures 131
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 132PART I
I tem 1. Business.
Merck & Co., Inc. (“Merck” or the “Company”) is a global research-driven pharmaceutical company that
discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of innovative products to improve human and animal
health. The Company’s operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of two reportable
segments: the Pharmaceutical segment and the Vaccines segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health
pharmaceutical products marketed either directly or through joint ventures. These products consist of therapeutic and
preventive agents, sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Merck sells these human health
pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed
health care providers such as health maintenance organizations and other institutions. The Vaccines segment includes
human health vaccine products marketed either directly or through a joint venture. These products consist of
preventative pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. Merck sells these
human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The
Company’s professional representatives communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of our pharmaceutical and
vaccine products to health care professionals in private practice, group practices and managed care organizations.
For financial information and other information about the Pharmaceutical segment and the Vaccines
segment, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and
Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” below.
Overview — During 2006, Merck continued to execute its strategy to reclaim its leadership position in the
pharmaceutical industry. This was made evident through the successful launches of five novel medicines and vaccines
in areas such as cancer prevention and diabetes, the advancement of drug candidates through every phase of the
Company’s pipeline and the continued success of its newer and in-line products. Additionally, the Company is
developing a new commercial model which is designed to broaden its engagement with customers and scientific
leaders, leverage alternative channels to complement the effectiveness of its sales force, and drive growth in key
markets.
During 2006, five products received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) approval: Gardasil
[Quadrivalent Human Papillomavirus (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Recombinant Vaccine], the first vaccine for the prevention
of cervical cancer and genital warts caused by certain types of human papillomavirus (“HPV”); Januvia (sitagliptin
phosphate), the first medicine of its class that enhances a natural body system to improve blood sugar control in
patients with type 2 diabetes; Zostavax [Zoster Vaccine Live (Oka/Merck)], the first vaccine for adults 60 years of age
and older to reduce the incidence of shingles, a disease which every year afflicts an estimated one million people in
the United States alone; RotaTeq (rotavirus vaccine, live, oral pentavalent), a pediatric vaccine to help prevent
rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, the effects of which take the lives of nearly 600,000 children under the
age of five worldwide every year; and Zolinza (vorinostat), a novel medicine to treat patients suffering from advanced
cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (“CTCL”).
In addition, the Company has three drug candidates currently under FDA review: Janumet (previously
referred to as MK-0431A), an investigational oral medicine combining sitagliptin phosphate with metformin for type 2
diabetes that is designed to provide an additional treatment option for patients who need more than one oral agent to
help control their blood sugar; Emend For Injection (MK-0517), an intravenous therapy for chemotherapy-induced
nausea and vomiting (“CINV”); and Arcoxia , Merck’s selective Cox-2 inhibitor for osteoarthritis. Additionally, the
Company anticipates filing three New Drug Applications (“NDA”) with the FDA in 2007: MK-0518, a
first-in-class HIV integrase inhibitor; gaboxadol, a novel compound from Merck’s alliance with H. Lundbeck A/S for
the treatment of insomnia; and MK-0524A, an extended-release (“ER”) niacin combined with laropiprant (a novel
flushing pathway inhibitor) for cholesterol management. In addition, by mid-year 2007, Merck expects to have four
products in Phase III development.
Additionally, targeted acquisitions made during the year of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. (“Sirna”), GlycoFi, Inc.
(“GlycoFi”) and Abmaxis, Inc. (“Abmaxis”), as well as other alliances and collaborations, will complement
2Merck’s strong internal research capabilities and should continue to help the Company build a pipeline that will
support its long-term growth.
Merck is working to deliver innovative and differentiated products to the market faster and more efficiently.
The Company has successfully reduced late development product cycle times and anticipates further reductions in the
coming year. Additionally, Merck’s new commercial model is expected to lower spending per primary care brand by
15% to 20% in the United States from 2005 through 2010 (an interim targeted 9% reduction is expected to be
achieved through the end of 2007) while still appropriately supporting product launches, as illustrated in the successful
launch of five new products in 2006. Through redeployment, the launches were achieved with no increase in sales
force.
The initial phase of a global restructuring program designed to reduce the Company’s cost structure, increase
efficiency and enhance competitiveness is underway. The initial steps include the implementation of a new supply
strategy by the Merck Manufacturing Division, which is intended to create a leaner, more cost-effective and customer-
focused manufacturing model over a three-year period. As part of this program, in 2005, Merck announced plans to
sell or close five manufacturing sites and two preclinical sites by the end of 2008 (three of the manufacturing sites
were closed, sold or had ceased operations and the two preclinical sites were closed by the end of 2006), and eliminate
approximately 7,000 positions company-wide (of which approximately 4,800 positions were eliminated by the end of
2006 comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions). However, the
Company continues to hire new employees as the Company’s business requires it. The Company has also sold certain
other facilities and related assets in connection with the restructuring program. The pre-tax costs of this restructuring
program were $935.5 million in 2006 (comprised of $793.2 million primarily representing accelerated depreciation
and asset impairment costs and $142.3 million of separation and other restructuring related costs) and are expected to
be $300 million to $500 million in 2007. Through the end of 2008, when the initial phase of the restructuring program
relating to the manufacturing strategy is expected to be substantially complete, the cumulative pre-tax costs of the
program are expected to range from $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion. Merck continues to expect the initial phase of its cost
reduction program to yield cumulative pre-tax savings of $4.5 to $5.0 billion from 2006 through 2010.
With respect to the Vioxx litigation, to date in the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, of the 29 plaintiffs
whose claims have been scheduled for trial, the claims of seven were dismissed, the claims of seven were withdrawn
from the trial calendar by plaintiffs, and juries have decided in Merck’s favor nine times and in plaintiffs’ favor four
times. In addition, in the recent California trial involving two plaintiffs, the jury could not reach a verdict for either
plaintiff and a mistrial was declared. A New Jersey state judge set aside one of the nine Merck verdicts. With respect
to the four plaintiffs’ verdicts, Merck already has filed an appeal or sought judicial review in each of those cases, and
in one of those four, a federal judge overturned the damage award shortly after trial. In addition, a consolidated trial
with two plaintiffs is currently ongoing in the coordinated proceeding in New Jersey Superior Court before Judge
Carol E. Higbee and another trial has commenced in state court in Illinois. During 2006, the Company spent
$500 million in the aggregate, including $175 million in the fourth quarter, in Vioxx legal defense costs worldwide.
During 2006, the Company recorded charges of $673 million to increase the reserve solely for its future legal defense
costs related to Vioxx litigation and at December 31, 2006 the balance of the reserve was $858 million. This reserve is
based on certain assumptions and is the best estimate of the amount the Company believes, at this time, will be spent
through 2008. The Vioxx litigation is more fully discussed in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below.
Earnings per common share assuming dilution for 2006 were $2.03, including the impact of the global
restructuring program of $0.28 per share, the acquired research charge related to the acquisition of Sirna of
$0.21 per share and the acquired research charge related to the acquisition of GlycoFi of $0.14 per share (as discussed
in “Acquisitions” below), additional reserves established solely for future legal defense costs for Vioxx litigation (as
discussed in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below) and the impact of adopting a new accounting standard requiring the
expensing of stock options (as discussed in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” below).
3Product Sales
Sales 1 of the Company’s products were as follows:
($ in millions) 2006 2005 2004
Singulair $ 3,579.0 $ 2,975.6 $ 2,622.0
Cozaar/Hyzaar 3,163.1 3,037.2 2,823.7
Fosamax 3,134.4 3,191.2 3,159.7
Zocor 2,802.7 4,381.7 5,196.5
Primaxin 704.8 739.6 640.6
Cosopt/Trusopt 697.1 617.2 558.8
Proscar 618.5 741.4 733.1
Vasotec/Vaseretic 547.2 623.1 719.2
Cancidas 529.8 570.0 430.0
Maxalt 406.4 348.4 309.9
Propecia 351.8 291.9 270.2
Vioxx - - 1,489.3
Vaccines/Biologicals 2 1,859.4 1,103.3 1,070.3
Other 4,241.8 3,391.3 2,949.5
Total $ 22,636.0 $ 22,011.9 $ 22,972.8
1 Presented net of discounts and returns.
2 These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Company’s joint venture, Sanofi
Pasteur MSD, the results of which are reflected in equity income from affiliates.
The Company’s pharmaceutical products include therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by
prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Among these are Singulair (montelukast sodium), a leukotriene
receptor antagonist respiratory product for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic
rhinitis; Cozaar (losartan potassium)/ Hyzaar (losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide) and Vasotec (enalapril
maleate) , the Company’s most significant hypertension and/or heart failure products; Fosamax (alendronate sodium)
and Fosamax Plus D (alendronate sodium/cholecalciferol), Merck’s osteoporosis products for treatment and, in the
case of Fosamax , prevention of osteoporosis; Zocor (simvastatin), Merck’s atherosclerosis product; Primaxin
(imipenem and cilastatin sodium) and Cancidas (caspofungin acetate) , anti-bacterial/anti-fungal product s ; Cosopt
(dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution) and Trusopt (dorzolamide hydrochloride
ophthalmic solution) , the largest-selling ophthalmological products; Proscar (finasteride), a urology product for the
treatment of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement; Maxalt (rizatriptan benzoate) , an acute migraine product; and
Propecia (finasteride), a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss.
Among the products included within vaccines/biologicals are Varivax (varicella virus vaccine live
[Oka/Merck]), a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox, M-M-R II (measles, mumps and rubella virus vaccine live), a
vaccine against measles, mumps and rubella, ProQuad [measles, mumps, rubella, varicella (Oka/Merck) virus vaccine
live], a pediatric combination vaccine against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella, Gardasil, a vaccine for the
prevention of cervical cancer and genital warts caused by certain types of HPV, Pneumovax (pneumococcal vaccine
polyvalent), a vaccine for the prevention of pneumococcal disease, RotaTeq , a vaccine to help protect against
rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, and Zostavax , a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster).
Other primarily includes sales of other human pharmaceuticals, pharmaceutical and animal health supply
sales to the Company’s joint ventures and revenue from the Company’s relationship with AstraZeneca LP, primarily
relating to sales of Nexium (esomeprazole magnesium) and Prilosec (omeprazole).
U.S. Product Approvals — On February 3, 2006, the FDA approved RotaTeq , a pediatric vaccine to prevent
rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children. RotaTeq is an oral pentavalent three-dose liquid vaccine that
4contains five reassortant rotaviruses. Merck has also submitted applications for licensure of RotaTeq in more than 100
countries including Australia, Canada and countries in Asia and Latin America and, through Sanofi Pasteur MSD
(“SPMSD”), Merck’s vaccine joint venture with Sanofi Pasteur, in the European Union (“EU”). RotaTeq also received
regulatory approval in Mexico in November 2005.
On May 26, 2006, the FDA approved Zostavax for the prevention of herpes zoster (shingles) in individuals
60 years of age and older. It was also approved by regulatory authorities in the EU and Australia in May. Zostavax is
the first and only medical option approved for the prevention of shingles.
On June 8, 2006, the FDA approved Gardasil , the first and only vaccine to prevent cervical cancer and
vulvar and vaginal pre-cancers caused by HPV types 16 and 18 and to prevent low-grade and pre-cancerous lesions
and genital warts caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18. In the United States, it is estimated that approximately 9,700
women will be diagnosed with cervical cancer this year, and approximately 3,700 women will die.
On October 6, 2006, the FDA approved oral Zolinza for the treatment of cutaneous manifestations in patients
with CTCL, a form of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, who have progressive, persistent or recurrent disease on or
following two systemic therapies. CTCL is a cancer of the T-cells, a type of white blood cell, which affects the skin.
On October 17, 2006, the FDA approved Januvia , the first and only dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (“DPP-4”)
inhibitor available in the United States for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Januvia has been approved as
monotherapy and as add-on therapy to either of two other types of oral diabetes medications, metformin or
thiazolidinediones, to improve blood sugar (glucose) control in patients with type 2 diabetes when diet and exercise is
not enough.
On June 29, 2006, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (“CDC”) Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices (“ACIP”) unanimously voted to recommend that children 4 to 6 years of age routinely receive
a second dose of varicella-containing vaccine to help protect against chickenpox. The Committee also recommended
that children, adolescents and adults who received only one dose of varicella-containing vaccine receive a second,
“catch-up” dose, which can be accomplished through routine health-care visits and school- and college-entry
requirements. Merck’s Varivax and its combination vaccine ProQuad are the only vaccines to help protect against
chickenpox available in the United States.
Voluntary Withdrawal of Vioxx — On September 30, 2004, Merck announced a voluntary worldwide
withdrawal of Vioxx , its arthritis and acute pain medication. The Company’s decision, which was effective
immediately, was based on new three-year data from a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial,
APPROVe (Adenomatous Polyp Prevention on Vioxx ).
The trial, which was stopped, was designed to evaluate the efficacy of Vioxx 25 mg in preventing the
recurrence of colorectal polyps in patients with a history of colorectal adenomas and, in combination with two other
trials, to further assess the cardiovascular safety of Vioxx. In this study, there was an increased relative risk for
confirmed cardiovascular events, such as heart attack and stroke, which became apparent beginning after about
18 months of treatment in the patients taking Vioxx compared to those taking placebo. For approximately the first
18 months of the APPROVe study the Vioxx and placebo curves appeared to be similar and, in this respect, the
APPROVe results were similar to the results of two placebo-controlled studies described in the U.S. labeling for Vioxx
as of the time of withdrawal.
The Company estimates that there were 105 million U.S. prescriptions written for Vioxx from May 1999
through August 2004. Based on this estimate, the Company estimates that the number of patients who have taken
Vioxx in the United States since its 1999 launch is approximately 20 million. The number of patients outside the
United States who have taken Vioxx is undetermined at this time.
In October 2004, the Company received a letter from Senator Charles Grassley, Chairman of the Senate
Committee on Finance, requesting certain documents and information related to Vioxx. The Company also received
requests for information from other Congressional committees. The Company has cooperated with these inquiries and
has continued to describe the reasons for the Company’s voluntary withdrawal of Vioxx and to answer any
5questions related to the Company’s development and extensive testing of the medicine and its disclosures of the
results of its studies.
On February 16-18, 2005, the FDA held a joint meeting of the Arthritis Advisory Committee and the Drug
Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee. The committees discussed the overall
benefit-to-risk considerations (including cardiovascular and gastrointestinal safety concerns) for COX-2 selective
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and related agents. On February 18, 2005, the members of the committees were
asked to vote on whether the overall risk versus benefit profile for Vioxx supports marketing in the United States. The
members of the committees voted 17 to 15 in support of the marketing of Vioxx in the United States. The Company
looks forward to further discussions with the FDA and other regulatory authorities about Vioxx.
As previously announced, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed a Special Committee to review
the Company’s actions prior to its voluntary withdrawal of Vioxx, to act for the Board in responding to shareholder
litigation matters related to the withdrawal of Vioxx and to advise the Board with respect to any action that should be
taken as a result of the review. In December 2004, the Special Committee retained the Honorable John S. Martin, Jr.
of Debevoise & Plimpton LLP to conduct an independent investigation of senior management’s conduct with respect
to the cardiovascular safety profile of Vioxx during the period Vioxx was developed and marketed. The review was
completed in the third quarter of 2006 and the full report (including appendices) was made public in September 2006.
The Company has provided a copy of the full report and appendices at its website at
www.merck.com/newsroom/vioxx/martin_report.html . The Company has included its website address only as an
inactive textual reference and does not intend it to be an active link to its website nor does it incorporate by reference
the information contained therein.
Acquisitions — In May 2006, Merck acquired Abmaxis, a privately-held biopharmaceutical company
dedicated to the discovery and optimization of monoclonal antibody (MAb) products for human therapeutics and
diagnostics, for approximately $80 million.
In June 2006, Merck acquired GlycoFi, a privately-held biotechnology company, a leader in the field of
yeast glycoengineering, which is the addition of specific carbohydrate modifications to the proteins in yeast, and
optimization of biologic drug molecules, for approximately $373 million.
In December 2006, Merck acquired Sirna, a publicly-held biotechnology company and a leader in
developing a new class of medicines based on RNA interference (“RNAi”) technology for a total value of
approximately $1.1 billion. The acquisition of Sirna is expected to increase Merck’s ability to use RNAi technology to
turn off a targeted gene in a human cell, potentially rendering inoperative a gene responsible for triggering a specific
disease.
Joint Ventures — The Company has a number of joint ventures relating to its Pharmaceutical and Vaccines
segments.
P harmaceutical
In 2000, the Company and Schering-Plough Corporation (“Schering-Plough”) entered into agreements to
create separate equally-owned partnerships to develop and market in the United States new prescription medicines in
the cholesterol-management and respiratory therapeutic areas. In December 2001, the cholesterol-management
partnership agreements were expanded to include all the countries of the world, excluding Japan. In October 2002,
Zetia ( ezetimibe) (marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States), the first in a new class of cholesterol-lowering
agents, was launched in the United States. In July 2004, Vytorin (marketed as Inegy outside the United States), a
combination product containing the active ingredients of both Zetia and Zocor, was approved in the United States.
In 1982, the Company entered into an agreement with Astra AB (“Astra”) to develop and market Astra
products in the United States. In 1994, the Company and Astra formed an equally owned joint venture that developed
and marketed most of Astra’s new prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec , the first in a class
of medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach
lining.
In 1998, the Company and Astra restructured the joint venture whereby the Company acquired Astra’s
interest in the joint venture, renamed KBI Inc. (“KBI”), and contributed KBI’s operating assets to a new U.S. limited
partnership named Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (the “Partnership”), in which the Company maintains a limited
6partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP, became the exclusive distributor of the products for which
KBI retained rights. The Company earns certain Partnership returns as well as ongoing revenue based on sales of
current and future KBI products. The Partnership returns include a priority return provided for in the Partnership
Agreement, variable returns based, in part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a preferential
return representing the Company’s share of undistributed Partnership GAAP earnings. In conjunction with the 1998
restructuring, for a payment of $443.0 million, Astra purchased an option to buy the Company’s interest in the KBI
products, excluding the Company’s interest in the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec. The Company also
granted Astra an option (the “Shares Option”) to buy the Company’s common stock interest in KBI, at an exercise
price based on the present value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec.
In April 1999, Astra merged with Zeneca Group Plc, forming AstraZeneca AB (“AstraZeneca”). As a result
of the merger, in exchange for the Company’s relinquishment of rights to future Astra products with no existing or
pending U.S. patents at the time of the merger, Astra paid $967.4 million, which is subject to a true-up calculation in
2008 that may require repayment of all or a portion of this amount. The merger also triggers a partial redemption of
the Company’s limited partner interest in 2008. Furthermore, as a result of the merger, AstraZeneca’s option to buy
the Company’s interest in the KBI products is exercisable in 2010 and the Company has the right to require
AstraZeneca to purchase such interest in 2008. In addition, the Shares Option is exercisable two years after Astra’s
purchase of the Company’s interest in the KBI products. The exercise of this option by Astra is also provided for in
the year 2017 or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a minimum amount provided, in each case,
only so long as either the Merck option in 2008 or AstraZeneca’s option in 2010 has been exercised. The exercise
price is based on the present value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec as determined at the time of
exercise.
In 1989, the Company formed a joint venture with Johnson & Johnson to develop and market a broad range
of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50% owned joint venture was expanded into Europe in 1993,
and into Canada in 1996. Significant joint venture products are Pepcid AC (famotidine), an over-the-counter form of
the Company’s ulcer medication Pepcid (famotidine), as well as Pepcid Complete, an over-the-counter product which
combines the Company’s ulcer medication with antacids (calcium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide). In March
2004, the Company sold to Johnson & Johnson its interest in the European joint venture.
V accines
In 1992, the Company and Connaught Laboratories, Inc. (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) agreed to collaborate on
the development and marketing of combination pediatric vaccines and to promote selected vaccines in the United
States. While combination vaccine development efforts continue under this agreement, no vaccines are currently being
promoted.
In 1994, the Company and Pasteur Mérieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to
market human vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in
the then existing EU and the European Free Trade Association. The Company and Sanofi Pasteur contributed, among
other things, their European vaccine businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as Pasteur Mérieux MSD,
S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD, S.N.C.). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or through affiliates or
branches in Belgium, Italy, Germany, Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the Netherlands, Switzerland
and the United Kingdom, and through distributors in the rest of its territory.
O ther
In 1997, the Company and Rhône-Poulenc S.A. (now Sanofi-Aventis S.A.) combined their respective animal
health and poultry genetics businesses to form Merial Limited (“Merial”), a fully integrated animal health company,
which is a stand-alone joint venture, equally owned by each party. Merial provides a comprehensive range of
pharmaceuticals and vaccines to enhance the health, well-being and performance of a wide range of animal species.
Competition — The markets in which the Company conducts its business are highly competitive and often
highly regulated. Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and
access.
7Such competition involves an intensive search for technological innovations and the ability to market these
innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well prepared
to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources to meet competition include quality
control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information
service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through joint ventures and licenses and has been
refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. To enhance its product
portfolio, the Company continues to pursue external alliances, from early-stage to late-stage product opportunities,
including joint ventures and targeted acquisitions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by
competitors may result in price reductions and product replacements, even for products protected by patents. For
example, the number of compounds available to treat diseases typically increases over time and has resulted in
slowing the growth in sales of certain of the Company’s products.
Legislation enacted in all states in the United States, particularly in the area of human pharmaceutical
products, allows, encourages or, in a few instances, in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing
physician, mandates the use of “generic” products (those containing the same active chemical as an innovator’s
product) rather than “brand-name” products. Governmental and other pressures toward the dispensing of generic
products have significantly reduced the sales of certain of the Company’s products no longer protected by patents,
such as Zocor, which lost market exclusivity in the U.S. in 2006 and the Company experienced a significant decline in
Zocor sales thereafter.
Distribution — The Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers
and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance
organizations and other institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician
distributors and government entities. The Company’s professional representatives communicate the effectiveness,
safety and value of the Company’s pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care professionals in private
practice, group practices and managed care organizations.
In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company implemented a new distribution program for U.S. wholesalers to
moderate the fluctuations in sales caused by wholesaler investment buying and improve efficiencies in the distribution
of Company pharmaceutical products. The new program lowered previous limits on average monthly purchases of
Company pharmaceutical products by U.S. customers. Following the implementation of the program, fluctuations in
sales caused by wholesaler investment buying significantly moderated.
Raw Materials — Raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from multiple sources, are
purchased worldwide and are normally available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the Company’s
Pharmaceutical and Vaccines segments.
Government Regulation and Investigation — The pharmaceutical industry is subject to global regulation by
regional, country, state and local agencies. Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which
administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing
of prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and money
necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. In 1997, the Food and Drug
Administration Modernization Act (the “FDA Modernization Act”) was passed and was the culmination of a
comprehensive legislative reform effort designed to streamline regulatory procedures within the FDA and to improve
the regulation of drugs, medical devices and food. The legislation was principally designed to ensure the timely
availability of safe and effective drugs and biologics by expediting the premarket review process for new products. A
key provision of the legislation is the re-authorization of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act of 1992, which permits
the continued collection of user fees from prescription drug manufacturers to augment FDA resources earmarked for
the review of human drug applications. This helps provide the resources necessary to ensure the prompt approval of
safe and effective new drugs.
In the United States, the government expanded health care access by enacting the Medicare Prescription
Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, which was signed into law in December 2003. Prescription drug
coverage began on January 1, 2006. This legislation supports the Company’s goal of improving access to medicines
by expanding insurance coverage, while preserving market-based incentives for pharmaceutical innovation. At the
same time, the legislation will ensure that prescription drug costs will be controlled by competitive
8pressures and by encouraging the appropriate use of medicines. In addressing cost-containment pressure, the Company
has made a continuing effort to demonstrate that its medicines can help save costs in overall patient health care.
For many years, the pharmaceutical industry has been under federal and state oversight with the approval
process for new drugs, drug safety, advertising and promotion, drug purchasing and reimbursement programs and
formularies variously under review. The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations,
including the introduction of new drugs to the market, in this regulatory environment. One type of federal initiative to
contain federal health care spending is the prospective or “capitated” payment system, first implemented to reduce the
rate of growth in Medicare reimbursement to hospitals. Such a system establishes in advance a flat rate for
reimbursement for health care for those patients for whom the payor is fiscally responsible. This type of payment
system and other cost containment systems are now widely used by public and private payors and have caused
hospitals, health maintenance organizations and other customers of the Company to be more cost-conscious in their
treatment decisions, including decisions regarding the medicines to be made available to their patients. The Company
continues to work with private and federal employers to slow increases in health care costs. Further, the Company’s
efforts to demonstrate that its medicines can help save costs in other areas have encouraged the use of the Company’s
medicines and have helped offset the effects of increasing cost pressures.
Also, federal and state governments have pursued methods to directly reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines
for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed
by Medicaid, to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and
“disproportionate share” hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria), and to provide minimum discounts of 24% off
of a defined “non-federal average manufacturer price” for purchases by certain components of the federal government
such as the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense.
Initiatives in some states seek rebates beyond the minimum required by Medicaid legislation, in some cases
for patients beyond those who are eligible for Medicaid. Under the Federal Vaccines for Children entitlement
program, the CDC funds and purchases recommended pediatric vaccines at a public sector price for the immunization
of Medicaid-eligible, uninsured, Native American and certain underinsured children. The Company was awarded a
CDC contract in April 2006 which is in effect until March 2007 for the supply of pediatric vaccines for the Vaccines
for Children program that had an aggregate estimated value of $550 million at signing. As of January 1, 2006, patients
previously eligible for Medicaid who are also Medicare beneficiaries (65 years and older or disabled) left the state-
administered Medicaid system to be covered by the new Medicare prescription drug benefit.
Outside the United States, the Company encounters similar regulatory and legislative issues in most of the
countries where it does business. There, too, the primary thrust of governmental inquiry and action is toward
determining drug safety and effectiveness, often with mechanisms for controlling the prices of or reimbursement for
prescription drugs and the profits of prescription drug companies. The EU has adopted directives concerning the
classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products for
human use. The Company’s policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives;
consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Company’s business.
The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies and is, therefore, subject to
potential administrative actions. Such actions may include seizures of products and other civil and criminal sanctions.
Under certain circumstances, the Company on its own may deem it advisable to initiate product recalls. The Company
believes that it should be able to compete effectively within this environment.
In addition, certain countries within the EU, recognizing the economic importance of the research-based
pharmaceutical industry and the value of innovative medicines to society, are working with industry representatives
and the European Commission (“EC”) on proposals to complete the “Single Market” in pharmaceuticals and improve
the competitive climate through a variety of means including market deregulation.
The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The
legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an
increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the Company’s
business.
9Patents, Trademarks and Licenses — Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material
importance in the Company’s marketing of human health products in the United States and in most major foreign
markets. Patents may cover products per se , pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates useful in the
manufacture of products or the uses of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in
accordance with the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from
country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage.
Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the Company normally provide market exclusivity.
Basic patents are in effect for the following major products in the United States: Cancidas, Comvax ( Haemophilus b
conjugate and hepatitis B [recombinant] vaccine) , Cosopt, Cozaar, Crixivan , Emend, Fosamax, Gardasil, Hyzaar ,
Invanz (ertapenem sodium), Maxalt, Primaxin, Propecia, Recombivax HB (hepatitis B vaccine [recombinant]) ,
RotaTeq, Singulair, Januvia , Trusopt, Zolinza and Zostavax. Basic patents are also in effect in the United States for
Zetia and Vytorin , which were developed by the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership. A basic patent is also in effect
for Sustiva/Stocrin (efavirenz). Bristol-Myers Squibb (“BMS”), under an exclusive license from the Company, sells
Sustiva in the United States, Canada and certain European countries. The Company markets Stocrin in other countries
throughout the world. The basic patent for Aggrastat (tirofiban hydrochloride) in the United States was divested with
the product in 2003. The Company retains basic patents for Aggrastat outside the United States.
The FDA Modernization Act includes a Pediatric Exclusivity Provision that may provide an additional six
months of market exclusivity in the United States for indications of new or currently marketed drugs if certain agreed
upon pediatric studies are completed by the applicant. These exclusivity provisions were re-authorized until October 1,
2007 by the “Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act” passed in January 2002. In 2005, the FDA granted an additional
six months of market exclusivity in the United States to Invanz until August 2013. In 2004, the FDA granted an
additional six months of market exclusivity in the United States to Trusopt until October 2008. In 2002, the FDA
granted an additional six months of market exclusivity in the United States to Cozaar/Hyzaar until February 2010. In
2005, the FDA granted an additional six months of market exclusivity in the United States to Singulair until August
2012. For further information with respect to the Company’s patents, see “Patent Litigation” on page 32.
While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a loss of market exclusivity for the covered
pharmaceutical product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from: (i) later-granted patents on processes
and intermediates related to the most economical method of manufacture of the active ingredient of such product;
(ii) patents relating to the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel compositions and formulations; and (iv) in
the United States, market exclusivity that may be available under federal law. The effect of product patent expiration
on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many other factors such as the nature of the market and the position of
the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the
active ingredient of the product and the requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act or similar laws and regulations in other countries.
Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States and other countries through all relevant laws,
including laws increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in patent life have been partially offset by a
general increase in the number of, incentives for and use of generic products. Additionally, improvements in
intellectual property laws are sought in the United States and other countries through reform of patent and other
relevant laws and implementation of international treaties.
In June 2006, Zocor lost its market exclusivity in the United States and the Company experienced a
significant decline in U.S. Zocor sales after that time.
In June 2006, the basic patent in the United States covering Proscar expired. As a result, the Company
experienced a significant decline in U.S. Proscar sales after that time. The basic patent for Proscar also covers
Propecia; however, Propecia is protected by additional patents which expire in October 2013.
In 2003, the FDA granted an additional six months of market exclusivity in the United States to Fosamax
until February 2008, and Fosamax Once Weekly until January 2019. However, on January 28, 2005, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, D.C. found the Company’s patent claims for once-weekly
administration of Fosamax to be invalid. The Company exhausted all options to appeal this decision in 2005. Based on
the Court of Appeals’ decision, Fosamax will lose its market exclusivity in the United States in February 2008.
10Fosamax Plus D will lose its U.S. market exclusivity in April 2008. The Company expects significant declines in each
product’s sales after each product’s respective loss of market exclusivity.
Worldwide, all of the Company’s important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the
aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other
countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely.
Royalties received during 2006 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $83.8 million.
The Company also paid royalties amounting to $900.5 million in 2006 under patent and know-how licenses it holds.
R esearch and Development
The Company’s business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing
products through a strong research and development program. Approximately 11,400 people are employed in the
Company’s research activities. Expenditures for the Company’s research and development programs were $4.8 billion
in 2006, $3.8 billion in 2005 and $4.0 billion in 2004. The Company maintains its ongoing commitment to research
over a broad range of therapeutic areas and clinical development in support of new products.
The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology
and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. Merck’s new research and
development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the
Company’s research and development resources on nine priority disease areas — Alzheimer’s disease, atherosclerosis,
cardiovascular disease, diabetes, novel vaccines, obesity, oncology (targeted therapies), pain and sleep disorders.
These therapeutic areas were carefully chosen based on a set of criteria including unmet medical needs, scientific
opportunity and commercial opportunity. Within these therapeutic areas, Merck will commit resources to achieve
research breadth and depth and to develop best-in-class targeted and differentiated products that are valued highly by
patients, payers and physicians.
The Company will also make focused investments to pursue specific mechanisms in the following selected
disease areas: antibiotics, antifungals, antivirals (hepatitis C virus, human immunodeficiency virus), asthma, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, neurodegeneration, ophthalmology, osteoporosis, schizophrenia and stroke. In
addition, the Company will capitalize on selected opportunities outside these areas by continuing to commercialize
attractive clinical development candidates in the pipeline and by pursuing appropriate external licensing opportunities.
In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the
United States and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical
compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug may be marketed in the
United States, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the NDA or the Biologics License
Application to the FDA for the required approval. The development of certain other products is also subject to
government regulations covering safety and efficacy in the United States and many foreign countries.
Once the Company’s scientists discover a new compound that they believe has promise to treat a medical
condition, the Company commences preclinical testing with that compound. Preclinical testing includes laboratory
testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology and toxicology. Pending acceptable
preclinical data, the Company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. The
clinical testing begins with Phase I studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and
preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. If favorable, additional, larger Phase II studies are
initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the
compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compound’s usefulness. If data from the Phase II
trials are satisfactory, the Company commences large-scale Phase III trials to confirm the compound’s efficacy and
safety. Upon completion of those trials, if satisfactory, the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate
regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. There can be no
assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary
for it to be marketed.
11In the United States, the FDA approval process begins once a complete NDA is submitted and received by
the FDA. Pursuant to the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA review period targets for NDAs or supplemental
NDAs is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review. Within 60 days after receipt of an
NDA, the FDA determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. The FDA also
assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. Once the review
timelines are defined, the FDA will act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has
been submitted (either at the Company’s own initiative or the FDA’s request) to the pending application. If this
occurs, the FDA may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than
180 days. Extensions to the review period are communicated to the Company. The FDA can act on an application by
issuing an approval letter, a non-approvable letter, or an approvable letter. Based on FDA statistics, drug development
time from initiation of preclinical testing to NDA approval can range from 5 to 20 years with an average of 8.5 years.
The Company has three drug candidates currently under FDA review:
In June 2006, the FDA accepted for standard review an NDA for MK-0517, the intravenous prodrug of
Emend, for the treatment of CINV. The Company anticipates a decision on the NDA in the second quarter of 2007.
In July 2006, the FDA accepted for standard review the NDA for Janumet , the Company’s investigational
oral medicine combining Januvia with metformin, which is designed to provide an additional treatment for patients
needing more than one oral agent to help control blood sugar for treatment of type 2 diabetes. The Company expects
FDA action on the NDA by the end of March 2007. The Company is also moving forward as planned with regulatory
filings in countries outside the United States.
Arcoxia , the Company’s investigational selective COX-2 inhibitor, remains under standard review by the
FDA in the United States. In response to the FDA’s approvable letter, Merck included results of the MEDAL
(Multinational Etoricoxib and Diclofenac Arthritis Long-Term) Program that showed the rate of confirmed thrombotic
cardiovascular events was similar between Arcoxia and diclofenac, the most widely used nonsteroidal anti-
inflammatory drug in the world. The Company anticipates FDA action in April 2007. The Company expects that an
FDA Advisory Committee meeting will be held prior to FDA action. Arcoxia is currently available in more than 60
countries in Europe, Latin America, the Asia-Pacific region and Middle East/Northern Africa.
The Company anticipates filing three NDAs with the FDA in 2007:
The Company plans to file an NDA for MK-0518 with the FDA in the second quarter of 2007 and has
received fast track designation for an indication in treatment-experienced patients.
Interim 16-week data from the dose-ranging Phase II trial of MK-0518, the Company’s investigational HIV
integrase inhibitor, in patients with advanced HIV infection were presented at the 13 th Annual Conference on
Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections in February 2006. The results showed that the oral investigational
medication at all three doses studied in combination with optimized background therapy (“OBT”) had greater
antiretroviral activity than OBT alone. Study results also showed that MK-0518 in combination with OBT was
generally well tolerated in these patients who were failing antiretroviral therapy (“ART”), who were resistant to at
least one drug of each of the three available classes of oral ARTs, and who had limited active ARTs as options for
treatment. At the American Society for Microbiology’s 46th Annual International Conference on Antimicrobial
Agents and Chemotherapy in September 2006, the Company presented interim 24-week data from this ongoing study
in treatment-experienced patients, which demonstrated MK-0518 maintaining viral load regression.
In August 2006 at the 16 th International AIDS conference, the Company presented interim 24-week data
from the Phase II dose-ranging trial of MK-0518 conducted in treatment-naïve, HIV-infected patients. The data
showed that MK-0518 twice daily, when used in combination with tenofovir and lamivudine, achieved a comparable
viral load reduction to efavirenz combined with the same agents in previously untreated patients. In September 2006 at
the American Society for Microbiology’s 46th Annual International Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and
Chemotherapy, the Company presented additional interim 24-week data from this Phase II dose-ranging study in
treatment-naïve patients that demonstrated no increase in lipid levels in patients taking MK-0518 with tenofovir and
lamivudine.
12The Company has entered into Phase III clinical trials with MK-0524A and to support MK-0524B,
investigational therapies for lipid management. MK-0524A represents a novel approach to lowering LDL-C, raising
HDL-C and lowering triglycerides. MK-0524B combines MK-0524A with the proven benefits of simvastatin to
potentially reduce the risk of coronary heart disease beyond what statins provide alone. The Company plans to file
MK-0524A with the FDA in 2007 and to file MK-0524B in 2008.
In November 2006, the Company presented data from a Phase II study at the American Heart Association’s
Scientific Sessions 2006 in Chicago that showed co-administration of MK-0524 with ER niacin significantly reduced
flushing in patients with dyslipidemia compared to those patients who took ER niacin alone. Flushing, characterized
by redness of the skin with warming or burning on the face and neck caused by the dilation of blood vessels near the
skin, is a common niacin-induced side effect that can cause discomfort to patients and is a significant factor leading to
discontinuation of niacin therapy.
In October 2006, the Company and H. Lundbeck A/S of Denmark announced that the submission of an NDA
for gaboxadol, a novel investigational drug in Phase III development for the treatment of insomnia, will occur in mid-
2007. Phase II clinical studies of gaboxadol showed improved sleep quality as well as increased slow-wave sleep
without suppressing REM sleep. In December 2006, Merck announced that gaboxadol will likely be a scheduled
compound.
Also, by mid-year 2007, Merck expects to have four products in Phase III development (including MK-
0524B discussed above):
The Company has initiated a targeted Phase III program with its investigational compound for the treatment
of obesity, MK-0364, which is an investigational cannabinoid-1 receptor inverse agonist. Results of early clinical
studies indicate that MK-0364 demonstrated significant weight-loss efficacy versus placebo and was generally safe
and well-tolerated, however, as reported with another cannabinoid-1 receptor inverse agonist, some psychiatric
adverse experiences have been observed.
As announced in December 2006, the Company plans to start Phase III testing of MK-0974, the calcitonin
gene related peptide receptor antagonist for the treatment of migraine headaches. The Phase III program is expected to
commence in first quarter 2007.
Also announced in December 2006, the Company anticipates that MK-0822, a Cathepsin K inhibitor for the
treatment of osteoporosis, will enter Phase III testing in mid-2007.
The Company’s clinical pipeline includes candidates in each of the following areas: arthritis, atherosclerosis,
cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, endocrine disorders, glaucoma, infectious diseases, insomnia,
neurodegenerative disease, obesity, osteoporosis, psychiatric disease, pain, respiratory disease and urogenital
disorders. The Company supplements its internal research with an aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy
focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as new
technologies. The Company completed 53 transactions in 2006, including targeted acquisitions, research
collaborations, preclinical and clinical compounds, and technology transactions across a broad range of therapeutic
categories.
In March 2006, Neuromed Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (“Neuromed”) and Merck signed a research collaboration
and license agreement to research, develop and commercialize novel compounds for the treatment of pain and other
neurological disorders, including Neuromed’s lead compound, NMED-160 (MK-6721), which is currently in Phase II
development for the treatment of pain.
Also in March 2006, Merck signed an agreement with NicOx S.A. (“NicOx”) to collaborate on the
development of new antihypertensive drugs using NicOx’s proprietary nitric oxide-donating technology.
In September 2006, the Company announced that it had expanded the scope of its existing strategic
collaboration with FoxHollow Technologies, Inc. (“FoxHollow”) for atherosclerotic plaque analysis. In addition,
Merck acquired a stake in FoxHollow with the purchase of $95 million in common stock.
In October 2006, Ambrilia Biopharma Inc. (“Ambrilia”), a biopharmaceutical company developing
innovative therapeutics in the fields of cancer and infectious diseases, and Merck announced that Ambrilia has entered
into an exclusive licensing agreement granting Merck the worldwide rights to Ambrilia’s HIV/AIDS protease inhibitor
program.
13In November 2006, the J. David Gladstone Institutes and Merck announced a major collaboration and license
agreement for research and development of drugs to treat neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease,
that are linked to apoE-regulated mechanisms in the body.
Also in November 2006, Advinus Therapeutics (P) Ltd. (“Advinus”) and Merck announced that they have
formed a drug discovery and clinical development collaboration in the area of metabolic disorders. Advinus and
Merck will work together to develop clinically validated drug candidates for metabolic disorders, with Merck
retaining the right to advance the most promising of these candidates into late-stage clinical trials.
In December 2006, Merck and Idera Pharmaceuticals (“Idera”) announced that they have formed a broad
collaboration to research, develop and commercialize Idera’s Toll-like Receptor agonists by incorporating them in
therapeutic and prophylactic vaccines being developed by Merck for oncology, infectious diseases and Alzheimer’s
disease.
The chart below reflects the Company’s current research pipeline as of February 15, 2007. Candidates shown
in Phase III include specific products. Candidates shown in Phase I and II include the most advanced compound with a
specific mechanism in a given therapeutic area. Back-up compounds, regardless of their phase of development,
additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional line extensions or formulations for in-line products
are not shown.
Phase I
Alzheimer’s Disease
MK-0952
Atherosclerosis
MK-6213
Cancer
MK-0429
MK-0646*
MK-0731
MK-0752
MK-4721*
V930
Cardiovascular
MK-0448
MK-8141*
Diabetes
MK-0941
MK-0893
MK-1642
MK-3887
Phase I
Endocrine
MK-0867*
MK-0974
Glaucoma
MK-0994
Infectious Disease
MK-0608
MK-7009
MK-8122*
V710 ( S. aureus )
V512 (Flu)
Insomnia
MK-0454
MK-8998
Osteoporosis
MK-0773
Parkinson’s Disease
MK-0657
Psychiatric Disease
MK-2637
MK-0249
MK-5757
Phase II
Alzheimer’s Disease
MK-0249
Arthritis
MK-0822Atherosclerosis
MK-0859
MK-0633
Cancer
MK-0457*
MK-0822
Diabetes
MK-0533
Endocrine
MK-0677
HIV
V526
HPV
V502**
Infectious Disease
(Pediatric)
V419*
Migraine
MK-0974
Osteoporosis
MK-0822
Overactive Bladder
MK-0634
MK-0594
Pain
MK-0759
MK-6721*
MK-2295*/***
Respiratory Disease
MK-0633
Stroke
MK-0724*
Phase III
Atherosclerosis
MK-0524B
MK-0524A
(ER niacin/
laropiprant)
HIV
MK-0518
(raltegravir)
Insomnia
Gaboxadol*
Obesity
MK-0364
(taranabant)
Under FDA Review
CINV
Emend For Injection
(MK-0517)
Diabetes
Janumet
Osteoarthritis
Arcoxia
2006 U.S. Approvals
Rotavirus
Gastroenteritis
RotaTeq
Shingles
Zostavax
Cervical Cancer and
Genital Warts
Gardasil **
Diabetes
Januvia
Cancer (CTCL)
Zolinza*
* Licensed, alliance, or acquisition (pipeline)
** Multiple licenses, including CSL, Ltd.
*** Proof-of-Concept Molecule14All product or service marks appearing in type form different from that of the surrounding text are
trademarks or service marks owned by or licensed to Merck, its subsidiaries or affiliates (including Zetia and Vytorin ,
trademarks owned by entities of the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership), except as noted. Cozaar and Hyzaar are
registered trademarks of E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, Wilmington, DE and Prilosec and Nexium are
trademarks of the AstraZeneca group. The U.S. trademarks for Vasotec and Vaseretic are owned by Biovail
Laboratories Incorporated. The U.S. trademark for Aggrastat is owned by Guilford Pharmaceuticals Inc.
E mployees
At the end of 2006, the Company had approximately 60,000 employees worldwide, with approximately
31,800 employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Approximately 21% of worldwide employees of the
Company are represented by various collective bargaining groups.
As part of a cost-reduction initiative announced in October 2003 and completed at the end of 2004, the
Company had eliminated 5,100 positions. The Company completed a similar program in 2005 with 900 positions
being eliminated through December 31, 2005.
On November 28, 2005, the Company announced the first phase of a global restructuring program designed
to reduce the Company’s cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. The initial steps will
include the implementation of a new supply strategy by the Merck Manufacturing Division, which is intended to
create a leaner, more cost-effective and customer-focused manufacturing model over a three-year period.
As a result, Merck will incur certain costs associated with exit or disposal activities. As part of the global
restructuring program, the Company expects to eliminate approximately 7,000 positions in manufacturing and other
divisions worldwide, representing about 11% of its global work force, by the end of 2008. About half of the position
reductions are expected to occur in the United States, with the remainder in other countries. As of December 31, 2006,
there have been approximately 4,800 positions eliminated throughout the Company since inception of the program
(approximately 3,700 of which were eliminated during 2006 comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the
elimination of contractors and vacant positions). However, the Company continues to hire new employees as the
Company’s business requires it. Merck intends to sell or close five of its 31 manufacturing facilities worldwide and
two preclinical sites and to reduce operations at a number of other sites. Through the end of 2006, three of the
manufacturing facilities have been closed, sold, or had ceased operations, and the two preclinical sites were closed.
The Company has also sold certain other facilities and related assets in connection with the restructuring program. The
remaining sites identified for sale/closure are expected to be closed by the end of 2008, subject to compliance with
legal obligations.
The pretax costs of the restructuring were $935.5 million in 2006, $401.2 million in 2005 and are expected to
be $300 million to $500 million in 2007. Through the end of 2008, when the initial phase of the restructuring program
is substantially complete, the cumulative pretax costs of the restructuring activities announced on November 28, 2005
are expected to range from $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion. Approximately 70% of the cumulative pretax costs are non-
cash, relating primarily to accelerated depreciation for those facilities scheduled for closure.
E nvironmental Matters
The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws
and regulations. In 2006, the Company incurred capital expenditures of approximately $7.9 million for environmental
protection facilities. The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial
activity at certain of its sites. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $12.6 million in 2006,
and are estimated at $94.2 million for the years 2007 through 2011. These amounts do not consider potential
recoveries from insurers or other parties. The Company has taken an active role in identifying and providing for these
costs and, in management’s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters which are probable and reasonably
estimable have been accrued and totaled $129.0 million at December 31, 2006. Although it is not possible to predict
with certainty the outcome of these environmental matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not
believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should
exceed $62.0 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these
15expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations,
liquidity or capital resources for any year.
G eographic Area Information
The Company’s operations outside the United States are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales
worldwide by subsidiaries outside the United States were 39% of sales in 2006, 42% of sales in 2005 and 41% of sales
in 2004.
The Company’s worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and
other governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion
of its operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies
responsive to changing economic and political conditions.
In recent years, the Company has been expanding its operations in countries located in Latin America, the
Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific where changes in government policies and economic conditions
are making it possible for the Company to earn fair returns. Business in these developing areas, while sometimes less
stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time.
Financial information about geographic areas of the Company’s business is discussed in Item 8. “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” below.
A vailable Information
The Company’s Internet website address is www.merck.com . The Company will make available, free of
charge at the “Investor Information” portion of its website, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after
such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The Company’s corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Board of Directors’ seven standing
committees are available on the Company’s website at www.merck.com/about/corporategovernance and all such
information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the Company.
I tem 1A. Risk Factors.
You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the following risk
factors, before deciding to invest in any of the Company’s securities. The risks below are not the only ones the
Company faces. Additional risks not currently known to the Company or that the Company presently deems
immaterial may also impair its business operations. The Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations
or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This Form 10-K also contains forward-
looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s results could materially differ from those
anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces as described
below and elsewhere. See “Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results” on page 21.
The Company faces significant litigation related to Vioxx.
On September 30, 2004, the Company voluntarily withdrew Vioxx , its arthritis and acute pain medication,
from the market worldwide. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 27,400 product liability lawsuits, involving
approximately 46,100 plaintiff groups, alleging personal injuries resulting from the use of Vioxx, have been filed
against the Company in state and federal courts in the United States. The Company is also a defendant in
approximately 264 purported class actions related to the use of Vioxx. (All of these suits are referred to as the “ Vioxx
Product Liability Lawsuits”.) In addition to the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, various purported class actions and
individual lawsuits have been brought against the Company and several current and former officers and directors of
the Company alleging that the Company made false and misleading statements regarding Vioxx in violation of the
federal and state securities laws (all of these suits are referred to as the “ Vioxx Securities Lawsuits”). In addition,
various putative class actions have been brought against the Company and several current and former
16employees, officers, and directors of the Company alleging violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act (“ERISA”). (All of these suits are referred to as the “ Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits”.) In addition, shareholder derivative
suits that were previously filed and dismissed are now on appeal and several shareholders have filed demands with the
Company asserting claims against the Board members and Company officers. (All of these suits and demands are
referred to as the “ Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits” and, together with the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits and the Vioxx ERISA
Lawsuits, the “ Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits”.) The Company has also been named as a defendant in actions in various
countries outside the United States. (All of these suits are referred to as the “ Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits”.) The Company
has also been sued by four states with respect to the marketing of Vioxx. The Company anticipates that additional
lawsuits relating to Vioxx will be filed against it and/or certain of its current and former officers and directors in the
future.
The SEC is conducting a formal investigation of the Company concerning Vioxx. The U.S. Department of
Justice has issued a subpoena requesting information relating to the Company’s research, marketing and selling
activities with respect to Vioxx in a federal health care investigation under criminal statutes. There are also ongoing
investigations by certain Congressional committees and local authorities in Europe. A group of Attorneys General
from thirty-one states and the District of Columbia are conducting an investigation of the Company’s sales and
marketing of Vioxx. The Company is cooperating with authorities in all of these investigations. (All of these
investigations are referred to as the “ Vioxx Investigations”.) The Company can not predict the outcome of any of these
investigations; however, they could result in potential civil and/or criminal liability.
To date, in the Vioxx Product Liability litigation, of the 29 plaintiffs whose claims have been scheduled for
trial, the claims of seven were dismissed, the claims of seven were withdrawn from the trial calendar by plaintiffs, and
juries have decided in Merck’s favor nine times and in plaintiffs’ favor four times. In addition, in the recent California
trial involving two plaintiffs, the jury could not reach a verdict for either plaintiff and a mistrial was declared. A New
Jersey state judge set aside one of the nine Merck verdicts. With respect to the four plaintiffs’ verdicts, Merck already
has filed an appeal or sought judicial review in each of those cases, and in one of those four, a federal judge
overturned the damage award shortly after trial. In addition, a consolidated trial with two plaintiffs is currently
ongoing in the coordinated proceeding in New Jersey Superior Court before Judge Higbee and another trial has
commenced in state court in Illinois. The Vioxx Product Liability litigation is discussed more fully below in Item 3.
“Legal Proceedings” below.
The outcomes of these Vioxx Product Liability trials should not be interpreted to indicate any trend or what
outcome may be likely in future Vioxx trials.
The Company currently anticipates that a number of Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits will be tried in 2007.
A trial in the Oregon securities case is scheduled for 2007, but the Company cannot predict whether this trial will
proceed on schedule or the timing of any of the other Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuit trials. The Company believes that it
has meritorious defenses to the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits and Vioxx Foreign
Lawsuits (collectively, the “ Vioxx Lawsuits”) and will vigorously defend against them. The Company’s insurance
coverage with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits will not be adequate to cover its defense costs and any losses.
During 2006, the Company spent $500 million, including $175 million in the fourth quarter, in the aggregate
in legal defense costs worldwide related to (i) the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, (ii) the Vioxx Shareholder
Lawsuits, (iii) the Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the Vioxx Investigations (collectively, the “ Vioxx Litigation”). In
the third quarter of 2006, the Company recorded a charge of $598 million and in the fourth quarter it recorded another
charge of $75 million, to increase the reserve solely for its future legal defense costs related to the Vioxx Litigation
from $685 million at December 31, 2005 to $858 million at December 31, 2006. This reserve is based on certain
assumptions, described below under “Legal Proceedings”, and is the best estimate of the amount that the Company
believes, at this time, will be spent through 2008.
The Company is not currently able to estimate any amount of damages that it may be required to pay in
connection with the Vioxx Lawsuits or Vioxx Investigations. These proceedings, which are expected to continue for
years, are currently at an early stage and the Company has very little information as to the course the proceedings will
take. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many
claimants and the claimants seek unspecified damages, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters,
and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the Vioxx
17Lawsuits. The Company has not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the Vioxx Lawsuits or
the Vioxx Investigations.
A series of unfavorable outcomes in the Vioxx Lawsuits or the Vioxx Investigations, resulting in the payment
of substantial damages or fines or resulting in criminal penalties, could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects.
Certain of the Company’s major products are going to lose patent protection in the near future and,
when that occurs, the Company expects a significant decline in sales of those products.
The Company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing rights for its products for some
period of time. As product patents for several of the Company’s products have recently expired, or are about to expire,
in the United States and in other countries, the Company faces strong competition from lower price generic drugs.
Loss of patent protection for one of the Company’s products typically leads to a rapid loss of sales for that product, as
lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. In the case of products that contribute significantly to the
Company’s sales, the loss of patent protection can have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
operations.
In June 2006, Zocor, the Company’s statin for modifying cholesterol, lost its market exclusivity in the
United States. Zocor had already lost its basic patent protection in many markets throughout the world. The Company
has experienced a significant decline in Zocor sales. Worldwide sales of Zocor were $2.8 billion in 2006, compared to
$4.4 billion in 2005. Worldwide sales of Zocor are expected to be $0.6 billion to $0.9 billion in 2007.
In September 2004, the Company appealed a decision of the Opposition Division (the “Opposition
Division”) of the European Patent Office (the “EPO”) that revoked the Company’s patent in Europe that covers the
once-weekly administration of alendronate. That decision was upheld and, therefore, presently the Company is not
entitled to market exclusivity for Fosamax in most major European markets after 2007. In addition, Merck’s basic
patent covering the use of alendronate has been challenged in several European countries. The Company has received
adverse decisions in Germany, Holland and the United Kingdom. The decision in the United Kingdom was upheld on
appeal. The Company has appealed the decisions in Germany and Holland. The Company expects a significant decline
in European sales of Fosamax after loss of exclusivity. Sales of Fosamax outside the United States in 2006 have
already been adversely affected by the availability of generic alendronate sodium products in some markets, including
the United Kingdom, Canada and Germany.
On January 28, 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, D.C. found the
Company’s patent claims for once-weekly administration of Fosamax to be invalid. The Company exhausted all
options to appeal this decision in 2005. Based on the Court of Appeals decision, Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D will
lose market exclusivity in the United States in February 2008 and April 2008, respectively, and the Company expects
a significant decline in Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D sales in the United States after each product’s respective loss of
market exclusivity.
The Company’s research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially
successful products and the Company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other
ways; in consequence, the Company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that have lost patent
protection.
Like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain competitive, the Company must continue to
launch new products each year. Declines in sales of products such as Zocor and Fosamax mean that the Company’s
future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new products which it develops through joint
ventures and products which it is able to obtain through license or acquisition. To accomplish this, the Company
commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development, both through its own dedicated
resources, and through various collaborations with third parties. To support its research and development efforts the
Company must make ongoing, substantial expenditures, without any assurance that the efforts it is funding will result
in a commercially successful product. The Company must also commit substantial efforts, funds and other resources
to recruiting and retaining high quality scientists and other personnel with pharmaceutical research and development
expertise.
18Based on FDA statistics, drug development time from initiation of preclinical testing to NDA approval can
range from 5 to 20 years with an average of 8.5 years. For a description of the research and development process, see
“Research and Development” above. Each phase of testing is highly regulated, and during each phase there is a
substantial risk that the Company will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve its goals, and accordingly the
Company may abandon a product in which it has invested substantial amounts of time and money. Some of the risks
encountered in the research and development process include the following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound
may yield disappointing results; clinical trials of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or
may have harmful side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the FDA for its intended use; it may not be
possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; or sales of a new product may be disappointing.
The Company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will
be launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or
products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. The Company must maintain a
continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products
sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable
products, such as Zocor and Fosamax , lose patent protection or are displaced by competing products or therapies.
Failure to do so in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results
of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects.
The Company’s products, including products in development, can not be marketed unless the
Company obtains and maintains regulatory approval.
The Company’s activities, including research, preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and
marketing its products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental
authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including the European
Commission. In the United States, the FDA is of particular importance to the Company, as it administers requirements
covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription
pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to
develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. Regulation outside the United States also is
primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many cases, cost reduction. The FDA and foreign
regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or withhold registration and
marketing approval and to mandate product withdrawals.
Even if the Company is successful in developing new products, it will not be able to market any of those
products unless and until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where it proposes to
market the new products. Once obtained, the Company must maintain approval as long as it plans to market its new
products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. The Company’s failure to obtain approval, significant delays
in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from selling the new
products in that jurisdiction until approval is obtained, if ever. The Company would not be able to realize revenues for
those new products in any jurisdiction where it does not have approval.
The Company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or
circumvented, its business would be adversely affected.
Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the Company’s marketing of
human health products in the United States and in most major foreign markets. Patents covering products that it has
introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing and sale of its
products. The Company seeks patents covering each of its products in each of the markets where it intends to sell the
products and where meaningful patent protection is available.
Even if the Company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties or government
authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent applications. It is important for the
Company’s business to defend successfully the patent rights that provide market exclusivity for its products. The
Company is often involved in patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or infringement and similar claims
against the Company. The Company aggressively defends its important patents both within and outside the United
States, including by filing claims of infringement against other parties. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings — Patent
19Litigation” below. In particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products from time to time file Abbreviated
New Drug Applications (“ANDA”) with the FDA seeking to market generic forms of the Company’s products prior to
the expiration of relevant patents owned by the Company. The Company normally responds by vigorously defending
its patent, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. Patent litigation and other challenges to the
Company’s patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the Company of market exclusivity for a patented
product or, in some cases, third party patents may prevent the Company from marketing and selling a product in a
particular geographic area.
If one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are
likely to decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those products becoming available. The Company’s
results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales unless and until the Company has successfully
launched commercially successful replacement products.
The Company faces intense competition from lower-cost generic products.
In general, the Company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. The patent rights
that protect its products are of varying strengths and durations. In addition, in some countries, patent protection is
significantly weaker than in the United States or the EU. In the United States, political pressure to reduce spending on
prescription drugs has led to legislation which encourages the use of generic products. Although it is the Company’s
policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the Company’s products can arise at any time, and it
may not be able to prevent the emergence of generic competition for its products.
Loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the
Company’s sales of that product. Availability of generic substitutes for the Company’s drugs may adversely affect its
results of operations and cash flow. In addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the United States and other
countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. Any such proposal that is
enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the Company’s sales and, potentially, its results of
operations and cash flow.
The Company faces intense competition from new products.
The Company’s products face intense competition from competitors’ products. This competition may
increase as new products enter the market. In such an event, the competitors’ products may be safer or more effective
or more effectively marketed and sold than the Company’s products. Alternatively, in the case of generic competition,
they may be equally safe and effective products which are sold at a substantially lower price than the Company’s
products. As a result, if the Company fails to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material adverse
effect on its business and results of operations.
The Company faces pricing pressure with respect to its products.
The Company’s products are subject to increasing price pressures and other restrictions worldwide, including
in the United States. These include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers
and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug
Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the “2003 Act”).
The 2003 Act included a prescription drug benefit for individuals which first went into effect on January 1,
2006. The increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries could result in
further pricing pressures. The Company expects pricing pressures to increase in the future.
Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the Company’s business.
All aspects of the Company’s business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing,
pricing, sales, litigation and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. Changes in
applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
business.
20C autionary Factors that May Affect Future Results
(Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995)
This report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company may
contain so-called “forward-looking statements,” all of which are based on management’s current expectations and are
subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements.
One can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as “expects,” “plans,” “will,”
“estimates,” “forecasts,” “projects” and other words of similar meaning. One can also identify them by the fact that
they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to address the Company’s growth
strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential, and development programs. One
must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to
differ materially from the Company’s forward-looking statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a
broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. No forward-
looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. The Company does not assume the
obligation to update any forward-looking statement. The Company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the
following:
• Significant litigation related to Vioxx.
• Competition from generic products as the Company’s products lose patent protection.
• Increased “brand” competition in therapeutic areas important to the Company’s long-term business performance.
• The difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. The outcome of the lengthy and complex
process of new product development is inherently uncertain. A candidate can fail at any stage of the process and
one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. New product candidates may
appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the inability
to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the infringement of
patents or intellectual property rights of others. Furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be
disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels.
• Pricing pressures, both in the United States and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups,
judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and health care reform,
pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general.
• Changes in government laws and regulations and the enforcement thereof affecting the Company’s business.
• Efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to
product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales.
• Legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax
disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could
preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of existing products.
• Lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the FDA and foreign
regulatory authorities.
• Increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the United States and the EU. The
legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an
increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the
Company’s business.
• Changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings.
• Changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the
Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC, that are adverse to the Company.
21• Economic factors over which the Company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates.
This list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. See “Risk
Factors” on page 16.
I tem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.
None
I tem 2. Properties.
The Company’s corporate headquarters is located in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey. The Company’s
U.S. pharmaceutical business is conducted through divisional headquarters located in Upper Gwynedd and West
Point, Pennsylvania. The Company’s vaccines business is conducted through divisional headquarters located in West
Point. Principal research facilities for human health products are located in Rahway, New Jersey and West Point. The
Company also has production facilities for human health products at nine locations in the United States and Puerto
Rico. Branch warehouses provide services throughout the country. Outside the United States, through subsidiaries, the
Company owns or has an interest in manufacturing plants or other properties in Australia, Canada, Japan, Singapore,
South Africa, and other countries in Western Europe, Central and South America, and Asia.
Capital expenditures for 2006 were $980.2 million compared with $1.4 billion for 2005. In the United States,
these amounted to $714.7 million for 2006 and $938.7 million for 2005. Abroad, such expenditures amounted to
$265.5 million for 2006 and $464.0 million for 2005.
The Company and its subsidiaries own their principal facilities and manufacturing plants under titles which
they consider to be satisfactory. The Company considers that its properties are in good operating condition and that its
machinery and equipment have been well maintained. Plants for the manufacture of products are suitable for their
intended purposes and have capacities and projected capacities adequate for current and projected needs for existing
Company products. Some capacity of the plants is being converted, with any needed modification, to the requirements
of newly introduced and future products.
I tem 3. Legal Proceedings.
The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its
business, including product liability, intellectual property, and commercial litigation, as well as additional matters
such as antitrust actions.
V ioxx Litigation
P roduct Liability Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, individual and putative class actions have been filed against the Company in state
and federal courts alleging personal injury and/or economic loss with respect to the purchase or use of Vioxx . All such
actions filed in federal court are coordinated in a multidistrict litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Louisiana (the “MDL”) before District Judge Eldon E. Fallon. A number of such actions filed in state court
are coordinated in separate coordinated proceedings in state courts in New Jersey, California and Texas, and the
counties of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Clark County, Nevada. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had been
served or was aware that it had been named as a defendant in approximately 27,400 lawsuits, which include
approximately 46,100 plaintiff groups, alleging personal injuries resulting from the use of Vioxx , and in
approximately 264 putative class actions alleging personal injuries and/or economic loss. (All of the actions discussed
in this paragraph are collectively referred to as the “ Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits”.) Of these lawsuits,
approximately 8,300 lawsuits representing approximately 23,700 plaintiff groups are or are slated to be in the federal
MDL and approximately 16,800 lawsuits representing approximately 16,800 plaintiff groups are included in a
coordinated proceeding in New Jersey Superior Court before Judge Carol E. Higbee.
In addition to the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits discussed above, the claims of over 4,025 plaintiffs had
been dismissed as of December 31, 2006. Of these, there have been over 1,225 plaintiffs whose claims were
22dismissed with prejudice (i.e., they cannot be brought again) either by plaintiffs themselves or by the courts. Over
2,800 additional plaintiffs have had their claims dismissed without prejudice (i.e., they can be brought again).
In the MDL, Judge Fallon in July 2005 indicated that he would schedule for trial a series of cases during the
period November 2005 through 2006, in the following categories: (i) heart attack with short term use; (ii) heart attack
with long term use; (iii) stroke; and (iv) cardiovascular injury involving a prescription written after April 2002 when
the labeling for Vioxx was revised to include the results of the VIGOR trial. These trials began in November 2005 and
concluded in December 2006. The next scheduled trial in the MDL is a re-trial in Barnett v. Merck on the issue of
damages as discussed below.
Several Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits are currently scheduled for trial in 2007. The Company has
provided a list of such trials at its website at www.merck.com which it will periodically update as appropriate. The
Company has included its website address only as an inactive textual reference and does not intend it to be an active
link to its website nor does it incorporate by reference the information contained therein.
Merck has entered into a tolling agreement (the “Tolling Agreement”) with the MDL Plaintiffs’ Steering
Committee that establishes a procedure to halt the running of the statute of limitations (tolling) as to certain categories
of claims allegedly arising from the use of Vioxx by non-New Jersey citizens. The Tolling Agreement applies to
individuals who have not filed lawsuits and may or may not eventually file lawsuits and only to those claimants who
seek to toll claims alleging injuries resulting from a thrombotic cardiovascular event that results in a myocardial
infarction or ischemic stroke. The Tolling Agreement provides counsel additional time to evaluate potential claims.
The Tolling Agreement requires any tolled claims to be filed in federal court. As of December 31, 2006,
approximately 14,180 claimants had entered into Tolling Agreements.
Merck voluntarily withdrew Vioxx from the market on September 30, 2004. Many states have a two-year
statute of limitations for product liability claims, requiring that claims must be filed within two years after the
plaintiffs learned or could have learned of their potential cause of action. As a result, some may view September 30,
2006 as a deadline for filing Vioxx cases. It is important to note, however, that the law regarding statutes of limitations
can be complex, varies from state to state, can be fact-specific, and in some cases, might be affected by the existence
of pending class actions. For example, some states have three year statutes of limitations and, in some instances, the
statute of limitations is even longer. Merck expects that there will be legal arguments concerning the proper
application of these statutes, and the decisions will be up to the judges presiding in individual cases in state and federal
proceedings.
The Company has previously disclosed the outcomes of several Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits that were
tried prior to September 30, 2006 (see chart below).
In August 2006, in Barnett v. Merck, a case before Judge Fallon in the MDL, a jury in New Orleans,
Louisiana returned a plaintiff verdict in the second federal Vioxx case to go to trial. The jury awarded $50 million in
compensatory damages and $1 million in punitive damages. On August 30, 2006, Judge Fallon overturned as
excessive the damages portion of the verdict and ordered a new trial on damages. Judge Fallon has set re-trial for
October 29, 2007 on the issue of damages. Merck has filed motions for a new trial on all issues and for Judgment as a
Matter of Law, both of which are currently pending before the Court. Plaintiff has opposed Merck’s motion and has
asked the Judge to reduce the amount of the award rather than re-try the case.
Juries found in favor of Merck on all counts in the fourth and fifth cases to go to trial in the MDL. The jury
returned its verdict for Merck in Mason v. Merck on November 8, 2006 and in Dedrick v. Merck on December 13,
2006.
On November 22, 2006, Judge Fallon denied a motion filed in the MDL to certify a nationwide class of all
persons who allegedly suffered personal injury as a result of taking Vioxx .
On December 15, 2006, the jury in Albright v. Merck, a case tried in state court in Birmingham, Alabama,
returned a verdict for Merck on all counts.
The Company previously disclosed that in April 2006, in Garza v. Merck, a jury in Rio Grande City, Texas
returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff. In September 2006, the Texas state court granted the Company’s request to
investigate possible jury bias because a juror admitted that he had, prior to the trial, on several occasions
23borrowed money from the plaintiff. On December 21, 2006, the court entered judgment for plaintiff in the amount of
$7.75 million, plus interest, reduced from the original award of $32 million because of the Texas state cap on punitive
damages. The Company is seeking a new trial and will appeal the verdict if the court does not grant a new trial.
On October 31, 2006, in California Superior Court in Los Angeles, a consolidated trial began in the cases
Appell v. Merck and Arrigale v. Merck. On January 18, 2007, Judge Victoria Chaney declared a mistrial as to both
plaintiffs after the jury reported that it was deadlocked.
On October 5, 2006, in the coordinated proceeding in New Jersey Superior Court, Judge Higbee dismissed
claims of the United Kingdom plaintiffs. These plaintiffs have appealed.
The first case scheduled for trial in the Texas coordinated proceeding, Rigby v. Merck, was scheduled to
begin trial on November 7, 2006. The Rigby case was voluntarily dismissed on October 23, 2006 when the plaintiff
filed a notice of non-suit with the Court.
A consolidated trial, Hermans v. Merck and Humeston v. Merck, began on January 17, 2007, in the
coordinated proceeding in New Jersey Superior Court before Judge Higbee. Humeston v. Merck was first tried in
2005, but Judge Higbee set aside the November 2005 jury verdict in favor of Merck and ordered a new trial on the
grounds of newly discovered evidence. The Hermans/Humeston trial is separated into two phases: a general phase
regarding Merck’s conduct and a plaintiff-specific phase. There will be jury questions and a deliberation after phase I
regarding Merck’s conduct. If the jury answers any of the questions in the affirmative, the case will move to phase II.
In phase II each plaintiff will present his or her specific case. At the end of phase II, the jury will deliberate and will
answer questions with respect to each of the two plaintiffs. The jury will answer separate verdict sheets but in the
course of only one deliberation. If the case moves to a punitive phase, there will be a single presentation for each side
and one jury deliberation for both plaintiffs.
The first case scheduled for trial in the Philadelphia coordinated proceeding, McCool v. Merck, was
scheduled to begin trial on February 26, 2007. The plaintiff voluntarily dismissed with prejudice her case on
January 16, 2007.
On September 28, 2006, the New Jersey Superior Court, Appellate Division, heard argument on plaintiffs’
appeal of Judge Higbee’s dismissal of the Sinclair v. Merck case. This putative class action was originally filed in
December 2004 and sought the creation of a medical monitoring fund. Judge Higbee had granted the Company’s
motion to dismiss in May 2005. On January 16, 2007, the Appellate Division reversed the decision and remanded the
case back to Judge Higbee for further factual inquiry. The Company has petitioned the New Jersey Supreme Court for
review of the Appellate Division’s decision.
To date in the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, of the 29 plaintiffs whose claims have been scheduled for
trial, the claims of seven were dismissed, the claims of seven were withdrawn from the trial calendar by plaintiffs, and
juries have decided in Merck’s favor nine times and in plaintiffs’ favor four times. In addition, in the recent California
trial involving two plaintiffs, the jury could not reach a verdict for either plaintiff and a mistrial was declared. A New
Jersey state judge set aside one of the nine Merck verdicts. With respect to the four plaintiffs’ verdicts, Merck already
has filed an appeal or sought judicial review in each of those cases, and in one of those four, a federal judge
overturned the damage award shortly after trial. In addition, a consolidated trial with two plaintiffs is currently
ongoing in the coordinated proceeding in New Jersey Superior Court before Judge Higbee and another trial,
Schwaller v. Merck, has commenced in state court in Madison County, Illinois.
24The following chart sets forth the results of all U.S. Vioxx Product Liability trials to date.
State or
Federal
Verdict Date Plaintiff Court Result Comments
Aug. 19, 2005 Ernst Texas Verdict for Plaintiff Jury awarded plaintiff $253.4 million; the
Court reduced amount to approximately
$26.1 million plus interest. The judgment is
now on appeal.
Nov. 3, 2005 Humeston N.J. Verdict for Merck; then Judge has ordered a new trial, which is
judge overturned the currently ongoing.
verdict
Feb. 17, 2006 Plunkett Federal Mistrial after jury Merck prevailed in February 2006 retrial.
deadlocked in first trial; Plaintiff has moved for a new trial.
verdict for Merck in
retrial
April 5, 2006 McDarby N.J. Verdict for Plaintiff Plaintiff was awarded $13.5 million in
damages. Merck’s motion for a new trial is
pending, as is plaintiff’s motion for
attorney’s fees.
April 5, 2006 Cona N.J. Verdict for Merck on However, the jury awarded plaintiff the
failure to warn claim nominal sum of $135 for his Consumer
Fraud Act claim. Merck’s motion for a new
trial on the Consumer Fraud Act claim is
pending, as is plaintiff’s motion for
attorney’s fees.
April 21, 2006 Garza Texas Verdict for Plaintiff Judge reduced $32 million jury award to
$7.75 million plus interest. Merck has
moved for a new trial.
July 13, 2006 Doherty N.J. Verdict for Merck Plaintiff has moved for a new trial.
Aug. 2, 2006 Grossberg California Verdict for Merck Plaintiff has moved for a new trial.
Aug. 17, 2006 Barnett Federal Verdict for Plaintiff Plaintiff awarded $51 million in damages.
The judge ruled the award was “grossly
excessive,” and has scheduled a new trial
on damages in October 2007. Merck’s
motion for a new trial on the remaining
issues is pending.
Sept. 26, 2006 Smith Federal Verdict for Merck
Nov. 15, 2006 Mason Federal Verdict for Merck
Dec. 13, 2006 Dedrick Federal Verdict for Merck Plaintiff has moved for a new trial.
Dec. 15, 2006 Albright Alabama Verdict for Merck Plaintiff has moved for a new trial.
Jan. 18, 2007 Arrigale/Appell California Mistrial declared after
the jury deadlocked
25O ther Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, on July 29, 2005, a New Jersey state trial court certified a nationwide class of third-
party payors (such as unions and health insurance plans) that paid in whole or in part for the Vioxx used by their plan
members or insureds. The named plaintiff in that case seeks recovery of certain Vioxx purchase costs (plus penalties)
based on allegations that the purported class members paid more for Vioxx than they would have had they known of
the product’s alleged risks. Merck believes that the class was improperly certified. The trial court’s ruling is
procedural only; it does not address the merits of plaintiffs’ allegations, which the Company intends to defend
vigorously. On March 31, 2006, the New Jersey Superior Court, Appellate Division, affirmed the class certification
order. On July 19, 2006, the New Jersey Supreme Court decided to exercise its discretion to hear the Company’s
appeal of the Appellate Division’s decision. On August 24, 2006, the Appellate Division ordered a stay of the
proceedings in Superior Court pending a ruling by the Supreme Court. Oral argument before the New Jersey Supreme
Court is scheduled to take place in March 2007.
As previously reported, the Company has also been named as a defendant in separate lawsuits brought by the
Attorneys General of Alaska, Louisiana, Mississippi, Montana, Texas and Utah. These actions allege that the
Company misrepresented the safety of Vioxx and seek (i) recovery of the cost of Vioxx purchased or reimbursed by the
state and its agencies; (ii) reimbursement of all sums paid by the state and its agencies for medical services for the
treatment of persons injured by Vioxx ; (iii) damages under various common law theories; and/or (iv) remedies under
various state statutory theories, including state consumer fraud and/or fair business practices or Medicaid fraud
statutes, including civil penalties.
S hareholder Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, in addition to the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, the Company and various
current and former officers and directors are defendants in various putative class actions and individual lawsuits under
the federal securities laws and state securities laws (the “ Vioxx Securities Lawsuits”). All of the Vioxx Securities
Lawsuits pending in federal court have been transferred by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (the “JPML”)
to the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey before District Judge Stanley R. Chesler for inclusion
in a nationwide MDL (the “Shareholder MDL”). Judge Chesler has consolidated the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits for all
purposes. Plaintiffs request certification of a class of purchasers of Company stock between May 21, 1999 and
October 29, 2004. The complaint alleges that the defendants made false and misleading statements regarding Vioxx in
violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and seeks unspecified compensatory
damages and the costs of suit, including attorneys’ fees. The complaint also asserts a claim under Section 20A of the
Securities and Exchange Act against certain defendants relating to their sales of Merck stock. In addition, the
complaint includes allegations under Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 that certain defendants made
incomplete and misleading statements in a registration statement and certain prospectuses filed in connection with the
Merck Stock Investment Plan, a dividend reinvestment plan. Defendants have filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.
Oral argument on the motion to dismiss is scheduled to take place in March 2007.
As previously disclosed, on August 15, 2005, a complaint was filed in Oregon state court by the State of
Oregon through the Oregon state treasurer on behalf of the Oregon Public Employee Retirement Fund against the
Company and certain current and former officers and directors. The complaint, which was brought under Oregon
securities law, alleges that plaintiff has suffered damages in connection with its purchases of Merck common stock at
artificially inflated prices due to the Company’s alleged violations of law related to disclosures about Vioxx . The
current and former officers and directors have entered into a tolling agreement and, on June 30, 2006, were dismissed
without prejudice from the case. On July 19, 2006, the Court denied the Company’s motion to dismiss the complaint,
but required plaintiff to amend the complaint. Plaintiff filed an amended complaint on September 21, 2006. Merck
filed a motion to require plaintiffs to make the complaint more definite and certain, which was denied by the Court.
Merck filed an answer to the complaint in January 2007.
As previously disclosed, various shareholder derivative actions filed in federal court were transferred to the
Shareholder MDL and consolidated for all purposes by Judge Chesler (the “ Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits”). The
consolidated complaint arose out of substantially the same factual allegations that are made in the Vioxx Securities
Lawsuits. The Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits, which were purportedly brought to assert rights of the Company, assert
claims against certain members of the Board past and present and certain executive officers for breach of fiduciary
26duty, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment, abuse of control and gross mismanagement. On May 5, 2006,
Judge Chesler granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and denied plaintiffs’ request for leave to amend their complaint.
Plaintiffs’ appeal of the District Court’s decision refusing them leave to amend the complaint is currently pending
before the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
As previously disclosed, on October 29, 2004, two individual shareholders made a demand on the Board of
Directors of the Company to take legal action against Mr. Raymond Gilmartin, former Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer and other individuals for allegedly causing damage to the Company with respect to the allegedly
improper marketing of Vioxx. In July 2006, the Board received another shareholder letter demanding that the Board
take legal action against the Board and management of Merck for allegedly causing damage to the Company relating
to the Company’s allegedly improper marketing of Vioxx. In December 2006, each of these demands was rejected by
the Board of Directors.
As previously announced, the Board of Directors appointed a Special Committee to review the Company’s
actions prior to its voluntary withdrawal of Vioxx , to act for the Board in responding to shareholder litigation matters
related to the withdrawal of Vioxx , and to advise the Board with respect to any action that should be taken as a result
of the review. In December 2004, the Special Committee retained the Honorable John S. Martin, Jr. of Debevoise &
Plimpton LLP to conduct an independent investigation of senior management’s conduct with respect to the
cardiovascular safety profile of Vioxx during the period Vioxx was developed and marketed. The review was
completed in the third quarter of 2006 and the full report (including appendices) was made public in September 2006.
The Company has provided a copy of the full report and appendices at its website at
www.merck.com/newsroom/vioxx/martin_report.html . The Company has included its website address only as an
inactive textual reference and does not intend it to be an active link to its website nor does it incorporate by reference
the information contained therein.
In addition, as previously disclosed, various putative class actions filed in federal court under the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) against the Company and certain current and former officers and directors
(the “ Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits” and, together with the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits and the Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits, the
“ Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits”) have been transferred to the Shareholder MDL and consolidated for all purposes. The
consolidated complaint asserts claims on behalf of certain of the Company’s current and former employees who are
participants in certain of the Company’s retirement plans for breach of fiduciary duty. The lawsuits make similar
allegations to the allegations contained in the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits. On October 7, 2005, defendants moved to
dismiss the ERISA complaint. On July 11, 2006, Judge Chesler granted in part and denied in part defendants’ motion
to dismiss.
I nternational Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, in addition to the lawsuits discussed above, the Company has been named as a
defendant in litigation relating to Vioxx in various countries (collectively, the “ Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits”) in Europe, as
well as Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Australia, Turkey, and Israel.
A dditional Lawsuits
Based on media reports and other sources, the Company anticipates that additional Vioxx Product Liability
Lawsuits, Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits and Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits (collectively, the “ Vioxx Lawsuits”) will be filed
against it and/or certain of its current and former officers and directors in the future.
I nsurance
As previously disclosed, the Company has product liability insurance for claims brought in the Vioxx Product
Liability Lawsuits with stated upper limits of approximately $630 million after deductibles and co-insurance. This
insurance provides coverage for legal defense costs and potential damage amounts that have been or will be incurred
in connection with the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits. The Company believes that this insurance coverage extends
to additional Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits that may be filed in the future. The Company has Directors and Officers
insurance coverage applicable to the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits and Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits with stated upper limits
of approximately $190 million. The Company has fiduciary and other insurance for the Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits with
stated upper limits of approximately $275 million. Additional insurance coverage for these claims may also be
available under upper-level excess policies that provide coverage for a variety
27of risks. There are disputes with certain insurers about the availability of some or all of this insurance coverage and
there are likely to be additional disputes. The Company’s insurance coverage with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits will
not be adequate to cover its defense costs and any losses.
As previously disclosed, the Company’s upper level excess insurers (which provide excess insurance
potentially applicable to all of the Vioxx Lawsuits) have commenced an arbitration seeking, among other things, to
cancel those policies, to void all of their obligations under those policies and to raise other coverage issues with
respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits. Merck intends to contest vigorously the insurers’ claims and will attempt to enforce its
rights under applicable insurance policies. The amounts actually recovered under the policies discussed in this section
may be less than the amounts specified in the preceding paragraph.
I nvestigations
As previously disclosed, in November 2004, the Company was advised by the staff of the SEC that it was
commencing an informal inquiry concerning Vioxx. On January 28, 2005, the Company announced that it received
notice that the SEC issued a formal notice of investigation. Also, the Company has received subpoenas from the
U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) requesting information related to the Company’s research, marketing and
selling activities with respect to Vioxx in a federal health care investigation under criminal statutes. In addition, as
previously disclosed, investigations are being conducted by local authorities in certain cities in Europe in order to
determine whether any criminal charges should be brought concerning Vioxx . The Company is cooperating with these
governmental entities in their respective investigations (the “ Vioxx Investigations”). The Company cannot predict the
outcome of these inquiries; however, they could result in potential civil and/or criminal dispositions.
As previously disclosed, the Company has received a number of Civil Investigative Demands (“CID”) from
a group of Attorneys General from 31 states and the District of Columbia who are investigating whether the Company
violated state consumer protection laws when marketing Vioxx . The Company is cooperating with the Attorneys
General in responding to the CIDs.
In addition, the Company received a subpoena in September 2006 from the State of California Attorney
General seeking documents and information related to the placement of Vioxx on California’s Medi-Cal formulary.
The Company is cooperating with the Attorney General in responding to the subpoena.
R eserves
The Company currently anticipates that a number of Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits will be tried
throughout 2007. A trial in the Oregon securities case is scheduled for 2007, but the Company cannot predict whether
this trial will proceed on schedule or the timing of any of the other Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuit trials. The Company
believes that it has meritorious defenses to the Vioxx Lawsuits and will vigorously defend against them. In view of the
inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the
claimants seek indeterminate damages, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time
cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits. The Company has not
established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the Vioxx Lawsuits or the Vioxx Investigations, including
for those cases in which verdicts or judgments have been entered against the Company, and are now in post-verdict
proceedings or on appeal. In each of those cases the Company believes it has strong points to raise on appeal and
therefore that unfavorable outcomes in such cases are not probable. Unfavorable outcomes in the Vioxx Litigation (as
defined below) could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of
operations.
Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable
and reasonably estimable. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had a reserve of $685 million solely for its future
legal defense costs related to the Vioxx Litigation.
During 2006, the Company spent $500 million in the aggregate, including $175 million in the fourth quarter,
in legal defense costs worldwide related to (i) the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, (ii) the Vioxx Shareholder
Lawsuits, (iii) the Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the Vioxx Investigations (collectively, the “ Vioxx Litigation”). In
the third quarter and fourth quarter of 2006, the Company recorded charges of $598 million and $75 million,
respectively, to increase the reserve solely for its future legal defense costs related to the Vioxx
28Litigation to $858 million at December 31, 2006. In increasing the reserve, the Company considered the same factors
that it considered when it previously established reserves for the Vioxx Litigation. Management now believes it has a
better estimate of the Company’s expenses and can reasonably estimate such costs through 2008. Some of the
significant factors considered in the establishment and ongoing review of the reserve for the Vioxx legal defense costs
were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company; the development of the Company’s legal defense strategy
and structure in light of the scope of the Vioxx Litigation; the number of cases being brought against the Company; the
costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most current information regarding anticipated timing, progression,
and related costs of pre-trial activities and trials in the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits. Events such as scheduled
trials, that are expected to occur throughout 2007 and into 2008, and the inherent inability to predict the ultimate
outcomes of such trials, limit the Company’s ability to reasonably estimate its legal costs beyond the end of 2008.
While the Company does not anticipate that it will need to increase the reserve every quarter, it will continue to
monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves and may determine to increase its
reserves for legal defense costs at any time in the future if, based upon the factors set forth, it believes it would be
appropriate to do so.
O ther Product Liability Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company is a defendant in product liability lawsuits in the United States
involving Fosamax (the “ Fosamax Litigation”). As of December 31, 2006, 104 cases had been filed against Merck in
either federal or state court, including 4 cases which seek class action certification, as well as damages and medical
monitoring. In these actions, plaintiffs allege, among other things, that they have suffered osteonecrosis of the jaw,
generally subsequent to invasive dental procedures such as tooth extraction or dental implants, and/or delayed healing,
in association with the use of Fosamax . On August 16, 2006, the JPML ordered that the Fosamax product liability
cases pending in federal courts nationwide should be transferred and consolidated into one multidistrict litigation (the
“ Fosamax MDL”) for coordinated pre-trial proceedings. The Fosamax MDL has been transferred to Judge John
Keenan in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. As a result of the JPML order, over
80 cases are before Judge Keenan. Judge Keenan has issued a Case Management Order setting forth a schedule
governing the proceedings which focuses primarily upon resolving the class action certification motions in 2007. The
Company intends to defend against these lawsuits.
As of December 31, 2006, the Company established a reserve of approximately $48 million solely for its
future legal defense costs for the Fosamax Litigation. Some of the significant factors considered in the establishment
of the reserve for the Fosamax Litigation legal defense costs were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the
Company thus far; the development of the Company’s legal defense strategy and structure in light of the creation of
the Fosamax MDL; the number of cases being brought against the Company; and the anticipated timing, progression,
and related costs of pre-trial activities in the Fosamax Litigation. The Company will continue to monitor its legal
defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves. Due to the uncertain nature of litigation, the
Company is unable to estimate its costs beyond the end of 2008. Unfavorable outcomes in the Fosamax Litigation
could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations.
C ommercial Litigation
Beginning in 1993, the Company was named in a number of antitrust suits, certain of which were certified as
class actions, instituted by most of the nation’s retail pharmacies and consumers in several states. The Company
settled the federal class action, which represented the single largest group of claims and has settled substantially all of
the remaining cases on satisfactory terms. The few remaining cases have been inactive for several years. The
Company has not engaged in any conspiracy and no admission of wrongdoing was made or included in any settlement
agreements.
As previously disclosed, the Company was joined in ongoing litigation alleging manipulation by
pharmaceutical manufacturers of Average Wholesale Prices (“AWP”), which are sometimes used in calculations that
determine public and private sector reimbursement levels. In 2002, the JPML ordered the transfer and consolidation of
all pending federal AWP cases to federal court in Boston, Massachusetts. Plaintiffs filed one consolidated class action
complaint, which aggregated the claims previously filed in various federal district court
29actions and also expanded the number of manufacturers to include some which, like the Company, had not been
defendants in any prior pending case. In May 2003, the court granted the Company’s motion to dismiss the
consolidated class action and dismissed the Company from the class action case. Subsequent to the Company’s
dismissal, the plaintiffs filed an amended consolidated class action complaint, which did not name the Company as a
defendant. The Company and many other pharmaceutical manufacturers are defendants in similar complaints pending
in federal and state court brought individually by a number of counties in the State of New York. The Company and
the other defendants are awaiting the final ruling on their motion to dismiss in the Suffolk County case, which was the
first of the New York county cases to be filed. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, the Company was a defendant in
state cases brought by the Attorneys General of Kentucky, Illinois, Alabama, Wisconsin, Mississippi, Arizona, Hawaii
and Alaska, all of which are being defended.
As previously disclosed, the Company has been named as a defendant in antitrust cases in federal court in
Minnesota and in state court in California, each alleging an unlawful conspiracy among different sets of
pharmaceutical manufacturers to protect high prices in the United States by impeding importation into the United
States of lower-priced pharmaceuticals from Canada. The court dismissed the federal claims in the Minnesota case
with prejudice and the plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal. The Federal Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit
affirmed the dismissal of the federal claims. The state claims in that action were dismissed without prejudice, but have
not been refiled in any jurisdiction.
In the California antitrust action, the parties engaged in discovery and the defendant manufacturers filed for
summary judgment. In December 2006, the court granted summary judgment in favor of Merck and the other
defendants and dismissed the case. The plaintiffs have filed a Notice of Appeal in the California state appeals court.
As previously disclosed, a suit in federal court in Alabama by two providers of health services to needy
patients alleges that 15 pharmaceutical companies overcharged the plaintiffs and a class of those similarly situated, for
pharmaceuticals purchased by the plaintiffs under the program established by Section 340B of the Public Health
Service Act. The Company and the other defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on numerous grounds
which was recently denied by the court. After denial of the motion to dismiss, the case was dismissed voluntarily by
the parties.
As previously disclosed, in January 2003, the DOJ notified the federal court in New Orleans, Louisiana that
it was not going to intervene at that time in a pending Federal False Claims Act case that was filed under seal in
December 1999 against the Company. The court issued an order unsealing the complaint, which was filed by a
physician in Louisiana, and ordered that the complaint be served. The complaint, which alleged that the Company’s
discounting of Pepcid in certain Louisiana hospitals led to increases in costs to Medicaid, was dismissed. An amended
complaint was filed under seal and the case has been administratively closed by the Court until the seal is lifted. The
State of Louisiana has filed its own amended complaint, incorporating the allegations contained in the sealed amended
complaint. The allegations contained in the sealed amended complaint are unknown.
In April 2005, the Company was named in a qui tam lawsuit under the Nevada False Claims Act. The suit, in
which the Nevada Attorney General has intervened, alleges that the Company inappropriately offered nominal pricing
and other marketing and pricing inducements to certain customers and also failed to comply with its obligations under
the Medicaid Best Price scheme related to such arrangements. In May 2006, the Company’s motion to dismiss this
action was denied by the district court. The Company is defending against this lawsuit.
G overnmental Proceedings
As previously disclosed, the Company has received a subpoena from the DOJ in connection with its
investigation of the Company’s marketing and selling activities, including nominal pricing programs and samples. The
Company has also reported that it has received a CID from the Attorney General of Texas regarding the Company’s
marketing and selling activities relating to Texas. As previously disclosed, the Company received another CID from
the Attorney General of Texas asking for additional information regarding the Company’s marketing and selling
activities related to Texas, including with respect to certain of its nominal pricing programs and samples. In April
2004, the Company received a subpoena from the office of the Inspector General for the District of Columbia in
connection with an investigation of the Company’s interactions with physicians in the District of Columbia, Maryland,
and Virginia. In November 2004, the Company received a letter request from the
30DOJ in connection with its investigation of the Company’s pricing of Pepcid. In September 2005, the Company
received a subpoena from the Illinois Attorney General. The subpoena seeks information related to repackaging of
prescription drugs. There was no activity relating to Merck in the Illinois matter in 2006.
As previously disclosed, the Company has received a letter from the DOJ advising it of the existence of a qui
tam complaint alleging that the Company violated certain rules related to its calculations of best price and other
federal pricing benchmark calculations, certain of which may affect the Company’s Medicaid rebate obligation. The
DOJ has informed the Company that it does not intend to intervene in this action and has closed its investigation. The
lawsuit continues, however.
The Company is cooperating with all of these investigations. The Company cannot predict the outcome of
these investigations; however, it is possible that unfavorable outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations. In addition, from time to time, other federal, state or
foreign regulators or authorities may seek information about practices in the pharmaceutical industry or the
Company’s business practices in inquiries other than the investigations discussed in this section. It is not feasible to
predict the outcome of any such inquiries.
As previously disclosed, on February 23, 2004, the Italian Antitrust Authority (“ICA”) adopted a measure
commencing a formal investigation of Merck Sharp & Dohme (Italia) S.p.A. (“MSD Italy”) and the Company under
Article 14 of the Italian Competition Law and Article 82 EC to ascertain whether the Company and MSD Italy
committed an abuse of a dominant position by refusing to grant to ACS Dobfar S.p.A. (“Dobfar”), an Italian company,
a voluntary license under the Company’s Italian Supplementary Protection Certificate (“SPC”), pursuant to domestic
legislation passed in 2002, to permit Dobfar to manufacture imipenem and cilastatin (“I&C”), the active ingredients in
Tienam , in Italy for sale outside Italy in countries where patent protection had expired or never existed. A hearing
before the ICA was held on May 2, 2005 and on June 17, 2005, the ICA found, on a preliminary basis, that the
Company’s refusal to grant the license was an abuse of a dominant position, and imposed interim measures requiring
the Company to grant a license to manufacture I&C in Italy for stockpiling purposes only, until expiration of the SPC.
On November 16, 2005, the Italian Administrative court denied the Company’s appeal of the ICA’s order. The
Company’s SPC expired in January 2006. Proceedings before the ICA continued on the merits of the Article 82
investigation and, in an effort to resolve the matter, the Company offered a commitment to the ICA pursuant to which
the Company would grant non-exclusive licenses under its Italian SPC for finasteride with respect to finasteride 5 mg
for the treatment of benign prostate hyperplasia. The deadline for the ICA to adopt its final decision as to whether the
Company’s commitment warrants the closure of the case is March 16, 2007.
V accine Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company is a party in claims brought under the Consumer Protection Act of
1987 in the United Kingdom, which allege that certain children suffer from a variety of conditions as a result of being
vaccinated with various bivalent vaccines for measles and rubella and/or trivalent vaccines for measles, mumps and
rubella, including the Company’s M-M-R II. The conditions include autism, with or without inflammatory bowel
disease, epilepsy, encephalitis, encephalopathy, Guillain-Barre syndrome and transverse myelitis. There are now 6
claimants proceeding or, to the Company’s knowledge, intending to proceed against the Company. The Company will
defend against these lawsuits.
As previously disclosed, the Company is also a party to individual and class action product liability lawsuits
and claims in the United States involving pediatric vaccines (e.g., hepatitis B vaccine) that contained thimerosal, a
preservative used in vaccines. Merck has not distributed thimerosal-containing pediatric vaccines in the United States
since the fall of 2001. As of December 31, 2006, there were approximately 250 active thimerosal related lawsuits with
approximately 670 plaintiffs. Other defendants include other vaccine manufacturers who produced pediatric vaccines
containing thimerosal as well as manufacturers of thimerosal. In these actions, the plaintiffs allege, among other
things, that they have suffered neurological injuries as a result of exposure to thimerosal from pediatric vaccines. Two
cases scheduled for trial in 2006 were dismissed – one, a state court case in Ohio voluntarily dismissed by the
plaintiffs, and the second, a Federal District Court case in Texas in which the Court entered summary judgment in
favor of defendants in 2005 and plaintiffs ultimately voluntarily dismissed
31their appeal. The Company will defend against these lawsuits; however, it is possible that unfavorable outcomes could
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations.
The Company has been successful in having cases of this type either dismissed or stayed on the ground that
the action is prohibited under the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act (the “Vaccine Act”). The Vaccine Act
prohibits any person from filing or maintaining a civil action (in state or federal court) seeking damages against a
vaccine manufacturer for vaccine-related injuries unless a petition is first filed in the United States Court of Federal
Claims (hereinafter the “Vaccine Court”). Under the Vaccine Act, before filing a civil action against a vaccine
manufacturer, the petitioner must either (a) pursue his or her petition to conclusion in Vaccine Court and then timely
file an election to proceed with a civil action in lieu of accepting the Vaccine Court’s adjudication of the petition or
(b) timely exercise a right to withdraw the petition prior to Vaccine Court adjudication in accordance with certain
statutorily prescribed time periods. The Company is not a party to Vaccine Court proceedings because the petitions are
brought against the United States Department of Health and Human Services. The cases with trial dates referred to in
the preceding paragraph as having been dismissed were brought by plaintiffs who claimed to have made a timely
withdrawal of their Vaccine Court petitions.
The Company is aware that there are approximately 4,700 cases pending in the Vaccine Court involving
allegations that thimerosal-containing vaccines and/or the M-M-R II vaccine cause autism spectrum disorders. Not all
of the thimerosal-containing vaccines involved in the Vaccine Court proceeding are Company vaccines. The Company
is the sole source of the M-M-R II vaccine domestically. In June 2007, the Special Masters presiding over the Vaccine
Court proceedings are scheduled to begin a hearing in which both petitioners and the government will present
evidence on the issue of whether these vaccines can cause autism spectrum disorders. That hearing is expected to last a
number of weeks. Since it is not a party, the Company will not participate in the proceedings.
P atent Litigation
From time to time, generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical products file ANDA’s with the FDA seeking to
market generic forms of the Company’s products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned by the Company.
Generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have submitted ANDA’s to the FDA seeking to market in the United States a
generic form of Fosamax, Prilosec, Nexium, Propecia, Trusopt and Cosopt prior to the expiration of the Company’s
(and AstraZeneca’s in the case of Prilosec and Nexium ) patents concerning these products. The generic companies’
ANDA’s generally include allegations of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of the patents. Generic
manufacturers have received FDA approval to market a generic form of Prilosec. The Company has filed patent
infringement suits in federal court against companies filing ANDA’s for generic alendronate ( Fosamax ), finasteride
( Propecia ), dorzolamide ( Trusopt ) and dorzolamide/timolol ( Cosopt ), and AstraZeneca and the Company have
filed patent infringement suits in federal court against companies filing ANDA’s for generic omeprazole ( Prilosec )
and esomeprazole ( Nexium ). Similar patent challenges exist in certain foreign jurisdictions. The Company intends to
vigorously defend its patents, which it believes are valid, against infringement by generic companies attempting to
market products prior to the expiration dates of such patents. As with any litigation, there can be no assurance of the
outcomes, which, if adverse, could result in significantly shortened periods of exclusivity for these products.
In February 2007, Schering Plough received a notice from a generic company indicating that it had filed an
ANDA for Zetia and that it is challenging the U.S. patents that are listed for Zetia . Merck and Schering Plough
market Zetia through a joint venture and they are considering the appropriate response.
On February 22, 2007, the Company received a notice from a generic company indicating that it had filed an
ANDA for montelukast and that it is challenging the U.S. patent that is listed for Singulair . The Company is
considering the appropriate response.
As previously disclosed, on January 28, 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington, D.C. found the Company’s patent claims for once-weekly administration of Fosamax to be invalid. The
Company exhausted all options to appeal this decision in 2005. Based on the Court of Appeals’ decision, Fosamax
and Fosamax Plus D will lose market exclusivity in the United States in February 2008 and April 2008, respectively
and the Company expects a significant decline in U.S. Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D sales after each product’s
respective loss of market exclusivity.
32In May 2005, the Federal Court of Canada Trial Division issued a decision refusing to bar the approval of
generic alendronate on the ground that Merck’s patent for weekly alendronate was likely invalid. This decision cannot
be appealed and generic alendronate was launched in Canada in June 2005. In July 2005, Merck was sued in the
Federal Court of Canada by Apotex seeking damages for lost sales of generic weekly alendronate due to the patent
proceeding.
As previously disclosed, in September 2004, the Company appealed a decision of the Opposition Division of
the EPO that revoked the Company’s patent in Europe that covers the once-weekly administration of alendronate. On
March 14, 2006, the Board of Appeal of the EPO upheld the decision of the Opposition Division. Thus, presently the
Company is not entitled to market exclusivity for Fosamax in most major European markets after 2007. In addition,
Merck’s basic patent covering the use of alendronate has been challenged in several European countries. The
Company has received adverse decisions in Germany, Holland and the United Kingdom. The decision in the United
Kingdom was upheld on appeal. The Company has appealed the decisions in Germany and Holland.
In June 2006, the Company filed lawsuits in federal court against Barr Laboratories, Inc. and Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (“Teva”) asserting that their respective manufacturing processes for making their
alendronate products would infringe one or more process patents of the Company.
On October 5, 2004, in an action in Australia challenging the validity of the Company’s Australian patent for
the once-weekly administration of alendronate, the patent was found to be invalid. That decision was upheld on
appeal.
In addition, as previously disclosed, in Japan a proceeding has been filed challenging the validity of the
Company’s Japanese patent for the once-weekly administration of alendronate.
On January 18, 2006, the Company sued Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. (“Hi-Tech”) of Amityville, New York
for patent infringement in response to Hi-Tech’s application to the FDA seeking approval of a generic version of
Merck’s ophthalmic drugs Trusopt and Cosopt , which are used for treating elevated intraocular pressure in people
with ocular hypertension or glaucoma. In the lawsuit, Merck sued to enforce a patent covering an active ingredient
dorzolamide, which is present in both Trusopt and Cosopt . In that case, the District Court entered judgment in
Merck’s favor and Hi-Tech appealed. A hearing of the appeal was conducted in December 2006 and a decision is
pending. Merck has elected not to enforce two U.S. patents listed with the FDA which cover the combination of
dorzolamide and timolol, the two active ingredients in Cosopt . This lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Hi-
Tech’s ANDA’s for 30 months from January 2006 or until an adverse court decision, whichever may occur earlier.
The patent covering dorzolamide provides exclusivity for Trusopt and Cosopt until October 2008 (including six
months of pediatric exclusivity). After such time, the Company expects sales of these products to decline.
In the case of omeprazole, the trial court in the United States rendered an opinion in October 2002 upholding
the validity of the Company’s and AstraZeneca’s patents covering the stabilized formulation of omeprazole and ruling
that one defendant’s omeprazole product did not infringe those patents. The other three defendants’ products were
found to infringe the formulation patents. In December 2003, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
affirmed the decision of the trial court. With respect to the Company’s patent infringement claims against certain other
generic manufacturers’ omeprazole products, the trial concluded in June 2006 and a decision is pending.
The Company and AstraZeneca received notice in October 2005 that Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited
(“Ranbaxy”) has filed an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium. The ANDA contains Paragraph IV challenges to
patents on Nexium . On November 21, 2005, the Company and AstraZeneca sued Ranbaxy in the United States
District Court in New Jersey. Accordingly, FDA approval of Ranbaxy’s ANDA is stayed for 30 months until April
2008 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. The Company and AstraZeneca received
notice in January 2006 that IVAX Pharmaceuticals, Inc., subsequently acquired by Teva, had filed an ANDA for
esomeprazole magnesium. The ANDA contains Paragraph IV challenges to patents on Nexium . On March 8, 2006.
the Company and AstraZeneca sued Teva in the United States District Court in New Jersey. Accordingly, FDA
approval of Teva’s ANDA is stayed for 30 months until September 2008 or until an adverse court decision, if any,
whichever may occur earlier.
33In the case of finasteride, an ANDA has been filed seeking approval of a generic version of Propecia and
alleging invalidity of the Company’s patents. The Company filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the District Court of
Delaware in September 2004. In 2006, the Company reached a settlement with the generic company, Dr. Reddy’s
Laboratories (“DRL”), under which DRL may sell a generic 1 mg finasteride product beginning in January 2013.
In Europe, the Company is aware of various companies seeking registration for generic losartan (the active
ingredient for Cozaar ). The Company has patent rights to losartan via license from E.I. du Pont de Nemours and
Company (“du Pont”). The Company and du Pont have filed patent infringement proceedings against various
companies in Portugal, Spain and Norway.
O ther Litigation
On July 27, 2005, Merck was served with a further shareholder derivative suit filed in the New Jersey
Superior Court for Hunterdon County against the Company and certain current and former officers and directors. This
lawsuit seeks to recover or cancel compensation awarded to the Company’s executive officers in 2004, and asserts
claims for breach of fiduciary duty, waste and unjust enrichment. On July 21, 2006, the Court granted defendants’
motion to dismiss based on plaintiff’s failure to make pre-suit demand on Merck’s Board of Directors and denied
plaintiff’s request for leave to amend. Thus, this case has been terminated.
In November 2005, an individual shareholder delivered a letter to the Board alleging that the Company had
sustained damages through the Company’s adoption of its Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan (the “CIC
Plan”) in November 2004. The shareholder made a demand on the Board to take legal action against the Board’s
current or former members for allegedly causing damage to the Company with respect to the adoption of the CIC Plan.
In response to that demand letter, the independent members of the Board determined at the November 22, 2005 Board
meeting that the Board would take the shareholder’s request under consideration and it remains under consideration.
As previously disclosed, on August 20, 2004, the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey
granted a motion by the Company, Medco Health Solutions, Inc. (“Medco Health”) and certain officers and directors
to dismiss a shareholder derivative action involving claims related to the Company’s revenue recognition practice for
retail co-payments paid by individuals to whom Medco Health provides pharmaceutical benefits as well as other
allegations. The complaint was dismissed with prejudice. Plaintiffs appealed the decision. On December 15, 2005, the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit upheld most of the District Court’s decision dismissing the suit, and sent
the issue of whether the Company’s Board of Directors properly refused the shareholder demand relating to the
Company’s treatment of retail co-payments back to the District Court for reconsideration under a different legal
standard. Plaintiffs moved to remand their action to state court on August 18, 2006, and the District Court granted that
motion on February 1, 2007. The shareholder derivative suit is currently pending before the Superior Court of New
Jersey, Chancery Division, Hunterdon County.
As previously disclosed, prior to the spin-off of Medco Health, the Company and Medco Health agreed to
settle, on a class action basis, a series of lawsuits asserting violations of ERISA (the “Gruer Cases”). The Company,
Medco Health and certain plaintiffs’ counsel filed the settlement agreement with the federal district court in New
York, where cases commenced by a number of plaintiffs, including participants in a number of pharmaceutical benefit
plans for which Medco Health is the pharmacy benefit manager, as well as trustees of such plans, have been
consolidated. Medco Health and the Company agreed to the proposed settlement in order to avoid the significant cost
and distraction of prolonged litigation. The proposed class settlement has been agreed to by plaintiffs in five of the
cases filed against Medco Health and the Company. Under the proposed settlement, the Company and Medco Health
have agreed to pay a total of $42.5 million, and Medco Health has agreed to modify certain business practices or to
continue certain specified business practices for a period of five years. The financial compensation is intended to
benefit members of the settlement class, which includes ERISA plans for which Medco Health administered a
pharmacy benefit at any time since December 17, 1994. The district court held hearings to hear objections to the
fairness of the proposed settlement and approved the settlement in 2004, but has not yet determined the number of
class member plans that have properly elected not to participate in the settlement. The settlement becomes final only if
and when all appeals have been resolved. Certain class member plans have indicated that they will not participate in
the settlement. Cases initiated by three such plans and two individuals remain pending in the
34Southern District of New York. Plaintiffs in these cases have asserted claims based on ERISA as well as other federal
and state laws that are the same as or similar to the claims that had been asserted by settling class members in the
Gruer Cases. The Company and Medco Health are named as defendants in these cases.
Three notices of appeal were filed and the appellate court heard oral argument in May 2005. On December 8,
2005, the appellate court issued a decision vacating the district court’s judgment and remanding the cases to the
district court to allow the district court to resolve certain jurisdictional issues. A hearing was held to address such
issues on February 24, 2006. The District Court issued a ruling on August 10, 2006 resolving such jurisdictional issues
in favor of the settling plaintiffs. The class members and other party that had previously appealed the District Court’s
judgment have renewed their appeals. The renewed appeals are presently being briefed.
After the spin-off of Medco Health, Medco Health assumed substantially all of the liability exposure for the
matters discussed in the foregoing two paragraphs. These cases are being defended by Medco Health.
There are various other legal proceedings, principally product liability and intellectual property suits
involving the Company, which are pending. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such proceedings or the
proceedings discussed in this Item, in the opinion of the Company, all such proceedings are either adequately covered
by insurance or, if not so covered, should not ultimately result in any liability that would have a material adverse
effect on the financial position, liquidity or results of operations of the Company, other than proceedings for which a
separate assessment is provided in this Item.
E nvironmental Matters
The Company is a party to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents.
These proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste disposal facilities, transporters of waste to the sites
and generators of hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to reimburse the government for
cleanup costs. The Company has been made a party to these proceedings as an alleged generator of waste disposed of
at the sites. In each case, the government alleges that the defendants are jointly and severally liable for the cleanup
costs. Although joint and several liability is alleged, these proceedings are frequently resolved so that the allocation of
cleanup costs among the parties more nearly reflects the relative contributions of the parties to the site situation. The
Company’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. For some sites the potential liability is de minimis and for
others the costs of cleanup have not yet been determined. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of many of
these proceedings brought by federal or state agencies or private litigants, in the opinion of the Company, such
proceedings should not ultimately result in any liability which would have a material adverse effect on the financial
position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources of the Company. The Company has taken an active role in
identifying and providing for these costs and such amounts do not include any reduction for anticipated recoveries of
cleanup costs from insurers, former site owners or operators or other recalcitrant potentially responsible parties.
On June 13, 2006, potassium thiocyanate was accidentally discharged from the Company’s plant in West
Point, Pennsylvania through the Upper Gwynedd Township Authority’s wastewater treatment plant into the
Wissahickon Creek, causing a fishkill. Federal and State agencies are investigating the discharge and the Company is
currently cooperating with the investigations.
I tem 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
Not applicable.
35Executive Officers of the Registrant (ages as of February 1, 2007)
R ICHARD T. CLARK — Age 60
April, 2007 — Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President
May, 2005 — Chief Executive Officer and President
June, 2003 — President, Merck Manufacturing Division — responsible for the Company’s manufacturing,
information services and operational excellence organizations worldwide
January, 2003 — Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Medco Health Solutions, Inc. (Medco
Health), formerly a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company
January, 2000 — President, Medco Health
D AVID W. ANSTICE — Age 58
September, 2006 — Executive Vice President, Strategy Initiatives — responsible for the End-to-End and
global support function initiatives and for providing strategic direction in key pharmaceutical emerging
markets (China and India)
August, 2005 — President, Human Health-Asia Pacific — responsible for the Company’s prescription
drug business in the Asia Pacific region, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and the Company’s joint venture
relationship with Schering-Plough
January, 2003 — President, Human Health — responsible for the Company’s prescription drug business in
Japan, Latin America, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the Company’s joint venture relationship with
Schering-Plough
March, 2001 — President, The Americas and U.S. Human Health — responsible for one of the two
prescription drug divisions comprising U.S. Human Health, as well as the Company’s prescription drug
business in Canada and Latin America, and the Company’s joint venture relationship with Schering-
Plough
J OHN CANAN — Age 50
September, 2006 — Vice President, Controller — responsible for the Corporate Controller’s Group
June, 2003 — Vice President, Corporate Audit & Assurance Services
September, 2002 — Vice President and Controller, Asia and Joint Ventures — responsible for financial
and operational oversight of Asia Human Health and several of the Company’s joint ventures
August, 1999 — Controller, Asia Pacific Human Health
C ELIA A. COLBERT — Age 50
January, 1997 — Vice President, Secretary (since September, 1993) and Assistant General Counsel (since
November, 1993)
W ILLIE A. DEESE — Age 51
May, 2005 — President, Merck Manufacturing Division — responsible for the Company’s global
manufacturing, procurement, and operational excellence functions
January, 2004 — Senior Vice President, Global Procurement
36Prior to January 2004, Mr. Deese was Senior Vice President, Global Procurement and Logistics (2001 to
2003) for GlaxoSmithKline plc.
K ENNETH C. FRAZIER — Age 52
November, 2006 — Executive Vice President and General Counsel — responsible for legal and public
affairs functions and The Merck Company Foundation (a not-for-profit charitable organization affiliated
with the Company)
December, 1999 — Senior Vice President and General Counsel — responsible for legal and public affairs
functions and The Merck Company Foundation (a not-for-profit charitable organization affiliated with the
Company)
M IRIAN M. GRADDICK-WEIR — Age 52
September, 2006 — Senior Vice President, Human Resources
Prior to September 2006, Dr. Graddick-Weir was Executive Vice President of Human Resources and
Employee Communications at AT&T, and has held several other senior Human Resources leadership
positions at AT&T for more than 20 years (communications services provider).
S TEVEN B. KELMAR — Age 53
August, 2006 — Vice President, Public Affairs
Prior to August 2006, Mr. Kelmar led the global public affairs and communications function at Novartis
AG since 2002.
P ETER S. KIM — Age 48
January, 2003 — President, Merck Research Laboratories (“MRL”)
February, 2001 — Executive Vice President, Research and Development, MRL
J UDY C. LEWENT — Age 58
August, 2005 — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer — responsible for the Company’s
strategic planning, financial and corporate development functions, internal auditing, corporate licensing,
the Company’s joint venture relationships, and Merck Capital Ventures, LLC, a subsidiary of the
Company
January, 2003 — Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and President, Human Health Asia —
responsible for financial and corporate development functions, internal auditing, corporate licensing, the
Company’s prescription drug business in Asia North and Asia South, the Company’s joint venture
relationships, and Merck Capital Ventures, LLC
February, 2001 — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (since April, 1990) —
responsible for financial and corporate development functions, internal auditing, corporate licensing, the
Company’s joint venture relationships, and Merck Capital Ventures, LLC
On February 20, 2007, the Company announced that Ms. Lewent intends to retire in July 2007.
37P ETER LOESCHER — Age 49
May, 2006 — President, Global Human Health — responsible for the Company’s four marketing and sales
divisions: U.S. Human Health, Human Health Asia Pacific, Human Health Intercontinental (Europe,
Middle East, Africa, Canada and Latin America), and Merck Vaccines
Prior to May 2006, Mr. Loescher served as President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Healthcare Bio-
Sciences (medical diagnostics and life sciences business) since 2004, after it acquired Amersham Health.
Mr. Loescher was President of Amersham Health (2002 — 2004) before becoming its Chief Operating
Officer in 2004.
M ARK E. MCDONOUGH — Age 42
February, 2007 — Vice President and Treasurer — responsible for the Company’s treasury function, and
for providing financial support for Human Resources
January, 2004 — Assistant Treasurer, Global Capital Markets — responsible for managing the Company’s
investment and financing portfolios and the treasury share repurchase program
September, 2000 — Senior Director, Human Health Finance — responsible for providing global
franchise-based financial reporting and analytics to key customers
M ARGARET G. MCGLYNN — Age 47
August, 2005 — President, Merck Vaccines — global responsibilities for the vaccines business including
the Company’s Sanofi-Pasteur joint venture
January, 2003 — President, U.S. Human Health — responsible for one of the two prescription drug
divisions (hospital and specialty product franchises) comprising U.S. Human Health (USHH), and the
Managed Care Group of USHH
August, 2001 — Executive Vice President, Customer Marketing and Sales, USHH
S TEFAN OSCHMANN — Age 49
September, 2006 — President, Europe, Middle East, Africa & Canada
April, 2006 — Senior Vice President, Worldwide Human Health Marketing
October, 2005 — Executive Vice President, Worldwide Marketing
January, 2001 — Managing Director, MSD Germany, a subsidiary of the Company
J . CHRIS SCALET — Age 48
January, 2006 — Senior Vice President, Global Services, and Chief Information Officer (CIO) —
responsible for Global Shared Services across the human resources, finance, site services and information
services function; and the enterprise business process redesign initiative
March, 2003 — Senior Vice President, Information Services, and CIO — responsible for all areas of
information technology and services including application development, technical support, voice and data
communications, and computer operations worldwide
Prior to March 2003, Mr. Scalet was Senior Vice President, Information Technology & CIO (1997 to
2003) for International Paper Company (global forest products, paper and packaging company).
38A DAM H. SCHECHTER — Age 42
July, 2006 — President, U.S. Human Health — commercial responsibility in the United States for the
Company’s portfolio of prescription medicines
October, 2005 — General Manager, U.S. Human Health Division — responsible for the Neuro-Psychiatry,
Osteoporosis, Migraine, Respiratory, and New Products franchises
February, 2004 — Vice President/General Manager, Merck/Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals U.S. Joint
Venture
August, 2002 — Vice President, Merck Human Health Division, Arthritis & Analgesia Franchise Business
Group
W ENDY L. YARNO — Age 52
September, 2006 — Chief Marketing Officer — responsible for Global Marketing Services, Global
Alliance Management and Global Pricing, Global Human Health Business Practices & Compliance and
three franchises: Oncology, Specialty and Neuroscience; Respiratory, Bone and Arthritis and Analgesia;
and Infectious Diseases and Hospital Products
November, 2005 — General Manager, Business Unit 3, U.S. Human Health
January, 2003 — Executive Vice President, Worldwide Human Health Marketing
December, 1999 — Senior Vice President, Human Resources
All officers listed above serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. None of these officers was elected
pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between the officer and the Board.
39PART II
I tem 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities.
The principal market for trading of the Company’s Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange
(“NYSE”) under the symbol MRK. The Common Stock market price information set forth in the table below is based
on historical NYSE market prices.
The following table also sets forth, for the calendar periods indicated, the dividend per share information.
C ash Dividends Paid per Common Share
Y ear 4 t h Q 3r d Q 2 nd Q 1 st Q
2006 $1 .52 $ 0.38 $ 0.38 $ 0.38 $ 0.38
2005 $1 .52 $ 0.38 $ 0.38 $ 0.38 $ 0.38
C ommon Stock Market Prices
2 006 4th Q 3 rd Q 2 nd Q 1st Q
High $4 6.37 $4 2.51 $ 36.84 $3 6.65
Low $4 1.24 $3 5.00 $ 32.75 $3 1.81
2005
H igh $3 2.54 $3 2.34 $ 35.20 $3 2.61
Low $2 5.50 $2 6.97 $ 30.40 $2 7.48
As of January 31, 2007, there were approximately 183,132 stockholders of record.
Equity Compensation Plan Information
The following table summarizes information about the options, warrants and rights and other equity
compensation under the Company’s equity plans as of the close of business on December 31, 2006. The table does not
include information about tax qualified plans such as the Merck & Co., Inc. Employee Savings and Security Plan.
Number of
securities
remaining available
Number of for future issuance
securities to be under equity
issued upon Weighted-average compensation plans
exercise of exercise price of (excluding
outstanding outstanding securities
options, warrants options, warrants reflected in column
Plan Category and rights and rights (a))
(a) (b) (c)
Equity compensation plans approved by security
holders (1) 253,655,299 (2) $53.36 166,532,568
Equity compensation plans not approved by security
holders (3) — — —
Total 253,655,299 $53.36 166,532,568
(1) Includes options to purchase shares of Company Common Stock and other rights under the following
stockholder-approved plans: the 1996 Incentive Stock Plan, the 2001 Incentive Stock Plan, the 2004 Incentive
40Stock Plan, the 2007 Incentive Stock Plan, the 1996 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan, the 2001 Non-
Employee Directors Stock Option Plan and the 2006 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan.
(2) Excludes approximately 6,000,567 shares of restricted stock units and 2,753,676 performance share units
(assuming maximum payouts) under the 2004 Incentive Stock Plan. Also excludes 370,042 shares of phantom
stock deferred under the Merck & Co., Inc. Deferral Program. As of December 31, 2005, no additional shares
were reserved under the Deferral Program. Beginning January 1, 2006, one-tenth of 1 percent of the outstanding
shares of Merck Common Stock on the last business day of the preceding calendar year plus any shares
authorized under the Deferral Program but not issued are reserved for future issuance (2,149,813 as of
December 31, 2006). The actual amount of shares to be issued prospectively equals the amount participants elect
to defer from payouts under the Company’s various incentive programs, such as the Executive Incentive Plan,
into phantom stock, increased by the amount of dividends that would be paid on an equivalent number of shares
of Merck Common Stock, divided by the market price of Merck Common Stock.
(3) The table does not include information for equity compensation plans and options and other warrants and rights
assumed by the Company in connection with mergers and acquisitions and pursuant to which there remain
outstanding options or other warrants or rights (collectively, “Assumed Plans”), which include the following:
Medco Containment Services, Inc. 1991 Class C Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan; SIBIA Neurosciences, Inc.
1996 Equity Incentive Plan; Provantage Health Services, Inc. 1999 Stock Incentive Plan; Rosetta Inpharmatics,
Inc. 1997 and 2000 Employee Stock Plans. A total of 1,681,419 shares of Merck Common Stock may be
purchased under the Assumed Plans, at a weighted average exercise price of $17.17. No further grants may be
made under any Assumed Plans.
41Performance Graph
The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return (stock price appreciation plus
reinvested dividends) on the Company’s Common Stock with the cumulative total return (including reinvested
dividends) of the Dow Jones US Pharmaceutical Index (“DJUSPR”), formerly referred to as the Dow Jones
Pharmaceutical Index — United States Owned Companies, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (“S&P 500 Index”)
for the five years ended December 31, 2006. Amounts below have been rounded to the nearest dollar or percent.
Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return*
Merck & Co., Inc., Dow Jones US Pharmaceutical Index and S&P 500 Index
End of 2 006/2001
Period Value CAGR**
Merck $ 94 −1%
DJUSPR 90 −2
S&P 500 135 6
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
MERCK 100.00 98.92 87.70 63.46 66.03 94.21
DJUSPR 100.00 79.62 87.15 79.93 78.61 89.92
S&P 500 100.00 77.91 100.24 111.14 116.59 1 34.99
* Assumes that the value of the investment in Company Common Stock and each index was $100 on December 31, 2001 and that all
dividends were reinvested.
** Compound Annual Growth Rate
42Issuer purchases of equity securities for the three month period ended December 31, 2006 are as follows:
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Tota l Numbe r of ($ in millio ns)
Total Shares Purchased Approx. Dollar Value
Number Average as Part of of Shares That May Yet
of Shares Price Paid Publicly Announced Be Purchased Under the
Period Purchased Per Share Plans or Programs (1) Plans or Programs (1)
October 1 –
October 31, 2006 1,996,600 $ 43.69 1 ,996,600 $6 ,691.5
November 1 – November 30, 2006 1,889,300 $ 44.40 1 ,889,300 $6 ,607.7
December 1 – December 31, 2006 1,830,100 $ 43.84 1 ,830,100 $6 ,527.4
Total 5,716,000 $ 43.97 5 ,716,000 $6 ,527.4
(1) These share repurchases were made as part of a plan announced in July 2002 to purchase $10 billion in Merck shares.
43I tem 6. Selected Financial Data. (1)
The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7. “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and consolidated financial statements and notes
thereto contained in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report.
M erck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
($ in millions except per share amounts)
2006 (2) 2 005 (3) 2004 (4) 2003 (5) 2002
R esults for Year:
Sales $ 22,636.0 $ 22,011.9 $ 22,972.8 $ 22,567.8 $ 21,445.8
Materials and production costs 6,001.1 5,149.6 4,965.7 4,443.7 4,004.9
Marketing and administrative expenses 8,165.4 7,155.5 7,238.7 6,200.3 5,652.2
Research and development expenses 4,782.9 3,848.0 4,010.2 3,279.9 2,677.2
Restructuring costs 142.3 322.2 107.6 194.6 -
Equity income from affiliates (2,294.4) (1,717.1 ) (1,008.2) (474.2) (644.7 )
Other (income) expense, net (382.7) (110.2) (344.0) (203.2) 104.5
Income from continuing operations before taxes 6,221.4 7,363.9 8,002.8 9,126.7 9,651.7
Taxes on income 1,787.6 2,732.6 2,172.7 2,492.7 2,856.9
Income from continuing operations 4,433.8 4,631.3 5,830.1 6,634.0 6,794.8
Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes - - - 241.3 354.7
Net income 4,433.8 4,631.3 5,830.1 6,875.3 7,149.5
Basic earnings per common share
Continuing operations $ 2.04 $ 2.11 $ 2.63 $ 2.97 $ 3.01
Discontinued operations - - - 0.11 0.16
Net income $ 2.04 $ 2.11 $ 2.63 $ 3.07 (6 ) $ 3.17
Earnings per common share assuming dilution
Continuing operations $ 2.03 $ 2.10 $ 2.62 $ 2.94 $ 2.98
Discontinued operations - - - 0.11 0.16
Net income $ 2.03 $ 2.10 $ 2.62 $ 3.05 $ 3.14
Cash dividends declared 3,318.7 3,338.7 3,329.1 3,264.7 3,204.2
Cash dividends paid per common share $ 1.52 $ 1.52 $ 1.49 $ 1.45 $ 1.41
Capital expenditures 980.2 1,402.7 1,726.1 1,915.9 2,128.1
Depreciation 2,098.1 1,544.2 1,258.7 1,129.6 1,067.5
Year-End Position:
Working capital $ 2,507.5 $ 7,806.9 $ 1,688.8 $ 1,926.9 $ 2,011.2
Property, plant and equipment, net 13,194.1 14,398.2 14,713.7 14,169.0 14,195.6
Total assets 44,569.8 44,845.8 42,572.8 40,587.5 (7 ) 47,561.2
Long-term debt 5,551.0 5,125.6 4,691.5 5,096.0 4,879.0
Stockholders’ equity 17,559.7 17,977.7 17,349.3 15,620.8 (7 ) 18,200.5
Financial Ratios:
Income from continuing operations
as a % of sales 19.6% 21.0% 25.4% 29.4% 31.7%
Net income
as a % of average total assets 9.9% 10.6% 14.0% 15.0% 15.5%
Year-End Statistics:
Average common shares outstanding (millions) 2,177.6 2,197.0 2,219.0 2,236.7 2,257.5
Average common shares outstanding assuming dilution (millions) 2,187.7 2,200.4 2,226.4 2,253.1 2,277.0
Number of stockholders of record 184,200 198,200 216,100 233,000 246,300
Number of employees 60,000 61,500 62,600 63,200 (7) 77,300
( 1) Prior year amounts reflect the impact of retrospectively adopting Securities and Exchange Commission Interpretation, Commission Guidance Regarding Accounting
for Sales of Vaccines and BioTerror Countermeasures to the Federal Government for Placement into the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile or the Strategic National
Stockpile, (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements).
(2) Amounts for 2006 include the impact of restructuring actions, acquired research expenses resulting from acquisitions made during the year, additional Vioxx legal
defense costs and the incremental impact of expensing stock options.
(3) Amounts for 2005 include the impact of the net tax charge primarily associated with the American Jobs Creation Act repatriation, restructuring actions and
additional Vioxx legal defense costs.
(4) Amounts for 2004 include the impact of the withdrawal of Vioxx, Vioxx legal defense costs and restructuring actions.
(5) Amounts for 2003 include the impact of the implementation of a new distribution program for U.S. wholesalers and restructuring actions.
(6) Amount does not add as a result of rounding.
(7) Decrease in 2003 primarily reflects the impact of the spin-off of Medco Health.44I tem 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
D escription of Merck’s Business
Merck is a global research-driven pharmaceutical company that discovers, develops, manufactures and
markets a broad range of innovative products to improve human and animal health. The Company’s operations are
principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of two reportable segments: the Pharmaceutical segment
and the Vaccines segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical products marketed
either directly or through joint ventures. These products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, sold by
prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Merck sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily
to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health
maintenance organizations and other institutions. The Vaccines segment includes human health vaccine products
marketed either directly or through a joint venture. These products consist of preventative pediatric, adolescent and
adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. Merck sells these human health vaccines primarily to
physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company’s professional representatives
communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of our pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care
professionals in private practice, group practices and managed care organizations.
O verview
During 2006, Merck continued to execute its strategy to reclaim its leadership position in the pharmaceutical
industry. This was made evident through the successful launches of five novel medicines and vaccines in areas such as
cancer prevention and diabetes, the advancement of drug candidates through every phase of the Company’s pipeline
and the continued success of its newer and in-line products. Additionally, the Company is developing a new
commercial model which is designed to broaden its engagement with customers and scientific leaders, leverage
alternative channels to complement the effectiveness of its sales force, and drive growth in key markets.
During 2006, five products received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) approval: Gardasil , the
first vaccine for the prevention of cervical cancer and genital warts caused by certain types of human papillomavirus
(“HPV”); Januvia , the first medicine of its class that enhances a natural body system to improve blood sugar control
in patients with type 2 diabetes; Zostavax , the first vaccine for adults 60 years of age and older to reduce the incidence
of shingles, a disease which every year afflicts an estimated one million people in the United States alone; RotaTeq , a
pediatric vaccine to help prevent rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, the effects of which take the lives of
nearly 600,000 children under the age of five worldwide every year; and Zolinza , a novel medicine to treat patients
suffering from advanced cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (“CTCL”).
In addition, the Company has three drug candidates currently under FDA review: Janumet (previously
referred to as MK-0431A), an investigational oral medicine combining sitagliptin phosphate with metformin for type 2
diabetes that is designed to provide an additional treatment option for patients who need more than one oral agent to
help control their blood sugar; Emend For Injection (MK-0517), an intravenous therapy for chemotherapy-induced
nausea and vomiting (“CINV”); and Arcoxia , Merck’s selective Cox-2 inhibitor for osteoarthritis. Additionally, the
Company anticipates filing three New Drug Applications (“NDA”) with the FDA in 2007: MK-0518, a
first-in-class HIV integrase inhibitor; gaboxadol, a novel compound from Merck’s alliance with H. Lundbeck A/S for
the treatment of insomnia; and MK-0524A, an extended-release (“ER”) niacin combined with laropiprant (a novel
flushing pathway inhibitor) for cholesterol management. In addition, by mid-year 2007, Merck expects to have four
products in Phase III development.
Additionally, targeted acquisitions made during the year of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. (“Sirna”), GlycoFi, Inc.
(“GlycoFi”) and Abmaxis, Inc. (“Abmaxis”), as well as other alliances and collaborations, will complement Merck’s
strong internal research capabilities and should continue to help the Company build a pipeline that will support its
long-term growth.
Merck is working to deliver innovative and differentiated products to the market faster and more efficiently.
The Company has successfully reduced late development product cycle times and anticipates further reductions in the
coming year. Additionally, Merck’s new commercial model is expected to lower spending per
45primary care brand by 15% to 20% in the United States from 2005 through 2010 (an interim targeted 9% reduction is
expected to be achieved through the end of 2007) while still appropriately supporting product launches, as illustrated
in the successful launch of five new products in 2006. Through redeployment, the launches were achieved with no
increase in sales force.
The initial phase of a global restructuring program designed to reduce the Company’s cost structure, increase
efficiency and enhance competitiveness is underway. The initial steps include the implementation of a new supply
strategy by the Merck Manufacturing Division, which is intended to create a leaner, more cost-effective and customer-
focused manufacturing model over a three-year period. As part of this program, in 2005, Merck announced plans to
sell or close five manufacturing sites and two preclinical sites by the end of 2008 (three of the manufacturing sites
were closed, sold or had ceased operations and the two preclinical sites were closed by the end of 2006), and eliminate
approximately 7,000 positions company-wide (of which approximately 4,800 positions were eliminated by the end of
2006 comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions). However, the
Company continues to hire new employees as the Company’s business requires it. The Company has also sold certain
other facilities and related assets in connection with the restructuring program. The pre-tax costs of this restructuring
program were $935.5 million in 2006 (comprised of $793.2 million primarily representing accelerated depreciation
and asset impairment costs and $142.3 million of separation and other restructuring related costs) and are expected to
be $300 million to $500 million in 2007. Through the end of 2008, when the initial phase of the restructuring program
relating to the manufacturing strategy is expected to be substantially complete, the cumulative pre-tax costs of the
program are expected to range from $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion. Merck continues to expect the initial phase of its cost
reduction program to yield cumulative pre-tax savings of $4.5 to $5.0 billion from 2006 through 2010.
With respect to the Vioxx litigation, to date in the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, of the 29 plaintiffs
whose claims have been scheduled for trial, the claims of seven were dismissed, the claims of seven were withdrawn
from the trial calendar by plaintiffs, and juries have decided in Merck’s favor nine times and in plaintiffs’ favor four
times. In addition, in the recent California trial involving two plaintiffs, the jury could not reach a verdict for either
plaintiff and a mistrial was declared. A New Jersey state judge set aside one of the nine Merck verdicts. With respect
to the four plaintiffs’ verdicts, Merck already has filed an appeal or sought judicial review in each of those cases, and
in one of those four, a federal judge overturned the damage award shortly after trial. In addition, a consolidated trial
with two plaintiffs is currently ongoing in the coordinated proceeding in New Jersey Superior Court before Judge
Carol E. Higbee and another trial has commenced in state court in Illinois. During 2006, the Company spent
$500 million in the aggregate, including $175 million in the fourth quarter, in Vioxx legal defense costs worldwide.
During 2006, the Company recorded charges of $673 million to increase the reserve solely for its future legal defense
costs related to Vioxx litigation and at December 31, 2006 the balance of the reserve was $858 million. This reserve is
based on certain assumptions and is the best estimate of the amount the Company believes, at this time, will be spent
through 2008. The Vioxx litigation is more fully discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.
Earnings per common share assuming dilution for 2006 were $2.03, including the impact of the global
restructuring program of $0.28 per share, the acquired research charge related to the acquisition of Sirna of $0.21 per
share and the acquired research charge related to the acquisition of GlycoFi of $0.14 per share (as discussed in
“Acquisitions” below), additional reserves established solely for future legal defense costs for Vioxx litigation (as
discussed above) and the impact of adopting a new accounting standard requiring the expensing of stock options (as
discussed in “Share-Based Compensation” below).
C ompetition and the Health Care Environment
The markets in which the Company conducts its business are highly competitive and often highly regulated.
Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and access.
In the United States, the government expanded health care access by enacting the Medicare Prescription
Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, which was signed into law in December 2003. Prescription drug
coverage began on January 1, 2006. This legislation supports the Company’s goal of improving access to
46medicines by expanding insurance coverage, while preserving market-based incentives for pharmaceutical innovation.
At the same time, the legislation will ensure that prescription drug costs will be controlled by competitive pressures
and by encouraging the appropriate use of medicines.
In addressing cost-containment pressure, the Company has made a continuing effort to demonstrate that its
medicines can help save costs in overall patient health care. In addition, pricing flexibility across the Company’s
product portfolio has encouraged growing use of its medicines and mitigated the effects of increasing cost pressures.
Outside the United States, in difficult environments encumbered by government cost-containment actions,
the Company has worked in partnership with payers on allocating scarce resources to optimize health care outcomes,
limiting the potentially detrimental effects of government policies on sales growth and access to innovative medicines
and vaccines, and to support the discovery and development of innovative products to benefit patients. The Company
also is working with governments in many emerging markets in Eastern Europe, Latin America and Asia to encourage
them to increase their investments in health and thereby improve their citizens’ access to medicines. Within Europe,
European institutions such as the European Commission (“EC”) have recognized the economic importance of the
research-based pharmaceutical industry and the value of innovative medicines to society. As a result, they are working
with industry representatives to complete the “Single Market” in pharmaceuticals and improve the competitive climate
through a variety of means including market deregulation. In order to advance the related policy debate, the EC
launched the High Level Pharmaceutical Forum (“HLPF”) at the end of 2005. This initiative aims at improving the
prospects of the research-based pharmaceutical industry in Europe and thus the health prospects of all patients who
will benefit from innovative therapies. Through an active dialogue among all stakeholders in the health care system
(from payers to patients), this initiative is an attempt to tackle key policy issues in Europe: (i) promoting greater
pricing flexibility for medicines; (ii) ensuring that health authorities apply best practices for the evaluation of the
relative effectiveness of medicines; and (iii) improving greater access to information on medicines for patients in
Europe. The Company has been actively engaged with the EC and other stakeholders in order to achieve a successful
outcome for the HLPF that would help European patients gain greater and quicker access to its medicines.
The Company is committed to improving access to medicines and enhancing the quality of life for people
around the world. The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnerships (“ACHAP”) in Botswana, a partnership
between the government of Botswana, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and The Merck Company
Foundation/Merck & Co., Inc., is supporting Botswana’s response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and
sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment and support. In May 2005, the Company initiated a similar
partnership with the People’s Republic of China (focused initially in Sichuan Province) to help strengthen China’s
response to the HIV epidemic.
To further catalyze access to HIV medicines in developing countries, under price reduction guidelines that
the Company announced in 2001, Merck makes no profit on the sale of its current HIV/AIDS medicines in the world’s
poorest countries and those hardest hit by the pandemic, and offers its HIV/AIDS medicines at significantly reduced
prices to medium-income countries. In February 2007, Merck announced that it had again reduced the price of Stocrin
in the least developed countries of the world and those hardest hit by the pandemic. By the end of 2006, more than
475,000 patients in more than 75 developing countries were being treated with antiretroviral regimens containing
either Crixivan or Stocrin. Through these and other actions, Merck is working independently and with partners in the
public and private sectors alike to focus on the most critical barriers to access to medicines in the developing world:
the need for sustainable financing, increased international assistance and additional investments in education, training
and health infrastructure and capacity in developing countries.
The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The
legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an
increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the Company’s
business.
Although no one can predict the outcome of these and other legislative, regulatory and advocacy initiatives,
the Company is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces.
47As patents on certain of the Company’s products expire, Merck has entered into, and may continue to enter
into, authorized generic agreements which allow the Company to benefit when these medicines become available in
generic form.
The Company anticipates that the worldwide trend toward cost-containment will continue, resulting in
ongoing pressures on health care budgets. As the Company continues to successfully launch new products, contribute
to health care debates and monitor reforms, its new products, policies and strategies should enable it to maintain a
strong position in the changing economic environment.
A cquisitions
In December 2006, Merck completed the acquisition of Sirna for approximately $1.1 billion. Sirna is a
biotechnology company that is a leader in developing a new class of medicines based on RNA interference (“RNAi”)
technology, which could significantly alter the treatment of disease. The transaction was accounted for as a business
combination in which the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been recorded
as goodwill of $345.9 million. The goodwill was not deductible for tax purposes. The Company recorded a charge of
$466.2 million for acquired research associated with Sirna’s compounds currently under development, which related
to the development of treatments for both the hepatitis B and hepatitis C viruses, which are in preclinical development,
as well as licensing agreements held by Sirna. The charge was not deductible for tax purposes. The ongoing activity
with respect to each of these compounds under development is not expected to be material to the Company’s research
and development expenses. The allocation of the purchase price also resulted in the recognition of an intangible asset
of $357.8 million, and a related deferred tax liability of $146.3 million, related to Sirna’s developed technology. The
acquisition of Sirna is expected to increase Merck’s ability to use RNAi technology to turn off a targeted gene in a
human cell, potentially rendering inoperative a gene responsible for triggering a specific disease. (See Note 5 to the
consolidated financial statements.)
In June 2006, Merck acquired GlycoFi, a privately-held biotechnology company that is a leader in the field
of yeast glycoengineering, which is the addition of specific carbohydrate modifications to the proteins in yeast, and
optimization of biologic drug molecules, for $373 million in cash ($400 million purchase price net of $25 million of
shares already owned and net transaction costs). The Company recorded a $296.3 million charge for acquired research
in connection with the acquisition which is not deductible for tax purposes. The Company also recorded a
$99.4 million intangible asset ($57.6 million net of deferred taxes) related to GlycoFi’s developed technology. In May
2006, Merck acquired Abmaxis, a privately-held biopharmaceutical company dedicated to the discovery and
optimization of monoclonal antibody products for human therapeutics and diagnostics, for $80 million in cash.
Substantially all of the purchase price was allocated to an intangible asset relating to Abmaxis’ technology platform.
While each of the acquisitions has independent scientific merits, the combination of the GlycoFi and Abmaxis
platforms is potentially synergistic, giving Merck the ability to operate across the entire spectrum of therapeutic
antibody discovery, development and commercialization. (See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.)
O perating Results
S ales
Worldwide sales for 2006 increased 3% in total over 2005 primarily driven by higher volumes. Foreign
exchange and price changes had virtually no impact on sales growth in 2006. Sales performance over 2005 reflects
strong growth of Singulair , a once-a-day oral medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of
symptoms of allergic rhinitis, and the Company’s vaccines, which include Gardasil to help protect against cervical
cancer and genital warts caused by certain types of HPV, ProQuad, the combination vaccine for simultaneous
vaccination against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella, and RotaTeq to help protect against rotavirus
gastroenteritis in infants and children. Also contributing to the sales growth were higher revenues from the Company’s
relationship with AstraZeneca LP (“AZLP”) primarily driven by Nexium, and increased sales of Cozaar/Hyzaar for
high blood pressure. In addition, sales in 2006 reflect certain supply sales associated with activities not expected to
continue beyond 2006, including the Company’s arrangement with Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories (“DRL”) for the sale of
generic simvastatin. Sales growth was partially offset by lower sales of Zocor, the Company’s statin for modifying
cholesterol and Proscar , a urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign
48prostate enlargement. Merck’s U.S. marketing exclusivity for Zocor expired on June 23, 2006, while Proscar lost
U.S. marketing exclusivity on June 19, 2006.
Domestic sales increased 8% over 2005, while foreign sales declined 4%. Foreign sales represented 39% of
total sales in 2006. Domestic sales benefited from the launch of three new vaccines, while foreign sales were
negatively affected by the loss of marketing exclusivity and continued generic erosion related to Zocor and Fosamax
products.
Worldwide sales for 2005 decreased 4% in total over 2004, reflecting a decrease of 7% related to the
voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx , offset by revenue growth in all other products of 3%. This growth reflects
a 1% favorable effect from foreign exchange, a 1% favorable effect from price changes and a volume increase of 1%.
Foreign sales represented 42% of total sales for 2005.
Sales (1) of the Company’s products were as follows:
( $ in millions) 2006 2005 2004
Singulair $ 3,579.0 $ 2,975.6 $ 2,622.0
Cozaar/Hyzaar 3,163.1 3,037.2 2,823.7
Fosamax 3,134.4 3,191.2 3,159.7
Zocor 2,802.7 4,381.7 5,196.5
Primaxin 704.8 739.6 640.6
Cosopt/Trusopt 697.1 617.2 558.8
Proscar 618.5 741.4 733.1
Vasotec/Vaseretic 547.2 623.1 719.2
Cancidas 529.8 570.0 430.0
Maxalt 406.4 348.4 309.9
Propecia 351.8 291.9 270.2
Vioxx - - 1,489.3
Vaccines/Biologicals (2) 1,859.4 1,103.3 1,070.3
Other 4,241.8 3,391.3 2,949.5
$2 2,636.0 $ 22,011.9 $2 2,972.8
( 1) Presented net of discounts and returns.
( 2) These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Company’s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD,
the results of which are reflected in equity income from affiliates.
The Company’s pharmaceutical products include therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by
prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Among these are Singulair , a leukotriene receptor antagonist
respiratory product for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis;
Cozaar/Hyzaar and Vasotec , the Company’s most significant hypertension and/or heart failure products; Fosamax
and Fosamax Plus D (marketed as Fosavance throughout the European Union (“EU”)), for the treatment and, in the
case of Fosamax , prevention of osteoporosis; Zocor, Merck’s atherosclerosis product; Primaxin and Cancidas , anti-
bacterial/anti-fungal products; Cosopt and Trusopt, the largest-selling ophthalmological products; Proscar , a urology
product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement; Maxalt, an acute migraine product and
Propecia , a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss.
Among the products included within vaccines/biologicals are Varivax , a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox,
M-M-R II, a vaccine against measles, mumps and rubella, ProQuad, the pediatric combination vaccine against
measles, mumps, rubella and varicella, Gardasil, a vaccine for the prevention of cervical cancer and genital warts
caused by certain types of HPV, Pneumovax , a vaccine for the prevention of pneumococcal disease, RotaTeq, a
vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, and Zostavax, a vaccine to help prevent
shingles (herpes zoster) in individuals 60 years of age or older.
49Other primarily includes sales of other human pharmaceuticals, pharmaceutical and animal health supply
sales to the Company’s joint ventures and revenue from the Company’s relationship with AZLP, primarily relating to
sales of Nexium and Prilosec. Revenue from AZLP was $1.8 billion, $1.7 billion, and $1.5 billion in 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. In 2006, other also includes certain supply sales associated with activities not expected to continue
beyond 2006, including the Company’s arrangement with DRL for the sale of generic simvastatin.
S egment Revenues
( $ in millions) 2006 2005 2004
Pharmaceutical segment revenues $2 0,374.8 $ 20,678.8 $2 1,591.0
Vaccines segment revenues (1) 1,705.5 984.2 972.8
Other segment revenues (2) 162.1 161.8 185.1
Other revenues (3) 393.6 187.1 223.9
T otal revenues $2 2,636.0 $ 22,011.9 $2 2,972.8
( 1) In accordance with segment reporting requirements, Vaccines segment revenues exclude $153.9 million, $119.1 million and $97.5 million in
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, of vaccines sales by certain non-U.S. subsidiaries managed by and included in the Pharmaceutical segment.
( 2) Includes other non-reportable human and animal health segments.
( 3) Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, sales related to divested products or businesses and other supply
sales not included in segment results.
P harmaceutical Segment Revenues
Sales of the Pharmaceutical segment decreased 1% in 2006 primarily due to declines in Zocor and Proscar
post-patent expiration, partially offset by increases in Singulair and Cozaar/Hyzaar.
Singulair , Merck’s once-a-day oral respiratory medicine indicated for the treatment of chronic asthma and
the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, continued its strong performance in 2006, reflecting the continued demand
for asthma and seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis medications. Singulair continues to be the number one
prescribed product in the U.S. respiratory market. Total 2006 sales of Singulair were $3.6 billion, an increase of 20%
over 2005.
Global sales for Cozaar , and its companion agent Hyzaar (a combination of Cozaar and
hydrochlorothiazide), for the treatment of hypertension were $3.2 billion in 2006, a 4% increase over 2005. Cozaar
and Hyzaar compete in the fastest-growing class in the antihypertensive market, angiotensin II antagonists (“AIIA”).
Cozaar/Hyzaar remained the number two branded AIIA in the United States and Europe in 2006.
In December 2006, the Company’s Japanese subsidiary launched Preminent , known as Hyzaar in most
worldwide markets, the first-ever-fixed-dose combination in Japan of an angiotensin receptor blocker and
hydrochlorothiazide for the treatment of hypertension. Japan is the second largest pharmaceutical market in the world.
Global sales for Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D , for the treatment of postmenopausal, male
and/or glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis, were $3.1 billion in 2006, a decrease of 2% over 2005. Sales outside of
the United States were affected by the availability of other generic alendronate sodium products in some key markets,
including the United Kingdom, Canada and Germany. The Company has ongoing litigation in certain of those
European countries based on the Company’s alendronate patents. Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D together remain the
most prescribed medicine worldwide for the treatment of osteoporosis. Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D will lose market
exclusivity in the United States in February 2008 and April 2008, respectively, and the Company expects significant
declines in U.S. Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D sales after each product’s respective loss of market exclusivity.
In August 2006, Fosamax (marketed as Fosamac ) became the first once-weekly, oral medicine for
osteoporosis to be launched in Japan.
50Worldwide sales of Zocor , Merck’s statin for modifying cholesterol, were $2.8 billion in 2006, a decrease of
36% from 2005. Sales of Zocor were negatively affected by the loss of U.S. marketing exclusivity in June 2006.
Global sales of Zocor are expected to be $0.6 billion to $0.9 billion in 2007.
In February 2006, the Company entered into an agreement with DRL that authorized the sale of generic
simvastatin. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company is reimbursed on a cost-plus basis by DRL for supplying
finished goods and receives a share of the net profits recorded by DRL. Merck continues to offer branded Zocor and to
manufacture simvastatin for branded Zocor , Vytorin and the Company’s investigational compound MK-0524B. In
2006, Merck recorded $208.9 million associated with the DRL arrangement for simvastatin. This revenue is not
expected to continue beyond 2006.
In October 2006, Januvia was approved by the FDA, and is now the first and only dipeptidyl peptidase-4
(“DPP-4”) inhibitor available in the United States for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. DPP-4 inhibitors represent a
new class of prescription medications that improve blood sugar control in patients with type 2 diabetes by enhancing a
natural body system called the incretin system. Januvia has been approved as monotherapy and as add-on therapy to
either of two other oral diabetes medications, metformin or thiazolidinediones (“TZDs”), to improve blood sugar
(glucose) control in patients with type 2 diabetes when diet and exercise are not enough.
On January 25, 2007, the Company received a positive opinion about Januvia from the Committee for
Medicinal Products for Human Use (“CHMP”) of the European Medicines Agency (“EMEA”) in Europe. The CHMP
opinion recommended that Januvia be approved in the EU for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Following the
conclusion of the CHMP review, the opinion for Januvia will be transmitted to the EC. If the EC adopts the opinion,
Januvia will be the first and only prescription medication in a new class of drugs known as DPP-4 inhibitors, which
enhance the body’s own ability to lower blood sugar (glucose) when it is elevated. The decision will be applicable to
the 27 countries that are members of the EU. Marketing authorization from the EC is expected in early April 2007
after the adoption of the opinion. Including the EU, Merck anticipates approval for Januvia in at least another 55
countries in 2007.
Clinical studies show that Januvia provides significant A1C (a measure of average blood glucose level over
a two- to three-month period) reductions in both monotherapy and when added to two commonly used types of
diabetes drugs, metformin and TZDs. Treatment with Januvia was not associated with weight gain or an increased risk
of hypoglycemia. Januvia is now available in 11 countries including the United States, Mexico, and Brazil, and other
regulatory filings around the world are moving forward. Global sales of Januvia were $42.9 million in 2006.
In October 2006, the FDA approved Zolinza for the treatment of cutaneous manifestations in patients with
CTCL who have progressive, persistent or recurrent disease on or following two systemic therapies. The approval of
Zolinza represents the first anticancer treatment approved for CTCL since 1999.
Other products experiencing growth in 2006 include Cosopt to treat glaucoma, Propecia for male pattern
hair loss, Maxalt to treat migraine pain, Arcoxia for the treatment of arthritis and pain, Invanz for the treatment of
selected moderate to severe infection in adults, Emend for prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting
associated with moderately and highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy as well as for the treatment of post-operative
nausea and vomiting. Also contributing to Merck’s total sales in 2006 was revenue resulting from the Company’s
relationship with AZLP, primarily relating to sales of Nexium.
Proscar , Merck’s urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement, lost
marketing exclusivity in the United States in June 2006. Merck’s U.S. sales of Proscar for 2006 were $243.7 million,
a decrease of 34% compared with 2005. The Company expects the decline in U.S. Proscar sales to continue. The
basic patent for Proscar also covers Propecia , however, Propecia is protected by additional patents which expire in
October 2013.
V accines Segment Revenues
Sales of the Vaccines segment increased 73% in 2006 as a result of new product launches and the continued
success of in-line vaccines. The following discussion of vaccines includes total vaccines sales, the vast majority of
which are included in the Vaccines segment and the remainder, representing certain sales of vaccines by
non-U.S. subsidiaries, are managed by and included in the Pharmaceutical segment. These amounts do not reflect
51sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through Sanofi Pasteur MSD (“SPMSD”) the Company’s joint
venture with Sanofi Pasteur, the results of which are reflected in equity income from affiliates.
In 2006, the Company announced FDA approval of three new breakthrough vaccines: Gardasil , RotaTeq
and Zostavax.
On June 8, 2006, the FDA approved Gardasil , the only vaccine available in the United States to prevent
cervical cancer and vulvar and vaginal pre-cancers caused by HPV types 16 and 18 and to prevent low-grade and pre-
cancerous lesions and genital warts caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18. Gardasil is approved for 9- to
26-year-old girls and women. Gardasil is a three dose, intra muscular vaccine given over six months. In the United
States, it is estimated that approximately 9,700 women will be diagnosed with cervical cancer this year, and
approximately 3,700 women will die.
In June 2006, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control’s (“CDC”) Advisory Committee on Immunization
Practices (“ACIP”) voted unanimously to recommend that girls and women 11 to 26 years old be vaccinated with
Gardasil. The ACIP recommended that Gardasil be administered to 11- and 12-year-old females and to females aged
13 to 26 who have not previously been vaccinated, and that 9- and 10-year-old females be vaccinated with Gardasil at
the discretion of their physicians.
On November 1, 2006, the Company announced that the CDC added Gardasil to the CDC’s Vaccines for
Children program for eligible girls and women aged 9 to 18. As of February 2, 2007, managed care plans representing
at least 96% of privately-insured lives in the United States (currently more than 120 insurance plans) had decided to
reimburse for Gardasil when covered under the member’s benefit design. These insurers are reimbursing the vaccine
at or above the lowest price paid to Merck by private non-HMO customers.
In September 2006, Gardasil was approved as the first and only vaccine in the EU for use in children and
adolescents aged 9 to 15 years and in adult females aged 16 to 26 years for the prevention of cervical cancer, high-
grade cervical dysplasias/precancers [cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN 2/3)], high-grade/precancerous vulvar
dysplastic lesions (VIN 2/3) and genital warts caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18. Gardasil is marketed by SPMSD
in 19 European countries, including 15 in the EU. In the remaining Central and Eastern European countries, Gardasil
is marketed by Merck Sharp & Dohme as either Gardasil or Silgard.
In 2006, total sales of Gardasil recorded by Merck were $234.8 million. Gardasil has been approved in
54 countries, all under accelerated reviews, with regulatory applications pending in approximately 50 countries.
In February 2005, the Company announced that it and GlaxoSmithKline (“GSK”) entered into a cross-
license and settlement agreement for certain patent rights related to HPV vaccines. Pursuant to the agreement, GSK
received an upfront payment and is receiving royalties from the Company based upon sales of Gardasil , upon
development and launch. The agreement resolves competing intellectual property claims related to the Company’s and
GSK’s vaccine candidates. In addition, in 1995, Merck entered into a license agreement and collaboration with CSL
Limited relating to technology used in Gardasil. Gardasil is also the subject of other third-party licensing agreements.
As a consequence of these agreements, the Company will pay royalties on the worldwide sales of Gardasil of
approximately 24% to 26% in the aggregate.
Clinical studies to evaluate the efficacy of Gardasil in females 27 to 45 years of age and males 16 to
26 years of age continue in more than 30 countries around the world. The Company expects to submit to the FDA an
indication for females 27 to 45 years of age in the fourth quarter of 2007, and an indication for males 16 to 26 years of
age in 2008. The Company is also conducting ongoing clinical studies to assess the potential for cross-protection
against HPV types related to HPV 16 and 18, including HPV 31 and 45. Cross-protection, if proven, could potentially
expand the vaccine’s prevention coverage against cervical cancer.
In February 2006, the FDA approved RotaTeq , the Company’s vaccine to help protect against rotavirus
gastroenteritis in infants and children. The FDA approval of RotaTeq was based on data from the Company’s Phase III
clinical trials of nearly 70,000 infants, including data from the Rotavirus Efficacy and Safety Trial (“REST”), one of
the largest pre-licensure vaccine clinical trials ever conducted. In these clinical trials, RotaTeq prevented 98% of
severe cases of rotavirus gastroenteritis and prevented 74% of rotavirus gastroenteritis cases of any severity caused by
serotypes targeted by the vaccine (G1, G2, G3, G4) compared to placebo through the first full
52rotavirus season after vaccination. RotaTeq also reduced hospitalizations by 96% and emergency room visits by 94%
for rotavirus gastroenteritis caused by serotypes targeted by the vaccine through the first two years after the third dose.
In February 2006, the CDC’s ACIP unanimously voted to recommend that all infants, starting at 6 to
12 weeks of age be vaccinated with RotaTeq , now the only rotavirus vaccine available in the United States. The ACIP
recommended that the oral, ready-to use vaccine be given during the current routine well-baby visits at 2, 4, and
6 months of age. In April, RotaTeq was made available in the CDC Vaccines for Children program.
Within the United States, as of February 6, 2007, health insurance plans representing approximately 90% of
covered lives in the eligible age group of infants and young children between six and 32 weeks of age have added
RotaTeq to their formularies. RotaTeq has been approved in 34 countries and applications for licensure have been filed
in more than 100 countries. In Nicaragua, where RotaTeq was approved in 2006, the Company will provide the
vaccine free of charge for all infants born in the country over a three-year period commencing in October 2006,
through a joint demonstration project with the Nicaraguan Ministry of Health. In 2006, RotaTeq sales recorded by
Merck were $163.4 million.
In February 2007, Merck updated the labeling information for RotaTeq to include post-marketing reports of
intussusception and hematochezia to the Vaccine Adverse Events Reporting System (“VAERS”), a national vaccine
safety surveillance program. In February 2007, the FDA reported that since the licensure of RotaTeq on February 3,
2006 until January 31, 2007, 28 cases of intussusception in infants who received RotaTeq have been reported in the
United States to VAERS and that this number does not exceed the number of cases expected based on the background
rate. REST was specifically designed to evaluate vaccine safety with respect to intussusception. In REST, there was
no increased risk of intussuception with RotaTeq , compared to placebo.
In May 2006, the FDA approved Zostavax , the Company’s vaccine for prevention of herpes zoster
(shingles) in individuals 60 years of age and older. It was also approved by regulatory authorities in the EU and
Australia in May. Zostavax is the first and only medical option approved for the prevention of shingles.
In October 2006, the CDC ACIP voted unanimously to recommend that adults 60 years of age and older be
vaccinated with Zostavax to help prevent shingles. Following the ACIP recommendation, in the United States, as of
February 6, 2007, managed care plans representing approximately 85% of covered lives are reimbursing for Zostavax.
Sales of Zostavax recorded by Merck in 2006 were $38.6 million.
In June 2006, the ACIP unanimously voted to recommend that children 4 to 6 years of age routinely receive
a second dose of varicella (chickenpox)-containing vaccine. Merck’s Varivax and its combination vaccine ProQuad
are the only vaccines to help protect against chickenpox available in the United States. The ACIP also voted to
recommend that children, adolescents and adults who previously received one dose of varicella-containing vaccine
should receive a catch-up second dose. The ACIP voted to include the second dose of chickenpox vaccine in the
Vaccines for Children program.
Merck has recently determined that the bulk manufacturing process for the Company’s varicella zoster virus
(“VZV”)-containing vaccines was producing lower amounts of bulk VZV intermediate than expected. The VZV bulk
in question was designated for use in fulfilling future quantities of the three VZV-containing vaccines — Varivax,
ProQuad and Zostavax . As a result, production of the VZV bulk has been temporarily suspended while the Company
identifies the cause of this issue.
This situation does not affect the quality of any of Merck’s VZV-containing vaccines currently on the
market, any lots of vaccine in inventory that are ready for release to the market or any vaccines which will be filled
and finished from existing VZV bulk.
As the Company works to resolve this issue, it is decreasing the availability of ProQuad , while increasing
the availability of the component vaccines Varivax and M-M-R II. Additionally, the Company will postpone the
introductions outside the United States of ProQuad and Zostavax until the VZV bulk issue is resolved.
Based on this approach and in view of current projections, the Company currently expects to meet
anticipated market demand for VZV-containing vaccines.
53Costs, Expenses and Other
S hare-Based Compensation
On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Statement
No. 123R, Share-Based Payment (“FAS 123R”) (see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements). FAS 123R
requires all share-based payments to employees be expensed over the requisite service period based on the grant-date
fair value of the awards. Prior to adopting FAS 123R, the Company accounted for employee stock options using the
intrinsic value method which measures share-based compensation expense as the amount by which the market price of
the stock at the date of grant exceeds the exercise price. The Company elected the modified prospective transition
method for adopting FAS 123R, and therefore, prior periods were not restated. Under this method, the provisions of
FAS 123R apply to all awards granted or modified after January 1, 2006. Total pre-tax share-based compensation
expense was $312.5 million in 2006, $48.0 million in 2005 and $25.7 million in 2004. Incremental pre-tax expense
related to the adoption of FAS 123R was $227.8 million in 2006. In addition, the unrecognized expense of awards that
have not yet vested at the date of adoption shall be recognized in Net income in the periods after the date of adoption.
At December 31, 2006, there was $273.8 million of total pre-tax unrecognized compensation expense related to
nonvested stock option, restricted stock unit and performance share unit awards which will be recognized over a
weighted average period of 2.0 years. For segment reporting, share-based compensation expense is recorded in
unallocated expense.
($ in millions) 2006 Change 2005 Change 2004
Materials and production $ 6,001.1 17 % $ 5,149.6 4% $ 4,965.7
Marketing and administrative 8,165.4 14 % 7,155.5 −1% 7,238.7
Research and development 4,782.9 24 % 3,848.0 −4% 4,010.2
Restructuring costs 142.3 −56 % 322.2 * 107.6
Equity income from affiliates (2,294.4) 34 % (1,717.1) 70% (1,008.2)
Other (income) expense, net (382.7) * (110.2) −68% (344.0)
$ 16,414.6 12 % $ 14,648.0 −2% $1 4,970.0
* 100% or greater.
M aterials and Production
In 2006, materials and production costs increased 17%, compared to a 3% increase in sales. The increase is
primarily attributable to $736.4 million recorded in 2006 related to the global restructuring program compared with
$177.1 million recorded in 2005. Of the amount recorded in 2006, $707.3 million represents accelerated depreciation
associated with the planned sale or closure of five of the Company’s manufacturing facilities (see Note 4 to the
consolidated financial statements). The remaining $29.1 million represents impairment charges associated with the
abandonment of certain fixed assets that will no longer be used in the business as a result of these restructuring
actions. Materials and production costs in 2006 also include stock option expense of $23.8 million. Additionally,
materials and production costs included a 1% unfavorable impact from inflation in 2006.
In 2005, materials and production costs increased 4%, compared to a 4% decline in sales. The increase is
primarily attributable to $177.1 million recorded in 2005 related to the global restructuring program. Of this,
$111.2 million represents impairment charges associated with the abandonment of certain fixed assets that will no
longer be used in the business as a result of these restructuring actions. The remaining $65.9 million represents
accelerated depreciation associated with Merck’s plan to sell or close five of its owned manufacturing facilities.
Additionally, 1% of the increase in materials and production costs in 2005 is attributable to the unfavorable effect
from inflation. The variance in these costs relative to the sales decline reflects the impact of the items noted above, as
well as the unfavorable effect on sales associated with the voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx in 2004.
Gross margin was 73.5% in 2006 compared to 76.6% in 2005 and 78.4% in 2004. The restructuring charges
noted above had an unfavorable impact of 3.3 percentage points in 2006 and 0.8 percentage points in 2005. In
addition, in 2006, Zocor lost U.S. marketing exclusivity which negatively affected the gross margin. The impact of the
voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx had an unfavorable effect on the gross margin in 2004.
54M arketing and Administrative
In 2006, marketing and administrative expenses increased 14%, primarily reflecting $673 million of
additional reserves solely for legal defense costs for Vioxx litigation (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial
statements) as well as costs associated with the launches of three new vaccines and other new products, mainly
Januvia in the United States. In 2006, marketing and administrative expenses also included a $48 million charge to
establish a legal defense reserve for Fosamax litigation (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements), as well
as stock option expense of $143.7 million. Additionally, marketing and administrative expenses included a 3%
unfavorable effect from inflation in 2006.
In 2005, marketing and administrative expenses decreased 1% primarily due to costs recorded in 2004 of
$141.4 million for the voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx and $604 million for the establishment of a reserve
solely for legal defense costs for Vioxx litigation. Partially offsetting the decrease was an additional reserve of
$295 million for Vioxx legal defense costs recorded in 2005, as well as costs required to prepare for the launch of three
new vaccines. Additionally, a 4% unfavorable effect from inflation and a 1% unfavorable effect from exchange also
partially offset the declines.
R esearch and Development
Research and development expenses increased 24% in 2006. Included in the increase is a $466.2 million
acquired research charge related to acquisition of Sirna, as well as a $296.3 million acquired research charge resulting
from the GlycoFi acquisition. In addition, the increase reflects accelerated depreciation costs of $56.5 million in 2006
related to the closure of research facilities in connection with the global restructuring program, as well as stock option
expense of $55.5 million. Additionally, a 2% unfavorable effect from inflation also contributed to the increase in
2006.
The Company has three drug candidates currently under FDA review:
In June 2006, the FDA accepted for standard review an NDA for MK-0517, the intravenous prodrug of
Emend, for the treatment of CINV. The Company anticipates a decision on the NDA in the second quarter of 2007.
In July 2006, the FDA accepted for standard review the NDA for Janumet , the Company’s investigational
oral medicine combining Januvia with metformin, which is designed to provide an additional treatment for patients
needing more than one oral agent to help control blood sugar for treatment of type 2 diabetes. The Company expects
FDA action on the NDA by the end of March 2007. The Company is also moving forward as planned with regulatory
filings in countries outside the United States.
Arcoxia , the Company’s investigational selective COX-2 inhibitor, remains under standard review by the
FDA in the United States. In response to the FDA’s approvable letter, Merck included results of the MEDAL
(Multinational Etoricoxib and Diclofenac Arthritis Long-Term) Program that showed the rate of confirmed thrombotic
cardiovascular events was similar between Arcoxia and diclofenac, the most widely used nonsteroidal anti-
inflammatory drug in the world. The Company anticipates FDA action in April 2007. The Company expects that an
FDA Advisory Committee meeting will be held prior to FDA action. Arcoxia is currently available in more than 60
countries in Europe, Latin America, the Asia-Pacific region and Middle East/Northern Africa.
The Company anticipates filing three NDAs with the FDA in 2007:
The Company plans to file an NDA for MK-0518 with the FDA in the second quarter of 2007 and has
received fast track designation for an indication in treatment-experienced patients.
Interim 16-week data from the dose-ranging Phase II trial of MK-0518, the Company’s investigational HIV
integrase inhibitor, in patients with advanced HIV infection were presented at the 13 th Annual Conference on
Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections in February 2006. The results showed that the oral investigational
medication at all three doses studied in combination with optimized background therapy (“OBT”) had greater
antiretroviral activity than OBT alone. Study results also showed that MK-0518 in combination with OBT was
generally well tolerated in these patients who were failing antiretroviral therapy (“ART”), who were resistant to at
least one drug of each of the three available classes of oral ARTs, and who had limited active ARTs as options for
treatment. At the American Society for Microbiology’s 46 th Annual International Conference on Antimicrobial
55Agents and Chemotherapy in September 2006, the Company presented interim 24-week data from this ongoing study
in treatment-experienced patients, which demonstrated MK-0518 maintaining viral load regression.
In August 2006 at the 16 th International AIDS conference, the Company presented interim 24-week data
from the Phase II dose-ranging trial of MK-0518 conducted in treatment-naïve, HIV-infected patients. The data
showed that MK-0518 twice daily, when used in combination with tenofovir and lamivudine, achieved a comparable
viral load reduction to efavirenz combined with the same agents in previously untreated patients. In September 2006 at
the American Society for Microbiology’s 46th Annual International Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and
Chemotherapy, the Company presented additional interim 24-week data from this Phase II dose-ranging study in
treatment-naïve patients that demonstrated no increase in lipid levels in patients taking MK-0518 with tenofovir and
lamivudine.
The Company has entered into Phase III clinical trials with MK-0524A and to support MK-0524B,
investigational therapies for lipid management. MK-0524A represents a novel approach to lowering LDL-C, raising
HDL-C and lowering triglycerides. MK-0524B combines MK-0524A with the proven benefits of simvastatin to
potentially reduce the risk of coronary heart disease beyond what statins provide alone. The Company plans to file
MK-0524A with the FDA in 2007 and to file MK-0524B in 2008.
In November 2006, the Company presented data from a Phase II study at the American Heart Association’s
Scientific Sessions 2006 in Chicago that showed co-administration of MK-0524 with ER niacin significantly reduced
flushing in patients with dyslipidemia compared to those patients who took ER niacin alone. Flushing, characterized
by redness of the skin with warming or burning on the face and neck caused by the dilation of blood vessels near the
skin, is a common niacin-induced side effect that can cause discomfort to patients and is a significant factor leading to
discontinuation of niacin therapy.
In October 2006, the Company and H. Lundbeck A/S of Denmark announced that the submission of an NDA
for gaboxadol, a novel investigational drug in Phase III development for the treatment of insomnia, will occur in mid-
2007. Phase II clinical studies of gaboxadol showed improved sleep quality as well as increased slow-wave sleep
without suppressing REM sleep. In December 2006, Merck announced that gaboxadol will likely be a scheduled
compound.
Also, by mid-year 2007, Merck expects to have four products in Phase III development (including
MK-0524B discussed above):
The Company has initiated a targeted Phase III program with its investigational compound for the treatment
of obesity, MK-0364, which is an investigational cannabinoid-1 receptor inverse agonist. Results of early clinical
studies indicate that MK-0364 demonstrated significant weight-loss efficacy versus placebo and was generally safe
and well-tolerated, however, as reported with another cannabinoid-1 receptor inverse agonist, some psychiatric
adverse experiences have been observed.
As announced in December 2006, the Company plans to start Phase III testing of MK-0974, the calcitonin
gene related peptide receptor antagonist for the treatment of migraine headaches. The Phase III program is expected to
commence in first quarter 2007.
Also announced in December 2006, the Company anticipates that MK-0822, a Cathepsin K inhibitor for the
treatment of osteoporosis, will enter Phase III testing in mid-2007.
In August 2006, Merck and Gilead Sciences, Inc. (“Gilead”) established an agreement for the distribution of
Atripla, a once-daily, single tablet regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults, in developing countries
around the world. Atripla contains 600 mg of efavirenz, a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, 200 mg of
emtricitabine and 300 mg of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, both nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Efavirenz
is marketed by Merck under the tradename Stocrin in all territories outside of the United States, Canada and certain
European countries (where it is commercialized by Bristol-Myers Squibb (“BMS”) under the tradename Sustiva ).
Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate are commercialized by Gilead under the tradenames Emtriva and
Viread, respectively. The compounds are commonly prescribed together as a once-daily, fixed-dose tablet, marketed
under the tradename Truvada for use as part of combination therapy.
56In October 2006, the Company along with BMS and Gilead announced the submission of a Marketing
Authorisation Application (“MAA”) for Atripla in the EU to the EMEA. The MAA will be reviewed by the CHMP,
subject to validation by the EMEA. The MAA for Atripla in the EU was filed jointly by the three companies through a
newly established three-way collaboration based in Ireland. Review of the MAA will be conducted by the EMEA
under the centralized licensing procedure, which, when finalized, provides one marketing authorization in all member
states of the EU. Discussions among the three companies regarding agreements for manufacturing, commercialization
and distribution of Atripla in the EU are ongoing.
Merck continues to remain focused on augmenting its internal efforts by capitalizing on growth
opportunities, ranging from targeted acquisitions to research collaborations, preclinical and clinical compounds and
technology transactions that will drive both near- and long-term growth. The Company completed 53 transactions in
2006 across a broad range of therapeutic categories, as well as early–stage technology transactions. Merck is currently
evaluating other opportunities, and is actively monitoring the landscape for a range of targeted acquisitions that meet
the Company’s strategic criteria. Highlights from these activities for the year include:
In March 2006, Neuromed Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (“Neuromed”) and Merck signed a research collaboration
and license agreement to research, develop and commercialize novel compounds for the treatment of pain and other
neurological disorders, including Neuromed’s lead compound, NMED-160 (MK-6721), which is currently in Phase II
development for the treatment of pain. Under the terms of the agreement, Neuromed received an upfront payment of
$25 million. The successful development and launch of NMED-160 for an initial single indication on a worldwide
basis would trigger milestone payments totaling $202 million. Milestones could increase to approximately
$450 million if a further indication for NMED-160 is developed and approved and an additional compound is
developed and approved for two indications. Neuromed would also receive royalties on worldwide sales of NMED-
160 and any additional compounds developed under this agreement.
Also in March 2006, Merck and NicOx S.A. (“NicOx”) entered into a new agreement to collaborate on the
development of new antihypertensive drugs using NicOx’s proprietary nitric oxide-donating technology. The
agreement covers nitric oxide-donating derivatives of several major classes of antihypertensive agents for the
treatment of high blood pressure, complications of hypertension, and other cardiovascular and related disorders.
Merck has the exclusive right to develop and commercialize antihypertensives that use NicOx’s nitric oxide-donating
technology for the treatment of systemic hypertension.
In May 2006, the Company acquired Abmaxis, a privately-held biopharmaceutical company dedicated to the
discovery and optimization of monoclonal antibody products for human therapeutics and diagnostics. In June 2006,
the Company acquired GlycoFi, a privately-held biotechnology company, a leader in the field of yeast
glycoengineering and optimization of biologic drug molecules. In connection with the acquisition, the Company
recorded a charge of $296.3 million for acquired research associated with GlycoFi’s technology platform to be used in
the research and development process, for which, at the acquisition date, technological feasibility had not been
established and no alternative future use existed (see “Acquisitions” above).
In October 2006, Merck and Ambrilia Biopharma Inc. (“Ambrilia”), a biopharmaceutical company
developing innovative therapeutics in the fields of cancer and infectious diseases, announced they entered into an
exclusive licensing agreement granting Merck the worldwide rights to Ambrilia’s HIV/AIDS protease inhibitor
program. Under the terms of this agreement, Ambrilia granted Merck the exclusive worldwide rights to its lead
compound, PPL-100, which has completed a Phase I single-dose pharmacokinetic study and is currently in a Phase I
repeat dose pharmacokinetic study. In return, Ambrilia received an upfront licensing fee of $17 million on signing and
is eligible for cash payments totaling up to $215 million upon successful completion of development, clinical,
regulatory and sales milestones. Ambrilia will receive royalties on all future product sales.
In November 2006, the Company expanded the scope of its existing strategic collaboration with FoxHollow
Technologies, Inc. (“FoxHollow”) for atherosclerotic plaque analysis. Additionally, Merck acquired a stake in
FoxHollow with the purchase of $95 million of newly-issued shares of FoxHollow common stock for $29.629 per
share, representing approximately an 11% stake. The existing strategic collaboration, entered into in 2005, provided
for FoxHollow to receive an upfront payment with the opportunity for additional payments if the collaboration
continued. Under the terms of the expanded collaboration agreement, Merck will pay $40 million to
57FoxHollow over four years in exchange for FoxHollow’s agreement to collaborate exclusively with Merck in specified
disease areas. Merck will also provide a minimum of $60 million in funding to FoxHollow over the first three years of
the four year collaboration program term, for research activities to be conducted by FoxHollow under Merck’s
direction. FoxHollow will receive milestone payments on successful development of drug products or diagnostic tests
utilizing results from the collaboration, as well as royalties.
In November 2006, Merck and The J. David Gladstone Institutes announced a major collaboration and
license agreement for research and development of drugs to treat neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer’s
disease, that are linked to apoE-regulated mechanisms in the body. The agreement provides Merck, through an
affiliate, with a worldwide, exclusive license to research, develop and commercialize compounds that are directed to
apoE-regulated pathways and result from collaborative research or discoveries that have been made in the field of
neurodegeneration by the Gladstone Institutes.
Also in November 2006, Merck and Advinus Therapeutics (P) Ltd. (“Advinus”) announced they have
formed a drug discovery and clinical development collaboration in the area of metabolic disorders. Advinus and
Merck will work together to develop clinically validated drug candidates for metabolic disorders, with Merck
retaining the right to advance the most promising of these candidates into late-stage clinical trials. Advinis will receive
an upfront payment and could potentially receive milestone payments of $74.5 million for each target included in the
collaboration. The collaboration will begin with two target programs, and could expand to include others over time.
In December 2006, Merck completed the acquisition of Sirna, a publicly-held biotechnology company that is
a leader in developing a new class of medicines based on RNAi technology, which could significantly alter the
treatment of disease. In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded a charge of $466.2 million for
acquired research associated with Sirna’s compounds currently under development, for which, at the acquisition date,
technological feasibility had not been established and no alternative future use existed (see “Acquisitions” above).
Additionally in December 2006, Merck and Idera Pharmaceuticals (“Idera”) announced that they had formed
a broad collaboration to research, develop and commercialize Idera’s Toll-like Receptor (“TLR”) agonists. Under the
terms of the agreement, Merck will receive worldwide exclusive rights to a number of Idera’s agonist compounds
targeting TLR 7, 8 and 9 for use in combination with Merck’s therapeutic and prophylactic vaccines under
development for oncology, infectious diseases and Alzheimer’s disease. Merck and Idera will engage in a two-year
research and development collaboration to generate novel agonists targeting TLR 7 and TLR 8 and incorporating both
Merck and Idera chemistry for use in the licensed fields. Merck paid an upfront license fee of $20 million to Idera and
purchased $10 million of its common stock at $5.50 per share. In addition, Merck will fund the research and
development collaboration. Idera is eligible to receive milestone payments of up to $165 million if vaccines are
successfully developed in each of the three fields. Additional milestones of up to $260 million would be payable for
follow-on indications in the oncology field and the successful development of additional vaccines containing Idera’s
TLR agonists. There is no limit to the number of vaccines to which Merck can apply Idera’s agonists within the
licensed fields. In addition, Idera will receive royalties on products commercialized under the collaboration.
The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology
and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. The Company’s research and
development programs are generally designed to focus on the development of novel medicines to address large, unmet
medical needs. Merck’s new efforts to improve drug discovery involve focusing on nine priority disease areas, as well
as utilizing new research technologies, building alliances with external partners and making targeted acquisitions
which will complement the Company’s strong internal research capabilities. The previous announced nine priority
disease areas are: Alzheimer’s disease; atherosclerosis; cardiovascular disease; diabetes; novel vaccines; obesity;
oncology (targeted therapies); pain; and sleep disorders. These therapeutic areas were carefully chosen based on a set
of criteria including unmet medical needs, scientific opportunity and commercial opportunity. A chart reflecting the
Company’s current research pipeline as of February 15, 2007 is set forth in Item 1. “Business” above.
58Research and development expenses decreased 4% in 2005. Included in 2005 are accelerated depreciation
costs of $121.8 million related to the closure of research facilities. In addition, the decrease reflects the 2004 impact of
$225.0 million of licensing expense for the initial payments for certain disclosed research collaborations and
$125.5 million of acquired research expense from the acquisition of Aton Pharma, Inc. in 2004. Partially offsetting the
decrease is an 8% increase in other research and development activities supporting Merck’s pipeline, as well as a 2%
unfavorable effect from inflation.
R estructuring Costs
Restructuring costs were $142.3 million and $322.2 million for 2006 and 2005, respectively. Included in
restructuring costs are separation costs associated with Merck’s plan to eliminate approximately 7,000 positions by the
end of 2008. In 2006 and 2005, Merck incurred $113.7 million and $182.4 million, respectively, in separation costs
associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as headcount reductions that were probable and could be
reasonably estimated related to the global restructuring program. The Company eliminated 3,700 positions in 2006
and 1,100 positions in 2005 (which are comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of contractors
and vacant positions). Also, in 2005, the Company recorded $116.8 million for separation costs associated with other
restructuring programs. Restructuring costs are included in unallocated expense for segment reporting purposes.
E quity Income from Affiliates
Equity income from affiliates reflects the performance of the Company’s joint ventures and partnerships. In
2006 and 2005, the increase in equity income from affiliates reflects the successful performance of Vytorin and Zetia
through the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership. The growth in 2005 is also attributable to higher partnership returns
from AZLP. See “Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information” below.
O ther (Income) Expense, Net
The increase in other (income) expense, net, in 2006 reflects an increase in interest income generated from
the Company’s investment portfolio derived from higher interest rates and higher average investment portfolio
balances. The decrease in other (income) expense, net, in 2005 primarily reflects a $176.8 million gain in 2004 from
the sale of the Company’s 50% equity stake in its European joint venture with Johnson & Johnson, as well as realized
gains on the Company’s investment portfolio recorded in 2004.
S egment Profits
( $ in millions) 2006 2005 2004
Pharmaceutical segment profits $ 13,649.4 $1 3,157.9 $1 3,560.3
Vaccines segment profits 892.8 767.0 881.4
Other segment profits 380.7 355.5 278.2
Other (8,701.5) (6,916.5) (6,717.1)
I ncome before income taxes $ 6,221.4 $ 7,363.9 $ 8,002.8
Segment profits are comprised of segment revenues less certain elements of materials and production costs
and operating expenses, including components of equity income (loss) from affiliates and depreciation and
amortization expenses. For internal management reporting presented to the chief operating decision maker, the
Company does not allocate the vast majority of indirect production costs, research and development expenses and
general and administrative expenses, as well as the cost of financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain
responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by these
divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment profits. Also excluded from the determination of segment
profits are taxes paid at the joint venture level and a portion of equity income. Additionally, segment profits do not
reflect other expenses from corporate and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income (expense).
These unallocated items are reflected in “Other” in the above table. Also included in other are miscellaneous corporate
profits, operating profits related to divested products or businesses, other supply sales and adjustments to eliminate the
effect of double counting certain items of income and expense.
59Pharmaceutical segment profits increased 4% in 2006 compared with 2005 reflecting higher equity income,
primarily driven by the strong performance of the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership, partially offset by the loss of
U.S. marketing exclusivity for Zocor and Proscar. Pharmaceutical segment profits declined 3% in 2005 primarily
related to the voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx.
Vaccines segment profits increased 16% in 2006 driven by the launch of three new vaccines and the
successful performance of in-line vaccines. Vaccines segment profits declined 13% in 2005 primarily reflecting
increased marketing and administrative costs required to prepare for the launches of three new vaccines. Vaccines
segment profits also reflect equity income from SPMSD.
T axes on Income
The Company’s effective income tax rate was 28.7% in 2006, 37.1% in 2005 and 27.1% in 2004. The higher
effective tax rate in 2005 reflects an unfavorable impact of 9.1 percentage points primarily related to the Company’s
decision to repatriate $15.9 billion of foreign earnings in accordance with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004
(“AJCA”). The 2006 effective tax rate reflects an unfavorable impact of 3.1 percentage points related to the non-
deductible acquired research and development costs associated with the acquisitions of Sirna and GlycoFi. The tax
rate in all three years was favorably impacted by restructuring charges.
N et Income and Earnings per Share
($ in millions except per share amounts) 2006 Change 2005 Change 2004
Net income $4 ,433.8 −4% $4 ,631.3 −21 % $5 ,830.1
As a % of sales 19.6 % 21.0 % 25.4%
As a % of average total assets 9.9 % 10.6 % 14.0%
Earnings per common share assuming dilution $ 2.03 −3% $ 2.10 −20 % $ 2.62
N et Income and Earnings per Common Share
Net income decreased 4% in 2006 and declined 21% in 2005. Earnings per common share assuming dilution
declined 3% in 2006 compared to a decline of 20% in 2005. These declines primarily reflect the impact of acquired
research charges, higher restructuring charges, increased reserves for legal defense costs and the incremental impact of
expensing stock options. These increased costs were partially offset by growth in equity income from affiliates in
2006 and the 2005 net tax charge associated with repatriation of foreign earnings in accordance with the AJCA. Net
income as a percentage of sales was 19.6% in 2006, 21.0% in 2005 and 25.4% in 2004. The decrease in the percentage
of sales ratio in 2006 as compared to 2005 reflects the same factors discussed above. Net income as a percentage of
average total assets was 9.9% in 2006, 10.6% in 2005 and 14.0% in 2004.
S elected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information
To expand its research base and realize synergies from combining capabilities, opportunities and assets, in
previous years the Company formed a number of joint ventures. (See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.)
M erck/Schering-Plough Partnership
In 2000, the Company and Schering-Plough Corporation (“Schering-Plough”) (collectively, the “Partners”)
entered into agreements to create separate equally-owned partnerships to develop and market in the United States new
prescription medicines in the cholesterol-management and respiratory therapeutic areas. These agreements generally
provide for equal sharing of development costs and for co-promotion of approved products by each company. In 2001,
the cholesterol-management partnership agreements were expanded to include all the countries of the world, excluding
Japan. In 2002, ezetimibe, the first in a new class of cholesterol-lowering agents, was launched in the United States as
Zetia (marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States). In July 2004, a combination product containing the active
ingredients of both Zetia and Zocor was approved in the United States as Vytorin (marketed as Inegy outside the
United States).
60The cholesterol agreements provide for the sharing of operating income generated by the Merck/Schering-
Plough cholesterol partnership (the “MSP Partnership”) based upon percentages that vary by product, sales level and
country. In the U.S. market, the Partners share profits on Zetia and Vytorin sales equally, with the exception of the first
$300 million of annual Zetia sales, on which Schering-Plough receives a greater share of profits. Operating income
includes expenses that the Partners have contractually agreed to share, such as a portion of manufacturing costs,
specifically identified promotion costs (including direct-to-consumer advertising and direct and identifiable
out-of-pocket promotion) and other agreed upon costs for specific services such as on-going clinical research, market
support, market research, market expansion, as well as a specialty sales force and physician education programs.
Expenses incurred in support of the MSP Partnership but not shared between the Partners, such as marketing and
administrative expenses (including certain sales force costs), as well as certain manufacturing costs, are not included
in Equity income from affiliates. However, these costs are reflected in the overall results of the Company. Certain
research and development expenses are generally shared equally by the Partners, after adjusting for earned milestones.
Sales of joint venture products were as follows:
( $ in millions) 2006 2005 2004
Zetia $1 ,928.8 $1 ,396.7 $1 ,053.0
Vytorin 1,955.3 1,028.3 132.4
$3 ,884.1 $2 ,425.0 $1 ,185.4
Global sales of Zetia increased 38% over 2005. Global sales of Vytorin increased 90% over 2005. Vytorin is
the only single tablet cholesterol treatment to provide LDL cholesterol lowering through the dual inhibition of
cholesterol production and absorption.
In June 2006, the MSP Partnership announced new data from two clinical trials. Data presented at the
International Symposium on Atherosclerosis meeting showed that Vytorin was significantly more effective than
Crestor in reducing LDL cholesterol across all study dose comparisons and an analysis of the data showed that, when
averaged across all study doses, Vytorin brought more patients at high risk of cardiovascular disease to LDL
cholesterol levels less than 70 mg/dl compared to Crestor. Also in June, new data released at the American Diabetes
Association’s (“ADA”) 66th Annual Scientific Sessions showed that at the recommended usual starting doses, Vytorin
was superior to Lipitor in the lowering of LDL cholesterol in patients with type 2 diabetes and high cholesterol. These
data were also published in the December 2006 issue of Mayo Clinic Proceedings.
The results from the Company’s interest in the MSP Partnership are recorded in Equity income from
affiliates. Merck recognized equity income of $1,218.6 million in 2006, $570.4 million in 2005 and $132.0 million in
2004.
A straZeneca LP
In 1982, the Company entered into an agreement with Astra AB (“Astra”) to develop and market Astra
products in the United States. In 1994, the Company and Astra formed an equally-owned joint venture that developed
and marketed most of Astra’s new prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec , the first in a class
of medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach
lining.
In 1998, the Company and Astra restructured the joint venture whereby the Company acquired Astra’s
interest in the joint venture, renamed KBI Inc. (“KBI”), and contributed KBI’s operating assets to a new U.S. limited
partnership named Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (the “Partnership”), in which the Company maintains a limited partner
interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP (“AZLP”), became the exclusive distributor of the products for
which KBI retained rights.
Merck earns ongoing revenue based on sales of current and future KBI products and such revenue was
$1.8 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.5 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, primarily relating to sales of Nexium
and Prilosec. In addition, Merck earns certain Partnership returns, which are recorded in Equity income from
affiliates. Such returns include a priority return provided for in the Partnership Agreement, variable returns based, in
61part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a preferential return representing Merck’s share of
undistributed AZLP GAAP earnings. These returns aggregated $783.7 million, $833.5 million and $646.5 million in
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
M erial Limited
In 1997, Merck and Rhône-Poulenc S.A. (now Sanofi-Aventis S.A.) combined their animal health and
poultry genetics businesses to form Merial Limited (“Merial”), a fully integrated animal health company, which is a
stand-alone joint venture, equally owned by each party. Merial provides a comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals
and vaccines to enhance the health, well-being and performance of a wide range of animal species.
Sales of joint venture products were as follows:
( $ in millions) 2006 2005 2004
Fipronil products $ 886.9 $ 757.7 $ 679.1
Avermectin products 468.7 467.5 452.4
Biological products 600.7 533.2 476.5
Other products 238.4 228.6 227.8
$2 ,194.7 $1 ,987.0 $1 ,835.8
The broiler and foreign turkey segments of the poultry genetics business were sold in 2005 and the domestic
turkey segment was divested in 2004. These transactions completed the divestiture of Merial’s interest in the poultry
genetics business. For comparative purposes the amounts presented above for 2005 and 2004 do not include revenue
earned from the poultry genetics business.
S anofi Pasteur MSD
In 1994, Merck and Pasteur Merieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) established a 50% owned joint
venture to market vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in
Europe.
In 2006, Merck launched three new vaccines that have been approved for use in the EU and will be marketed
by SPMSD in certain Western European countries: Gardasil for the prevention of cervical cancer and genital warts
caused by certain types of HPV; RotaTeq to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children; and
Zostavax to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster) in individuals 60 years of age and older.
In September 2005, SPMSD entered into a Letter of Undertaking (“LOU”), with the EMEA due to Agency
concerns regarding the long-term efficacy of the hepatitis B component of Hexavac. The hepatitis B component of
Hexavac is manufactured by Merck. The LOU requires, in relevant part (1) suspension of the EU Hexavac license;
(2) suspension of Hexavac distribution; (3) a recall of Hexavac product in the EU; (4) a recall of Hexavac in a number
of non-EU countries; and (5) a surveillance program and possible future revaccination. SPMSD, which markets and
sells Hexavac in part of the EU, has notified Merck that it is reserving any rights that it may have to seek damages
from Merck and to be defended, indemnified and held harmless by Merck in the event of third party claims.
In September 2005, the EMEA initiated a formal review of the long-term efficacy of the hepatitis B vaccine,
HBvaxPRO , and of the hepatitis B component of the hepatitis B/Hib combination vaccine, Procomvax. Both products
are marketed and sold by SPMSD in its European territory, and are sold elsewhere, under different names, by Merck.
After extensive review, the EMEA determined in May 2006 that each vaccine continues to offer effective protection
against hepatitis B and allowed SPMSD to continue marketing each product with minor label changes.
62Sales of joint venture products were as follows:
( $ in millions) 2006 2005 2004
Hepatitis vaccines $ 70.9 $ 81.1 $ 80.5
Viral vaccines 100.1 78.5 54.0
Other vaccines 742.9 705.5 672.5
$9 13.9 $8 65.1 $8 07.0
J ohnson & JohnsonºMerck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company
In 1989, Merck formed a joint venture with Johnson & Johnson to develop and market a broad range of
nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50% owned joint venture was expanded in Europe in 1993, and
into Canada in 1996. In March 2004, Merck sold its 50% equity stake in its European joint venture to Johnson &
Johnson for $244.0 million and recorded a $176.8 million gain as Other (income) expense, net. Merck will continue to
benefit through royalties on certain products and also regained the rights to potential future products that switch from
prescription to over-the-counter status in Europe.
Sales of joint venture products were as follows:
( $ in millions) 2006 2005 20 04 (1)
Gastrointestinal products $2 50.9 $2 50.8 $ 269.2
Other products 1.7 2.5 46.1
$2 52.6 $2 53.3 $ 315.3
(1) Includes sales of the European joint venture up through March 2004.
C apital Expenditures
Capital expenditures were $980.2 million in 2006 and $1.4 billion in 2005. Expenditures in the United States
were $714.7 million in 2006 and $938.7 million in 2005. Expenditures during 2006 included $334.8 million for
production facilities, $314.6 million for research and development facilities, $7.9 million for environmental projects,
and $322.9 million for administrative, safety and general site projects. Capital expenditures for 2007 are estimated to
be $1.2 billion.
Depreciation expense was $2.1 billion in 2006 and $1.5 billion in 2005, of which $1.5 billion and
$1.1 billion, respectively, applied to locations in the United States. Total depreciation expense in 2006 and 2005
includes accelerated depreciation of $763.8 million and $84.6 million, respectively, associated with the global
restructuring plan. Additionally, depreciation expense for 2005 reflects $103.1 million associated with the closure of
the Terlings Park basic research center (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements).
A nalysis of Liquidity and Capital Resources
Merck’s strong financial profile enables the Company to fully fund research and development, focus on
external alliances, support in-line products and maximize upcoming launches while providing significant cash returns
to shareholders. Cash provided by operating activities, which was $6.8 billion in 2006, continues to be the Company’s
primary source of funds to finance capital expenditures, treasury stock purchases and dividends paid to stockholders.
At December 31, 2006, the total of worldwide cash and investments was $16.5 billion, including $8.7 billion of cash,
cash equivalents and short-term investments, and $7.8 billion of long-term investments.
63S elected Data
( $ in millions) 2006 2005 2004
Working capital $2 ,507.5 $7 ,806.9 $1 ,688.8
Total debt to total liabilities and equity 15.3 % 18.1 % 16.1%
Cash provided by operations to total debt 1.0:1 0.9:1 1.3:1
During 2006, the Company began shifting its mix of investments from short-term to long-term, resulting in a
reduction of working capital in line with historical levels relative to the level at December 31, 2005. In 2005, to enable
execution of the AJCA repatriation, the Company changed its mix of investments from long-term to short-term,
resulting in a significant increase in working capital as of December 31, 2005. The AJCA created temporary
incentives through December 31, 2005 for U.S. multinationals to repatriate accumulated income earned outside of the
United States as of December 31, 2002. In connection with the AJCA, the Company repatriated $15.9 billion during
2005. As a result, the Company recorded an income tax charge of $766.5 million in Taxes on Income in 2005 related
to this repatriation, $185 million of which was paid in 2005 and the remainder of which was paid in the first quarter of
2006. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $5.2 billion of the AJCA repatriation was invested in fully
collateralized overnight repurchase agreements and was included in Short-term investments in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet. In early 2006, the Company began reinvesting its repurchase agreement balances into other short- and
long-term investments. Working capital levels are more than adequate to meet the operating requirements of the
Company. The ratios of total debt to total liabilities and equity and cash provided by operations to total debt reflect the
strength of the Company’s operating cash flows and the ability of the Company to cover its contractual obligations.
As previously disclosed, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has been examining the Company’s tax
returns for the years 1993 to 2001 and had issued notices of deficiency with respect to a partnership transaction
entered into in 1993, and two minority interest equity financings entered into in 1995 and 2000, respectively. The IRS
has recently concluded its examination of the years 1993-2001 and will issue a Final Revenue Agents Report in the
first quarter. On February 13, 2007, the Company entered into closing agreements with the IRS covering several
specific items, including the 1993 partnership transaction and the 1995 and 2000 minority interest equity financings.
Under the terms of the closing agreements, the Company expects to make a payment of approximately $2.85 billion in
the first quarter of 2007. This payment will be offset during 2007 by (i) a tax refund of $150 million for amounts
previously paid related to these matters and (ii) a $400 million federal tax benefit related to interest included in the
payment, resulting in a net cash cost to the Company of approximately $2.3 billion. The Company has previously
established reserves for these matters and while the conclusion of the IRS examination, including the closing
agreements, does not have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position or liquidity, it
will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s cash flow for the first quarter of 2007 when the payment is
made. The impact for years subsequent to 2001 of the partnership transaction and the minority interest equity
financings is included in the closing agreements although those years remain open in all other respects.
As previously disclosed, during October 2006 the Company received a notice of reassessment from the
Canada Revenue Agency (“CRA”) containing adjustments related to certain intercompany pricing matters which
result in additional taxes due of approximately $1.4 billion (U.S. dollars) plus interest of $360 million (U.S. dollars)
(see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company disagrees with the positions taken by the CRA
and believes they are without merit. The Company intends to contest the reassessment through the CRA appeals
process and the courts if necessary. In connection with the appeals process, in the notice of reassessment, the
Company is required to post a deposit of up to one half of the tax and interest assessed. During January 2007, the
Company pledged collateral consisting of cash and cash equivalents of $802 million to a financial institution which
provided a Letter of Guarantee to the CRA. Management believes that resolution of these matters will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position or liquidity. However, an unfavorable resolution could
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or cash flows in the quarter in which an
adjustment is recorded or the tax is due.
64The Company’s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2006 are as follows:
P ayments Due by Period
($ in millions) Total 2007 2008 - 2009 2010 -2011 Thereafter
Purchase obligations $1 ,108.5 $ 366.4 $ 614.0 $ 111.1 $ 17.0
Loans payable and current portion of long-term
debt 1,285.1 1,285.1 - - -
Long-term debt 5,551.0 - 1,696.1 529.4 3,325.5
Operating leases 211.5 65.8 78.5 33.3 33.9
$8 ,156.1 $1 ,717.3 $ 2,388.6 $ 673.8 $ 3,376.4
Purchase obligations consist primarily of goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding and
include obligations for minimum inventory contracts, research and development and advertising. Research contracts
do not include milestone payments contingent upon future events. Loans payable and current portion of long-term debt
includes $500.0 million of notes which were redeemed by the Company in February 2007, upon notification from the
remarketing agent that, due to an overall rise in interest rates, it would not exercise its annual option to remarket the
notes. Loans payable and current portion of long-term debt also reflects $336.2 million of long-dated notes that are
subject to repayment at the option of the holders on an annual basis. Required funding obligations for 2007 relating to
the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material.
In December 2004, the Company increased the capacity of its shelf registration statement filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) to issue debt securities by an additional $3.0 billion. In February 2005,
the Company issued $1.0 billion of 4.75% ten-year notes under the shelf. In November 2006, the Company issued
$500 million of 5.75% twenty-year notes and $250 million of 5.125% five-year notes under the shelf. The remaining
capacity under the Company’s shelf registration statement is approximately $2.0 billion.
In April 2006, the Company extended the maturity date of its $1.5 billion, five-year revolving credit facility
from February 2010 to April 2011. The facility provides backup liquidity for the Company’s commercial paper
borrowing facility and is for general corporate purposes. The Company has not drawn funding from this facility.
The Company’s long-term credit ratings assigned by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s are Aa3 and AA-,
respectively, each with a negative outlook. These ratings continue to allow access to the capital markets and flexibility
in obtaining funds on competitive terms. The Company continues to maintain a conservative financial profile. Total
cash and investments of $16.5 billion exceeds the sum of loans payable and long-term debt of $6.8 billion. The
Company also has long-term credit ratings that remain among the top 4% of rated non-financial corporations. Despite
this strong financial profile, certain contingent events, if realized, which are discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated
financial statements, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s liquidity and capital resources. The
Company does not participate in any off-balance sheet arrangements involving unconsolidated subsidiaries that
provide financing or potentially expose the Company to unrecorded financial obligations.
In July 2002, the Board of Directors approved purchases over time of up to $10.0 billion of Merck shares.
Total treasury stock purchased under this program in 2006 was $1.0 billion. As of December 31, 2006, $6.5 billion
remains under the 2002 stock repurchase authorization approved by the Merck Board of Directors.
F inancial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures
F oreign Currency Risk Management
While the U.S. dollar is the functional currency of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries, a significant portion
of the Company’s revenues are denominated in foreign currencies. Merck relies on sustained cash flows generated
from foreign sources to support its long-term commitment to U.S. dollar-based research and development. To the
extent the dollar value of cash flows is diminished as a result of a strengthening dollar, the Company’s
65ability to fund research and other dollar-based strategic initiatives at a consistent level may be impaired. The Company
has established revenue hedging and balance sheet risk management programs to protect against volatility of future
foreign currency cash flows and changes in fair value caused by volatility in foreign exchange rates.
The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the potential for longer-term unfavorable changes
in foreign exchange to decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash flows derived from foreign currency denominated
sales, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. To achieve this objective, the Company will partially hedge anticipated
third-party sales that are expected to occur over its planning cycle, typically no more than three years into the future.
The Company will layer in hedges over time, increasing the portion of sales hedged as it gets closer to the expected
date of the transaction, such that it is probable the hedged transaction will occur. The portion of sales hedged is based
on assessments of cost-benefit profiles that consider natural offsetting exposures, revenue and exchange rate
volatilities and correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The hedged anticipated sales are a specified
component of a portfolio of similarly denominated foreign currency-based sales transactions, each of which responds
to the hedged risk in the same manner. Merck manages its anticipated transaction exposure principally with purchased
local currency put options, which provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation, to sell foreign currencies in
the future at a predetermined price. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated
sales, total changes in the options’ cash flows fully offset the decline in the expected future U.S. dollar cash flows of
the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the options’ value reduces to zero, but the
Company benefits from the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows. While a weaker
U.S. dollar would result in a net benefit, the market value of the Company’s hedges would have declined by
$38.7 million and $113.0 million, respectively, from a uniform 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar at December 31,
2006 and 2005. The market value was determined using a foreign exchange option pricing model and holding all
factors except exchange rates constant. Because Merck principally uses purchased local currency put options, a
uniform weakening of the U.S. dollar will yield the largest overall potential loss in the market value of these options.
The sensitivity measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not affect
other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a
10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near-term changes in Merck’s major foreign currency exposures relative to
the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement
of Cash Flows.
The primary objective of the balance sheet risk management program is to protect the U.S. dollar value of
foreign currency denominated net monetary assets from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange that might occur
prior to their conversion to U.S. dollars. Merck principally utilizes forward exchange contracts, which enable the
Company to buy and sell foreign currencies in the future at fixed exchange rates and economically offset the
consequences of changes in foreign exchange on the amount of U.S. dollar cash flows derived from the net assets.
Merck routinely enters into contracts to fully offset the effects of exchange on exposures denominated in developed
country currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. For exposures in developing country currencies, the
Company will enter into forward contracts on a more limited basis and only when it is deemed economical to do so
based on a cost-benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate and
the cost of the hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the effect of exchange on monetary assets and
liabilities by managing operating activities and net asset positions at the local level. The Company uses forward
contracts to hedge the changes in fair value of certain foreign currency denominated available-for-sale securities
attributable to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis to changes in the value of the
U.S. dollar on foreign currency denominated derivatives, investments and monetary assets and liabilities indicated that
if the U.S. dollar uniformly weakened by 10% against all currency exposures of the Company at December 31, 2006
and 2005, Income before taxes would have declined by $32.7 million and $3.5 million, respectively. Because Merck is
in a net short position relative to its major foreign currencies after consideration of forward contracts, a uniform
weakening of the U.S. dollar will yield the largest overall potential net loss in earnings due to exchange. This
measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not affect other foreign
currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 10% threshold
reflects reasonably possible near-term changes in Merck’s major foreign currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar.
The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
66I nterest Rate Risk Management
In addition to the revenue hedging and balance sheet risk management programs, the Company may use
interest rate swap contracts on certain investing and borrowing transactions to manage its net exposure to interest rate
changes and to reduce its overall cost of borrowing. The Company does not use leveraged swaps and, in general, does
not leverage any of its investment activities that would put principal capital at risk. At December 31, 2006, the
Company was a party to seven pay-floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges
of fixed-rate notes in which the notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed rate notes. There is one swap
maturing in 2007 with a notional amount of $350 million; two swaps maturing in 2011 with notional amounts of
$125 million each; one swap maturing in 2013 with a notional amount of $500 million and three swaps maturing in
2015 with notional amounts of $250 million each. The swaps effectively convert the fixed-rate obligations to floating-
rate instruments. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows.
The Company’s investment portfolio includes cash equivalents and short-term investments, which at
December 31, 2006 included repurchase agreements, the market values of which are not significantly impacted by
changes in interest rates. The market value of the Company’s medium- to long-term fixed-rate investments is modestly
impacted by changes in U.S. interest rates. Changes in medium- to long-term U.S. interest rates have a more
significant impact on the market value of the Company’s fixed-rate borrowings, which generally have longer
maturities. A sensitivity analysis to measure potential changes in the market value of the Company’s investments, debt
and related swap contracts from a change in interest rates indicated that a one percentage point increase in interest
rates at December 31, 2006 and 2005 would have positively impacted the net aggregate market value of these
instruments by $111.0 million and $236.2 million, respectively. A one percentage point decrease at December 31,
2006 and 2005 would have negatively impacted the net aggregate market value by $171.0 million and $283.6 million,
respectively. The decreased sensitivity is attributable to a change in the mix of investments from short-term variable
rate at December 31, 2005 to long-term fixed rate as of December 31, 2006. The fair value of the Company’s debt was
determined using pricing models reflecting one percentage point shifts in the appropriate yield curves. The fair value
of the Company’s investments was determined using a combination of pricing and duration models.
C ritical Accounting Policies and Other Matters
The consolidated financial statements include certain amounts that are based on management’s best
estimates and judgments. Estimates are used in determining such items as provisions for sales discounts and returns,
depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of inventories produced in preparation for product launches, amounts
recorded for contingencies, environmental liabilities and other reserves, pension and other postretirement benefit plan
assumptions, share-based compensation assumptions, acquisitions and taxes on income. Because of the uncertainty
inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Application of the following accounting
policies result in accounting estimates having the potential for the most significant impact on the financial statements.
R evenue Recognition
Revenues from sales of products are recognized when title and risk of loss passes to the customer. Revenues
for domestic pharmaceutical sales are recognized at the time of shipment, while for many foreign subsidiaries, as well
as for vaccine sales, revenues are recognized at the time of delivery. Recognition of revenue also requires reasonable
assurance of collection of sales proceeds and completion of all performance obligations. Domestically, sales discounts
are issued to customers as direct discounts at the point-of-sale or indirectly through an intermediary wholesale
purchaser, known as chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally, sales are generally made with a
limited right of return under certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for sales discounts and
returns, which are established at the time of sale.
The provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts covers chargebacks and rebates. Chargebacks are
discounts that occur when a contracted customer purchases directly through an intermediary wholesale purchaser. The
contracted customer generally purchases product at its contracted price plus a mark-up from the wholesaler. The
wholesaler, in turn, charges the Company back for the difference between the price initially paid by the
67wholesaler and the contract price paid to the wholesaler by the customer. The provision for chargebacks is based on
expected sell-through levels by the Company’s wholesale customers to contracted customers, as well as estimated
wholesaler inventory levels. Rebates are amounts owed based upon definitive contractual agreements or legal
requirements with private sector and public sector (Medicaid) benefit providers, after the final dispensing of the
product by a pharmacy to a benefit plan participant. The provision is based on expected payments, which are driven by
patient usage and contract performance by the benefit provider customers.
The Company assumes a first-in, first-out movement of inventory within the supply chain for purposes of
estimating its aggregate indirect customer discount accrual. In addition, the Company uses historical customer
segment mix, adjusted for other known events, in order to estimate the expected provision. Amounts accrued for
aggregate indirect customer discounts are evaluated on a quarterly basis through comparison of information provided
by the wholesalers and other customers to the amounts accrued. Adjustments are recorded when trends or significant
events indicate that a change in the estimated provision is appropriate.
The Company continually monitors its provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts. There were no
material adjustments to estimates associated with the aggregate indirect customer discount provision in 2006, 2005 or
2004.
Summarized information about changes in the aggregate indirect customer discount accrual is as follows:
( $ in millions) 2006 2005
Balance, January 1 $ 1,166.5 $ 1,030.3
Current provision 3,519.4 4,419.1
Adjustments to prior years (29.5 ) 134.7
Payments (3,899.3) (4,417.6)
B alance, December 31 $ 757.1 $ 1,166.5
Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct reduction to accounts receivable and accruals for rebates as
accrued expenses. The accrued balances relative to these provisions included in Accounts receivable and Accrued and
other current liabilities were $60.4 million and $696.7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2006, and $164.3 million
and $1.0 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2005.
The Company maintains a returns policy that allows its customers to return product within a specified period
prior to and subsequent to the expiration date (generally, six months before and twelve months after product
expiration). The estimate of the provision for returns is based upon historical experience with actual returns.
Additionally, the Company considers factors such as levels of inventory in the distribution channel, product dating and
expiration period, whether products have been discontinued, entrance in the market of additional generic competition,
changes in formularies or launch of over-the-counter products, to name a few. The product returns provision, as well
as actual returns, were less than 1.0% of net sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004.
Through its distribution program with U.S. wholesalers, the Company encourages wholesalers to align
purchases with underlying demand and maintain inventories within specified levels. The terms of the program allow
the wholesalers to earn fees upon providing visibility into their inventory levels as well as by achieving certain
performance parameters, such as, inventory management, customer service levels, reducing shortage claims and
reducing product returns. Information provided through the wholesaler distribution program includes items such as
sales trends, inventory on-hand, on-order quantity and product returns.
Wholesalers generally provide only the above mentioned data to the Company, as there is no regulatory
requirement to report lot level information to manufacturers, which is the level of information needed to determine the
remaining shelf life and original sale date of inventory. Given current wholesaler inventory levels, which are generally
less than a month, the Company believes that collection of order lot information across all wholesale customers would
have limited use in estimating sales discounts and returns.
68I nventories Produced in Preparation for Product Launches
The Company capitalizes inventories produced in preparation for product launches sufficient to support
initial market demand. Typically, capitalization of such inventory does not begin until the related product candidates
are in Phase III clinical trials and are considered to have a high probability of regulatory approval. The Company
monitors the status of each respective product within the regulatory approval process; however, the Company
generally does not disclose specific timing for regulatory approval. If the Company is aware of any specific risks or
contingencies other than the normal regulatory approval process or if there are any specific issues identified during the
research process relating to safety, efficacy, manufacturing, marketing or labeling, the related inventory would
generally not be capitalized. Expiry dates of the inventory are impacted by the stage of completion. The Company
manages the levels of inventory at each stage to optimize the shelf life of the inventory in relation to anticipated
market demand in order to avoid product expiry issues. For inventories that are capitalized, anticipated future sales
and shelf lives support the realization of the inventory value as the inventory shelf life is sufficient to meet initial
product launch requirements. At December 31, 2005, inventories produced in preparation for product launches
consisted of three vaccine products, a new formulation for an existing vaccine product, and a new compound for type
2 diabetes, all of which the Company launched in 2006. Accordingly, there are no significant inventories produced in
preparation for product launches capitalized at December 31, 2006. The build-up of inventories produced in
preparation for product launches did not have a material effect on the Company’s liquidity.
C ontingencies and Environmental Liabilities
The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its
business, including product liability, intellectual property and commercial litigation, as well as additional matters such
as antitrust actions. (See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.) The Company records accruals for
contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These
accruals are adjusted periodically as assessments change or additional information becomes available. For product
liability claims, a portion of the overall accrual is actuarially determined and considers such factors as past experience,
number of claims reported and estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Individually significant contingent
losses are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable.
Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable
and reasonably estimable. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had a reserve of $685 million solely for its future
legal defense costs related to the Vioxx Lawsuits and the Vioxx Investigations. During 2006, the Company spent
$500 million in the aggregate, including $175 million in the fourth quarter, in legal defense costs worldwide related to
(i) the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, (ii) the Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits, (iii) the Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits, and
(iv) the Vioxx Investigations (collectively, the “ Vioxx Litigation”). In the third and fourth quarter of 2006, the
Company recorded charges of $598 million and $75 million, respectively, to increase the reserve solely for its future
legal defense costs related to Vioxx to $858 million at December 31, 2006. This reserve is based on certain
assumptions and is the best estimate of the amount that the Company believes, at this time, it can reasonably estimate
will be spent through 2008. Some of the significant factors considered in the establishment and ongoing review of the
reserve for the Vioxx legal defense costs were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company up to that time; the
development of the Company’s legal defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of the Vioxx Litigation; the
number of cases being brought against the Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most current
information regarding anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial activities and trials in the Vioxx
Product Liability Lawsuits. Events such as scheduled trials that are expected to occur throughout 2007 and into 2008,
and the inherent inability to predict the ultimate outcomes of such trials, limit the Company’s ability to reasonably
estimate its legal costs beyond the end of 2008. While the Company does not anticipate that it will need to increase the
reserve every quarter, it will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated
reserves and may determine to increase its reserves for legal defense costs at any time in the future if, based upon the
factors set forth, it believes it would be appropriate to do so.
The Company currently anticipates that a number of Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits will be tried in 2007.
A trial in the Oregon securities case is scheduled for 2007, but the Company cannot predict whether this trial will
proceed on schedule or the timing of any of the other Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuit trials. The Company believes that it
has meritorious defenses to the Vioxx Lawsuits and will vigorously defend against them. In view of the inherent
difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the
69claimants seek indeterminate damages, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time
cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits. Unfavorable
outcomes in the Vioxx Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity
and results of operations. The Company has not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the Vioxx
Litigation.
As of December 31, 2006, the Company established a reserve of approximately $48 million solely for its
future legal defense costs for the Fosamax Litigation. Some of the significant factors considered in the establishment
of the reserve for the Fosamax Litigation legal defense costs were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the
Company thus far; the development of the Company’s legal defense strategy and structure in light of the creation of
the Fosamax multidistrict litigation; the number of cases being brought against the Company; and the anticipated
timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial activities in the Fosamax Litigation. The Company will continue to
monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves. Due to the uncertain nature of
litigation, the Company is unable to estimate its costs beyond the end of 2008. Unfavorable outcomes in the Fosamax
Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of
operations. The Company has not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the Fosamax
Litigation.
The Company is a party to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents.
When a legitimate claim for contribution is asserted, a liability is initially accrued based upon the estimated
transaction costs to manage the site. Accruals are adjusted as feasibility studies and related cost assessments of
remedial techniques are completed, and as the extent to which other potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”) who may
be jointly and severally liable can be expected to contribute is determined.
The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at
certain of its sites and takes an active role in identifying and providing for these costs. A worldwide survey was
initially performed to assess all sites for potential contamination resulting from past industrial activities. Where
assessment indicated that physical investigation was warranted, such investigation was performed, providing a better
evaluation of the need for remedial action. Where such need was identified, remedial action was then initiated.
Estimates of the extent of contamination at each site were initially made at the pre-investigation stage and liabilities
for the potential cost of remediation were accrued at that time. As more definitive information became available
during the course of investigations and/or remedial efforts at each site, estimates were refined and accruals were
adjusted accordingly. These estimates and related accruals continue to be refined annually.
The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws
and regulations. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $12.6 million in 2006, and are
estimated at $94.2 million for the years 2007 through 2011. In management’s opinion, the liabilities for all
environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $129.0 million and
$100.4 million at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not
consider potential recoveries from insurers or other parties and will be paid out over the periods of remediation for the
applicable sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next 15 years. Although it is not possible to predict
with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that
any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed
$62.0 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should result in a material
adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year.
S hare-Based Compensation
The Company recognizes compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions in Net income
using a fair-value measurement method, in accordance with FAS 123R, which it adopted on January 1, 2006.
FAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be
recognized in Net income as compensation expense based on fair value over the requisite service period of the awards.
The Company determines the fair value of certain share-based awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model
which uses both historical and current market data to estimate the fair value. This method
70incorporates various assumptions such as the risk-free interest rate, expected volatility, expected dividend yield and
expected life of the options.
P ensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans
Net pension and other postretirement benefit cost totaled $563.7 million in 2006 and $561.8 million in 2005.
Pension and other postretirement benefit plan information for financial reporting purposes is calculated using actuarial
assumptions including a discount rate for plan benefit obligations and an expected rate of return on plan assets.
The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. For both the pension and other
postretirement benefit plans, the discount rate is evaluated annually and modified to reflect the prevailing market rate
at December 31 of a portfolio of high-quality fixed-income debt instruments that would provide the future cash flows
needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligation as they come due. At December 31, 2006, the Company
changed its discount rate to 6.00% from 5.75% for its U.S. pension plans and its U.S. other postretirement benefit
plans.
The expected rate of return for both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans represents the average
rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits included in the benefit obligation are to be paid.
In developing the expected rate of return, the Company considers long-term compound annualized returns of historical
market data as well as actual returns on the Company’s plan assets and applies adjustments that reflect more recent
capital market experience. Using this reference information, the Company develops forward-looking return
expectations for each asset category and a weighted average expected long-term rate of return for a targeted portfolio
allocated across these investment categories. The expected portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active
management as appropriate. As a result of this analysis, for 2007, the Company’s expected rate of return of 8.75%
remained unchanged from 2006 for its U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans.
The target investment portfolio of the Company’s U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans is
allocated 45% to 60% in U.S. equities, 20% to 30% in international equities, 15% to 25% in fixed-income
investments, and up to 8% in cash and other investments. The portfolio’s equity weighting is consistent with the long-
term nature of the plans’ benefit obligation. The expected annual standard deviation of returns of the target portfolio,
which approximates 13%, reflects both the equity allocation and the diversification benefits among the asset classes in
which the portfolio invests.
Actuarial assumptions are based upon management’s best estimates and judgment. A reasonably possible
change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would
have an estimated $39.8 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on net pension and postretirement benefit cost. A
reasonably possible change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the expected rate of return assumption, with other
assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $13.1 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on net pension and
postretirement benefit cost. The Company does not expect to have a minimum pension funding requirement under the
Internal Revenue Code during 2007. The preceding hypothetical changes in the discount rate and expected rate of
return assumptions would not impact the Company’s funding requirements.
Effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 106 and 132R
(“FAS 158”), except for the requirement to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the Company’s fiscal
year end balance sheet, which is effective as of December 31, 2008. In connection with the adoption of FAS 158, net
loss amounts, which reflect experience differentials primarily relating to differences between expected and actual
returns on plan assets as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recorded as a component of
Accumulated other comprehensive income. Expected returns are based on a calculated market-related value of assets.
Under this methodology, asset gains/losses resulting from actual returns that differ from the Company’s expected
returns are recognized in the market-related value of assets ratably over a five-year period. Also, net loss amounts in
Accumulated other comprehensive income in excess of certain thresholds are amortized into net pension and other
postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining service life of employees. Amortization of net losses for the
Company’s U.S. plans at December 31, 2006 is expected to increase net pension and other postretirement benefit cost
by approximately $96.4 million annually from 2007 through 2011.
71A cquisitions
The Company accounts for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with
FAS 141, Business Combinations , which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the
date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of net
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the Company determines the acquired company is a development stage
company which has not commenced its planned principal operations, the acquisition will be accounted for as an
acquisition of assets rather than a business combination and, therefore, goodwill would not be recorded. The fair value
of intangible assets, including acquired research, is based on significant judgments made by management, and
accordingly, for significant items, the Company typically obtains assistance from third party valuation specialists.
Amounts are allocated to acquired research and expensed at the date of acquisition if technological feasibility has not
been established and no alternative future use existed. For projects which can be used immediately in the research
process that have alternative future uses, the Company capitalizes these intangible assets and amortizes them over an
appropriate useful life. The valuations and useful life assumptions are based on information available near the
acquisition date and are based on expectations and assumptions that are deemed reasonable by management. The
judgments made in determining estimated fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as
asset lives, can materially impact the Company’s results of operations.
For intangible assets, including acquired research, the Company typically uses the income approach, which
estimates fair value based on each project’s projected cash flows. Future cash flows are predominately based on a net
income forecast of each project, consistent with historical pricing, margins and expense levels of similar products.
Revenues are estimated based on relevant market size and growth factors, expected industry trends, individual project
life cycles, and the life of each research project’s underling patent, if any. Expected revenues are then adjusted for the
probability of technical and marketing success and the resulting cash flows are discounted at a risk -adjusted discount
rate.
T axes on Income
The Company’s effective tax rate is based on pre-tax income, statutory tax rates and tax planning
opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. An estimated effective tax rate for
a year is applied to the Company’s quarterly operating results. In the event that there is a significant unusual or one-
time item recognized, or expected to be recognized, in the Company’s quarterly operating results, the tax attributable
to that item would be separately calculated and recorded at the same time as the unusual or one-time item. The
Company considers the resolution of prior year tax matters to be such items. Significant judgment is required in
determining the Company’s effective tax rate and in evaluating its tax positions. The Company establishes reserves
when, despite its belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions are likely to be challenged
and that it may not succeed. (See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.) The Company adjusts these
reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit.
Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items are reflected in
the financial statements. As a result, the effective tax rate reflected in the financial statements is different than that
reported in the tax return. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible on the tax
return, and some are timing differences, such as depreciation expense. Timing differences create deferred tax assets
and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the tax
return in future years for which the Company has already recorded the tax benefit in the financial statements. The
Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable
income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax
expense recognized in the financial statements for which payment has been deferred or expense for which the
Company has already taken a deduction on the tax return, but has not yet recognized as expense in the financial
statements.
As previously disclosed, in October 2004, the AJCA was signed into law. The AJCA creates a temporary
incentive for U.S. multinationals to repatriate accumulated income earned outside of the United States as of
December 31, 2002. In connection with the AJCA, the Company repatriated $15.9 billion during 2005 (see Note 17 to
the consolidated financial statements). As a result of this repatriation, the Company recorded an income tax charge of
$766.5 million in Taxes on Income in 2005 related to this repatriation. This charge was partially offset by a
72$100 million benefit associated with a decision to implement certain tax planning strategies. The Company has not
changed its intention to indefinitely reinvest accumulated earnings earned subsequent to December 31, 2002. At
December 31, 2006, foreign earnings of $12.5 billion have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary companies for
reinvestment. No provision will be made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such
earnings and it is not practicable to determine the amount of the related unrecognized deferred income tax liability.
R ecently Issued Accounting Standards
In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (“FIN 48”), which is effective January 1, 2007. FIN 48 clarifies the
accounting for the uncertainty in tax positions by requiring companies to recognize in their financial statements, the
impact of a tax position, if that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit based on the technical
merits of the position. Among other provisions, FIN 48 also requires expanded disclosures at the end of each annual
period presented. The Company continues to evaluate the impact of FIN 48 on its financial position and results of
operations. At this time, the effects of adoption have not yet been determined.
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (“FAS 157”), which will
be effective January 1, 2008. This Statement clarifies the definition of fair value, establishes a framework for
measuring fair value, and expands the disclosures on fair value measurements. The effect of adoption of FAS 157 on
the Company’s financial position and results of operations is not expected to be material.
C autionary Factors That May Affect Future Results
This report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company may
contain so-called “forward-looking statements,” all of which are based on management’s current expectations and are
subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements.
One can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as “expects,” “plans,” “will,”
“estimates,” “forecasts,” “projects” and other words of similar meaning. One can also identify them by the fact that
they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to address the Company’s growth
strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential and development programs. One
must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to
differ materially from the Company’s forward-looking statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a
broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. No forward-
looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially.
The Company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. One should carefully
evaluate such statements in light of factors, including risk factors, described in the Company’s filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, especially on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. In Item 1. “Business” of this annual
report on Form 10-K the Company discusses in more detail various important factors that could cause actual results to
differ from expected or historic results. The Company notes these factors for investors as permitted by the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. One should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such
factors. Consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or
uncertainties.
I tem 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under “Financial
Instruments Market Risk Disclosures” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.”
73I tem 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
( a) Financial Statements
The consolidated balance sheet of Merck & Co., Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006 and 2005,
and the related consolidated statements of income, of retained earnings, of comprehensive income and of cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006, the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
and the report dated February 27, 2007 of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting
firm, are as follows:
C onsolidated Statement of Income
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years Ended December 31
($ in millions except per share amounts)
2006 2005 2004
S ales $ 22,636.0 $2 2,011.9 $2 2,972.8
C osts, Expenses and Other
Materials and production 6,001.1 5,149.6 4,965.7
Marketing and administrative 8,165.4 7,155.5 7,238.7
Research and development 4,782.9 3,848.0 4,010.2
Restructuring costs 142.3 322.2 107.6
Equity income from affiliates (2,294.4) (1,717.1) (1,008.2 )
Other (income) expense, net (382.7) (110.2) (344.0 )
16,414.6 14,648.0 14,970.0
I ncome Before Taxes 6,221.4 7,363.9 8,002.8
Taxes on Income 1,787.6 2,732.6 2,172.7
N et Income $ 4,433.8 $ 4,631.3 $ 5,830.1
Basic Earnings per Common Share $ 2.04 $ 2.11 $ 2.63
Earnings per Common Share Assuming Dilution $ 2.03 $ 2.10 $ 2.62
C onsolidated Statement of Retained Earnings
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years Ended December 31
($ in millions)
2006 2005 2004
B alance, January 1 $ 37,980.0 $3 6,687.4 $3 4,186.4
N et Income 4,433.8 4,631.3 5,830.1
Common Stock Dividends Declared (3,318.7) (3,338.7) (3,329.1 )
Balance, December 31 $ 39,095.1 $3 7,980.0 $3 6,687.4
C onsolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years Ended December 31
($ in millions)
2006 2005 2004
Net Income $4 ,433.8 $4 ,631.3 $ 5,830.1
O ther Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Net unrealized (loss) gain on derivatives, net of tax and net income realization (50.9 ) 81.3 (31.7 )
Net unrealized gain (loss) on investments, net of tax and net income realization 26.1 50.3 (100.9 )
Minimum pension liability, net of tax 22.5 (7.0 ) (4.9 )
Cumulative translation adjustment relating to equity investees, net of tax 18.9 (26.4 ) 26.1
16.6 98.2 (111.4 )
C omprehensive Income $4 ,450.4 $4 ,729.5 $ 5,718.7
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
74Consolidated Balance Sheet
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
December 31
($ in millions)
2006 2005
A ssets
Current Assets
Cash and cash equivalents $ 5,914.7 $ 9,585.3
Short-term investments 2,798.3 6,052.3
Accounts receivable 3,314.8 2,927.3
Inventories (excludes inventories of $416.1 in 2006 and $753.8 in 2005 classified in Other assets —
see Note 7) 1,769.4 1,658.1
Prepaid expenses and taxes 1,433.0 826.3
T otal current assets 15,230.2 21,049.3
I nvestments 7,788.2 1,107.9
P roperty, Plant and Equipment (at cost)
Land 408.9 433.0
Buildings 9,745.9 9,479.6
Machinery, equipment and office furnishings 13,172.4 12,785.2
Construction in progress 882.3 1,015.5
24,209.5 23,713.3
Less allowance for depreciation 11,015.4 9,315.1
13,194.1 14,398.2
G oodwill 1,431.6 1,085.7
O ther Intangibles, Net 943.9 518.7
O ther Assets 5,981.8 6,686.0
$4 4,569.8 $4 4,845.8
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
Current Liabilities
Loans payable and current portion of long-term debt $ 1,285.1 $ 2,972.0
Trade accounts payable 496.6 471.1
Accrued and other current liabilities 6,653.3 5,277.8
Income taxes payable 3,460.8 3,691.5
Dividends payable 826.9 830.0
T otal current liabilities 12,722.7 13,242.4
L ong-Term Debt 5,551.0 5,125.6
D eferred Income Taxes and Noncurrent Liabilities 6,330.3 6,092.9
M inority Interests 2,406.1 2,407.2
S tockholders’ Equity
Common stock, one cent par value
Authorized — 5,400,000,000 shares
Issued — 2,976,223,337 shares — 2006 and 2005 29.8 29.8
Other paid-in capital 7,166.5 6,900.0
Retained earnings 39,095.1 37,980.0
Accumulated other comprehensive income (1,164.3 ) 52.3
45,127.1 44,962.1
Less treasury stock, at cost
808,437,892 shares — 2006
794,299,347 shares — 2005 27,567.4 26,984.4
T otal stockholders’ equity 17,559.7 17,977.7
$4 4,569.8 $4 4,845.8
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated financial statement.
75Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years Ended December 31
($ in millions)
2006 2005 2004
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net income $ 4,433.8 $ 4,631.3 $ 5,830.1
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating
activities:
Depreciation and amortization 2,268.4 1,708.1 1,450.7
Deferred income taxes (530.2) 9.0 48.9
Equity income from affiliates (2,294.4) (1,717.1) (1,008.2)
Dividends and distributions from equity affiliates 1,931.9 1,101.2 587.0
Share-based compensation 312.5 48.0 25.7
Acquired research 762.5 — 125.5
Other 18.1 647.5 234.6
Net changes in assets and liabilities:
Accounts receivable (709.3) 345.9 173.1
Inventories 226.5 125.6 331.9
Trade accounts payable 16.4 63.6 (323.8)
Accrued and other current liabilities 461.6 238.2 1,382.3
Income taxes payable (138.2) 663.2 465.5
Noncurrent liabilities (125.6) (412.2) (473.7)
Other 131.2 156.2 (50.5 )
N et Cash Provided by Operating Activities 6,765.2 7,608.5 8,799.1
C ash Flows from Investing Activities
Capital expenditures (980.2) (1,402.7) (1,726.1)
Purchases of securities, subsidiaries and other investments (20,044.3) (125,308.4) (82,269.2)
Proceeds from sales of securities, subsidiaries and other investments 16,143.8 128,981.4 82,363.8
Other (3.0 ) (3.1) (6.6)
N et Cash (Used) Provided by Investing Activities (4,883.7) 2,267.2 (1,638.1)
C ash Flows from Financing Activities
Net change in short-term borrowings (1,522.8) 1,296.2 (252.4)
Proceeds from issuance of debt 755.1 1,000.0 405.1
Payments on debt (506.2) (1,014.9) (37.3 )
Redemption of preferred units of subsidiary — — (1,500.0)
Purchases of treasury stock (1,002.3) (1,015.3) (974.6)
Dividends paid to stockholders (3,322.6) (3,349.8) (3,310.7)
Proceeds from exercise of stock options 369.9 136.5 240.3
Other (375.3) (93.1 ) (161.8)
N et Cash Used by Financing Activities (5,604.2) (3,040.4) (5,591.4)
E ffect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents 52.1 (128.8) 108.2
N et (Decrease) Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents (3,670.6) 6,706.5 1,677.8
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year 9,585.3 2,878.8 1,201.0
C ash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year $ 5,914.7 $ 9,585.3 $ 2,878.8
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated financial statement.
76N otes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
($ in millions except per share amounts)
1 . Nature of Operations
Merck is a global research-driven pharmaceutical company that discovers, develops, manufactures and
markets a broad range of innovative products to improve human and animal health. The Company’s operations are
principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of two reportable segments: the Pharmaceutical segment
and the Vaccines segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical products marketed
either directly or through joint ventures. These products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, sold by
prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Merck sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily
to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health
maintenance organizations and other institutions. The Vaccines segment includes human health vaccine products
marketed either directly or through a joint venture. These products consist of preventative pediatric, adolescent and
adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. Merck sells these human health vaccines primarily to
physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company’s professional representatives
communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of our pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care
professionals in private practice, group practices and managed care organizations.
2 . Summary of Accounting Policies
Principles of Consolidation — The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and all of its subsidiaries in which a controlling interest is maintained. Controlling interest is determined by majority
ownership interest and the absence of substantive third-party participating rights or, in the case of variable interest
entities, by majority exposure to expected losses, residual returns or both. For those consolidated subsidiaries where
Merck ownership is less than 100%, the outside stockholders’ interests are shown as Minority interests. Investments in
affiliates over which the Company has significant influence but not a controlling interest, such as interests in entities
owned equally by the Company and a third party that are under shared control, are carried on the equity basis.
Foreign Currency Translation — The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the Company’s foreign
subsidiaries.
Cash and Cash Equivalents — Cash equivalents are comprised of certain highly liquid investments with
original maturities of less than three months.
Inventories — Substantially all domestic inventories are valued at the lower of last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) cost
or market for both book and tax purposes. Foreign inventories are valued at the lower of first-in, first-out (“FIFO”)
cost or market. Inventories consist of currently marketed products and certain products awaiting regulatory approval.
In evaluating the recoverability of inventories produced in preparation for product launches, the Company considers
the probability that revenue will be obtained from the future sale of the related inventory together with the status of the
product within the regulatory approval process.
Investments — Investments classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains or
losses, to the extent not hedged, reported net of tax in Accumulated other comprehensive income. Investments in debt
securities classified as held-to-maturity, consistent with management’s intent, are reported at cost. Impairment losses
are charged to Other (income) expense, net, for other-than-temporary declines in fair value. The Company considers
available evidence in evaluating potential impairment of its investments, including the duration and extent to which
fair value is less than cost and the Company’s ability and intent to hold the investment.
Revenue Recognition — Revenues from sales of products are recognized when title and risk of loss passes to
the customer. Revenues for domestic pharmaceutical sales are recognized at the time of shipment, while for many
foreign subsidiaries, as well as for vaccine sales, revenues are recognized at the time of delivery. Recognition of
revenue also requires reasonable assurance of collection of sales proceeds and completion of all performance
obligations. Domestically, sales discounts are issued to customers as direct discounts at the point-of-sale or
77indirectly through an intermediary wholesale purchaser, known as chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates.
Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of return under certain conditions. Revenues are recorded
net of provisions for sales discounts and returns, which are established at the time of sale. Accruals for chargebacks
are reflected as a direct reduction to accounts receivable and accruals for rebates are recorded as accrued expenses.
The accrued balances relative to these provisions included in Accounts receivable and Accrued and other current
liabilities were $60.4 million and $696.7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2006 and $164.3 million and
$1.0 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2005.
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company began recognizing revenue from the sale of vaccines to the Federal
government for placement into stockpiles related to the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile in accordance with Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Interpretation, Commission Guidance Regarding Accounting for Sales of Vaccines
and BioTerror Countermeasures to the Federal Government for Placement into the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile or the
Strategic National Stockpile. The Company retrospectively applied the impacts of adopting the Interpretation by
reducing Accrued and other current liabilities by $103.4 million and increasing Income taxes payable by $42.3 million
and Retained earnings by $61.1 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2005. There was no impact to the
Company’s results of operations for 2006 or 2005. The impacts of adoption on 2004 results of operations were
increases to the following: Sales of $34.2 million, Materials and production costs of $5.9 million, Taxes on income of
$11.6 million, Net Income of $16.7 million and Earnings per common share assuming dilution of $0.01.
Depreciation — Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful lives of the assets, principally using the
straight-line method. For tax purposes, accelerated methods are used. The estimated useful lives primarily range from
10 to 50 years for Buildings, and from 3 to 15 years for Machinery, equipment and office furnishings.
Acquisitions — The Company accounts for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting in
accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Statement No. 141, Business Combinations , which
requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair
values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the Company determines the acquired company is a development stage company which has not commenced its
planned principal operations, the acquisition will be accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than a business
combination and, therefore, goodwill would not be recorded. In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4,
Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method , the
Company allocates amounts to acquired research which are expensed at the at the date of acquisition if technological
feasibility has not been established and no alternative future use existed. For projects which can be used immediately
in the research process that have alternative future uses, the Company capitalizes these intangible assets and amortizes
them over an appropriate useful life. The operating results of the acquired business are reflected in the Company’s
consolidated financial statements and results of operations as of the date of acquisition.
Goodwill and Other Intangibles — Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition costs over the fair value of
net assets of businesses purchased. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units within the Company’s segments and
evaluated for impairment on at least an annual basis, using a fair value based test. Other acquired intangibles are
recorded at cost and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives ranging from 3 to 20 years
(see Note 8). When events or circumstances warrant a review, the Company will assess recoverability from future
operations of other intangibles using undiscounted cash flows derived from the lowest appropriate asset groupings,
generally the subsidiary level. Impairments are recognized in operating results to the extent that carrying value
exceeds fair value, which is determined based on the net present value of estimated future cash flows.
Research and Development — Research and development is expensed as incurred. Upfront and milestone
payments made to third parties in connection with research and development collaborations prior to regulatory
approval are expensed as incurred. Payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized
and amortized over the shorter of the remaining license or product patent life.
Share-Based Compensation — Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 123R,
Share-Based Payment (“FAS 123R”) (see Note 14). FAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees to be
expensed over the requisite service period based on the grant-date fair value of the awards and
78requires that the unvested portion of all outstanding awards upon adoption be recognized using the same fair value and
attribution methodologies previously determined under FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation . The Company continues to use the Black-Scholes valuation method and applied the requirements of
FAS 123R using the modified prospective method. Prior to adoption of FAS 123R, employee share-based
compensation was recognized using the intrinsic value method, which measures share-based compensation expense as
the amount at which the market price of the stock at the date of grant exceeds the exercise price. Accordingly, no
compensation expense was recognized for the Company’s share-based compensation plans other than for its
performance-based awards, restricted stock units and options granted to employees of certain equity method investees.
Legal Defense Costs — Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency
are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable.
Use of Estimates — The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) and, accordingly, include certain amounts that are based
on management’s best estimates and judgments. Estimates are used in determining such items as provisions for sales
discounts and returns, depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of inventories produced in preparation for
product launches, amounts recorded for contingencies, environmental liabilities and other reserves, pension and other
postretirement benefit plan assumptions, share-based compensation, acquisitions and taxes on income. Because of the
uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates.
Reclassifications — Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform with the
current year presentation.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards — The FASB recently issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (“FIN 48”) and Statement No. 157, Fair
Value Measurements (“FAS 157”).
FIN 48, which is effective January 1, 2007, clarifies the accounting for the uncertainty in tax positions by
requiring companies to recognize in their financial statements, the impact of a tax position, if that position is more
likely than not of being sustained on audit based on the technical merits of the position. Among other provisions,
FIN 48 also requires expanded disclosures at the end of each annual period presented. The Company continues to
evaluate the impact of FIN 48 on its financial position and results of operations. At this time, the effects of adoption
have not yet been determined.
FAS 157, which will be effective January 1, 2008, clarifies the definition of fair value, establishes a
framework for measuring fair value, and expands the disclosures on fair value measurements. The effect of adoption
of FAS 157 on the Company’s financial position and results of operations is not expected to be material.
3 . Voluntary Product Withdrawal
On September 30, 2004, the Company announced a voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx , its arthritis
and acute pain medication. The Company’s decision, which was effective immediately, was based on new three-year
data from a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial, APPROVe (Adenomatous Polyp Prevention on
Vioxx ).
In connection with the withdrawal, in 2004 the Company recorded an unfavorable adjustment to net income
of $552.6 million, or $0.25 per share. The adjustment to pre-tax income was $726.2 million. Of this amount,
$491.6 million related to estimated customer returns of product previously sold and was recorded as a reduction of
Sales, $93.2 million related to write-offs of inventory held by the Company and was recorded in Materials and
production expense, and $141.4 million related to estimated costs to undertake the withdrawal of the product and was
recorded in Marketing and administrative expense. The tax benefit of this adjustment was $173.6 million, which
reflects the geographical mix of Vioxx returns and the cost of the withdrawal. The adjustment did not include charges
for future legal defense costs (see Note 11). The Vioxx withdrawal process was completed during 2005 and the costs
associated with the withdrawal were in line with the original amounts recorded by the Company in 2004.
794 . Restructuring
G lobal Restructuring Program
In November 2005, the Company announced the initial phase of a global restructuring program designed to
reduce the Company’s cost structure, increase efficiency and enhance competitiveness. The initial steps include the
implementation of a new supply strategy by the Merck Manufacturing Division, which is intended to create a leaner,
more cost-effective and customer-focused manufacturing model over a three-year period. As part of this program,
Merck announced plans to sell or close five manufacturing sites and two preclinical sites by the end of 2008, and
eliminate approximately 7,000 positions company-wide. The Company has also sold or closed certain other facilities
and sold related assets in connection with the restructuring program. The pre-tax costs of this restructuring program
were $935.5 million in 2006, $401.2 million in 2005 and are expected to be $300 million to $500 million in 2007.
Through the end of 2008, when the initial phase of the restructuring program is expected to be substantially complete,
the cumulative pre-tax costs of the program are expected to range from $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion. Approximately
70% of the cumulative pre-tax costs are non-cash, relating primarily to accelerated depreciation for those facilities
scheduled for closure. Since the inception of the global restructuring program through December 31, 2006, the
Company has recorded total pre-tax accumulated costs of $1.3 billion and eliminated approximately 4,800 positions,
comprised of employee separations and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions.
The following table summarizes the charges related to the global restructuring program by type of cost:
S eparation A ccelerated
Year Ended December 31, 2006 Costs Depreciation Other Total
Materials and production $ - $ 707.3 $ 29.1 $7 36.4
Research and development - 56.5 0.3 56.8
Restructuring costs 113.7 - 28.6 142.3
$ 113.7 $ 763.8 $ 58.0 $9 35.5
Year Ended December 31, 2005
M aterials and production $ - $ 65.9 $ 111.2 $1 77.1
Research and development - 18.7 - 18.7
Restructuring costs 182.4 - 23.0 205.4
$ 182.4 $ 84.6 $ 134.2 $4 01.2
Separation costs are associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as those headcount reductions
which were probable and could be reasonably estimated. Approximately 3,700 positions were eliminated in 2006 and
approximately 1,100 were eliminated in 2005 (which are comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the
elimination of contractors and vacant positions).
Accelerated depreciation costs primarily relate to the five Merck-owned manufacturing facilities (Ponders
End, United Kingdom; Okazaki, Japan; Kirkland, Canada; Albany, Georgia, and Danville, Pennsylvania) and the two
preclinical sites (in Okazaki and Menuma, Japan) to be sold or closed by the end of 2008. These actions are in an
effort to reduce costs and consolidate the Company’s manufacturing and research facilities. Through the end of 2006,
three of the manufacturing facilities had been closed, sold or had ceased operations and the two preclinical sites were
closed. All of the sites have and will continue to operate up through the respective closure dates, and since future cash
flows are sufficient to recover the respective book values, Merck was required to accelerate depreciation of the site
assets rather than writing them off immediately. The site assets include manufacturing and research facilities and
equipment.
Other activity in 2006 and 2005 includes approximately $25.0 million and $111.2 million, respectively,
associated with the impairment of certain fixed assets that will no longer be used in the business as a result of these
restructuring actions and must therefore, be written off. Additionally, other activity in 2006 and 2005 includes
$34.2 million and $23.0 million, respectively, related to curtailment, settlement and termination charges on the
80Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans (see Note 15). In 2006, other activity also includes pre-tax
gains of $40.7 million resulting from the sales of facilities in connection with the global restructuring program.
O ther Restructuring Programs
As part of a cost-reduction initiative announced in October 2003 and completed at the end of 2004, the
Company eliminated 5,100 positions. The Company completed a similar program in 2005 with 900 positions being
eliminated through December 31, 2005. As a result of these restructuring actions, the Company recorded restructuring
costs of $116.8 million for 2005 and $107.6 million for 2004. Of these amounts, in 2005 and 2004, respectively,
$91.5 million and $84.4 million related to employee severance benefits, $25.3 million and $21.5 million related to
curtailment, settlement and termination charges on the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans (see
Note 15) and $1.7 million related to a modification in the terms of certain employees’ stock option grants in 2004
only.
The following table summarizes the charges and spending relating to the global restructuring program and
other programs:
S eparation A ccelerated
Costs (1) Depreciation Other Total
Restructuring reserves as of January 1, 2005 $ 45.7 $ - $ - $ 45.7
Expense 273.9 84.6 159.5 518.0
(Payments) receipts, net (79.3 ) - (32.0 ) (111.3)
Non-cash activity - (84.6 ) (127.5) (212.1)
Restructuring reserves as of December 31, 2005 $ 240.3 $ - $ - $ 240.3
Expense $ 113.7 $ 763.8 $ 58.0 $ 935.5
(Payments) receipts, net (176.3 ) - (9.4 ) (2) (185.7)
Non-cash activity - (763.8 ) (48.6 ) (812.4)
Restructuring reserves as of December 31, 2006 $ 177.7 $ - $ - $ 177.7
( 1) Includes separation costs associated with the global restructuring program as well as amounts from other restructuring programs. The other
restructuring programs were substantially complete as of the end of the first quarter of 2006.
( 2) Includes proceeds from the sales of facilities in connection with the global restructuring program.
The Company also closed its basic research center in Terlings Park, United Kingdom in 2006. In anticipation
of the closing, the Company incurred additional accelerated depreciation costs of $103.1 million recorded to Research
and development expense during 2005 not reflected in the above table, which reduced the assets of this research center
down to their net realizable values. Subsequent to December 31, 2005, no further research and development was
performed at this site.
The Company records restructuring activities in accordance with FASB Statement No. 112, Employers’
Accounting for Postemployment Benefits — an amendment of FASB Statement No. 5 and 43 and FASB Statement
No. 88, Employers’ Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans for Termination
Benefits , and FASB Statement No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived Assets and FASB
Statement No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. For segment reporting,
restructuring charges are recorded in unallocated expense.
5 . Research Collaborations, Acquisitions and License Agreements
Merck continues its strategy of establishing strong external alliances to complement its substantial internal
research capabilities, including research collaborations, acquisitions, licensing pre-clinical and clinical compounds and
technology transfers to drive both near- and long-term growth. During 2006, Merck signed 53 such agreements.
On December 29, 2006, Merck completed the acquisition of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. (“Sirna”) for $13 per
share in cash, for a total value of approximately $1.1 billion, which included the purchase of all outstanding Sirna
shares, warrants and stock options. The aggregate purchase price of $1.1 billion was paid on January 3, 2007, and
81accordingly, is reflected as a liability within Accrued and other current liabilities in the Company’s consolidated
balance sheet at December 31, 2006. Sirna was a publicly-held biotechnology company that is a leader in developing a
new class of medicines based on RNA interference (“RNAi”) technology, which could significantly alter the treatment
of disease. RNAi-based therapeutics selectively catalyze the destruction of the RNA transcribed from an individual
gene. The acquisition of Sirna is expected to increase Merck’s ability to use RNAi technology to turn off a targeted
gene in a human cell, potentially rendering inoperative a gene responsible for triggering a specific disease. The
transaction was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting , in which the assets acquired and the
liabilities assumed from Sirna at the date of acquisition were recorded at their respective fair values as of the
acquisition date in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The determination of fair values requires
management to make significant estimates and assumptions. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the
acquired net assets has been recorded as goodwill of $345.9 million. The goodwill was fully allocated to the
Pharmaceutical segment and is not deductible for tax purposes. Also, the Company recorded a charge of
$466.2 million for acquired research associated with Sirna’s compounds currently under development, for which, at
the acquisition date, technological feasibility had not been established and no alternative future use existed. The
acquired research charge related to the development of treatments for both the hepatitis B and hepatitis C viruses,
which are in preclinical development, as well as licensing agreements held by Sirna. The charge, which is not
deductible for tax purposes, was recorded in Research and development expense and was determined based upon the
present value of expected future cash flows of new product candidates resulting from this technology adjusted for the
probability of its technical and marketing success utilizing an income approach reflecting appropriate risk-adjusted
discount rates of 27.0% to 30.0%. The ongoing activity with respect to each of these compounds under development is
not expected to be material to the Company’s research and development expenses. The allocation of the purchase price
also resulted in the recognition of an intangible asset of $357.8 million and a related deferred tax liability of
$146.3 million, as well as other assets and liabilities – net of $112.6 million. The intangible asset relates to Sirna’s
developed technology that can be used immediately in the research and development process and has alternative future
uses. This intangible asset will be amortized to Research and development expense on a straight line basis over a
seven year useful life. Pro forma financial information is not required because Sirna’s historical financial results are
not significant when compared with the Company’s financial results. The transaction closed on December 29, 2006,
and accordingly, Sirna’s operating results were not reflected in the Company’s results of operations for 2006.
Also, in December 2006, Merck and Idera Pharmaceuticals (“Idera”) announced that they had formed a
broad collaboration to research, develop and commercialize Idera’s Toll-like Receptor (“TLR”) agonists. Under the
terms of the agreement, Merck will receive worldwide exclusive rights to a number of Idera’s agonist compounds
targeting TLR 7, 8 and 9 for use in combination with Merck’s therapeutic and prophylactic vaccines under
development for oncology, infectious diseases and Alzheimer’s disease. Merck and Idera will engage in a two-year
research and development collaboration to generate novel agonists targeting TLR 7 and TLR 8 and incorporating both
Merck and Idera chemistry for use in the licensed fields. Merck paid an upfront license fee of $20 million to Idera,
which was recorded as Research and development expense, and purchased $10 million of its common stock at
$5.50 per share. In addition, Merck will fund the research and development collaboration. Idera is eligible to receive
milestone payments of up to $165 million if vaccines are successfully developed in each of the three fields. Additional
milestones of up to $260 million would be payable for follow-on indications in the oncology field and the successful
development of additional vaccines containing Idera’s TLR agonists. There is no limit to the number of vaccines to
which Merck can apply Idera’s agonists within the licensed fields. In addition, Idera will receive royalties on products
commercialized under the collaboration.
In November 2006, the Company expanded the scope of its existing strategic collaboration with FoxHollow
Technologies, Inc. (“FoxHollow”) for atherosclerotic plaque analysis. Additionally, Merck acquired a stake in
FoxHollow with the purchase of $95 million of newly-issued shares of FoxHollow common stock for $29.629 per
share, representing approximately an 11% stake. These shares are recorded as an equity method investment in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2006. The existing strategic collaboration, entered into in 2005, provided
for FoxHollow to receive an upfront payment with the opportunity for additional payments if the collaboration
continued. Under the terms of the expanded collaboration agreement, Merck will pay $40 million to FoxHollow over
four years in exchange for FoxHollow’s agreement to collaborate exclusively with Merck in specified disease areas.
Merck will also provide a minimum of $60 million in funding to FoxHollow over the first
82three years of the four year collaboration program term, for research activities to be conducted by FoxHollow under
Merck’s direction. FoxHollow will receive milestone payments on successful development of drug products or
diagnostic tests utilizing results from the collaboration, as well as royalties.
In October 2006, Merck and Ambrilia Biopharma Inc. (“Ambrilia”), a biopharmaceutical company
developing innovative therapeutics in the fields of cancer and infectious diseases, announced they entered into an
exclusive licensing agreement granting Merck the worldwide rights to Ambrilia’s HIV/AIDS protease inhibitor
program. Under the terms of the agreement, Ambrilia granted Merck the exclusive worldwide rights to its lead
compound, PPL-100, which has completed a Phase I single-dose pharmacokinetic study and is currently in a Phase I
repeat dose pharmacokinetic study. In return, Ambrilia received an upfront licensing fee of $17 million on signing,
which the Company recorded as Research and development expense in 2006, and is eligible for cash payments
totaling up to $215 million upon successful completion of development, clinical, regulatory and sales milestones.
Ambrilia will receive royalties on all future product sales.
In June 2006, the Company acquired all of the outstanding equity of GlycoFi, Inc. (“GlycoFi”) for
approximately $373 million in cash ($400 million purchase price net of $25 million in shares already owned and net
transaction costs). GlycoFi was a privately-held biotechnology company that is a leader in the field of yeast
glycoengineering, which is the addition of specific carbohydrate modifications to the proteins in yeast, and
optimization of biologic drug molecules. GlycoFi’s technology platform is used in the development of glycoprotein, as
well as the optimization of a glycoprotein target. In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded a charge of
$296.3 million for acquired research associated with GlycoFi’s technology platform to be used in the research and
development process, for which, at the acquisition date, technological feasibility had not been established and no
alternative future use existed. This charge is not deductible for tax purposes. The Company expects this technology to
be fully developed over the next one to two years. The charge was recorded in Research and development expense and
was determined based upon the present value of expected future cash flows of new product candidates resulting from
this technology adjusted for the probability of its technical and marketing success utilizing an income approach
reflecting the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate. The Company also recorded a $99.4 million intangible asset
($57.6 million net of deferred taxes) related to GlycoFi’s developed technology that can be used immediately in the
research and development process and has alternative future uses. This intangible asset will be amortized to Research
and development expense on a straight-line basis over a five year useful life. The remaining net assets acquired in this
transaction were not material. Because GlycoFi was a development stage company that had not commenced its
planned principal operations, the transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than as a business
combination and, therefore, goodwill was not recorded. GlycoFi’s results of operations have been included with the
Company’s consolidated financial results since the acquisition date.
In May 2006, the Company acquired all of the equity of Abmaxis, Inc. (“Abmaxis”) for approximately
$80 million in cash. Abmaxis was a privately-held biopharmaceutical company dedicated to the discovery and
optimization of monoclonal antibody (“MAb”) products for human therapeutics and diagnostics. Abmaxis developed
and validated a breakthrough antibody engineering technology platform, Abmaxis in-silico Immunization, which has
alternative future uses to the Company with no significant technological or engineering risks at the date of acquisition.
In connection with the acquisition, the Company allocated substantially all of the purchase price to Abmaxis’
technology platform and recorded an intangible asset of $135.3 million ($78.5 million net of deferred taxes). This
intangible asset will be amortized to Research and development expense on a straight-line basis over a five year useful
life. The remaining net assets acquired in this transaction were not material. Because Abmaxis was a development
stage company that had not commenced its planned principal operations, the transaction was accounted for as an
acquisition of assets rather than as a business combination and, therefore, goodwill was not recorded. Abmaxis’ results
of operations have been included with the Company’s consolidated financial results since the acquisition date.
In March 2006, Neuromed Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (“Neuromed”) and Merck signed a research collaboration
and license agreement to research, develop and commercialize novel compounds for the treatment of pain and other
neurological disorders, including Neuromed’s lead compound, NMED-160 (MK-6721), which is currently in Phase II
development for the treatment of pain. Under the terms of the agreement, Neuromed received an upfront payment of
$25 million which the Company recorded as Research and development expense in 2006. The
83successful development and launch of NMED-160 for an initial single indication on a worldwide basis would trigger
milestone payments totaling $202 million. Milestones could increase to approximately $450 million if a further
indication for NMED-160 is developed and approved and an additional compound is developed and approved for two
indications. Neuromed would also receive royalties on worldwide sales of NMED-160 and any additional compounds
developed under this agreement.
In 2005, Agensys, Inc. (“Agensys”), a cancer biotechnology company, and Merck announced the formation
of a global alliance to jointly develop and commercialize AGS-PSCA, Agensys’ fully human MAb to Prostate Stem
Cell Antigen. Also in 2005, Merck entered into an agreement with Geron Corporation to develop a cancer vaccine
against telomerase, an enzyme, active in most cancer cells that maintains telomere length at the ends of chromosomes,
which allows the cancer to grow and metastasize over long periods of time.
In 2004, the Company acquired Aton Pharma, Inc. (“Aton”), a privately-held biotechnology company
focusing on the development of novel treatments for cancer and other serious diseases. Aton’s clinical pipeline of
histone deacetylase inhibitors represents a class of anti-tumor agents with potential for efficacy based on a novel
mechanism of action. Aton’s lead product candidate at the time of acquisition, suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid,
known as vorinostat, for the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma was approved by the Food and Drug
Administration in October 2006 and is marketed as Zolinza in the United States. Consideration for the acquisition
consisted of an upfront payment, as well as contingent payments based upon the regulatory filing, approval and sale of
products. In connection with the transaction, the Company recorded a charge of $125.5 million, included in Research
and development expense, for acquired research associated with products in development for which, at the acquisition
date, technological feasibility had not been established and no alternative future use existed. The remaining net assets
acquired in this transaction were not material. Because Aton was a development stage company that had not
commenced its planned principal operations, the transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than
as a business combination and, therefore, goodwill was not recorded. Aton’s results of operations have been included
with the Company’s since the acquisition date.
6 . Financial Instruments
F oreign Currency Risk Management
While the U.S. dollar is the functional currency of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries, a significant portion
of the Company’s revenues are denominated in foreign currencies. Merck relies on sustained cash flows generated
from foreign sources to support its long-term commitment to U.S. dollar-based research and development. To the
extent the dollar value of cash flows is diminished as a result of a strengthening dollar, the Company’s ability to fund
research and other dollar-based strategic initiatives at a consistent level may be impaired. The Company has
established revenue hedging and balance sheet risk management programs to protect against volatility of future
foreign currency cash flows and changes in fair value caused by volatility in foreign exchange rates.
The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the potential for longer-term unfavorable changes
in foreign exchange to decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash flows derived from foreign currency denominated
sales, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. To achieve this objective, the Company will partially hedge anticipated
third-party sales that are expected to occur over its planning cycle, typically no more than three years into the future.
The Company will layer in hedges over time, increasing the portion of sales hedged as it gets closer to the expected
date of the transaction, such that it is probable that the hedged transaction will occur. The portion of sales hedged is
based on assessments of cost-benefit profiles that consider natural offsetting exposures, revenue and exchange rate
volatilities and correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The hedged anticipated sales are a specified
component of a portfolio of similarly denominated foreign currency-based sales transactions, each of which responds
to the hedged risk in the same manner. Merck manages its anticipated transaction exposure principally with purchased
local currency put options, which provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation, to sell foreign currencies in
the future at a predetermined price. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated
sales, total changes in the options’ cash flows fully offset the decline in the expected future U.S. dollar cash flows of
the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the options’ value reduces to zero, but the
Company benefits from the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows.
84The designated hedge relationship is based on total changes in the options’ cash flows. Accordingly, the
entire fair value change in the options is deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) and
reclassified into Sales when the hedged anticipated revenue is recognized. The hedge relationship is perfectly effective
and therefore no hedge ineffectiveness is recorded. The fair values of currency options are reported in Accounts
receivable or Other assets. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows.
The primary objective of the balance sheet risk management program is to protect the U.S. dollar value of
foreign currency denominated net monetary assets from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange that might occur
prior to their conversion to U.S. dollars. Merck principally utilizes forward exchange contracts, which enable the
Company to buy and sell foreign currencies in the future at fixed exchange rates and economically offset the
consequences of changes in foreign exchange on the amount of U.S. dollar cash flows derived from the net assets.
Merck routinely enters into contracts to fully offset the effects of exchange on exposures denominated in developed
country currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. For exposures in developing country currencies, the
Company will enter into forward contracts on a more limited basis, and only when it is deemed economical to do so
based on a cost-benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate and
the cost of the hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the effect of exchange on monetary assets and
liabilities by managing operating activities and net asset positions at the local level.
Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at spot rates in effect on the
balance sheet date with the effects of changes in spot rates reported in Other (income) expense, net. The forward
contracts are not designated as hedges and are marked to market through Other (income) expense, net. Accordingly,
fair value changes in the forward contracts help mitigate the changes in the value of the remeasured assets and
liabilities attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, except to the extent of the spot-forward
differences. These differences are not significant due to the short-term nature of the contracts, which typically have
average maturities at inception of less than one year.
The Company uses forward contracts to hedge the changes in fair value of certain foreign currency
denominated available-for-sale securities attributable to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in
the fair value of the hedged securities due to fluctuations in spot rates are offset in Other (income) expense, net, by the
fair value changes in the forward contracts attributable to spot rate fluctuations. Hedge ineffectiveness was not
material during 2006, 2005 and 2004. Changes in the contracts’ fair value due to spot-forward differences are
excluded from the designated hedge relationship and recognized in Other (income) expense, net. These amounts were
not significant for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004.
The fair values of forward exchange contracts are reported in the following four balance sheet line items:
Accounts receivable (current portion of gain position), Other assets (non-current portion of gain position), Accrued
and other current liabilities (current portion of loss position), or Deferred income taxes and noncurrent liabilities (non-
current portion of loss position). The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
I nterest Rate Risk Management
The Company may use interest rate swap contracts on certain investing and borrowing transactions to
manage its net exposure to interest rate changes and to reduce its overall cost of borrowing. The Company does not
use leveraged swaps and, in general, does not leverage any of its investment activities that would put principal capital
at risk.
At December 31, 2006, the Company was a party to seven pay-floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap
contracts designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate notes in which the notional amounts match the amount of the
hedged fixed-rate notes. There is one swap maturing in 2007 with a notional amount of $350 million; two swaps
maturing in 2011 with notional amounts of $125 million each; one swap maturing in 2013 with a notional amount of
$500 million and three swaps maturing in 2015 with notional amounts of $250 million each. The swaps effectively
convert the fixed-rate obligations to floating-rate instruments. The fair value changes in the notes are fully offset in
interest expense by the fair value changes in the swap contracts. The fair values of these contracts are reported in
Accounts receivable, Other assets, Accrued and other current liabilities, or Deferred income taxes and noncurrent
85liabilities. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of
Cash Flows.
F air Value of Financial Instruments
Summarized below are the carrying values and fair values of the Company’s financial instruments at
December 31, 2006 and 2005. Fair values were estimated based on market prices, where available, or dealer quotes.
200 6 200 5
Carrying Value Fair Value Carrying Value Fair Value
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents $ 5,914.7 $ 5,914.7 $ 9,585.3 $ 9,585.3
Short-term investments 2,798.3 2,798.3 6,052.3 6,052.3
Long-term investments 7,788.2 7,788.2 1,107.9 1,107.9
Purchased currency options 43.9 43.9 145.4 145.4
Forward exchange contracts 11.1 11.1 13.7 13.7
Interest rate swaps 26.3 26.3 13.5 13.5
Liabilities
Loans payable and current portion of long-term
debt $ 1,285.1 $ 1,284.3 $ 2,972.0 $ 2,974.4
Long-term debt 5,551.0 5,612.7 5,125.6 5,171.4
Forward exchange contracts 25.5 25.5 26.0 26.0
In connection with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (“AJCA”) the Company repatriated $15.9 billion
during 2005 (see Note 17). As of December 31, 2005, $5.2 billion of the AJCA repatriation was invested in fully
collateralized overnight repurchase agreements and was included in Short-term investments in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet. In early 2006, the Company reinvested these repurchase agreement balances into other short- and long-
term investments.
A summary of the December 31 carrying values and fair values of the Company’s investments and gross
unrealized gains and losses on the Company’s available-for-sale-investments recorded, net of tax, in AOCI is as
follows:
2 006
Carrying Fair Gross Unrealized
Value Value Gains Losses
Corporate notes and bonds $ 5,189.5 $ 5,189.5 $ 7.2 $ (5.0 )
U.S. Government and agency securities 2,028.2 2,028.2 2.3 (3.7 )
Commercial paper 1,110.2 1,110.2 - -
Municipal securities 708.5 708.5 4.3 (1.3 )
Mortgaged-backed securities 615.4 615.4 1.8 (0.7 )
Asset-backed securities 456.5 456.5 0.8 (0.4 )
Foreign government bonds 191.2 191.2 - (0.7 )
Repurchase agreements 81.5 81.5 - -
Other debt securities 47.1 47.1 8.8 -
Equity securities 158.4 158.4 85.5 (0.7 )
Total Available-for-sale $1 0,586.5 $ 10,586.5 $1 10.7 $ (12.5 )
86Substantially all of the Company’s unrealized losses at December 31, 2006 were in continuous loss positions
for less than 12 months.
2 005
Carrying Fair Gross Unrealized
Value Value Gains Losses
Repurchase agreements $ 5,214.2 $5 ,214.2 $ - $ -
Corporate notes and bonds 755.7 755.7 0.1 -
Commercial paper 654.7 654.7 - -
Municipal securities 288.3 288.3 0.5 (1.3)
U.S. Government and agency securities 51.9 51.9 - (0.1)
Other debt securities 45.0 45.0 10.1 (0.3)
Equity securities 150.4 150.4 60.0 (4.9)
Total Available-for-sale $ 7,160.2 $7 ,160.2 $ 70.7 $ (6.6)
Available-for-sale debt securities maturing within one year totaled $2.8 billion at December 31, 2006. Of the
remaining debt securities, $6.3 billion mature within five years.
C oncentrations of Credit Risk
As part of its ongoing control procedures, the Company monitors concentrations of credit risk associated
with corporate issuers of securities and financial institutions with which it conducts business. Credit risk is minimal as
credit exposure limits are established to avoid a concentration with any single issuer or institution. Four
U.S. customers represented, in aggregate, approximately one-fifth of the Company’s accounts receivable at
December 31, 2006. The Company monitors the creditworthiness of its customers to which it grants credit terms in the
normal course of business. Bad debts have been minimal. The Company does not normally require collateral or other
security to support credit sales.
7 . Inventories
Inventories at December 31 consisted of:
2006 2005
Finished goods $ 403.8 $ 400.0
Raw materials and work in process 1,688.9 1,929.8
Supplies 92.8 82.1
Total (approximates current cost) 2,185.5 2,411.9
Reduction to LIFO costs - -
$2 ,185.5 $2 ,411.9
Recognized as:
Inventories $1 ,769.4 $1 ,658.1
Other assets $ 416.1 $ 753.8
Inventories valued under the LIFO method comprised approximately 62% of inventories at both
December 31, 2006 and 2005. Amounts recognized as Other assets are comprised entirely of raw materials and work
in process inventories, which include inventories for products not expected to be sold within one year, principally
vaccines, and, as of December 31, 2005, inventories produced in preparation for product launches.
878 . Other Intangibles
Other intangibles at December 31 consisted of:
2006 2005
Patents and product rights $1 ,656.3 $1 ,656.3
Other 775.9 180.4
Total acquired cost $2 ,432.2 $1 ,836.7
Patents and product rights $1 ,321.5 $1 ,191.8
Other 166.8 126.2
Total accumulated amortization $1 ,488.3 $1 ,318.0
The increase in other intangibles in 2006 primarily reflects intangibles in connection with the acquisitions of
Sirna, GlycoFi and Abmaxis (see Note 5). Aggregate amortization expense was $170.3 million in 2006,
$163.9 million in 2005, and $192.0 million in 2004. The estimated aggregate amortization expense for each of the
next five years is as follows: 2007, $235.7 million; 2008, $183.8 million; 2009, $134.2 million; 2010, $132.1 million
and $104.6 million in 2011.
9 . Joint Ventures and Other Equity Method Affiliates
Equity income from affiliates reflects the performance of the Company’s joint ventures and other equity
method affiliates and was comprised of the following:
Y ears Ended December 31 2006 2005 2004
Merck/Schering-Plough $1 ,218.6 $ 570.4 $ 132.0
AstraZeneca LP 783.7 833.5 646.5
Other (1) 292.1 313.2 229.7
$2 ,294.4 $1 ,717.1 $1 ,008.2
(1) Primarily reflects results from Merial Limited, and joint ventures with Sanofi Pasteur and Johnson & Johnson.
M erck/Schering-Plough
In 2000, the Company and Schering-Plough Corporation (“Schering-Plough”) (collectively the “Partners”)
entered into agreements to create separate equally-owned partnerships to develop and market in the United States new
prescription medicines in the cholesterol-management and respiratory therapeutic areas. These agreements generally
provide for equal sharing of development costs and for co-promotion of approved products by each company. In 2001,
the cholesterol-management partnership agreements were expanded to include all the countries of the world, excluding
Japan. In 2002, ezetimibe, the first in a new class of cholesterol-lowering agents, was launched in the United States as
Zetia (marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States). As reported by the Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol
partnership (the “MSP Partnership”), global sales of Zetia totaled $1.93 billion in 2006, $1.4 billion in 2005 and
$1.1 billion in 2004. In July 2004, a combination product containing the active ingredients of both Zetia and Zocor ,
was approved in the United States as Vytorin (marketed as Inegy outside of the United States). Global sales of Vytorin
were $1.96 billion in 2006, $1.0 billion in 2005 and $132.4 million in 2004.
The cholesterol agreements provide for the sharing of operating income generated by the MSP Partnership
based upon percentages that vary by product, sales level and country. In the U.S. market, the Partners share profits on
Zetia and Vytorin equally, with the exception of the first $300 million of annual Zetia sales, on which Schering-Plough
receives a greater share of profits. Operating income includes expenses that the Partners have contractually agreed to
share, such as a portion of manufacturing costs, specifically identified promotion costs (including
direct-to-consumer advertising and direct and identifiable out-of-pocket promotion) and other agreed upon costs for
specific services such as on-going clinical research, market support, market research, market expansion, as well as a
specialty sales force and physician education programs. Expenses incurred in support of the MSP Partnership but not
shared between the Partners, such as marketing and administrative expenses (including certain sales force costs), as
well as certain manufacturing costs, are not included in Equity income from affiliates.
88However, these costs are reflected in the overall results of the Company. Certain research and development expenses
are generally shared equally by the Partners, after adjusting for earned milestones.
The respiratory therapeutic agreements provide for the joint development and marketing by the Partners of a
once-daily, fixed-combination tablet containing the active ingredients montelukast sodium and loratadine.
Montelukast sodium is sold by Merck as Singulair and loratadine is sold by Schering-Plough as Claritin. In January
2002, the respiratory partnership reported on results of Phase III clinical trials of a fixed-combination tablet containing
montelukast sodium and loratadine. This Phase III study did not demonstrate sufficient added benefits in the treatment
of seasonal allergic rhinitis. Although the montelukast sodium and loratadine combination tablet does not have
approval in any country, Phase III clinical development is ongoing.
A straZeneca LP
In 1982, Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB (“Astra”) to develop and market Astra’s products
under a royalty-bearing license. In 1993, the Company’s total sales of Astra products reached a level that triggered the
first step in the establishment of a joint venture business carried on by Astra Merck Inc. (“AMI”), in which Merck and
Astra each owned a 50% share. This joint venture, formed in 1994, developed and marketed most of Astra’s new
prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec, the first of a class of medications known as proton
pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining.
In 1998, Merck and Astra completed the restructuring of the ownership and operations of the joint venture
whereby the Company acquired Astra’s interest in AMI, renamed KBI Inc. (“KBI”), and contributed KBI’s operating
assets to a new U.S. limited partnership, Astra Pharmaceuticals L.P. (the “Partnership”), in exchange for a 1% limited
partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in
exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP (“AZLP”) upon Astra’s 1999
merger with Zeneca Group Plc (the “AstraZeneca merger”), became the exclusive distributor of the products for which
KBI retained rights.
While maintaining a 1% limited partner interest in AZLP, Merck has consent and protective rights intended
to preserve its business and economic interests, including restrictions on the power of the general partner to make
certain distributions or dispositions. Furthermore, in limited events of default, additional rights will be granted to the
Company, including powers to direct the actions of, or remove and replace, the Partnership’s chief executive officer
and chief financial officer. Merck earns ongoing revenue based on sales of current and future KBI products and such
revenue was $1.8 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.5 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, primarily relating to sales
of Nexium and Prilosec. In addition, Merck earns certain Partnership returns which are recorded in Equity income
from affiliates as reflected in the table above. Such returns include a priority return provided for in the Partnership
Agreement, variable returns based, in part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a preferential
return representing Merck’s share of undistributed AZLP GAAP earnings. The AstraZeneca merger triggers a partial
redemption of Merck’s limited partnership interest in 2008. Upon this redemption, AZLP will distribute to KBI an
amount based primarily on a multiple of Merck’s average annual variable returns derived from sales of the former
Astra USA, Inc. products for the three years prior to the redemption (the “Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value”).
In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring, for a payment of $443.0 million, which was deferred, Astra
purchased an option (the “Asset Option”) to buy Merck’s interest in the KBI products, excluding the gastrointestinal
medicines Nexium and Prilosec. The Asset Option is exercisable in 2010 at an exercise price equal to the net present
value as of March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be received by the Company from the KBI products
(the “Appraised Value”). Merck also has the right to require Astra to purchase such interest in 2008 at the Appraised
Value. In addition, the Company granted Astra an option to buy Merck’s common stock interest in KBI, exercisable
two years after Astra’s purchase of Merck’s interest in the KBI products. The exercise of this option by Astra is also
provided for in the year 2017 or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a minimum amount provided,
in each case, only so long as either the Merck option in 2008 or AstraZeneca’s option in 2010 has been exercised. The
exercise price is based on the net present value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec as determined at
the time of exercise.
89The 1999 AstraZeneca merger constituted a Trigger Event under the KBI restructuring agreements. As a
result of the merger, in exchange for Merck’s relinquishment of rights to future Astra products with no existing or
pending U.S. patents at the time of the merger, Astra paid $967.4 million (the “Advance Payment”), which is subject
to a true-up calculation in 2008 that may require repayment of all or a portion of this amount. The True-Up Amount is
directly dependent on the fair market value in 2008 of the Astra product rights retained by the Company. Accordingly,
recognition of this contingent income has been deferred until the realizable amount, if any, is determinable, which is
not anticipated prior to 2008.
Under the provisions of the KBI restructuring agreements, because a Trigger Event has occurred, the sum of
the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value, the Appraised Value and the True-Up Amount is guaranteed to be a
minimum of $4.7 billion. Distribution of the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value and payment of the
True-Up Amount will occur in 2008. AstraZeneca’s purchase of Merck’s interest in the KBI products is contingent
upon the exercise of either Merck’s option in 2008 or AstraZeneca’s option in 2010 and, therefore, payment of the
Appraised Value may or may not occur.
S anofi Pasteur MSD
In 1994, Merck and Pasteur Mérieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) established an equally-owned
joint venture to market vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for
distribution in Europe. Joint venture vaccine sales were $913.9 million for 2006, $865.1 million for 2005 and
$807.0 million for 2004.
M erial Limited
In 1997, Merck and Rhône-Poulenc S.A. (now Sanofi-Aventis S.A.) combined their animal health and
poultry genetics businesses to form Merial Limited (“Merial”), a fully integrated animal health company, which is a
stand-alone joint venture, equally owned by each party. Merial provides a comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals
and vaccines to enhance the health, well-being and performance of a wide range of animal species. Merial sales were
$2.2 billion for 2006, $2.0 billion for 2005 and $1.8 billion for 2004.
J ohnson & Johnson o Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company
In 1989, Merck formed a joint venture with Johnson & Johnson to develop and market a broad range of
nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50% owned venture was expanded into Europe in 1993, and into
Canada in 1996. In March 2004, Merck sold its 50% equity stake in its European joint venture to Johnson & Johnson
for $244.0 million and recorded a $176.8 million gain as Other (income) expense, net (see Note 16). Merck will
continue to benefit through royalties on certain products and also regained the rights to potential future products that
switch from prescription to over-the-counter status in Europe. Sales of product marketed by the joint venture,
including sales of the European joint venture up through March 2004, were $252.6 million for 2006, $253.3 million
for 2005 and $315.3 million for 2004.
Investments in affiliates accounted for using the equity method, including the above joint ventures, totaled
$3.5 billion at December 31, 2006 and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2005. These amounts are reported in Other assets.
Summarized information for those affiliates is as follows:
Y ears Ended December 31 2006 2005 2004
Sales $1 4,277.8 $1 1,804.6 $9 ,821.1
Materials and production costs 5,308.7 4,627.4 4,140.9
Other expense, net 4,042.9 3,918.0 3,691.4
Income before taxes 4,926.2 3,259.2 1,988.8
90D ecember 31 2006 2005
Current assets $7 ,772.7 $6 ,389.0
Noncurrent assets 1,483.6 1,430.5
Current liabilities 4,074.9 3,420.0
Noncurrent liabilities 215.6 160.4
1 0. Loans Payable, Long-Term Debt and Other Commitments
Loans payable at December 31, 2006 and 2005 included $336.2 million and $337.5 million, respectively, of
long-dated notes that are subject to repayment at the option of the holders on an annual basis. Loans payable at
December 31, 2006 and 2005 also included $500.0 million of notes with annual interest rate resets which were
redeemed by the Company in February 2007, upon notification from the remarketing agent that, due to an overall rise
in interest rates, it would not exercise its annual option to remarket the notes. Loans payable at December 31, 2006
and 2005, also included $349.8 million of fixed-rate notes due in 2007, and $510.1 million of fixed rate notes due in
2006, respectively. In December 2006, a foreign subsidiary of the Company entered into an 18-month, $100 million
line of credit with a financial institution. At December 31, 2006, borrowings under the line of credit were $90 million
and are included in Loans payable. Loans payable at December 31, 2005 included $1.6 billion of commercial paper
borrowings issued by a foreign subsidiary under a $3.0 billion commercial paper borrowing facility established in
October 2005 to provide funding for a portion of the Company’s repatriation in connection with the AJCA (see
Note 17). There was no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2006. The weighted average interest rate for
all of these borrowings was 4.9% and 4.3% at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Long-term debt at December 31 consisted of:
2006 2005
6.0% Astra note due 2008 $1 ,380.0 $1 ,380.0
4.8% notes due 2015 1,017.0 992.0
4.4% notes due 2013 503.0 509.8
6.4% debentures due 2028 499.2 499.2
5.8% notes due 2036 497.6 -
6.0% debentures due 2028 497.0 496.8
2.5% notes due 2007 - 343.0
Variable-rate borrowing due 2009 300.0 300.0
5.1% notes due 2011 249.1 -
6.3% debentures due 2026 247.8 247.6
Other 360.3 357.2
$5 ,551.0 $5 ,125.6
The Company was a party to interest rate swap contracts which effectively convert the 2.5%, the 4.4%, the
5.1% and $750 million of the 4.8% fixed-rate notes to floating-rate instruments (see Note 6).
Other (as presented in the table above) at December 31, 2006 and 2005 consisted primarily of $328.6 million
of borrowings at variable rates averaging 4.7% and 3.8%, respectively. Of these borrowings, $158.7 million are
subject to repayment at the option of the holders beginning in 2011 and $106.0 million are subject to repayment at the
option of the holders beginning in 2010. In both years, Other also included foreign borrowings at varying rates up to
11.6%.
The aggregate maturities of long-term debt for each of the next five years are as follows: 2007,
$449.0 million; 2008, $1.4 billion; 2009, $307.2 million; 2010, $6.0 million; 2011, $258.7 million.
Rental expense under the Company’s operating leases, net of sublease income, was $201.4 million in 2006.
The minimum aggregate rental commitments under noncancellable leases are as follows: 2007, $65.8 million;
912008, $45.4 million; 2009, $33.1 million; 2010, $22.9 million; 2011, $10.4 million and thereafter, $33.9 million. The
Company has no significant capital leases.
1 1. Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities
The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its
business, including product liability, intellectual property and commercial litigation, as well as additional matters such
as antitrust actions. The Company records accruals for contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been
incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These accruals are adjusted periodically as assessments change
or additional information becomes available. For product liability claims, a portion of the overall accrual is actuarially
determined and considers such factors as past experience, number of claims reported and estimates of claims incurred
but not yet reported. Individually significant contingent losses are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable.
Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable and
reasonably estimable.
The Company’s decision to obtain insurance coverage is dependent on market conditions, including cost and
availability, existing at the time such decisions are made. As a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance
has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. The Company has evaluated its risks and has
determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is
available and as such, has no insurance for certain product liabilities effective August 1, 2004, including liability for
products first sold after that date. The Company will continue to evaluate its insurance needs and the costs, availability
and benefits of product liability insurance in the future.
V ioxx Litigation
P roduct Liability Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, individual and putative class actions have been filed against the Company in state
and federal courts alleging personal injury and/or economic loss with respect to the purchase or use of Vioxx. All such
actions filed in federal court are coordinated in a multidistrict litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Louisiana (the “MDL”) before District Judge Eldon E. Fallon. A number of such actions filed in state court
are coordinated in separate coordinated proceedings in state courts in New Jersey, California and Texas, and the
counties of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Clark County, Nevada. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had been
served or was aware that it had been named as a defendant in approximately 27,400 lawsuits, which include
approximately 46,100 plaintiff groups, alleging personal injuries resulting from the use of Vioxx , and in
approximately 264 putative class actions alleging personal injuries and/or economic loss. (All of the actions discussed
in this paragraph are collectively referred to as the “ Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits”.) Of these lawsuits,
approximately 8,300 lawsuits representing approximately 23,700 plaintiff groups are or are slated to be in the federal
MDL and approximately 16,800 lawsuits representing approximately 16,800 plaintiff groups are included in a
coordinated proceeding in New Jersey Superior Court before Judge Carol E. Higbee.
In addition to the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits discussed above, the claims of over 4,025 plaintiffs had
been dismissed as of December 31, 2006. Of these, there have been over 1,225 plaintiffs whose claims were dismissed
with prejudice (i.e., they cannot be brought again) either by plaintiffs themselves or by the courts. Over 2,800
additional plaintiffs have had their claims dismissed without prejudice (i.e., they can be brought again).
In the MDL, Judge Fallon in July 2005 indicated that he would schedule for trial a series of cases during the
period November 2005 through 2006, in the following categories: (i) heart attack with short term use; (ii) heart attack
with long term use; (iii) stroke; and (iv) cardiovascular injury involving a prescription written after April 2002 when
the labeling for Vioxx was revised to include the results of the VIGOR trial. These trials began in November 2005 and
concluded in December 2006. The next scheduled trial in the MDL is a re-trial in Barnett v. Merck on the issue of
damages as discussed below.
Merck has entered into a tolling agreement (the “Tolling Agreement”) with the MDL Plaintiffs’ Steering
Committee that establishes a procedure to halt the running of the statute of limitations (tolling) as to certain categories
of claims allegedly arising from the use of Vioxx by non-New Jersey citizens. The Tolling Agreement applies to
individuals who have not filed lawsuits and may or may not eventually file lawsuits and only to those
92claimants who seek to toll claims alleging injuries resulting from a thrombotic cardiovascular event that results in a
myocardial infarction or ischemic stroke. The Tolling Agreement provides counsel additional time to evaluate
potential claims. The Tolling Agreement requires any tolled claims to be filed in federal court. As of December 31,
2006, approximately 14,180 claimants had entered into Tolling Agreements.
Merck voluntarily withdrew Vioxx from the market on September 30, 2004. Many states have a two-year
statute of limitations for product liability claims, requiring that claims must be filed within two years after the
plaintiffs learned or could have learned of their potential cause of action. As a result, some may view September 30,
2006 as a deadline for filing Vioxx cases. It is important to note, however, that the law regarding statutes of limitations
can be complex, varies from state to state, can be fact-specific, and in some cases, might be affected by the existence
of pending class actions. For example, some states have three year statutes of limitations and, in some instances, the
statute of limitations is even longer. Merck expects that there will be legal arguments concerning the proper
application of these statutes, and the decisions will be up to the judges presiding in individual cases in state and federal
proceedings.
The Company has previously disclosed the outcomes of several Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits that were
tried prior to September 30, 2006 (see chart below).
In August 2006, in Barnett v. Merck, a case before Judge Fallon in the MDL, a jury in New Orleans,
Louisiana returned a plaintiff verdict in the second federal Vioxx case to go to trial. The jury awarded $50 million in
compensatory damages and $1 million in punitive damages. On August 30, 2006, Judge Fallon overturned as
excessive the damages portion of the verdict and ordered a new trial on damages. Judge Fallon has set re-trial for
October 29, 2007 on the issue of damages. Merck has filed motions for a new trial on all issues and for Judgment as a
Matter of Law, both of which are currently pending before the Court. Plaintiff has opposed Merck’s motion and has
asked the Judge to reduce the amount of the award rather than re-try the case.
Juries found in favor of Merck on all counts in the fourth and fifth cases to go to trial in the MDL. The jury
returned its verdict for Merck in Mason v. Merck on November 8, 2006 and in Dedrick v. Merck on December 13,
2006.
On November 22, 2006, Judge Fallon denied a motion filed in the MDL to certify a nationwide class of all
persons who allegedly suffered personal injury as a result of taking Vioxx.
On December 15, 2006, the jury in Albright v. Merck, a case tried in state court in Birmingham, Alabama,
returned a verdict for Merck on all counts.
The Company previously disclosed that in April 2006, in Garza v. Merck, a jury in Rio Grande City, Texas
returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff. In September 2006, the Texas state court granted the Company’s request to
investigate possible jury bias because a juror admitted that he had, prior to the trial, on several occasions borrowed
money from the plaintiff. On December 21, 2006, the court entered judgment for plaintiff in the amount of
$7.75 million, plus interest, reduced from the original award of $32 million because of the Texas state cap on punitive
damages. The Company is seeking a new trial and will appeal the verdict if the court does not grant a new trial.
On October 31, 2006, in California Superior Court in Los Angeles, a consolidated trial began in the cases
Appell v. Merck and Arrigale v. Merck. On January 18, 2007, Judge Victoria Chaney declared a mistrial as to both
plaintiffs after the jury reported that it was deadlocked.
On October 5, 2006, in the coordinated proceeding in New Jersey Superior Court, Judge Higbee dismissed
claims of the United Kingdom plaintiffs. These plaintiffs have appealed.
The first case scheduled for trial in the Texas coordinated proceeding, Rigby v. Merck, was scheduled to
begin trial on November 7, 2006. The Rigby case was voluntarily dismissed on October 23, 2006 when the plaintiff
filed a notice of non-suit with the Court.
A consolidated trial, Hermans v. Merck and Humeston v. Merck, began on January 17, 2007, in the
coordinated proceeding in New Jersey Superior Court before Judge Higbee. Humeston v. Merck was first tried in
2005, but Judge Higbee set aside the November 2005 jury verdict in favor of Merck and ordered a new trial on the
93grounds of newly discovered evidence. The Hermans/Humeston trial is separated into two phases: a general phase
regarding Merck’s conduct and a plaintiff-specific phase. There will be jury questions and a deliberation after phase I
regarding Merck’s conduct. If the jury answers any of the questions in the affirmative, the case will move to phase II.
In phase II each plaintiff will present his or her specific case. At the end of phase II, the jury will deliberate and will
answer questions with respect to each of the two plaintiffs. The jury will answer separate verdict sheets but in the
course of only one deliberation. If the case moves to a punitive phase, there will be a single presentation for each side
and one jury deliberation for both plaintiffs.
The first case scheduled for trial in the Philadelphia coordinated proceeding, McCool v. Merck, was
scheduled to begin trial on February 26, 2007. The plaintiff voluntarily dismissed with prejudice her case on
January 16, 2007.
On September 28, 2006, the New Jersey Superior Court, Appellate Division, heard argument on plaintiffs’
appeal of Judge Higbee’s dismissal of the Sinclair v. Merck case. This putative class action was originally filed in
December 2004 and sought the creation of a medical monitoring fund. Judge Higbee had granted the Company’s
motion to dismiss in May 2005. On January 16, 2007, the Appellate Division reversed the decision and remanded the
case back to Judge Higbee for further factual inquiry. The Company has petitioned the New Jersey Supreme Court for
review of the Appellate Division’s decision.
To date in the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, of the 29 plaintiffs whose claims have been scheduled for
trial, the claims of seven were dismissed, the claims of seven were withdrawn from the trial calendar by plaintiffs, and
juries have decided in Merck’s favor nine times and in plaintiffs’ favor four times. In addition, in the recent California
trial involving two plaintiffs, the jury could not reach a verdict for either plaintiff and a mistrial was declared. A New
Jersey state judge set aside one of the nine Merck verdicts. With respect to the four plaintiffs’ verdicts, Merck already
has filed an appeal or sought judicial review in each of those cases, and in one of those four, a federal judge
overturned the damage award shortly after trial. In addition, a consolidated trial with two plaintiffs is currently
ongoing in the coordinated proceeding in New Jersey Superior Court before Judge Higbee and another trial,
Schwaller v. Merck, has commenced in state court in Madison County, Illinois.
94The following chart sets forth the results of all U.S. Vioxx Product Liability trials to date.
State or
Federal
Verdict Date Plaintiff Court Result Comments
Aug. 19, 2005 Ernst Texas Verdict for Plaintiff Jury awarded plaintiff $253.4 million; the Court
reduced amount to approximately $26.1 million plus
interest. The judgment is now on appeal.
Nov. 3, 2005 Humeston N.J. Verdict for Merck; Judge has ordered a new trial, which is currently
then judge overturned the ongoing.
verdict
Feb. 17, 2006 Plunkett Federal Mistrial after jury Merck prevailed in February 2006 retrial.
deadlocked in first trial; Plaintiff has moved for a new trial.
verdict for Merck in
retrial
April 5, 2006 McDarby N.J. Verdict for Plaintiff Plaintiff was awarded $13.5 million in damages.
Merck’s motion for a new trial is pending, as is
plaintiff’s motion for attorney’s fees.
April 5, 2006 Cona N.J. Verdict for Merck on However, the jury awarded plaintiff the nominal sum
failure to warn claim of $135 for his Consumer Fraud Act claim. Merck’s
motion for a new trial on the Consumer Fraud Act
claim is pending, as is plaintiff’s motion for
attorney’s fees.
April 21, 2006 Garza Texas Verdict for Plaintiff Judge reduced $32 million jury award to
$7.75 million plus interest. Merck has moved for a
new trial.
July 13, 2006 Doherty N.J. Verdict for Merck Plaintiff has moved for a new trial.
Aug. 2, 2006 Grossberg California Verdict for Merck Plaintiff has moved for a new trial.
Aug. 17, 2006 Barnett Federal Verdict for Plaintiff Plaintiff awarded $51 million in damages. The judge
ruled the award was “grossly excessive,” and has
scheduled a new trial on damages in October 2007.
Merck’s motion for a new trial on the remaining
issues is pending.
Sept. 26, 2006 Smith Federal Verdict for Merck
Nov. 15, 2006 Mason Federal Verdict for Merck
Dec. 13, 2006 Dedrick Federal Verdict for Merck Plaintiff has moved for a new trial.
Dec. 15, 2006 Albright Alabama Verdict for Merck Plaintiff has moved for a new trial.
Jan. 18, 2007 Arrigale/Appell California Mistrial declared after the
jury deadlocked
O ther Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, on July 29, 2005, a New Jersey state trial court certified a nationwide class of third-
party payors (such as unions and health insurance plans) that paid in whole or in part for the Vioxx used by their plan
members or insureds. The named plaintiff in that case seeks recovery of certain Vioxx purchase costs (plus penalties)
based on allegations that the purported class members paid more for Vioxx than they would have had they known of
the product’s alleged risks. Merck believes that the class was improperly certified. The trial court’s ruling is
procedural only; it does not address the merits of plaintiffs’ allegations, which the Company intends to defend
vigorously. On March 31, 2006, the New Jersey Superior Court, Appellate Division, affirmed the class certification
order. On July 19, 2006, the New Jersey Supreme Court decided to exercise its discretion to hear the Company’s
appeal of the Appellate Division’s decision. On August 24, 2006, the Appellate Division ordered a stay of the
proceedings in Superior Court pending a ruling by the Supreme Court. Oral argument before the New Jersey Supreme
Court is scheduled to take place in March 2007.
As previously reported, the Company has also been named as a defendant in separate lawsuits brought by the
Attorneys General of Alaska, Louisiana, Mississippi, Montana, Texas and Utah. These actions allege that the
Company misrepresented the safety of Vioxx and seek (i) recovery of the cost of Vioxx purchased or reimbursed by the
state and its agencies; (ii) reimbursement of all sums paid by the state and its agencies for medical services for the
treatment of persons injured by Vioxx ; (iii) damages under various common law theories; and/or (iv) remedies
95under various state statutory theories, including state consumer fraud and/or fair business practices or Medicaid fraud
statutes, including civil penalties.
S hareholder Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, in addition to the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, the Company and various
current and former officers and directors are defendants in various putative class actions and individual lawsuits under
the federal securities laws and state securities laws (the “ Vioxx Securities Lawsuits”). All of the Vioxx Securities
Lawsuits pending in federal court have been transferred by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (the “JPML”)
to the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey before District Judge Stanley R. Chesler for inclusion
in a nationwide MDL (the “Shareholder MDL”). Judge Chesler has consolidated the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits for all
purposes. Plaintiffs request certification of a class of purchasers of Company stock between May 21, 1999 and
October 29, 2004. The complaint alleges that the defendants made false and misleading statements regarding Vioxx in
violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and seeks unspecified compensatory
damages and the costs of suit, including attorneys’ fees. The complaint also asserts a claim under Section 20A of the
Securities and Exchange Act against certain defendants relating to their sales of Merck stock. In addition, the
complaint includes allegations under Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 that certain defendants made
incomplete and misleading statements in a registration statement and certain prospectuses filed in connection with the
Merck Stock Investment Plan, a dividend reinvestment plan. Defendants have filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.
Oral argument on the motion to dismiss is scheduled to take place in March 2007.
As previously disclosed, on August 15, 2005, a complaint was filed in Oregon state court by the State of
Oregon through the Oregon state treasurer on behalf of the Oregon Public Employee Retirement Fund against the
Company and certain current and former officers and directors. The complaint, which was brought under Oregon
securities law, alleges that plaintiff has suffered damages in connection with its purchases of Merck common stock at
artificially inflated prices due to the Company’s alleged violations of law related to disclosures about Vioxx. The
current and former officers and directors have entered into a tolling agreement and, on June 30, 2006, were dismissed
without prejudice from the case. On July 19, 2006, the Court denied the Company’s motion to dismiss the complaint,
but required plaintiff to amend the complaint. Plaintiff filed an amended complaint on September 21, 2006. Merck
filed a motion to require plaintiffs to make the complaint more definite and certain, which was denied by the Court.
Merck filed an answer to the complaint in January 2007.
As previously disclosed, various shareholder derivative actions filed in federal court were transferred to the
Shareholder MDL and consolidated for all purposes by Judge Chesler (the “ Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits”). The
consolidated complaint arose out of substantially the same factual allegations that are made in the Vioxx Securities
Lawsuits. The Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits, which were purportedly brought to assert rights of the Company, assert
claims against certain members of the Board past and present and certain executive officers for breach of fiduciary
duty, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment, abuse of control and gross mismanagement. On May 5, 2006,
Judge Chesler granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and denied plaintiffs’ request for leave to amend their complaint.
Plaintiffs’ appeal of the District Court’s decision refusing them leave to amend the complaint is currently pending
before the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
As previously disclosed, on October 29, 2004, two individual shareholders made a demand on the Board of
Directors of the Company to take legal action against Mr. Raymond Gilmartin, former Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer and other individuals for allegedly causing damage to the Company with respect to the allegedly
improper marketing of Vioxx. In July 2006, the Board received another shareholder letter demanding that the Board
take legal action against the Board and management of Merck for allegedly causing damage to the Company relating
to the Company’s allegedly improper marketing of Vioxx. In December 2006, each of these demands was rejected by
the Board of Directors.
As previously announced, the Board of Directors appointed a Special Committee to review the Company’s
actions prior to its voluntary withdrawal of Vioxx , to act for the Board in responding to shareholder litigation matters
related to the withdrawal of Vioxx , and to advise the Board with respect to any action that should be taken as a result
of the review. In December 2004, the Special Committee retained the Honorable John S. Martin, Jr. of Debevoise &
Plimpton LLP to conduct an independent investigation of senior management’s conduct
96with respect to the cardiovascular safety profile of Vioxx during the period Vioxx was developed and marketed. The
review was completed in the third quarter of 2006 and the full report (including appendices) was made public in
September 2006.
In addition, as previously disclosed, various putative class actions filed in federal court under the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) against the Company and certain current and former officers and directors
(the “ Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits” and, together with the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits and the Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits, the
“ Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits”) have been transferred to the Shareholder MDL and consolidated for all purposes. The
consolidated complaint asserts claims on behalf of certain of the Company’s current and former employees who are
participants in certain of the Company’s retirement plans for breach of fiduciary duty. The lawsuits make similar
allegations to the allegations contained in the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits. On October 7, 2005, defendants moved to
dismiss the ERISA complaint. On July 11, 2006, Judge Chesler granted in part and denied in part defendants’ motion
to dismiss.
I nternational Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, in addition to the lawsuits discussed above, the Company has been named as a
defendant in litigation relating to Vioxx in various countries (collectively, the “ Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits”) in Europe, as
well as Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Australia, Turkey, and Israel.
A dditional Lawsuits
Based on media reports and other sources, the Company anticipates that additional Vioxx Product Liability
Lawsuits, Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits and Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits (collectively, the “ Vioxx Lawsuits”) will be filed
against it and/or certain of its current and former officers and directors in the future.
I nsurance
As previously disclosed, the Company has product liability insurance for claims brought in the Vioxx Product
Liability Lawsuits with stated upper limits of approximately $630 million after deductibles and co-insurance. This
insurance provides coverage for legal defense costs and potential damage amounts that have been or will be incurred
in connection with the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits. The Company believes that this insurance coverage extends
to additional Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits that may be filed in the future. The Company has Directors and Officers
insurance coverage applicable to the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits and Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits with stated upper limits
of approximately $190 million. The Company has fiduciary and other insurance for the Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits with
stated upper limits of approximately $275 million. Additional insurance coverage for these claims may also be
available under upper-level excess policies that provide coverage for a variety of risks. There are disputes with certain
insurers about the availability of some or all of this insurance coverage and there are likely to be additional disputes.
The Company’s insurance coverage with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits will not be adequate to cover its defense costs
and any losses.
As previously disclosed, the Company’s upper level excess insurers (which provide excess insurance
potentially applicable to all of the Vioxx Lawsuits) have commenced an arbitration seeking, among other things, to
cancel those policies, to void all of their obligations under those policies and to raise other coverage issues with
respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits. Merck intends to contest vigorously the insurers’ claims and will attempt to enforce its
rights under applicable insurance policies. The amounts actually recovered under the policies discussed in this section
may be less than the amounts specified in the preceding paragraph.
I nvestigations
As previously disclosed, in November 2004, the Company was advised by the staff of the SEC that it was
commencing an informal inquiry concerning Vioxx. On January 28, 2005, the Company announced that it received
notice that the SEC issued a formal notice of investigation. Also, the Company has received subpoenas from the
U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) requesting information related to the Company’s research, marketing and
selling activities with respect to Vioxx in a federal health care investigation under criminal statutes. In addition, as
previously disclosed, investigations are being conducted by local authorities in certain cities in Europe in order to
determine whether any criminal charges should be brought concerning Vioxx. The Company is cooperating with
97these governmental entities in their respective investigations (the “ Vioxx Investigations”). The Company cannot
predict the outcome of these inquiries; however, they could result in potential civil and/or criminal dispositions.
As previously disclosed, the Company has received a number of Civil Investigative Demands (“CID”) from
a group of Attorneys General from 31 states and the District of Columbia who are investigating whether the Company
violated state consumer protection laws when marketing Vioxx. The Company is cooperating with the Attorneys
General in responding to the CIDs.
In addition, the Company received a subpoena in September 2006 from the State of California Attorney
General seeking documents and information related to the placement of Vioxx on California’s Medi-Cal formulary.
The Company is cooperating with the Attorney General in responding to the subpoena.
R eserves
The Company currently anticipates that a number of Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits will be tried
throughout 2007. A trial in the Oregon securities case is scheduled for 2007, but the Company cannot predict whether
this trial will proceed on schedule or the timing of any of the other Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuit trials. The Company
believes that it has meritorious defenses to the Vioxx Lawsuits and will vigorously defend against them. In view of the
inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the
claimants seek indeterminate damages, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time
cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits. The Company has not
established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the Vioxx Lawsuits or the Vioxx Investigations, including
for those cases in which verdicts or judgments have been entered against the Company, and are now in post-verdict
proceedings or on appeal. In each of those cases the Company believes it has strong points to raise on appeal and
therefore that unfavorable outcomes in such cases are not probable. Unfavorable outcomes in the Vioxx Litigation (as
defined below) could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of
operations.
Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable
and reasonably estimable. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had a reserve of $685 million solely for its future
legal defense costs related to the Vioxx Litigation.
During 2006, the Company spent $500 million in the aggregate, including $175 million in the fourth quarter,
in legal defense costs worldwide related to (i) the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, (ii) the Vioxx Shareholder
Lawsuits, (iii) the Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the Vioxx Investigations (collectively, the “ Vioxx Litigation”). In
the third quarter and fourth quarter of 2006, the Company recorded charges of $598 million and $75 million,
respectively, to increase the reserve solely for its future legal defense costs related to the Vioxx Litigation to
$858 million at December 31, 2006. In increasing the reserve, the Company considered the same factors that it
considered when it previously established reserves for the Vioxx Litigation. Management now believes it has a better
estimate of the Company’s expenses and can reasonably estimate such costs through 2008. Some of the significant
factors considered in the establishment and ongoing review of the reserve for the Vioxx legal defense costs were as
follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company; the development of the Company’s legal defense strategy and
structure in light of the scope of the Vioxx Litigation; the number of cases being brought against the Company; the
costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most current information regarding anticipated timing, progression,
and related costs of pre-trial activities and trials in the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits. Events such as scheduled
trials, that are expected to occur throughout 2007 and into 2008, and the inherent inability to predict the ultimate
outcomes of such trials, limit the Company’s ability to reasonably estimate its legal costs beyond the end of 2008. The
Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves.
O ther Product Liability Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company is a defendant in product liability lawsuits in the United States
involving Fosamax (the “ Fosamax Litigation”). As of December 31, 2006, 104 cases had been filed against Merck in
either federal or state court, including 4 cases which seek class action certification, as well as damages and medical
monitoring. In these actions, plaintiffs allege, among other things, that they have suffered osteonecrosis of the jaw,
98generally subsequent to invasive dental procedures such as tooth extraction or dental implants, and/or delayed healing,
in association with the use of Fosamax. On August 16, 2006, the JPML ordered that the Fosamax product liability
cases pending in federal courts nationwide should be transferred and consolidated into one multidistrict litigation (the
“ Fosamax MDL”) for coordinated pre-trial proceedings. The Fosamax MDL has been transferred to Judge John
Keenan in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. As a result of the JPML order, over
80 cases are before Judge Keenan. Judge Keenan has issued a Case Management Order setting forth a schedule
governing the proceedings which focuses primarily upon resolving the class action certification motions in 2007. The
Company intends to defend against these lawsuits.
As of December 31, 2006, the Company established a reserve of approximately $48 million solely for its
future legal defense costs for the Fosamax Litigation. Some of the significant factors considered in the establishment
of the reserve for the Fosamax Litigation legal defense costs were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the
Company thus far; the development of the Company’s legal defense strategy and structure in light of the creation of
the Fosamax MDL; the number of cases being brought against the Company; and the anticipated timing, progression,
and related costs of pre-trial activities in the Fosamax Litigation. The Company will continue to monitor its legal
defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves. Due to the uncertain nature of litigation, the
Company is unable to estimate its costs beyond the end of 2008. Unfavorable outcomes in the Fosamax Litigation
could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations.
C ommercial Litigation
Beginning in 1993, the Company was named in a number of antitrust suits, certain of which were certified as
class actions, instituted by most of the nation’s retail pharmacies and consumers in several states. The Company
settled the federal class action, which represented the single largest group of claims and has settled substantially all of
the remaining cases on satisfactory terms. The few remaining cases have been inactive for several years. The
Company has not engaged in any conspiracy and no admission of wrongdoing was made or included in any settlement
agreements.
As previously disclosed, the Company was joined in ongoing litigation alleging manipulation by
pharmaceutical manufacturers of Average Wholesale Prices (“AWP”), which are sometimes used in calculations that
determine public and private sector reimbursement levels. In 2002, the JPML ordered the transfer and consolidation of
all pending federal AWP cases to federal court in Boston, Massachusetts. Plaintiffs filed one consolidated class action
complaint, which aggregated the claims previously filed in various federal district court actions and also expanded the
number of manufacturers to include some which, like the Company, had not been defendants in any prior pending
case. In May 2003, the court granted the Company’s motion to dismiss the consolidated class action and dismissed the
Company from the class action case. Subsequent to the Company’s dismissal, the plaintiffs filed an amended
consolidated class action complaint, which did not name the Company as a defendant. The Company and many other
pharmaceutical manufacturers are defendants in similar complaints pending in federal and state court brought
individually by a number of counties in the State of New York. The Company and the other defendants are awaiting
the final ruling on their motion to dismiss in the Suffolk County case, which was the first of the New York county
cases to be filed. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, the Company was a defendant in state cases brought by the
Attorneys General of Kentucky, Illinois, Alabama, Wisconsin, Mississippi, Arizona, Hawaii and Alaska, all of which
are being defended.
As previously disclosed, the Company has been named as a defendant in antitrust cases in federal court in
Minnesota and in state court in California, each alleging an unlawful conspiracy among different sets of
pharmaceutical manufacturers to protect high prices in the United States by impeding importation into the United
States of lower-priced pharmaceuticals from Canada. The court dismissed the federal claims in the Minnesota case
with prejudice and the plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal. The Federal Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit
affirmed the dismissal of the federal claims. The state claims in that action were dismissed without prejudice, but have
not been refiled in any jurisdiction.
99In the California antitrust action, the parties engaged in discovery and the defendant manufacturers filed for
summary judgment. In December 2006, the court granted summary judgment in favor of Merck and the other
defendants and dismissed the case. The plaintiffs have filed a Notice of Appeal in the California state appeals court.
As previously disclosed, a suit in federal court in Alabama by two providers of health services to needy
patients alleges that 15 pharmaceutical companies overcharged the plaintiffs and a class of those similarly situated, for
pharmaceuticals purchased by the plaintiffs under the program established by Section 340B of the Public Health
Service Act. The Company and the other defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on numerous grounds
which was recently denied by the court. After denial of the motion to dismiss, the case was dismissed voluntarily by
the parties.
As previously disclosed, in January 2003, the DOJ notified the federal court in New Orleans, Louisiana that
it was not going to intervene at that time in a pending Federal False Claims Act case that was filed under seal in
December 1999 against the Company. The court issued an order unsealing the complaint, which was filed by a
physician in Louisiana, and ordered that the complaint be served. The complaint, which alleged that the Company’s
discounting of Pepcid in certain Louisiana hospitals led to increases in costs to Medicaid, was dismissed. An amended
complaint was filed under seal and the case has been administratively closed by the Court until the seal is lifted. The
State of Louisiana has filed its own amended complaint, incorporating the allegations contained in the sealed amended
complaint. The allegations contained in the sealed amended complaint are unknown.
In April 2005, the Company was named in a qui tam lawsuit under the Nevada False Claims Act. The suit, in
which the Nevada Attorney General has intervened, alleges that the Company inappropriately offered nominal pricing
and other marketing and pricing inducements to certain customers and also failed to comply with its obligations under
the Medicaid Best Price scheme related to such arrangements. In May 2006, the Company’s motion to dismiss this
action was denied by the district court. The Company is defending against this lawsuit.
G overnmental Proceedings
As previously disclosed, the Company has received a subpoena from the DOJ in connection with its
investigation of the Company’s marketing and selling activities, including nominal pricing programs and samples. The
Company has also reported that it has received a CID from the Attorney General of Texas regarding the Company’s
marketing and selling activities relating to Texas. As previously disclosed, the Company received another CID from
the Attorney General of Texas asking for additional information regarding the Company’s marketing and selling
activities related to Texas, including with respect to certain of its nominal pricing programs and samples. In April
2004, the Company received a subpoena from the office of the Inspector General for the District of Columbia in
connection with an investigation of the Company’s interactions with physicians in the District of Columbia, Maryland,
and Virginia. In November 2004, the Company received a letter request from the DOJ in connection with its
investigation of the Company’s pricing of Pepcid. In September 2005, the Company received a subpoena from the
Illinois Attorney General. The subpoena seeks information related to repackaging of prescription drugs. There was no
activity relating to Merck in the Illinois matter in 2006.
As previously disclosed, the Company has received a letter from the DOJ advising it of the existence of a qui
tam complaint alleging that the Company violated certain rules related to its calculations of best price and other
federal pricing benchmark calculations, certain of which may affect the Company’s Medicaid rebate obligation. The
DOJ has informed the Company that it does not intend to intervene in this action and has closed its investigation. The
lawsuit continues, however.
The Company is cooperating with all of these investigations. The Company cannot predict the outcome of
these investigations; however, it is possible that unfavorable outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations. In addition, from time to time, other federal, state or
foreign regulators or authorities may seek information about practices in the pharmaceutical industry or the
Company’s business practices in inquiries other than the investigations discussed in this section. It is not feasible to
predict the outcome of any such inquiries.
As previously disclosed, on February 23, 2004, the Italian Antitrust Authority (“ICA”) adopted a measure
commencing a formal investigation of Merck Sharp & Dohme (Italia) S.p.A. (“MSD Italy”) and the Company under
100Article 14 of the Italian Competition Law and Article 82 EC to ascertain whether the Company and MSD Italy
committed an abuse of a dominant position by refusing to grant to ACS Dobfar S.p.A. (“Dobfar”), an Italian company,
a voluntary license under the Company’s Italian Supplementary Protection Certificate (“SPC”), pursuant to domestic
legislation passed in 2002, to permit Dobfar to manufacture imipenem and cilastatin (“I&C”), the active ingredients in
Tienam , in Italy for sale outside Italy in countries where patent protection had expired or never existed. A hearing
before the ICA was held on May 2, 2005 and on June 17, 2005, the ICA found, on a preliminary basis, that the
Company’s refusal to grant the license was an abuse of a dominant position, and imposed interim measures requiring
the Company to grant a license to manufacture I&C in Italy for stockpiling purposes only, until expiration of the SPC.
On November 16, 2005, the Italian Administrative court denied the Company’s appeal of the ICA’s order. The
Company’s SPC expired in January 2006. Proceedings before the ICA continued on the merits of the Article 82
investigation and, in an effort to resolve the matter, the Company offered a commitment to the ICA pursuant to which
the Company would grant non-exclusive licenses under its Italian SPC for finasteride with respect to finasteride 5 mg
for the treatment of benign prostate hyperplasia. The deadline for the ICA to adopt its final decision as to whether the
Company’s commitment warrants the closure of the case is March 16, 2007.
V accine Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company is a party in claims brought under the Consumer Protection Act of
1987 in the United Kingdom, which allege that certain children suffer from a variety of conditions as a result of being
vaccinated with various bivalent vaccines for measles and rubella and/or trivalent vaccines for measles, mumps and
rubella, including the Company’s M-M-R II. The conditions include autism, with or without inflammatory bowel
disease, epilepsy, encephalitis, encephalopathy, Guillain-Barre syndrome and transverse myelitis. There are now 6
claimants proceeding or, to the Company’s knowledge, intending to proceed against the Company. The Company will
defend against these lawsuits.
As previously disclosed, the Company is also a party to individual and class action product liability lawsuits
and claims in the United States involving pediatric vaccines (e.g., hepatitis B vaccine) that contained thimerosal, a
preservative used in vaccines. Merck has not distributed thimerosal-containing pediatric vaccines in the United States
since the fall of 2001. As of December 31, 2006, there were approximately 250 active thimerosal related lawsuits with
approximately 670 plaintiffs. Other defendants include other vaccine manufacturers who produced pediatric vaccines
containing thimerosal as well as manufacturers of thimerosal. In these actions, the plaintiffs allege, among other
things, that they have suffered neurological injuries as a result of exposure to thimerosal from pediatric vaccines. Two
cases scheduled for trial in 2006 were dismissed — one, a state court case in Ohio voluntarily dismissed by the
plaintiffs, and the second, a Federal District Court case in Texas in which the Court entered summary judgment in
favor of defendants in 2005 and plaintiffs ultimately voluntarily dismissed their appeal. The Company will defend
against these lawsuits; however, it is possible that unfavorable outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations.
The Company has been successful in having cases of this type either dismissed or stayed on the ground that
the action is prohibited under the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act (the “Vaccine Act”). The Vaccine Act
prohibits any person from filing or maintaining a civil action (in state or federal court) seeking damages against a
vaccine manufacturer for vaccine-related injuries unless a petition is first filed in the United States Court of Federal
Claims (hereinafter the “Vaccine Court”). Under the Vaccine Act, before filing a civil action against a vaccine
manufacturer, the petitioner must either (a) pursue his or her petition to conclusion in Vaccine Court and then timely
file an election to proceed with a civil action in lieu of accepting the Vaccine Court’s adjudication of the petition or
(b) timely exercise a right to withdraw the petition prior to Vaccine Court adjudication in accordance with certain
statutorily prescribed time periods. The Company is not a party to Vaccine Court proceedings because the petitions are
brought against the United States Department of Health and Human Services. The cases with trial dates referred to in
the preceding paragraph as having been dismissed were brought by plaintiffs who claimed to have made a timely
withdrawal of their Vaccine Court petitions.
The Company is aware that there are approximately 4,700 cases pending in the Vaccine Court involving
allegations that thimerosal-containing vaccines and/or the M-M-R II vaccine cause autism spectrum disorders. Not all
of the thimerosal-containing vaccines involved in the Vaccine Court proceeding are Company vaccines. The Company
is the sole source of the M-M-R II vaccine domestically. In June 2007, the Special Masters presiding over
101the Vaccine Court proceedings are scheduled to begin a hearing in which both petitioners and the government will
present evidence on the issue of whether these vaccines can cause autism spectrum disorders. That hearing is expected
to last a number of weeks. Since it is not a party, the Company will not participate in the proceedings.
P atent Litigation
From time to time, generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical products file Abbreviated New Drug
Applications (“ANDA’s”) with the FDA seeking to market generic forms of the Company’s products prior to the
expiration of relevant patents owned by the Company. Generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have submitted
ANDA’s to the FDA seeking to market in the United States a generic form of Fosamax , Prilosec, Nexium , Propecia,
Trusopt and Cosopt prior to the expiration of the Company’s (and AstraZeneca’s in the case of Prilosec and Nexium )
patents concerning these products. The generic companies’ ANDA’s generally include allegations of non-
infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of the patents. Generic manufacturers have received FDA approval to
market a generic form of Prilosec. The Company has filed patent infringement suits in federal court against companies
filing ANDA’s for generic alendronate ( Fosamax ), finasteride ( Propecia ), dorzolamide ( Trusopt ) and
dorzolamide/timolol ( Cosopt ), and AstraZeneca and the Company have filed patent infringement suits in federal
court against companies filing ANDA’s for generic omeprazole ( Prilosec ) and esomeprazole ( Nexium ). Similar
patent challenges exist in certain foreign jurisdictions. The Company intends to vigorously defend its patents, which it
believes are valid, against infringement by generic companies attempting to market products prior to the expiration
dates of such patents. As with any litigation, there can be no assurance of the outcomes, which, if adverse, could result
in significantly shortened periods of exclusivity for these products.
In February 2007, Schering Plough Corporation (“Schering Plough”) received a notice from a generic
company indicating that it had filed an ANDA for Zetia and that it is challenging the U.S. patents that are listed for
Zetia. Merck and Schering Plough market Zetia through a joint venture and they are considering the appropriate
response.
On February 22, 2007, the Company received a notice from a generic company indicating that it had filed an
ANDA for montelukast and that it is challenging the U.S. patent that is listed for Singulair . The Company is
considering the appropriate response.
As previously disclosed, on January 28, 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington, D.C. found the Company’s patent claims for once-weekly administration of Fosamax to be invalid. The
Company exhausted all options to appeal this decision in 2005. Based on the Court of Appeals’ decision, Fosamax
and Fosamax Plus D will lose market exclusivity in the United States in February 2008 and April 2008, respectively,
and the Company expects a significant decline in U.S. Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D sales after each product’s
respective loss of market exclusivity.
In May 2005, the Federal Court of Canada Trial Division issued a decision refusing to bar the approval of
generic alendronate on the ground that Merck’s patent for weekly alendronate was likely invalid. This decision cannot
be appealed and generic alendronate was launched in Canada in June 2005. In July 2005, Merck was sued in the
Federal Court of Canada by Apotex seeking damages for lost sales of generic weekly alendronate due to the patent
proceeding.
As previously disclosed, in September 2004, the Company appealed a decision of the Opposition Division
(the “Opposition Division”) of the European Patent Office (the “EPO”) that revoked the Company’s patent in Europe
that covers the once-weekly administration of alendronate. On March 14, 2006, the Board of Appeal of the EPO
upheld the decision of the Opposition Division. Thus, presently the Company is not entitled to market exclusivity for
Fosamax in most major European markets after 2007. In addition, Merck’s basic patent covering the use of
alendronate has been challenged in several European countries. The Company has received adverse decisions in
Germany, Holland and the United Kingdom. The decision in the United Kingdom was upheld on appeal. The
Company has appealed the decisions in Germany and Holland.
In June 2006, the Company filed lawsuits in federal court against Barr Laboratories, Inc. and Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (“Teva”) asserting that their respective manufacturing processes for making their
alendronate products would infringe one or more process patents of the Company.
102On October 5, 2004, in an action in Australia challenging the validity of the Company’s Australian patent for
the once-weekly administration of alendronate, the patent was found to be invalid. That decision was upheld on
appeal.
In addition, as previously disclosed, in Japan a proceeding has been filed challenging the validity of the
Company’s Japanese patent for the once-weekly administration of alendronate.
On January 18, 2006, the Company sued Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. (“Hi-Tech”) of Amityville, New York
for patent infringement in response to Hi-Tech’s application to the FDA seeking approval of a generic version of
Merck’s ophthalmic drugs Trusopt and Cosopt , which are used for treating elevated intraocular pressure in people
with ocular hypertension or glaucoma. In the lawsuit, Merck sued to enforce a patent covering an active ingredient
dorzolamide, which is present in both Trusopt and Cosopt. In that case, the District Court entered judgment in Merck’s
favor and Hi-Tech appealed. A hearing of the appeal was conducted in December 2006 and a decision is pending.
Merck has elected not to enforce two U.S. patents listed with the FDA which cover the combination of dorzolamide
and timolol, the two active ingredients in Cosopt. This lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Hi-Tech’s
ANDA’s for 30 months from January 2006 or until an adverse court decision, whichever may occur earlier. The patent
covering dorzolamide provides exclusivity for Trusopt and Cosopt until October 2008 (including six months of
pediatric exclusivity). After such time, the Company expects sales of these products to decline.
In the case of omeprazole, the trial court in the United States rendered an opinion in October 2002 upholding
the validity of the Company’s and AstraZeneca’s patents covering the stabilized formulation of omeprazole and ruling
that one defendant’s omeprazole product did not infringe those patents. The other three defendants’ products were
found to infringe the formulation patents. In December 2003, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
affirmed the decision of the trial court. With respect to the Company’s patent infringement claims against certain other
generic manufacturers’ omeprazole products, the trial concluded in June 2006 and a decision is pending.
The Company and AstraZeneca received notice in October 2005 that Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited
(“Ranbaxy”) has filed an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium. The ANDA contains Paragraph IV challenges to
patents on Nexium. On November 21, 2005, the Company and AstraZeneca sued Ranbaxy in the United States District
Court in New Jersey. Accordingly, FDA approval of Ranbaxy’s ANDA is stayed for 30 months until April 2008 or
until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. The Company and AstraZeneca received notice in
January 2006 that IVAX Pharmaceuticals, Inc., subsequently acquired by Teva, had filed an ANDA for esomeprazole
magnesium. The ANDA contains Paragraph IV challenges to patents on Nexium. On March 8, 2006, the Company
and AstraZeneca sued Teva in the United States District Court in New Jersey. Accordingly, FDA approval of Teva’s
ANDA is stayed for 30 months until September 2008 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur
earlier.
In the case of finasteride, an ANDA has been filed seeking approval of a generic version of Propecia and
alleging invalidity of the Company’s patents. The Company filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the District Court of
Delaware in September 2004. In 2006, the Company reached a settlement with the generic company, Dr. Reddy’s
Laboratories (“DRL”), under which DRL may sell a generic 1 mg finasteride product beginning in January 2013.
In Europe, the Company is aware of various companies seeking registration for generic losartan (the active
ingredient for Cozaar ). The Company has patent rights to losartan via license from E.I. du Pont de Nemours and
Company (“du Pont”). The Company and du Pont have filed patent infringement proceedings against various
companies in Portugal, Spain and Norway.
O ther Litigation
On July 27, 2005, Merck was served with a further shareholder derivative suit filed in the New Jersey
Superior Court for Hunterdon County against the Company and certain current and former officers and directors. This
lawsuit seeks to recover or cancel compensation awarded to the Company’s executive officers in 2004, and asserts
claims for breach of fiduciary duty, waste and unjust enrichment. On July 21, 2006, the Court granted defendants’
motion to dismiss based on plaintiff’s failure to make pre-suit demand on Merck’s Board of Directors and denied
plaintiff’s request for leave to amend. Thus, this case has been terminated.
103In November 2005, an individual shareholder delivered a letter to the Board alleging that the Company had
sustained damages through the Company’s adoption of its Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan (the “CIC
Plan”) in November 2004. The shareholder made a demand on the Board to take legal action against the Board’s
current or former members for allegedly causing damage to the Company with respect to the adoption of the CIC Plan.
In response to that demand letter, the independent members of the Board determined at the November 22, 2005 Board
meeting that the Board would take the shareholder’s request under consideration and it remains under consideration.
As previously disclosed, on August 20, 2004, the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey
granted a motion by the Company, Medco Health Solutions, Inc. (“Medco Health”) and certain officers and directors
to dismiss a shareholder derivative action involving claims related to the Company’s revenue recognition practice for
retail co-payments paid by individuals to whom Medco Health provides pharmaceutical benefits as well as other
allegations. The complaint was dismissed with prejudice. Plaintiffs appealed the decision. On December 15, 2005, the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit upheld most of the District Court’s decision dismissing the suit, and sent
the issue of whether the Company’s Board of Directors properly refused the shareholder demand relating to the
Company’s treatment of retail co-payments back to the District Court for reconsideration under a different legal
standard. Plaintiffs moved to remand their action to state court on August 18, 2006, and the District Court granted that
motion on February 1, 2007. The shareholder derivative suit is currently pending before the Superior Court of New
Jersey, Chancery Division, Hunterdon County.
As previously disclosed, prior to the spin-off of Medco Health, the Company and Medco Health agreed to
settle, on a class action basis, a series of lawsuits asserting violations of ERISA (the “Gruer Cases”). The Company,
Medco Health and certain plaintiffs’ counsel filed the settlement agreement with the federal district court in New
York, where cases commenced by a number of plaintiffs, including participants in a number of pharmaceutical benefit
plans for which Medco Health is the pharmacy benefit manager, as well as trustees of such plans, have been
consolidated. Medco Health and the Company agreed to the proposed settlement in order to avoid the significant cost
and distraction of prolonged litigation. The proposed class settlement has been agreed to by plaintiffs in five of the
cases filed against Medco Health and the Company. Under the proposed settlement, the Company and Medco Health
have agreed to pay a total of $42.5 million, and Medco Health has agreed to modify certain business practices or to
continue certain specified business practices for a period of five years. The financial compensation is intended to
benefit members of the settlement class, which includes ERISA plans for which Medco Health administered a
pharmacy benefit at any time since December 17, 1994. The District Court held hearings to hear objections to the
fairness of the proposed settlement and approved the settlement in 2004, but has not yet determined the number of
class member plans that have properly elected not to participate in the settlement. The settlement becomes final only if
and when all appeals have been resolved. Certain class member plans have indicated that they will not participate in
the settlement. Cases initiated by three such plans and two individuals remain pending in the Southern District of New
York. Plaintiffs in these cases have asserted claims based on ERISA as well as other federal and state laws that are the
same as or similar to the claims that had been asserted by settling class members in the Gruer Cases. The Company
and Medco Health are named as defendants in these cases.
Three notices of appeal were filed and the appellate court heard oral argument in May 2005. On December 8,
2005, the appellate court issued a decision vacating the district court’s judgment and remanding the cases to the
district court to allow the district court to resolve certain jurisdictional issues. A hearing was held to address such
issues on February 24, 2006. The District Court issued a ruling on August 10, 2006 resolving such jurisdictional issues
in favor of the settling plaintiffs. The class members and other party that had previously appealed the District Court’s
judgment have renewed their appeals. The renewed appeals are presently being briefed.
After the spin-off of Medco Health, Medco Health assumed substantially all of the liability exposure for the
matters discussed in the foregoing two paragraphs. These cases are being defended by Medco Health.
There are various other legal proceedings, principally product liability and intellectual property suits
involving the Company, which are pending. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such proceedings or the
proceedings discussed in this Note, in the opinion of the Company, all such proceedings are either adequately covered
by insurance or, if not so covered, should not ultimately result in any liability that would have a material
104adverse effect on the financial position, liquidity or results of operations of the Company, other than proceedings for
which a separate assessment is provided in this Note.
E nvironmental Matters
The Company is a party to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents.
These proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste disposal facilities, transporters of waste to the sites
and generators of hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to reimburse the government for
cleanup costs. The Company has been made a party to these proceedings as an alleged generator of waste disposed of
at the sites. In each case, the government alleges that the defendants are jointly and severally liable for the cleanup
costs. Although joint and several liability is alleged, these proceedings are frequently resolved so that the allocation of
cleanup costs among the parties more nearly reflects the relative contributions of the parties to the site situation. The
Company’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. For some sites the potential liability is de minimis and for
others the costs of cleanup have not yet been determined. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of many of
these proceedings brought by federal or state agencies or private litigants, in the opinion of the Company, such
proceedings should not ultimately result in any liability which would have a material adverse effect on the financial
position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources of the Company. The Company has taken an active role in
identifying and providing for these costs and such amounts do not include any reduction for anticipated recoveries of
cleanup costs from insurers, former site owners or operators or other recalcitrant potentially responsible parties.
On June 13, 2006, potassium thiocyanate was accidentally discharged from the Company’s plant in West
Point, Pennsylvania through the Upper Gwynedd Township Authority’s wastewater treatment plant into the
Wissahickon Creek, causing a fishkill. Federal and State agencies are investigating the discharge and the Company is
currently cooperating with the investigations.
In management’s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably
estimable have been accrued and totaled $129.0 million and $100.4 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not consider potential recoveries from insurers or other parties and
will be paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the
next 15 years. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs
of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess
of the liabilities accrued should exceed $62.0 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these
expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations,
liquidity or capital resources for any year.
1 2. Preferred Stock of Subsidiary Companies
In December 2004, the Company redeemed variable-rate preferred units of a subsidiary at $1.5 billion of par
value plus accrued dividends. Because these preferred securities were held at the subsidiary level, they were
previously included in Minority interests in the consolidated financial statements.
In connection with the 1998 restructuring of AMI (see Note 9), the Company assumed a $2.4 billion par
value preferred stock obligation with a dividend rate of 5% per annum, which is carried by KBI and included in
Minority interests. While a small portion of the preferred stock carried by KBI is convertible into KBI common
shares, none of the preferred securities are convertible into the Company’s common shares and, therefore, they are not
included as common shares issuable for purposes of computing Earnings per common share assuming dilution (see
Note 18).
1 3. Stockholders’ Equity
Other paid-in capital increased by $266.5 million in 2006 and $30.2 million in 2005, and decreased by
$86.8 million in 2004. The changes primarily reflect the impact of shares issued upon exercise of stock options and
related income tax benefits, as well as the issuance of restricted shares. In addition, the increase in 2006 reflects the
impact of recognizing share-based compensation expense as a result of the adoption of FAS 123R (see Note 14).
105A summary of treasury stock transactions (shares in millions) is as follows:
2 006 2 005 2 004
Shares Cost Shares Cost Shares Cost
B alance, January 1 794.3 $2 6,984.4 767.6 $2 6,191.8 754.5 $2 5,617.5
Purchases 26.4 1,002.3 33.2 1,015.3 24.9 974.6
Issuances (1) (12.3 ) (419.3) (6.5 ) (222.7 ) (11.8 ) (400.3)
B alance, December 31 808.4 $2 7,567.4 794.3 $2 6,984.4 767.6 $2 6,191.8
(1) Issued primarily under stock option plans.
At December 31, 2006 and 2005, 10 million shares of preferred stock, without par value, were authorized;
none were issued.
1 4. Share-Based Compensation Plans
The Company has share-based compensation plans under which employees, non-employee directors and
employees of certain of the Company’s equity method investees may be granted options to purchase shares of
Company common stock at the fair market value at the time of grant. In addition to stock options, the Company grants
performance share units (“PSUs”) and restricted stock units (“RSUs”) to certain management level employees. These
plans were approved by the Company’s shareholders. At December 31, 2006, 187.7 million shares were authorized for
future grants under the Company’s share-based compensation plans. The Company settles employee share-based
compensation awards primarily with treasury shares.
Employee stock options are granted to purchase shares of Company stock at the fair market value at the time
of grant. These awards generally vest one-third each year over a three-year period, with a contractual term of 10 years.
RSUs are stock awards that are granted to employees and entitle the holder to shares of common stock as the awards
vest, as well as non-forfeitable dividend equivalents. The fair value of the awards is determined and fixed on the grant
date based on the Company’s stock price. PSUs are stock awards where the ultimate number of shares issued will be
contingent on the Company’s performance against a pre-set objective or set of objectives. The fair value of each PSU
is determined on the date of grant based on the Company’s stock price. Over the performance period, the number of
shares of stock that are expected to be issued will be adjusted based on the probability of achievement of a
performance target and final compensation expense will be recognized based on the ultimate number of shares issued.
The Company did not recognize compensation expense in connection with PSU’s in 2006, 2005 or 2004. Both PSU
and RSU payouts will be in shares of Company stock after the end of a three-year period, subject to the terms
applicable to such awards.
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted FAS 123R. Employee share-based compensation expense
was previously recognized using the intrinsic value method which measures share-based compensation expense as the
amount at which the market price of the stock at the date of grant exceeds the exercise price. FAS 123R requires the
recognition of the fair value of share-based compensation in net income, which the Company recognizes on a straight-
line basis over the requisite service period. Additionally, the Company elected the modified prospective transition
method for adopting FAS 123R, and therefore, prior periods were not retrospectively adjusted. Under this method, the
provisions for FAS 123R apply to all awards granted or modified after January 1, 2006. In addition, the unrecognized
expense of awards that have not yet vested at the date of adoption are recognized in net income in the relevant period
after the date of adoption. Also effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted FASB Staff Position 123R-3,
Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards , which provides the
Company an optional short cut method for calculating the historical pool of windfall tax benefits upon adopting
FAS 123R.
106The following table provides amounts of share-based compensation cost recorded in the Consolidated
Statement of Income (substantially all of the 2005 and 2004 amounts were related to RSUs):
Y ears Ended December 31 2006 2005 2 004
P re-tax share-based compensation expense $3 12.5 $ 48.0 $2 5.7
Income tax benefits (98.5 ) (16.8 ) (9.0)
T otal share-based compensation expense, net of tax $2 14.0 $ 31.2 $1 6.7
As a result of the adoption of FAS 123R, effective January 1, 2006, the incremental impact on the
Company’s share-based compensation expense reduced the Company’s results of operations as follows:
Y ear Ended December 31 2006
Income Before Taxes $2 27.8
Net Income $1 59.0
Earnings per Common Share Assuming Dilution $ 0.07
FAS 123R requires the Company to present pro forma information for periods prior to the adoption as if the
Company had accounted for employee share-based compensation under the fair value method of that Statement. For
purposes of pro forma disclosure, the estimated fair value of awards at the date of grant, including those granted to
retirement-eligible employees, is amortized to expense over the requisite service period. The following table illustrates
the effect on net income and earnings per common share if the Company had applied the fair value method for
recognizing employee share-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004:
Y ears Ended December 31 2005 2004
Net income, as reported $4 ,631.3 $5 ,830.1
Compensation expense, net of tax:
Reported 31.2 16.7
Fair value method (357.1) (491.8)
Pro forma net income $4 ,305.4 $5 ,355.0
Earnings per common share:
Basic - as reported $2.11 $2.63
Basic - pro forma $1.96 $2.41
Assuming dilution - as reported $2.10 $2.62
Assuming dilution - pro forma $1.96 $2.40
The pro forma amounts and the fair value of each option grant were estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model. Upon the adoption of FAS 123R, compensation expense is being recognized
immediately for awards granted to retirement-eligible employees or over the period from the grant date to the date
retirement eligibility is achieved. This approach is known as the non-substantive vesting period approach. If the
Company had been applying this approach for stock options granted to retirement-eligible employees, the effect on
pro forma earnings per share assuming dilution for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, as provided in the
above table, would not have been significant.
In 2005 and 2004, pro forma compensation expense was calculated using the Black-Scholes model utilizing
assumptions based on historical data, such that expense was determined using separate expected term assumptions for
each vesting tranche. As a result, pro forma compensation expense for any stock options granted after January 1, 2004
but prior to January 1, 2006 was calculated using the accelerated amortization method prescribed in FASB
Interpretation No. 28, Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans.
Upon adoption of FAS 123R, effective January 1, 2006, the Company recognizes compensation expense using the
straight-line method.
107The Company continues to use the Black-Scholes option pricing model for option grants after adoption of
FAS 123R. In applying this model, the Company uses both historical data and current market data to estimate the fair
value of its options. The Black-Scholes model requires several assumptions including expected term of the options,
risk-free rate, volatility, and dividend yield. The expected term represents the expected amount of time that options
granted are expected to be outstanding, based on historical and forecasted exercise behavior. The risk-free rate is
based on the rate at grant date of zero-coupon U.S. Treasury Notes with a term equal to the expected term of the
option. Expected volatility is estimated using a blend of historical and implied volatility. The historical component is
based on historical monthly price changes. The implied volatility is obtained from market data on the Company’s
traded options.
The weighted average fair value of options granted in 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $7.25, $6.66 and $10.50 per
option, respectively, and were determined using the following assumptions:
Y ear Ended December 31 20 06 20 05 20 04
Expected dividend yield 4.2% 4.8% 3.4%
Risk-free interest rate 4.6% 4.0% 3.1%
Expected volatility 26% 32% 30%
Expected life (years) 5.7 5.7 5.7
Summarized information relative to the Company’s stock option plans (options in thousands) is as follows:
Weighted
Weighted Average Aggregate
Average Remaining Intrinsic
Number Exercise Contractual Value
of Options Price Term ($000s)
Balance at December 31, 2005 250,088.0 $ 54.52
Granted 33,524.2 36.10
Exercised (12,256.8 ) 30.18
Forfeited (16,018.7 ) 56.77
Outstanding at December 31, 2006 255,336.7 $ 53.13 5.11 $6 66,620.3
Exercisable at December 31, 2006 193,798.7 $ 58.33 3.35 $1 82,489.1
Additional information pertaining to the Company’s stock option plans is provided in the table below:
Y ear Ended December 31 2006 2005 2004
Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised $ 67.3 $ 58.8 $2 78.9
Fair value of stock options vested $8 57.4 $9 49.3 $9 00.7
Cash received from the exercise of stock options $3 69.9 $1 36.5 $2 40.3
108A summary of the Company’s nonvested RSUs and PSUs (shares in thousands) at December 31, 2006, is as
follows:
R SUs P SUs
Weighted Weighted
Average Average
Number Grant Date Number Grant Date
of Shares Fair Value of Shares Fair Value
Nonvested at December 31, 2005 4,765.1 $ 35.93 1,022.2 $ 39.73
Granted 1,583.9 35.44 523.3 35.14
Vested (76.7 ) 34.68 - -
Forfeited (271.7) 35.19 (168.7) 34.75
N onvested at December 31, 2006 6,000.6 $ 35.85 1,376.8 $ 38.59
At December 31, 2006, there was $273.8 million of total pre-tax unrecognized compensation expense related
to nonvested stock options, RSU and PSU awards which will be recognized over a weighted average period of
2.0 years. For segment reporting, share-based compensation is recorded in unallocated expense.
1 5. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans
The Company has defined benefit pension plans covering eligible employees in the United States and in
certain of its international subsidiaries. Pension benefits in the United States are based on a formula that considers
final average pay and years of credited service. In addition, the Company provides medical, dental and life insurance
benefits, principally to its eligible U.S. retirees and similar benefits to their dependents, through its other
postretirement benefit plans. The Company uses a December 31 measurement date for substantially all of its pension
plans and for its other postretirement benefit plans.
The net cost for the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans consisted of the following
components:
Other Po stretir e m ent
Pension Benefits Benefits
Years Ended December 31 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004
Service cost $ 363.7 $ 338.8 $ 307.7 $ 91.3 $ 87.9 $ 86.0
Interest cost 341.3 310.6 286.0 100.1 106.0 105.7
Expected return on plan assets (436.8) (400.7 ) (367.7) (112.6) (103.0) (89.4 )
Net amortization 169.4 156.1 130.0 1.9 22.0 31.0
Termination benefits 29.7 32.0 18.4 3.6 6.5 3.1
Curtailments - 9.1 - (2.6 ) 0.7 (12.3 )
Settlements 14.7 (4.2 ) 23.0 - - -
N et pension and postretirement cost $ 482.0 $ 441.7 $ 397.4 $ 81.7 $ 120.1 $ 124.1
The net pension cost attributable to U.S. plans included in the above table was $327.2 million in 2006,
$295.3 million in 2005 and $283.0 million in 2004.
The cost of health care and life insurance benefits for active employees was $311.6 million in 2006,
$324.6 million in 2005 and $295.3 million in 2004.
In connection with the Company’s restructuring actions (see Note 4), Merck recorded termination charges in
2006, 2005 and 2004 on its pension and other postretirement benefit plans related to expanded eligibility for certain
employees exiting the Company. Also, in connection with these restructuring activities, the Company recorded
curtailment losses in 2005 on its pension and other postretirement benefit plans.
109In 2006 and 2004, amendments that changed participant contributions and the service recognized for
eligibility for other postretirement benefit plans generated curtailment gains.
In addition, the Company recorded settlement losses in 2006 and 2004 and a settlement gain in 2005 on
certain of its domestic pension plans resulting from employees electing to receive their pension benefits as lump sum
payments.
Effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 106 and 132R
(“FAS 158”), except for the requirement to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the Company’s fiscal
year end, which is effective as of December 31, 2008. FAS 158 required the Company to fully recognize the funded
status of its benefit plans. Each overfunded plan is recognized as an asset and each underfunded plan is recognized as
a liability. Previously unrecognized net losses and unrecognized plan changes are recognized as a component of AOCI
at December 31, 2006 (see Note 19).
The effects of applying FAS 158 at December 31, 2006 were as follows:
Before After
Application of FAS 158 Application of
FAS 158 Adjustments FAS 158
Prepaid expenses and taxes $ 1,417.4 $ 15.6 $ 1,433.0
Other assets 7,193.2 (1,211.4) 5,981.8
Accrued and other current liabilities (6,654.4) 1.1 (6,653.3)
Deferred income taxes and noncurrent liabilities (6,309.4) (20.9 ) (6,330.3)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (51.3) 1,215.6 1,164.3
110Summarized information about the changes in plan assets and benefit obligation, the funded status and the
amounts recorded at December 31, 2006 and 2005 is as follows:
O ther Po s treti rement
Pension Benefits Benefits
2006 2005 2006 2005
Fair value of plan assets at January 1 $ 6,070.6 $5 ,480.9 $1 ,277.4 $ 1,165.3
Actual return on plan assets 955.7 391.6 209.9 101.9
Company contributions 494.4 497.7 36.5 46.3
Benefits paid from plan assets (468.8) (306.2 ) (39.6 ) (36.1 )
Other 4.8 6.6 - -
F air value of plan assets at December 31 $ 7,056.7 $6 ,070.6 $1 ,484.2 $ 1,277.4
Benefit obligation at January 1 $ 6,523.5 $5 ,879.5 $1 ,816.6 $ 1,892.4
Service cost 363.7 338.8 91.3 87.9
Interest cost 341.3 310.6 100.1 106.0
Actuarial losses (gains) 150.7 286.3 (16.0 ) (29.3 )
Benefits paid (502.1) (329.1 ) (62.0 ) (88.5 )
Plan amendments 11.3 18.2 (111.8) (159.1)
Curtailments (22.7 ) (12.2 ) - 0.7
Termination benefits 29.7 32.0 3.6 6.5
Other 31.4 (0.6 ) - -
B enefit obligation at December 31 $ 6,926.8 $6 ,523.5 $1 ,821.8 $ 1,816.6
Funded status at December 31 $ 129.9 $ (452.9 ) $ (337.6) $ (539.2)
Unrecognized net loss $ - $2 ,300.3 $ - $ 682.7
Unrecognized plan changes - 85.4 - (338.9)
N et amount recorded $ 129.9 $1 ,932.8 $ (337.6) $ (195.4)
Recognized as:
Other assets $ 915.7 $2 ,347.4 $ 376.5 $ -
Accrued and other current liabilities (20.0 ) (8.0 ) (24.6 ) (24.9 )
Deferred income taxes and noncurrent liabilities (765.8) (439.3 ) (689.5) (170.5)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss - 32.7 - -
The fair value of U.S. pension plan assets included in the preceding table was $4.4 billion in 2006 and
$3.8 billion in 2005. The pension benefit obligation of U.S. plans included in this table was $4.2 billion in 2006 and
$4.1 billion in 2005.
111The weighted average asset allocations of the investment portfolio for the pension and other postretirement
benefit plans at December 31 are as follows:
O ther
Pension Postretirement
Benefits Benefits
2006 2005 2006 2005
U.S. equities 39% 39 % 56 % 54 %
International equities 34% 33 % 28 % 29 %
Fixed-income investments 22% 19 % 15 % 15 %
Real estate and other investments 4% 3% 0 % 0%
Cash and cash equivalents 1% 6% 1 % 2%
100 % 100 % 100 % 100 %
The target investment portfolios for the Company’s pension plans are determined by country based on the
nature of the liabilities and considering the demographic composition of the plan participants (average age, years of
service and active versus retiree status) and in accordance with local regulations. The weighted average target
allocation was 38% in U.S. equities, 34% in international equities, 23% in fixed-income investments, 4% in real estate
and other investments, and 1% in cash and cash equivalents. Other investments include insurance contracts for certain
international pension plans.
The target investment portfolio for the Company’s other postretirement benefit plans is allocated 45% to
60% in U.S. equities, 20% to 30% in international equities, 15% to 20% in fixed-income investments, and up to 8% in
cash and other investments. The portfolio’s asset allocation is consistent with the long-term nature of the plans’
benefit obligation, and is well diversified among the asset classes in which the portfolio invests.
Contributions to the pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans during 2007 are expected to be
$115.0 million and $81.0 million, respectively.
Expected benefit payments are as follows:
Other
Pension Postretirement
Benefits Benefits
2007 $ 239.4 $ 76.4
2008 261.3 81.8
2009 280.6 88.1
2010 300.7 94.6
2011 336.0 101.3
2012 - 2016 2,185.6 611.5
Expected benefit payments are based on the same assumptions used to measure the benefit obligations and
include estimated future employee service.
At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the accumulated benefit obligation was $5.4 billion and $5.0 billion,
respectively, for all pension plans and $3.2 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively, for U.S. pension plans. The Company
recorded a minimum pension liability, representing the extent to which the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded
plan assets for certain of the Company’s pension plans, of $29.9 million prior to the adoption of FAS 158 at
December 31, 2006, and had a minimum pension liability of $34.5 million at December 31, 2005.
For pension plans with benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at December 31, 2006 and 2005, the fair
value of plan assets was $785.3 million and $695.3 million, respectively, and the benefit obligation was $1.6 billion
and $1.5 billion, respectively. For those plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at
112December 31, 2006 and 2005, the fair value of plan assets was $187.1 million and $144.8 million, respectively, and
the accumulated benefit obligation was $535.2 million and $456.5 million, respectively.
Effective with the adoption of FAS 158, net loss amounts, which reflect experience differentials primarily
relating to differences between expected and actual returns on plan assets as well as the effects of changes in actuarial
assumptions, are recorded as a component of AOCI. Net loss amounts in excess of certain thresholds are amortized
into net pension and other postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining service life of employees. The
estimated net loss and prior service cost (credit) amounts that will be amortized from AOCI into net pension and
postretirement benefit cost during 2007 are $123.1 million and $11.2 million, respectively, for pension plans and are
$25.4 million and $(43.4) million, respectively, for other postretirement benefit plans.
The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. The weighted average assumptions
used in determining pension plan and U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plan information are as follows:
U.S. Pe n sion and O t her
Postretirement
Pension Plans Benefit Plans
December 31 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004
Net cost
D iscount rate 5.15% 5.40% 5.65% 5.75% 6.00% (1) 6.25%
Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.65% 7.65% 7.70% 8.75% 8.75% 8.75%
Salary growth rate 4.20% 4.10% 4.10% 4.50% 4.50% 4.50%
B enefit obligation
D iscount rate 5.35% 5.15% 5.40% 6.00% 5.75% 6.00%
Salary growth rate 4.20% 4.20% 4.10% 4.50% 4.50% 4.50%
(1) 5.75% used for other postretirement benefit plans.
The expected rate of return for both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans represents the average
rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits included in the benefit obligation are to be paid
and is determined on a country basis. In developing the expected rate of return within each country, the long-term
historical returns data is considered as well as actual returns on the plan assets and other capital markets experience.
Using this reference information, the long-term return expectations for each asset category and a weighted average
expected return for each country’s target portfolio is developed, according to the allocation among those investment
categories. The expected portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active management as appropriate. For
2007, the Company’s expected rate of return of 8.75% will remain unchanged from 2006 for its U.S. pension and
other postretirement benefit plans.
The health care cost trend rate assumptions for other postretirement benefit plans are as follows:
D ecember 31 2006 2005
Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year 9.0% 9.0%
Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline 5.0% 5.0%
Year that the trend rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2 014 2013
A one percentage point change in the health care cost trend rate would have had the following effects:
One P e rcen tage
Point
Increase Decrease
Effect on total service and interest cost components $ 35.5 $ (28.2 )
Effect on benefit obligation $ 272.5 $ (222.8)
11316. Other (Income) Expense, Net
Y ears Ended December 31 2006 2005 2004
Interest income $ (764.3) $( 480.9) $( 300.1 )
Interest expense 375.1 385.5 293.7
Exchange gains (25.0 ) (16.1 ) (18.4 )
Minority interests 120.5 121.8 154.2
Other, net (89.0 ) (120.5) (473.4 )
$ (382.7) $( 110.2) $( 344.0 )
The increase in interest income reflects interest income generated from the Company’s investment portfolio
derived from higher interest rates and higher average investment portfolio balances. Interest paid was $387.5 million
in 2006, $354.1 million in 2005 and $284.6 million in 2004.
The reduced minority interest in 2005 is attributable to the redemption of subsidiary variable-rate preferred
units (see Note 12). Other, net in 2004 primarily reflects a $176.8 million gain from the sale of the Company’s 50%
equity stake in its European joint venture with Johnson & Johnson, as well as realized gains on the Company’s
investment portfolio.
1 7. Taxes on Income
A reconciliation between the Company’s effective tax rate and the U.S. statutory rate is as follows:
2006 Ta x Rat e
Amount 2006 2005 2004
U.S. statutory rate applied to income before taxes $ 2,177.5 35.0% 35.0% 35.0%
Differential arising from:
Foreign earnings (1,024.1) ( 16.5 ) (12.8 ) (10.0 )
Tax exemption for Puerto Rico operations (87.6 ) (1.4) (1.3 ) (1.6 )
Acquired research 266.9 4.3 - 0.5
State taxes 129.6 2.1 2.5 1.3
AJCA - - 10.4 -
Other 325.3 5.2 3.3 1.9
$ 1,787.6 28.7% 37.1% 27.1%
Other includes the tax effect of minority interests, contingency reserves, research credits, export incentives
and miscellaneous items. Domestic companies contributed approximately 34% in 2006, 43% in 2005 and 36% in 2004
to consolidated Income before taxes.
114Taxes on income consisted of:
Y ears Ended December 31 2006 2005 2004
Current provision
Federal $1 ,618.4 $1 ,688.1 $1 ,429.1
Foreign 458.3 739.6 530.9
State 241.1 295.9 163.8
2,317.8 2,723.6 2,123.8
D eferred provision
Federal (374.1 ) 97.0 95.6
Foreign (130.3 ) (134.0) (32.3)
State (25.8 ) 46.0 (14.4)
(530.2 ) 9.0 48.9
$1 ,787.6 $2 ,732.6 $2 ,172.7
Deferred income taxes at December 31 consisted of:
2006 2005
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
Other intangibles $ 27.3 $ 344.1 $ 36.0 $ 158.2
Inventory related 455.2 177.7 628.1 266.9
Accelerated depreciation - 1,262.2 - 1,539.1
Advance payment 338.6 - 338.6 -
Equity investments 142.4 863.8 104.5 676.1
Pensions and OPEB 281.9 188.9 151.3 789.9
Compensation related 249.1 - 151.9 -
Vioxx legal defense costs reserve 306.8 - 241.1 -
Net operating losses 448.4 - 314.9 -
Other 1,404.0 269.2 1,208.9 426.3
Subtotal 3,653.7 3,105.9 3,175.3 3,856.5
Valuation allowance (101.8) - (17.6 ) -
T otal deferred taxes $3 ,551.9 $ 3,105.9 $ 3,157.7 $ 3,856.5
N et deferred income taxes $ 446.0 $ 698.8
Recognized as:
Prepaid expenses and taxes $1 ,177.7 $ 662.2
Other assets 183.7 68.5
Income taxes payable $ 62.8 $ 159.7
Deferred income taxes and noncurrent
liabilities 852.6 1,269.8
The Company has net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards in a number of jurisdictions, the most
significant of which is the United Kingdom with NOL carryforwards of $182.8 million which have no expiration date.
The valuation allowance in both years primarily relates to certain Canadian NOL carryforwards resulting from a legal
entity reorganization.
115Income taxes paid in 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $2.4 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively.
Stock option exercises did not have a significant impact on taxes paid in 2006 or 2005. Stock option exercises reduced
income taxes paid in 2004 by $121.7 million.
As previously disclosed, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has been examining the Company’s tax
returns for the years 1993 to 2001 and had issued notices of deficiency with respect to a partnership transaction
entered into in 1993, and two minority interest equity financings entered into in 1995 and 2000, respectively. The IRS
has recently concluded its examination of the years 1993-2001 and will issue a Final Revenue Agents Report in the
first quarter. On February 13, 2007, the Company entered into closing agreements with the IRS covering several
specific items, including the 1993 partnership transaction and the 1995 and 2000 minority interest equity financings.
Under the terms of the closing agreements, the Company expects to make a payment of approximately $2.85 billion in
the first quarter of 2007. This payment will be offset during 2007 by (i) a tax refund of $150 million for amounts
previously paid related to these matters and (ii) a $400 million federal tax benefit related to interest included in the
payment, resulting in a net cash cost to the Company of approximately $2.3 billion. The Company has previously
established reserves for these matters and while the conclusion of the IRS examination, including the closing
agreements, does not have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position or liquidity, it
will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s cash flow for the first quarter of 2007 when the payment is
made. The impact for years subsequent to 2001 of the partnership transaction and the minority interest equity
financings is included in the closing agreements although those years remain open in all other respects.
As previously disclosed, Merck’s Canadian tax returns for the years 1998 through 2004 are being examined
by the Canada Revenue Agency (“CRA”). On October 10, 2006, CRA issued the Company a notice of reassessment
containing adjustments related to certain intercompany pricing matters which result in additional tax due of
approximately $1.4 billion (U.S. dollars) plus interest of $360 million (U.S. dollars). The Company disagrees with the
positions taken by CRA and believes they are without merit. The Company intends to contest the assessment through
the CRA appeals process and the courts if necessary. In connection with the appeals process, in the notice of
reassessment, the Company is required to post a deposit of up to one half of the tax and interest assessed. During
January 2007, the Company pledged collateral consisting of cash and cash equivalents of $802 million to a financial
institution which provided a Letter of Guarantee to the CRA. Management believes that resolution of these matters
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position or liquidity. However, an unfavorable
resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or cash flows in the quarter in
which an adjustment is recorded or the tax is due.
As previously disclosed, in October 2004, the AJCA was signed into law. The AJCA created temporary
incentives for U.S. multinationals to repatriate accumulated income earned outside the United States as of
December 31, 2002. In accordance with the AJCA, the Company repatriated $15.9 billion during 2005. The Company
recorded an income tax charge of $766.5 million in Taxes on Income in 2005 related to this repatriation, $185 million
of which was paid in 2005 and the remainder was paid in the first quarter of 2006. This charge was partially offset by
a $100 million benefit associated with a decision to implement certain tax planning strategies. The Company has not
changed its intention to indefinitely reinvest accumulated earnings earned subsequent to December 31, 2002. At
December 31, 2006, foreign earnings of $12.5 billion have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary companies for
reinvestment. No provision will be made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distributions of such
earnings and it is not practicable to determine the amount of the related unrecognized deferred income tax liability. In
addition, the Company has subsidiaries operating in Puerto Rico and Singapore under tax incentive grants that expire
in 2015 and 2026, respectively.
1161 8. Earnings per Share
The weighted average common shares used in the computations of basic earnings per common share and
earnings per common share assuming dilution (shares in millions) are as follows:
Y ears Ended December 31 2006 2005 2004
Average common shares outstanding 2 ,177.6 2 ,197.0 2,219.0
Common shares issuable (1) 10.1 3.4 7.4
A verage common shares outstanding assuming dilution 2 ,187.7 2 ,200.4 2,226.4
(1) Issuable primarily under share-based compensation plans.
In 2006, 2005 and 2004, 222.5 million, 242.4 million and 233.1 million common shares issuable under the
Company’s share-based compensation plans were excluded from the computation of earnings per common share
assuming dilution because the effect would have been antidilutive.
1 9. Comprehensive Income
The components of Other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows:
Pr etax (1) Tax A fter Tax
Year Ended December 31, 2006
N et unrealized loss on derivatives $ (111.2) $ 45.2 $ (66.0 )
Net loss realization 25.5 (10.4 ) 15.1
D erivatives (85.7 ) 34.8 (50.9 )
N et unrealized gain on investments 33.9 (7.8) 26.1
Net loss realization 0.2 (0.2) -
I nvestments 34.1 (8.0) 26.1
M inimum pension liability 34.8 (12.3 ) 22.5
C umulative translation adjustment related
to equity investees 29.0 (10.1 ) 18.9
$ 12.2 $ 4.4 $ 16.6
Year Ended December 31, 2005
N et unrealized gain on derivatives $ 93.6 $( 38.3 ) $ 55.3
Net loss realization 44.0 (18.0 ) 26.0
D erivatives 137.6 (56.3 ) 81.3
N et unrealized loss on investments (23.5 ) 1.6 (21.9 )
Net loss realization 71.1 1.1 72.2
I nvestments 47.6 2.7 50.3
M inimum pension liability (11.9 ) 4.9 (7.0)
C umulative translation adjustment related to
equity investees (40.6 ) 14.2 (26.4 )
$ 132.7 $( 34.5 ) $ 98.2
117Pr etax (1) Tax A fter Tax
Year Ended December 31, 2004
N et unrealized loss on derivatives $ (117.8) $ 48.2 $ (69.6 )
Net loss realization 64.2 (26.3 ) 37.9
D erivatives (53.6 ) 21.9 (31.7 )
N et unrealized loss on investments (38.4 ) (9.6) (48.0 )
Net income realization (89.7 ) 36.8 (52.9 )
I nvestments (128.1) 27.2 (100.9)
M inimum pension liability (7.2) 2.3 (4.9)
C umulative translation adjustment related to
equity investees 40.2 (14.1 ) 26.1
$ (148.7) $ 37.3 $ (111.4)
(1) Net of applicable minority interest.
The components of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows:
D ecember 31 2006 2005
Net unrealized (loss) gain on derivatives $ (35.3 ) $ 15.6
Net unrealized gain on investments 85.6 59.5
Minimum pension liability - (22.5 )
Pension plan net loss (1,103.7) -
Other postretirement benefit plan net loss (315.1 ) -
Pension plan changes (57.8 ) -
Other postretirement benefit plan changes 243.4 -
Cumulative translation adjustment related to
equity investees 18.6 (0.3)
$ (1,164.3) $ 52.3
At December 31, 2006, $21.8 million of the net unrealized loss on derivatives is associated with options
maturing in the next 12 months, which hedge anticipated foreign currency denominated sales over that same period.
2 0. Segment Reporting
The Company’s operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of two reportable
segments: the Pharmaceutical segment and the Vaccines segment. During the fourth quarter of 2006, the Vaccines
segment, previously included in All Other, met the reportable segment criteria pursuant to FASB Statement No. 131,
Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information. All prior periods have been recast to reflect
Vaccines as a reportable segment.
The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical products marketed either directly or
through joint ventures. These products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, sold by prescription, for the
treatment of human disorders. Merck sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers
and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance
organizations and other institutions. The Vaccines segment includes human health vaccine products marketed either
directly or through a joint venture. These products consist of preventative pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines,
primarily administered at physician offices. Merck sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians,
wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Vaccines segment includes the vast majority of the
Company’s vaccine sales, but excludes certain sales of vaccines by non-U.S. subsidiaries managed
118by and included in the Pharmaceutical segment. A large component of the pediatric and adolescent vaccines is funded
by the U.S. government through the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Vaccines for Children Program.
All Other includes other non-reportable human and animal health segments. The accounting policies for the
segments described above are the same as those described in Note 2. Revenues and profits for these segments are as
follows:
P harmaceutical V accines (1) A ll Other Total
Year Ended December 31, 2006
S egment revenues $ 20,374.8 $ 1,705.5 $ 162.1 $2 2,242.4
Segment profits 13,649.4 892.8 380.7 14,922.9
Included in segment profits:
Equity income from affiliates 1,673.1 72.4 315.2 2,060.7
Depreciation and amortization (153.0) (5.0 ) - (158.0)
Y ear Ended December 31, 2005
S egment revenues $ 20,678.8 $ 984.2 $ 161.8 $2 1,824.8
Segment profits 13,157.9 767.0 355.5 14,280.4
Included in segment profits:
Equity income from affiliates 1,006.5 108.9 290.1 1,405.5
Depreciation and amortization (148.8) (4.2 ) - (153.0)
Y ear Ended December 31, 2004
S egment revenues $ 21,591.0 $ 972.8 $ 185.1 $2 2,748.9
Segment profits 13,560.3 881.4 278.2 14,719.9
Included in segment profits:
Equity income from affiliates 512.8 111.3 196.4 820.5
Depreciation and amortization (151.8) (4.3 ) - (156.1)
( 1) In accordance with segment reporting requirements, Vaccines segment revenues exclude $153.9 million, $119.1 million and $97.5 million in
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, of vaccine sales by certain non-U.S. subsidiaries managed by and included in the Pharmaceutical segment.
Segment profits are comprised of segment revenues less certain elements of materials and production costs
and operating expenses, including components of equity income (loss) from affiliates and depreciation and
amortization expenses. For internal management reporting presented to the chief operating decision maker, the
Company does not allocate the vast majority of indirect production costs, research and development expenses and
general and administrative expenses, as well as the cost of financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain
responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by these
divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment profits.
A reconciliation of total segment revenues to consolidated Sales is as follows:
Y ears Ended December 31 2006 2005 2004
Segment revenues $ 22,242.4 $2 1,824.8 $2 2,748.9
Other revenues 393.6 187.1 223.9
$ 22,636.0 $2 2,011.9 $2 2,972.8
Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, sales related to divested
products or businesses and other supply sales not included in segment results.
119Sales (1) of the Company’s products were as follows:
Y ears Ended December 31 2006 2005 2004
Singulair $ 3,579.0 $ 2,975.6 $ 2,622.0
Cozaar/Hyzaar 3,163.1 3,037.2 2,823.7
Fosamax 3,134.4 3,191.2 3,159.7
Zocor 2,802.7 4,381.7 5,196.5
Primaxin 704.8 739.6 640.6
Cosopt/Trusopt 697.1 617.2 558.8
Proscar 618.5 741.4 733.1
Vasotec/Vaseretic 547.2 623.1 719.2
Cancidas 529.8 570.0 430.0
Maxalt 406.4 348.4 309.9
Propecia 351.8 291.9 270.2
Vioxx - - 1,489.3
Vaccines/Biologicals (2) 1,859.4 1,103.3 1,070.3
Other 4,241.8 3,391.3 2,949.5
$2 2,636.0 $2 2,011.9 $2 2,972.8
(1) Presented net of discounts and returns.
(2) These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Company’s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur
MSD, the results of which are reflected in equity income from affiliates.
Other primarily includes sales of other human pharmaceuticals, pharmaceutical and animal health supply
sales to the Company’s joint ventures and revenue from the Company’s relationship with AZLP, primarily relating to
sales of Nexium and Prilosec. Revenue from AZLP was $1.8 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.5 billion in 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively.
Consolidated revenues by geographic area where derived are as follows:
Y ears Ended December 31 2006 2005 2004
United States $ 13,776.8 $1 2,766.6 $1 3,506.2
Europe, Middle East and Africa 4,977.1 5,203.5 5,440.8
Japan 1,479.0 1,637.9 1,668.2
Other 2,403.1 2,403.9 2,357.6
$ 22,636.0 $2 2,011.9 $2 2,972.8
120A reconciliation of total segment profits to consolidated Income before taxes is as follows:
Y ears Ended December 31 2006 2005 2004
Segment profits $1 4,922.9 $1 4,280.4 $1 4,719.9
Other profits 256.7 175.3 24.6
Adjustments 516.3 615.3 481.3
Unallocated:
Interest income 764.3 480.9 300.1
Interest expense (375.1) (385.5) (293.7)
Equity income from affiliates 233.7 311.6 187.7
Depreciation and amortization (2,110.4) (1,555.1) (1,294.6)
Research and development (4,782.9) (3,848.0) (4,010.2)
Other expenses, net (3,204.1) (2,711.0) (2,112.3)
$ 6,221.4 $ 7,363.9 $ 8,002.8
Other profits are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate profits as well as operating profits related
to divested products or businesses and other supply sales. Adjustments represent the elimination of the effect of
double counting certain items of income and expense. Equity income from affiliates includes taxes paid at the joint
venture level and a portion of equity income that is not reported in segment profits. Other expenses, net, include
expenses from corporate and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income (expense), net.
Long-lived assets (1) by geographic area where located is as follows:
Y ears Ended December 31 2006 2005 2004
United States $1 1,542.7 $1 1,525.6 $1 1,894.5
Europe, Middle East and Africa 1,730.7 1,991.2 2,043.4
Japan 942.4 1,074.7 1,127.1
Other 1,353.8 1,411.1 1,413.6
$1 5,569.6 $1 6,002.6 $1 6,478.6
(1) Long-lived assets are comprised of property, plant and equipment, net; goodwill and intangible assets, net.
The Company does not disaggregate assets on a products and services basis for internal management
reporting and, therefore, such information is not presented.
121R eport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
T o the Stockholders and the
Board of Directors of Merck & Co., Inc.:
W e have completed integrated audits of Merck & Co., Inc.’s consolidated financial statements and of its internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.
C onsolidated financial statements
I n our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, of
retained earnings, of comprehensive income and of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Merck & Co., Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006 in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements
based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of
financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.
A s discussed in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it
accounts for share-based compensation in 2006.
A s discussed in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it
accounts for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans effective December 31, 2006.
I nternal control over financial reporting
A lso, in our opinion, management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting, that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2006 based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material
respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal
Control — Integrated Framework issued by the COSO. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of
the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control
over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control
over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and
performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinions.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
122with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only
in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that
could have a material effect on the financial statements.
B ecause of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.
P ricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Florham Park, New Jersey
February 27, 2007
123( b) Supplementary Data
Selected quarterly financial data for 2006 and 2005 are contained in the Condensed Interim Financial Data
table below.
C ondensed Interim Financial Data (Unaudited)
( $ in millions except per share amounts) 4t h Q (1),(2),(3) 3 rd Q (2) 2n d Q (1),(3) 1st Q
2 006 (4),(5)
S ales $ 6,044.2 $5 ,410.4 $ 5,771.7 $ 5,409.8
Materials and production costs 1,669.1 1,544.1 1,445.2 1,342.7
Marketing and administrative expenses 2,345.8 2,370.6 1,734.0 1,715.0
Research and development expenses 1,722.9 945.4 1,172.5 942.0
Restructuring costs 55.8 49.6 (6.9 ) 43.7
Equity income from affiliates (584.2) (595.4) (611.3) (503.4)
Other (income) expense, net (77.1 ) (134.7) (70.1 ) (100.6)
Income before taxes 911.9 1,230.8 2,108.3 1,970.4
Net income 473.9 940.6 1,499.3 1,520.0
Basic earnings per common share $0.22 $0.43 $0.69 $0.70
Earnings per common share assuming dilution $0.22 $0.43 $0.69 $0.69
2 005 (4)
S ales $ 5,765.9 $5 ,416.2 $ 5,467.5 $ 5,362.2
Materials and production costs 1,478.8 1,238.8 1,160.6 1,271.4
Marketing and administrative expenses 2,139.1 1,661.4 1,749.5 1,605.5
Research and development expenses 1,112.0 942.6 946.8 846.6
Restructuring costs 228.9 79.8 5.8 7.8
Equity income from affiliates (586.6) (480.1) (334.1) (316.3)
Other (income) expense, net (126.3) (24.7 ) 14.0 26.5
Income before taxes 1,520.0 1,998.4 1,924.9 1,920.7
Net income 1,119.7 1,420.9 720.6 1,370.1
Basic earnings per common share $0.51 $0.65 $0.33 $0.62
Earnings per common share assuming dilution $0.51 $0.65 $0.33 $0.62
( 1) Amounts for 2006 include acquired research expenses associated with acquisitions.
( 2) Amounts for fourth and third quarter 2006 and fourth quarter 2005 include the impact of additional Vioxx legal defense reserves (see
Note 11). Amounts for fourth quarter 2006 include the impact of Fosamax legal defense reserves (see Note 11).
(3) Amounts for 2005 include the impact of the net tax charge primarily associated with the AJCA repatriation (see Note 17).
(4) Amounts for 2006 and 2005 include the impact of restructuring actions (see Note 4).
( 5) Amounts for 2006 reflect the incremental impact of expensing stock options.
124I tem 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
Not applicable.
I tem 9A. Controls and Procedures.
Management of the Company, with the participation of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on their evaluation,
as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-K, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or
15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Act”)) are effective.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Act. Management conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control – Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). Based on
this evaluation, management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31,
2006 based on criteria in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by COSO. Management’s assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
has issued a report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.
There have been no changes in internal control over financial reporting for the period covered by this report
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting.
M anagement’s Report
M anagement’s Responsibility For Financial Statements
Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the Company’s financial statements rests with
management. The financial statements report on management’s stewardship of Company assets. These statements are
prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and, accordingly, include amounts that are based
on management’s best estimates and judgments. Nonfinancial information included in the Annual Report on
Form 10-K has also been prepared by management and is consistent with the financial statements.
To assure that financial information is reliable and assets are safeguarded, management maintains an
effective system of internal controls and procedures, important elements of which include: careful selection, training
and development of operating and financial managers; an organization that provides appropriate division of
responsibility; and communications aimed at assuring that Company policies and procedures are understood
throughout the organization. A staff of internal auditors regularly monitors the adequacy and application of internal
controls on a worldwide basis.
To ensure that personnel continue to understand the system of internal controls and procedures, and policies
concerning good and prudent business practices, the Company periodically conducts the Management’s Stewardship
Program for key management and financial personnel. This program reinforces the importance and understanding of
internal controls by reviewing key corporate policies, procedures and systems. In addition, the Company has
compliance programs, including an ethical business practices program to reinforce the Company’s long-standing
commitment to high ethical standards in the conduct of its business.
The financial statements and other financial information included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly
present, in all material respects, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our formal
certification to the Securities and Exchange Commission is included in this Form 10-K filing. In addition, in
May 2006, the Company submitted to the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) a certificate of the CEO certifying
that he was not aware of any violation by the Company of NYSE Corporate Governance Listing Standards.
125M anagement’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Management conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control — Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). Based on
this evaluation, management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31,
2006 based on criteria in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by COSO. Management’s assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
has issued a report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting, which is included herein.
Richard T. Clark Judy C. Lewent
Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President
and President and Chief Financial Officer
I tem 9B. Other Information.
None.
PART III
I tem 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.
The required information on directors and nominees is incorporated by reference from the discussion under
Item 1. Election of Directors of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
April 24, 2007. Information on executive officers is set forth in Part I of this document on pages 36 through 39.
The required information on compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is
incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 24, 2007.
The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct — Our Values and Standards applicable to all employees,
including the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer. The Code of
Conduct is available on the Company’s website at www.merck.com/about/corporategovernance . The Company
intends to post on this website any amendments to, or waivers from, its Code of Conduct. A printed copy will be sent,
without charge, to any stockholder who requests it by writing to the Chief Ethics Officer of Merck & Co., Inc., One
Merck Drive, Whitehouse Station, NJ 08889-0100.
The required information on the identification of the audit committee and the audit committee financial
expert is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading “Board Committees” of the Company’s
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 24, 2007.
I tem 11. Executive Compensation.
The information required on executive compensation is incorporated by reference from the discussion under
the headings “Compensation Discussion and Analysis”, “Summary Compensation Table”, “All Other
Compensation — 2006” table, “Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table”, “Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-
End Table”, “Option Exercises and Stock Vested Table”, Retirement Plan Benefits and related “Pension Benefits”
table, Nonqualified Deferred Compensation and related tables, Potential Payments on Termination or Change in
Control, including the discussion under the subheadings “Separation”, “Separation Plan Payment and Benefit
Estimates” table, “Individual Agreements”, “Change in Control” and “Change in Control Payment and Benefit
Estimates” table, as well as all footnote information to the various tables, of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 24, 2007.
126The required information on director compensation is incorporated by reference from the discussion under
the heading “Director Compensation” and related “Director Compensation” table and “Schedule of Director Fees”
table of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 24, 2007.
The required information under the headings “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation” and “Compensation Committee Report” is incorporated by reference from the Company’s Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 24, 2007.
I tem 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters.
Information with respect to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is
incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading “Equity Compensation Plan Information” of the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 24, 2007. Information with
respect to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated by reference from the
discussion under the heading “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” of the Company’s
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 24, 2007.
I tem 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.
The required information on transactions with related persons is incorporated by reference from the
discussion under the heading “Relationships with Outside Firms” and the discussion with respect to a loan to Dr. Kim
under the subheading “Perquisities” of the “Compensation Discussion and Analysis” of the Company’s Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 24, 2007.
The required information on director independence is incorporated by reference from the discussion under
the heading “Independence of Directors” of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held April 24, 2007.
I tem 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services.
The information required for this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under “Audit
Committee” beginning with the caption “Pre-Approval Policy for Services of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm” through “All Other Fees” of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held April 24, 2007.
PART IV
I tem 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.
(a) The following documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K
1. Financial Statements
Consolidated statement of income for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004
Consolidated statement of retained earnings for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and
2004
Consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2006 and 2005
Consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting firm
1272. Financial Statement Schedules
Schedules are omitted because they are either not required or not applicable.
Financial statements of affiliates carried on the equity basis have been omitted because, considered
individually or in the aggregate, such affiliates do not constitute a significant subsidiary.
3. Exhibits
Ex hib it
Number Description
2 .1 —Master Restructuring Agreement dated as of June 19, 1998 between Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc.,
Astra Merck Inc., Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises, Inc., KBI Sub Inc.,
Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request
for confidential treatment filed with the Commission) — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
2 .2 —Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Merck & Co., Inc., Spinnaker Acquisition Corp., a
wholly owned subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc., dated as of October 30,
2006 — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 30, 2006
3 .1 —Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Merck & Co., Inc. (October 1, 2004) — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended September 30, 2004
3 .2 —By-Laws of Merck & Co., Inc. (as amended effective May 24, 2005) — Incorporated by reference to
Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 24, 2005
4 .1 —Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1991, between Merck & Co., Inc. and Morgan Guaranty Trust
Company of New York, as Trustee — Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to Registration
Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-39349)
4 .2 —First Supplemental Indenture between Merck & Co., Inc. and First Trust of New York, National
Association, as Trustee — Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on
Form S-3 (No. 333-36383)
*10 .1 —Executive Incentive Plan (as amended effective February 27, 1996) — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
*10 .2 —Base Salary Deferral Plan (as adopted on October 22, 1996, effective January 1, 1997) —
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
*10 .3 —Merck & Co., Inc. Deferral Program (amended and restated as of September 28, 2006) —
Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 26, 2006
*10 .4 — 1996 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of December 19, 2006)
*10 .5 — 2001 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of December 19, 2006)
*10 .6 — 2004 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of December 19, 2006)
*10 .7 — 2007 Incentive Stock Plan (as amended effective December 19, 2006)
*10 .8 —Merck & Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan — Incorporated by reference to
Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 23, 2004
*10 .9 —Merck & Co., Inc. Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees (amended and restated effective
as of July 11, 2006) — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 11, 2006
*10 .10 —Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated February 24, 1998) —
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
*10 .11 —1996 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (as amended April 27, 1999) — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1999
*10 .12 —2001 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (as amended April 19, 2002) — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 2002
128Ex hib it
Number Description
*10 .13 —2006 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (effective April 25, 2006; as amended and restated
February 27, 2007)
*10 .14 —Supplemental Retirement Plan (as amended effective January 1, 1995) — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
*10 .15 —Retirement Plan for the Directors of Merck & Co., Inc. (amended and restated June 21, 1996) —
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1996
*10 .16 —Plan for Deferred Payment of Directors’ Compensation (amended and restated as of October 1,
2006) — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 26, 2006
*10 .17 —Offer Letter between Merck & Co., Inc. and Peter S. Kim, dated December 15, 2000 — Incorporated
by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003
*10 .18 —Offer Letter between Merck & Co., Inc. and Peter Loescher, dated March 15, 2006 — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 2006
*10 .19 —Letter Agreement between Merck & Co., Inc. and Per Wold-Olsen, dated July 19, 2006 —
Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 28, 2006
*10 .20 — Letter Agreement between Merck & Co., Inc. and Bradley T. Sheares, dated August 24, 2006
*10 .21 — Letter Agreement between Merck & Co., Inc. and David W. Anstice, dated December 15, 2006
10 .22 —Amended and Restated License and Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra AB and
Astra Merck Inc. — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended
June 30, 1998
10 .23 —KBI Shares Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc.
and Merck Holdings, Inc. — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period
ended June 30, 1998
10 .24 —KBI-E Asset Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc.,
Astra Merck Inc. and Astra Merck Enterprises Inc. — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10 .25 —KBI Supply Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra Merck Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals,
L.P. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment filed with the
Commission). — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended
June 30, 1998
10 .26 —Second Amended and Restated Manufacturing Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 among Merck &
Co., Inc., Astra AB, Astra Merck Inc. and Astra USA, Inc. — Incorporated by reference to
Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10 .27 —Limited Partnership Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between KB USA, L.P. and KBI Sub Inc. —
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10 .28 —Distribution Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra Merck Enterprises Inc. and Astra
Pharmaceuticals, L.P. — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period
ended June 30, 1998
10 .29 —Agreement to Incorporate Defined Terms dated as of June 19, 1998 between Astra AB, Merck & Co.,
Inc., Astra Merck Inc., Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises Inc., KBI Sub Inc.,
Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10 .30 —Form of Voting Agreement made and entered into as of October 30, 2006 by and between Merck &
Co., Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on
Form 8-K dated October 30, 2006
12 — Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges
21 — Subsidiaries of Merck & Co., Inc.
129Ex hib it
Number Description
23 — Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm — Contained on page 132 of this Report
24 .1 — Power of Attorney
24 .2 — Certified Resolution of Board of Directors
31 .1 — Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
31 .2 — Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
32 .1 — Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer
32 .2 — Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
Copies of the exhibits may be obtained by stockholders upon written request directed to the Stockholder
Services Department, Merck & Co., Inc., P.O. Box 100 — WS 3AB-40, Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
130SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
D ated: February 28, 2007
MERCK & CO., INC.
By RICHARD T. CLARK
(Chief Executive Officer and President)
By CELIA A. COLBERT
Celia A. Colbert
(Attorney-in-Fact)
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signatures Title Date
RICHARD T. CLARK Chief Executive Officer and President; February 28, 2007
Principal Executive Officer; Director
JUDY C. LEWENT Executive Vice President and Chief February 28, 2007
Financial Officer; Principal Financial
Officer
JOHN CANAN Vice President, Controller; Principal February 28, 2007
Accounting Officer
LAWRENCE A. BOSSIDY Director February 28, 2007
WILLIAM G. BOWEN Director February 28, 2007
JOHNNETTA B. COLE Director February 28, 2007
WILLIAM B. HARRISON, JR. Director February 28, 2007
WILLIAM N. KELLEY Director February 28, 2007
ROCHELLE B. LAZARUS Director February 28, 2007
THOMAS E. SHENK Director February 28, 2007
ANNE M. TATLOCK Director February 28, 2007
SAMUEL O. THIER Director February 28, 2007
WENDELL P. WEEKS Director February 28, 2007
PETER C. WENDELL Director February 28, 2007
Celia A. Colbert, by signing her name hereto, does hereby sign this document pursuant to powers of
attorney duly executed by the persons named, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit
to this document, on behalf of such persons, all in the capacities and on the date stated, such persons including
a majority of the directors of the Company.
By CELIA A. COLBERT
Celia A. Colbert
(Attorney-in-Fact)
131Exhibit 23
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos.
33-39349, 33-60322, 33-57421, 333-17045, 333-36383, 333-77569, 333-72546, 333-87034 and 333-118186) and on
Form S-8 (Nos. 33-21087, 33-21088, 33-51235, 33-53463, 33-64273, 33-64665, 333-91769, 333-30526, 333-31762,
333-53246, 333-56696, 333-72206, 333-65796, 333-101519, 333-109296, 333-117737, 333-117738, 333-139561 and
333-139562) of Merck & Co., Inc. of our report dated February 27, 2007, relating to the consolidated financial
statements, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which is incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
P ricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
F lorham Park, New Jersey
February 27, 2007
132EXHIBIT INDEX
Ex hib it
Number Description
2 .1 —Master Restructuring Agreement dated as of June 19, 1998 between Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc.,
Astra Merck Inc., Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises, Inc., KBI Sub Inc.,
Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request
for confidential treatment filed with the Commission) — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
2 .2 —Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Merck & Co., Inc., Spinnaker Acquisition Corp., a
wholly owned subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc., dated as of October 30,
2006 — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 30, 2006
3 .1 —Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Merck & Co., Inc. (October 1, 2004) — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended September 30, 2004
3 .2 —By-Laws of Merck & Co., Inc. (as amended effective May 24, 2005) — Incorporated by reference to
Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 24, 2005
4 .1 —Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1991, between Merck & Co., Inc. and Morgan Guaranty Trust
Company of New York, as Trustee — Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to Registration
Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-39349)
4 .2 —First Supplemental Indenture between Merck & Co., Inc. and First Trust of New York, National
Association, as Trustee — Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on
Form S-3 (No. 333-36383)
*10 .1 —Executive Incentive Plan (as amended effective February 27, 1996) — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
*10 .2 —Base Salary Deferral Plan (as adopted on October 22, 1996, effective January 1, 1997) —
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
*10 .3 —Merck & Co., Inc. Deferral Program (amended and restated as of September 28, 2006) —
Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 26, 2006
*10 .4 — 1996 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of December 19, 2006)
*10 .5 — 2001 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of December 19, 2006)
*10 .6 — 2004 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of December 19, 2006)
*10 .7 — 2007 Incentive Stock Plan (as amended effective December 19, 2006)
*10 .8 —Merck & Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan — Incorporated by reference to
Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 23, 2004
*10 .9 —Merck & Co., Inc. Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees (amended and restated effective
as of July 11, 2006) — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 11, 2006
*10 .10 —Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated February 24, 1998) —
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
*10 .11 —1996 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (as amended April 27, 1999) — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1999
*10 .12 —2001 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (as amended April 19, 2002) — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 2002
*10 .13 —2006 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (effective April 25, 2006; as amended and restated
February 27, 2007)
*10 .14 —Supplemental Retirement Plan (as amended effective January 1, 1995) — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
*10 .15 —Retirement Plan for the Directors of Merck & Co., Inc. (amended and restated June 21, 1996) —
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1996
*10 .16 —Plan for Deferred Payment of Directors’ Compensation (amended and restated as of October 1,
2006) — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 26, 2006
133Ex hib it
Number Description
*10 .17 —Offer Letter between Merck & Co., Inc. and Peter S. Kim, dated December 15, 2000 — Incorporated
by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003
*10 .18 —Offer Letter between Merck & Co., Inc. and Peter Loescher, dated March 15, 2006 — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 2006
*10 .19 —Letter Agreement between Merck & Co., Inc. and Per Wold-Olsen, dated July 19, 2006 —
Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 28, 2006
*10 .20 — Letter Agreement between Merck & Co., Inc. and Bradley T. Sheares, dated August 24, 2006
*10 .21 — Letter Agreement between Merck & Co., Inc. and David W. Anstice, dated December 15, 2006
10 .22 —Amended and Restated License and Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra AB and
Astra Merck Inc. — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended
June 30, 1998
10 .23 —KBI Shares Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc.
and Merck Holdings, Inc. — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period
ended June 30, 1998
10 .24 —KBI-E Asset Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc.,
Astra Merck Inc. and Astra Merck Enterprises Inc. — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10 .25 —KBI Supply Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra Merck Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals,
L.P. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment filed with the
Commission) — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended
June 30, 1998
10 .26 —Second Amended and Restated Manufacturing Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 among Merck &
Co., Inc., Astra AB, Astra Merck Inc. and Astra USA, Inc. — Incorporated by reference to
Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10 .27 —Limited Partnership Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between KB USA, L.P. and KBI Sub Inc. —
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10 .28 —Distribution Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra Merck Enterprises Inc. and Astra
Pharmaceuticals, L.P. — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period
ended June 30, 1998
10 .29 —Agreement to Incorporate Defined Terms dated as of June 19, 1998 between Astra AB, Merck & Co.,
Inc., Astra Merck Inc., Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises Inc., KBI Sub Inc.,
Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10 .30 —Form of Voting Agreement made and entered into as of October 30, 2006 by and between Merck &
Co., Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on
Form 8-K dated October 30, 2006
12 — Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges
21 — Subsidiaries of Merck & Co., Inc.
23 — Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm — Contained on page 132 of this Report
24 .1 — Power of Attorney
24 .2 — Certified Resolution of Board of Directors
31 .1 — Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
31 .2 — Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
32 .1 — Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer
32 .2 — Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
134Exhibit 10.4
MERCK & CO., INC.
1996 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN
(Amended and Restated as of December 19, 2006)1996 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN
The 1996 Incentive Stock Plan (“ISP”), effective January 1, 1996, is established to encourage employees of Merck & Co., Inc. (the
“Company”), its subsidiaries, its affiliates, its joint ventures and the Merck Institute for Therapeutic Research to acquire Common Stock in the
Company. It is believed that the ISP will stimulate employees’ efforts on the Company’s behalf, will tend to maintain and strengthen their desire
to remain with the Company, will be in the interest of the Company and its Stockholders, and will encourage such employees to have a greater
personal financial investment in the Company through ownership of its Common Stock.
1. Administration
The ISP shall be administered by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Committee”).
The Committee is authorized, subject to the provisions of the ISP, to establish such rules and regulations as it deems necessary for the proper
administration of the ISP, and to make such determinations and to take such action in connection therewith or in relation to the ISP as it deems
necessary or advisable, consistent with the ISP. The Committee may delegate some or all of its power and authority hereunder to the Chief
Executive Officer or other senior member of management as the Committee deems appropriate; provided, however, that the Committee may not
delegate its authority with regard to any matter or action affecting an officer subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
For the purpose of this section and all subsequent sections, the ISP shall be deemed to include this plan and any comparable sub-plans
established by subsidiaries which, in the aggregate, shall constitute one plan governed by the terms set forth herein.
2. Eligibility
Regular full-time and part-time employees of the Company, its subsidiaries, its affiliates, its joint ventures and the Merck Institute for
Therapeutic Research, including officers, whether or not directors of the Company, and employees of a joint venture partner or affiliate of the
Company who provide services to the joint venture with such partner or affiliate and who are not directors or officers of the Company for
purposes of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, shall be eligible to participate in the ISP (“Eligible Employees”) if designated by
the Committee or its delegate. Those directors who are not regular employees are not eligible.
3. Incentives
Incentives under the ISP may be granted in any one or a combination of (a) Incentive Stock Options (or other statutory stock option);
(b) Nonqualified Stock Options; (c) Stock Appreciation Rights; (d) Restricted Stock Grants, and (e) Performance Shares (together “Incentives”).
All Incentives shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and to such other terms and conditions as may be established by the
Committee. Determinations by the Committee under the ISP including without limitation, determinations of the Eligible Employees, the form,
amount and timing of Incentives, the terms and provisions of Incentives, and the agreements evidencing Incentives, need not be uniform and
may be made selectively among Eligible Employees who receive, or are eligible to receive, Incentives hereunder, whether or not such Eligible
Employees are similarly situated.
4. Shares Available for Incentives
(a) Shares Subject to Issuance or Transfer. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(c) hereof, there is hereby reserved for issuance
under the ISP 130 million shares of the Company’s Common Stock (“Common Stock”). The shares available for granting awards shall be
increased by the number of shares as to which options or other benefits granted under the Plan have lapsed, expired, terminated or been
cancelled. In addition, any shares reserved for issuance under the Company’s 1991 Incentive Stock Plan and 1987 Incentive Stock Plan (“Prior
Plans”) in
1excess of the number of shares as to which options or other benefits have been awarded thereunder, plus any such shares as to which options or
other benefits granted under the Prior Plans may lapse, expire, terminate or be cancelled, shall also be reserved and available for issuance or
reissuance under the ISP. Shares under this Plan may be delivered by the Company from its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock or
from Common Stock held in the Treasury.
(b) Limit on an Individual’s Incentives. In any given year, no Eligible Employee may receive Incentives covering more than three million
shares of the Company’s Common Stock (such number of shares may be adjusted in accordance with Section 4(c)).
(c) Adjustment of Shares. In the event of a reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, extraordinary cash dividend,
combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, spin off, split off, split up or other similar change in the capital structure of the
Company, the Committee shall make equitable adjustments to (i) the number and kind of shares authorized for issuance under the ISP, (ii) the
number and kind of shares subject to outstanding Incentives, (iii) the option price of Stock Options and (iv) the grant value of Stock
Appreciation Rights. Any such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive on all parties.
5. Stock Options
The Committee may grant options qualifying as Incentive Stock Options under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any
successor code thereto (the “Code”), other statutory options under the Code, and Nonqualified Options (collectively “Stock Options”). Such
Stock Options shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe:
(a) Option Price. The option price per share with respect to each Stock Option shall be determined by the Committee, but shall not be less
than 100% of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the Stock Option is granted, as determined by the Committee.
(b) Period of Option. The period of each Stock Option shall be fixed by the Committee but shall not exceed ten (10) years.
(c) Payment. The option price shall be payable in cash at the time the Stock Option is exercised. No shares shall be issued until full payment
therefore has been made. A grantee of a Stock Option shall have none of the rights of a stockholder until the shares are issued.
(d) Exercise of Option. The shares covered by a Stock Option may be purchased in such installments and on such exercise dates as the
Committee or its delegate may determine. Any shares not purchased on the applicable exercise date may be purchased thereafter at any time
prior to the final expiration of the Stock Option. In no event (including those specified in paragraphs (e), (f) and (g) of this section) shall any
Stock Option be exercisable after its specified expiration period.
(e) Termination of Employment. Upon the termination of a Stock Option grantee’s employment (for any reason other than retirement,
death or termination for deliberate, willful or gross misconduct), Stock Option privileges shall be limited to the shares which were immediately
exercisable at the date of such termination. The Committee, however, in its discretion, may provide that any Stock Options outstanding but not
yet exercisable upon the termination of a Stock Option grantee’s employment may become exercisable in accordance with a schedule to be
determined by the Committee. Such Stock Option privileges shall expire unless exercised or surrendered under a Stock Appreciation Right
within such period of time after the date of termination of employment as may be established by the Committee, but in no event later than the
expiration date of the Stock Option. If a Stock Option grantee’s employment is terminated for deliberate, willful or gross misconduct, as
determined by the Company, all rights under the Stock Option shall expire upon receipt of the notice of such termination.
2(f) Retirement. Upon retirement of a Stock Option grantee, Stock Option privileges shall apply to those shares immediately exercisable at
the date of retirement. The Committee, however, in its discretion, may provide that any Stock Options outstanding but not yet exercisable upon
the retirement of a Stock Option grantee may become exercisable in accordance with a schedule to be determined by the Committee. Stock
Option privileges shall expire unless exercised within such period of time as may be established by the Committee, but in no event later than the
expiration date of the Stock Option.
(g) Death. Upon the death of a Stock Option grantee, Stock Option privileges shall apply to those shares which were immediately
exercisable at the time of death. The Committee, however, in its discretion, may provide that any Stock Options outstanding but not yet
exercisable upon the death of a Stock Option grantee may become exercisable in accordance with a schedule to be determined by the Committee.
Such privileges shall expire unless exercised by legal representatives within a period of time as determined by the Committee but in no event
later than the expiration date of the Stock Option.
(h) Limits on Incentive Stock Options. Except as may otherwise be permitted by the Code, the Committee shall not grant to an Eligible
Employee Incentive Stock Options, that, in the aggregate, are first exercisable during any one calendar year to the extent that the aggregate fair
market value of the Common Stock, at the time the Incentive Stock Options are granted, exceeds $100,000.
6. Stock Appreciation Rights
The Committee may, in its discretion, grant a right to receive the appreciation in the fair market value of shares of Common Stock (“Stock
Appreciation Right”) either singly or in combination with an underlying Stock Option granted hereunder or under the Prior Plans. Such Stock
Appreciation Rights shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe:
(a) Time and Period of Grant. If a Stock Appreciation Right is granted with respect to an underlying Stock Option, it may be granted at the
time of the Stock Option Grant or at any time thereafter but prior to the expiration of the Stock Option Grant. If a Stock Appreciation Right is
granted with respect to an underlying Stock Option, at the time the Stock Appreciation Right is granted the Committee may limit the exercise
period for such Stock Appreciation Right, before and after which period no Stock Appreciation Right shall attach to the underlying Stock
Option. In no event shall the exercise period for a Stock Appreciation Right granted with respect to an underlying Stock Option exceed the
exercise period for such Stock Option. If a Stock Appreciation Right is granted without an underlying Stock Option, the period for exercise of
the Stock Appreciation Right shall be set by the Committee.
(b) Value of Stock Appreciation Right. If a Stock Appreciation Right is granted with respect to an underlying Stock Option, the grantee
will be entitled to surrender the Stock Option which is then exercisable and receive in exchange therefore an amount equal to the excess of the
fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the election to surrender is received by the Company over the Stock Option price multiplied
by the number of shares covered by the Stock Option which are surrendered. If a Stock Appreciation Right is granted without an underlying
Stock Option, the grantee will receive upon exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of
the Common Stock on the date the election to surrender such Stock Appreciation Right is received by the Company over the fair market value of
the Common Stock on the date of grant multiplied by the number of shares covered by the grant of the Stock Appreciation Right.
(c) Payment of Stock Appreciation Right. Payment of a Stock Appreciation Right shall be in the form of shares of Common Stock, cash, or
any combination of shares and cash. The form of payment upon exercise of such a right shall be determined by the Committee either at the time
of grant of the Stock Appreciation Right or at the time of exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right.
37. Performance Share Awards
The Committee may grant awards under which payment may be made in shares of Common Stock, cash or any combination of shares and
cash if the performance of the Company or any subsidiary, division or affiliate of the Company selected by the Committee during the Award
Period meets certain goals established by the Committee (“Performance Share Awards”). Such Performance Share Awards shall be subject to the
following terms and conditions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe:
(a) Award Period and Performance Goals. The Committee shall determine and include in a Performance Share Award grant the period of
time for which a Performance Share Award is made (“Award Period”). The Committee shall also establish performance objectives
(“Performance Goals”) to be met by the Company, subsidiary or division during the Award Period as a condition to payment of the Performance
Share Award. The Performance Goals may include earnings per share, return on stockholders’ equity, return on assets, net income, or any other
financial or other measurement established by the Committee. The Performance Goals may include minimum and optimum objectives or a single
set of objectives.
(b) Payment of Performance Share Awards. The Committee shall establish the method of calculating the amount of payment to be made
under a Performance Share Award if the Performance Goals are met, including the fixing of a maximum payment. The Performance Share
Award shall be expressed in terms of shares of Common Stock and referred to as “Performance Shares.” After the completion of an Award
Period, the performance of the Company, subsidiary or division shall be measured against the Performance Goals, and the Committee shall
determine whether all, none or any portion of a Performance Share Award shall be paid. The Committee, in its discretion, may elect to make
payment in shares of Common Stock, cash or a combination of shares and cash. Any cash payment shall be based on the fair market value of
Performance Shares on, or as soon as practicable prior to, the date of payment.
(c) Revision of Performance Goals. At any time prior to the end of an Award Period, the Committee may revise the Performance Goals and
the computation of payment if unforeseen events occur which have a substantial effect on the performance of the Company, subsidiary or
division and which in the judgment of the Committee make the application of the Performance Goals unfair unless a revision is made.
(d) Requirement of Employment. A grantee of a Performance Share Award must remain in the employ of the Company until the
completion of the Award Period in order to be entitled to payment under the Performance Share Award; provided that the Committee may, in its
sole discretion, provide for a partial payment where such an exception is deemed equitable.
(e) Dividends. The Committee may, in its discretion, at the time of the granting of a Performance Share Award, provide that any dividends
declared on the Common Stock during the Award Period, and which would have been paid with respect to Performance Shares had they been
owned by a grantee, be (i) paid to the grantee, or (ii) accumulated for the benefit of the grantee and used to increase the number of Performance
Shares of the grantee.
(f) Limit on Performance Share Awards. Incentives granted as Performance Share Awards under this section and Restricted Stock Grants
under Section 8 shall not exceed, in the aggregate, 12 million shares of Common Stock (such number of shares may be adjusted in accordance
with Section 4(c)).
8. Restricted Stock Grants
The Committee may award shares of Common Stock to a grantee, which shares shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and
such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe (“Restricted Stock Grant”):
4(a) Requirement of Employment. A grantee of a Restricted Stock Grant must remain in the employment of the Company during a period
designated by the Committee (“Restriction Period”) in order to retain the shares under the Restricted Stock Grant. If the grantee leaves the
employment of the Company prior to the end of the Restriction Period, the Restricted Stock Grant shall terminate and the shares of Common
Stock shall be returned immediately to the Company; provided that the Committee may, at the time of the grant, provide for the employment
restriction to lapse with respect to a portion or portions of the Restricted Stock Grant at different times during the Restriction Period. The
Committee may, in its discretion, also provide for such complete or partial exceptions to the employment restriction as it deems equitable.
(b) Restrictions on Transfer and Legend on Stock Certificates. During the Restriction Period, the grantee may not sell, assign, transfer,
pledge, or otherwise dispose of the shares of Common Stock except to a successor under Section 10 hereof. Each certificate for shares of
Common Stock issued hereunder shall contain a legend giving appropriate notice of the restrictions in the grant.
(c) Escrow Agreement. The Committee may require the grantee to enter into an escrow agreement providing that the certificates
representing the Restricted Stock Grant will remain in the physical custody of an escrow holder until all restrictions are removed or expire.
(d) Lapse of Restrictions. All restrictions imposed under the Restricted Stock Grant shall lapse upon the expiration of the Restriction Period
if the conditions as to employment set forth above have been met. The grantee shall then be entitled to have the legend removed from the
certificates.
(e) Dividends. The Committee shall, in its discretion, at the time of the Restricted Stock Grant, provide that any dividends declared on the
Common Stock during the Restriction Period shall either be (i) paid to the grantee, or (ii) accumulated for the benefit of the grantee and paid to
the grantee only after the expiration of the Restriction Period.
(f) Limit on Restricted Stock Grant. Incentives granted as Restricted Stock Grants under this section and Performance Share Awards under
Section 7 shall not exceed, in the aggregate, 12 million shares of Common Stock (such number of shares may be adjusted in accordance with
Section 4(c)).
9. Discontinuance or Amendment of the Plan
The Board of Directors may discontinue the ISP at any time and may from time to time amend or revise the terms of the ISP as permitted by
applicable statutes, except that it may not revoke or alter, in a manner unfavorable to the grantees of any Incentives hereunder, any Incentives
then outstanding, nor may the Board amend the ISP without stockholder approval where the absence of such approval would cause the Plan to
fail to comply with Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or any other requirement of applicable law or regulation. No
Incentive shall be granted under the ISP after December 31, 2000, but Incentives granted theretofore may extend beyond that date.
10. Nontransferability
Each Incentive Stock Option granted under the ISP shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution; each
other Incentive granted under the ISP may be transferable subject to the terms and conditions as may be established by the Committee in
accordance with regulations promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or any other applicable law or regulation.
11. No Right of Employment
The ISP and the Incentives granted hereunder shall not confer upon any Eligible Employee the right to continued employment with the
Company, its subsidiaries, its affiliates, its joint ventures or the Merck Institute for Therapeutic Research or affect in any way the right of
5such entities to terminate the employment of an Eligible Employee at any time and for any reason.
12. Taxes
The Company shall be entitled to withhold the amount of any tax attributable to any option granted, any amount payable or shares deliverable
under the ISP after giving the person entitled to receive such amount or shares notice as far in advance as practicable.
Merck Change in Control
(a) Options.
1. Vesting of Options Other Than Key R&D Options. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Stock Option which is outstanding
immediately prior to the Change in Control, other than the Key R&D Options, shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable.
2. Vesting of Key R&D Options.
(i) Subject to (a)(2)(ii) of this Schedule, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Key R&D Option shall continue to be subject to
the performance-based vesting schedule applicable thereto immediately prior to the Change in Control.
(ii) Notwithstanding (a)(2)(i) of this Schedule, if the Stock Options do not continue to be outstanding following the Change in Control or are
not exchanged for or converted into options to purchase securities of a successor entity (“Successor Options”), then, upon the occurrence of a
Change in Control, all or a portion of each Key R&D Option shall immediately vest and become exercisable in the following percentages: (A) if
such Key R&D Option’s first milestone has not been reached before the date of the Change in Control, 14% of the then-unvested portion of the
Key R&D Option shall vest and become exercisable and the remainder shall be forfeited; (B) if only such Key R&D Option’s first milestone has
been reached before the date of the Change in Control, 42% of the then-unvested portion of the Key R&D Option shall vest and become
exercisable and the remainder shall be forfeited; and (C) if such Key R&D Option’s first and second milestones have been reached before the
date of the Change in Control, 100% of the then-unvested portion of the Key R&D Option shall vest and become exercisable.
3. Post-Termination Exercise Period. If Stock Options continue to be outstanding following the Change in Control or are exchanged for or
converted into Successor Options, then the portion of such Stock Options or such Successor Options, as applicable, that is vested and exercisable
immediately following the termination of employment of the holder thereof after the Change in Control shall remain exercisable following such
termination for five years from the date of such termination (but not beyond the remainder of the term thereof) provided, however, that, if such
termination is by reason of gross misconduct, death or retirement (as these terms are applied to awards granted under the Plans), then those
provisions of the Plan that are applicable to a termination by reason of gross misconduct, death or retirement, if any, shall apply to such
termination. If the effect of vesting pursuant to this Section (a) would cause a Stock Option or Successor Stock Option to terminate earlier than if
such accelerated vesting had not occurred, then the term of such Stock Option shall not expire earlier than if such accelerated vesting had not
occurred.
4. Cashout of Stock Options. If the Stock Options do not continue to be outstanding following the Change in Control and are not exchanged
for or converted into Successor Options, each holder of a vested and exercisable option shall be entitled to receive, as soon as practicable
following the Change in Control, for each share of Common Stock subject to a vested and exercisable option, an amount of cash determined by
the Committee prior to the Change in Control but in no event less than the excess of the Change in Control Price over the exercise price thereof
(subject to any existing deferral elections then in effect). If the consideration to be paid in a Change in Control is not entirely shares of common
stock of an acquiring or resulting
6corporation, then the Committee may, prior to the Change in Control, provide for the cancellation of outstanding Stock Options at the time of the
Change in Control, in whole or in part, for cash pursuant to this provision or may provide for the exchange or conversion of outstanding Stock
Options at the time of the Change in Control, in whole or in part, and, in connection with any such provision, may (but shall not be obligated to)
permit holders of Stock Options to make such elections related thereto as it determines are appropriate.
5. Incentive Stock Options Not Amended. This Section does not apply to any incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
(b) Restricted Stock Units and Performance Share Units.
1. Vesting of Restricted Stock Units. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each unvested restricted stock unit award which is
outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control under the Plan shall immediately become fully vested.
2. Vesting of Performance Share Units. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each unvested performance share unit award which is
outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control under the Plan shall immediately become vested in an amount equal to the PSU Pro Rata
Amount.
3. Settlement of Restricted Stock Units and Performance Share Units.
(i) If the Common Stock continues to be widely held and freely tradable following the Change in Control or is exchanged for or converted
into securities of a successor entity that are widely held and freely tradable, then the restricted stock units and the vested performance share units
shall be paid in shares of Common Stock or such other securities as soon as practicable after the date of the Change in Control (subject to any
existing deferral elections then in effect).
(ii) If the Common Stock does not continue to be widely held and freely tradable following the Change in Control and is not exchanged for or
converted into securities of a successor entity that are widely held and freely tradable, then the restricted stock units and the vested performance
share units shall be paid in cash as soon as practicable after the date of the Change in Control (subject to any existing deferral elections then in
effect).
(c) Other Provisions.
1. Except to the extent required by applicable law, for the entirety of the Protection Period, the material terms of the Plan shall not be
modified in any manner that is materially adverse to the Qualifying Participants (it being understood that this Section (c) of this Schedule shall
not require that any specific type or levels of equity awards be granted to Qualifying Participants following the Change in Control).
2. During the Protection Period, the Plan may not be amended or modified to reduce or eliminate the protections set forth in Section (c)(1) of
this Schedule and may not be terminated.
3. The Company shall pay all legal fees and related expenses (including the costs of experts, evidence and counsel) reasonably and in good
faith incurred by a Qualifying Participant if the Qualifying Participant prevails on his or her claim for relief in an action (x) by the Qualifying
Participant claiming that the provisions of Section (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this Schedule have been violated (but, for avoidance of doubt, excluding
claims for Plan benefits in the ordinary course) and (y) if applicable, by the Company or the Qualifying Participant’s employer to enforce post-
termination covenants against the Qualifying Participant.
4. This section does not apply to any incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code.
5. Anything in the Plan as amended by this Schedule notwithstanding, the Company reserves the right to make such further changes as may
be required if and to the extent required to avoid adverse consequences under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as amended.
7(d) Definitions.
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
1. “Change in Control” shall have the meaning set forth in the Company’s Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan; provided, however,
that, as to any award under the Plan that consists of deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code, the definition of “Change in
Control” shall be deemed modified to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Code.
2. “Change in Control Price” shall mean, with respect to a share of Common Stock, the higher of (A) the highest reported sales price, regular
way, of such share in any transaction reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape or other national exchange on which such
shares are listed or on the NASDAQ National Market during the 10-day period prior to and including the date of a Change in Control and (B) if
the Change in Control is the result of a tender or exchange offer, merger, or other, similar corporate transaction, the highest price per such share
paid in such tender or exchange offer, merger or other, similar corporate transaction; provided that, to the extent all or part of the consideration
paid in any such transaction consists of securities or other non-cash consideration, the value of such securities or other non-cash consideration
shall be determined by the Committee.
3. “Key R&D Options” shall mean those performance-based options granted to employees under the Key Research and Development
Program described in the applicable Schedule to the Rules and Regulations for the Plan, if any.
4. “Protection Period” shall mean the period beginning on the date of the Change in Control and ending on the second anniversary of the date
of the Change in Control.
5. “PSU Pro Rata Amount” shall mean for each Performance Share Unit award, the amount determined by multiplying (x) and (y), where
(x) is the number of Target Shares subject to the Performance Share Unit award times the Assumed Performance Percentage and (y) is a fraction,
the numerator of which is the number of whole and partial calendar months elapsed during the applicable performance period (counting any
partial month as a whole month for this purpose) and the denominator of which is the total number of months in the applicable performance
period. The Assumed Performance Percentage shall be determined by (1) averaging the ranks during the Award Period as follows: (A) as to any
completed performance year as of the Change in Control, the actual rank (except that, if fewer than 90 days have elapsed since the completion of
such performance year, the Target Rank shall be used), and (B) as to any performance year that is incomplete or has not yet begun as of the
Change in Control, the Target Rank, (2) rounding the average rank calculated pursuant to the foregoing clause (1) to the nearest whole number
using ordinary numerical rounding, and (3) using the Final Award Percentage associated with the number determined in the foregoing clause (2).
The Target Rank is the rank associated with 100% on the chart of Final Award Percentages.
6. “Qualifying Participants” shall mean those individuals who participate in the Plan (whether as current or former employees) as of
immediately prior to the Change in Control.
(e) Application.
This Schedule shall apply to Stock Options, restricted stock unit awards and performance share unit awards under the Plans granted prior to
November 24, 2004.
8EXHIBIT 10.5
MERCK & CO., INC.
2001 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN
( Amended and Restated as of December 19, 2006 )2001 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN
The 2001 Incentive Stock Plan (“ISP”), effective January 1, 2001, is established to encourage employees of Merck & Co., Inc. (the
“Company”), its subsidiaries, its affiliates and its joint ventures to acquire Common Stock in the Company (“Common Stock”). It is believed that
the ISP will stimulate employees’ efforts on the Company’s behalf, will tend to maintain and strengthen their desire to remain with the
Company, will be in the interest of the Company and its Stockholders and will encourage such employees to have a greater personal financial
investment in the Company through ownership of its Common Stock.
1. Incentives
Incentives under the ISP may be granted in any one or a combination of (a) Incentive Stock Options (or other statutory stock options);
(b) Nonqualified Stock Options; (c) Stock Appreciation Rights; (d) Restricted Stock Grants and (e) Performance Shares (collectively
“Incentives”). All Incentives shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and to such other terms and conditions as may be
established by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors (the “Committee”).
2. Eligibility
Regular full-time and part-time employees of the Company, its subsidiaries, its affiliates and its joint ventures, including officers, whether or
not directors of the Company, and employees of a joint venture partner or affiliate of the Company who provide services to the joint venture with
such partner or affiliate, shall be eligible to participate in the ISP (“Eligible Employees”) if designated by the Committee. Directors of the
Company who are not regular employees are not eligible to participate in the ISP.
3. Administration
The ISP shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall be responsible for the administration of the ISP including, without
limitation, determining which Eligible Employees receive Incentives, what kind of Incentives are made under the ISP and for what number of
shares, and the other terms and conditions of such Incentives. Determinations by the Committee under the ISP including, without limitation,
determinations of the Eligible Employees, the form, amount and timing of Incentives, the terms and provisions of Incentives and the agreements
evidencing Incentives, need not be uniform and may be made selectively among Eligible Employees who receive, or are eligible to receive,
Incentives hereunder, whether or not such Eligible Employees are similarly situated.
The Committee shall have the responsibility of construing and interpreting the ISP and of establishing and amending such rules and
regulations as it may deem necessary or desirable for the proper administration of the ISP. Any decision or action taken or to be taken by the
Committee, arising out of or in connection with the construction, administration, interpretation and effect of the ISP and of its rules and
regulations, shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, be within its absolute discretion (except as otherwise specifically
provided herein) and shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company, all Eligible Employees and any person claiming under or through any
Eligible Employee.
The Committee may delegate some or all of its power and authority hereunder to the Chief Executive Officer or other senior member of
management as the Committee deems appropriate; provided, however, that the Committee may not delegate its authority with regard to any
matter or action affecting an officer subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
For the purpose of this section and all subsequent sections, the ISP shall be deemed to include this plan and any comparable sub-plans
established by subsidiaries which, in the aggregate, shall constitute one plan governed by the terms set forth herein.4. Shares Available for Incentives
(a) Shares Subject to Issuance or Transfer. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(c) hereof, there is hereby reserved for issuance
under the ISP 95 million shares of Common Stock. The shares available for granting awards shall be increased by the number of shares as to
which options or other benefits granted under the ISP have lapsed, expired, terminated or been canceled. In addition, any shares reserved for
issuance under the Company’s 1996 Incentive Stock Plan and 1991 Incentive Stock Plan (“Prior Plans”) in excess of the number of shares as to
which options or other benefits have been awarded thereunder, plus any such shares as to which options or other benefits granted under the Prior
Plans may lapse, expire, terminate or be canceled, shall also be reserved and available for issuance or reissuance under the ISP. Shares under this
ISP may be delivered by the Company from its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock or from Common Stock held in the Treasury.
(b) Limit on an Individual’s Incentives. In any given year, no Eligible Employee may receive Incentives covering more than three
(3) million shares of the Company’s Common Stock (such number of shares shall be adjusted in accordance with Section 4(c)).
(c) Adjustment of Shares. In the event of a reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, extraordinary cash dividend,
combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, spin off, split off, split up or other similar change in the capital structure of the
Company, the Committee shall make equitable adjustments to (i) the number and kind of shares authorized for issuance under the ISP, (ii) the
number and kind of shares subject to outstanding Incentives, (iii) the option price of Stock Options and (iv) the grant value of Stock
Appreciation Rights. Any such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive on all parties.
5. Stock Options
The Committee may grant options qualifying as Incentive Stock Options under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any
successor code thereto (the “Code”), other statutory options under the Code and Nonqualified Options (collectively “Stock Options”). Such
Stock Options shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe:
(a) Option Price. The option price per share with respect to each Stock Option shall be determined by the Committee, but shall not be less
than 100% of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the Stock Option is granted, as determined by the Committee.
(b) Period of Option. The period of each Stock Option shall be fixed by the Committee, but shall not exceed ten (10) years.
(c) Payment. No shares shall be issued until full payment of the option price has been made. The option prices may be paid in cash or, if
the Committee determines, in shares of Common Stock or a combination of cash and shares. If the Committee approves the use of shares of
Common Stock as a payment method, the Committee shall establish such conditions as it deems appropriate for the use of Common Stock to
exercise a stock option. Stock options awarded under the ISP shall be exercised through the Company’s broker-assisted stock option exercise
program, provided such program is available at the time of the option exercise, or by such other means as the Committee may determine from
time to time. The Committee may establish rules and procedures to permit an optionholder to defer recognition of gain upon the exercise of a
stock option.
(d) Exercise of Option. The Committee shall determine how and when shares covered by a Stock Option may be purchased. The
Committee may establish waiting periods, the dates on which options become exercisable or “vested” and exercise periods, provided that in
no event (including those specified
2in paragraphs (e), (f) and (g) of this section) shall any Stock Option be exercisable after its specified expiration period.
(e) Termination of Employment. Upon the termination of a Stock Option grantee’s employment (for any reason other than retirement,
death or termination for deliberate, willful or gross misconduct), Stock Option privileges shall be limited to the shares which were
immediately exercisable at the date of such termination. The Committee, however, in its discretion, may provide that any Stock Options
outstanding but not yet exercisable upon the termination of a Stock Option grantee’s employment may become exercisable in accordance with
a schedule as may be determined by the Committee. Such Stock Option privileges shall expire unless exercised or surrendered under a Stock
Appreciation Right within such period of time after the date of termination of employment as may be established by the Committee, but in no
event later than the expiration date of the Stock Option.
(f) Retirement. Upon retirement of a Stock Option grantee, Stock Option privileges shall apply to those shares immediately exercisable at
the date of retirement. The Committee, however, in its discretion, may provide that any Stock Options outstanding but not yet exercisable
upon the retirement of a Stock Option grantee may become exercisable in accordance with a schedule as may be determined by the
Committee. Stock Option privileges shall expire unless exercised within such period of time as may be established by the Committee, but in
no event later than the expiration date of the Stock Option.
(g) Death. Upon the death of a Stock Option grantee, Stock Option privileges shall apply to those shares which were immediately
exercisable at the time of death. The Committee, however, in its discretion, may provide that any Stock Options outstanding but not yet
exercisable upon the death of a Stock Option grantee may become exercisable in accordance with a schedule as may be determined by the
Committee. Such privileges shall expire unless exercised by legal representative(s) within a period of time as determined by the Committee,
but in no event later than the expiration date of the Stock Option.
(h) Termination Due to Misconduct . If a Stock Option grantee’s employment is terminated for deliberate, willful or gross misconduct,
as determined by the Company, all rights under the Stock Option shall expire upon receipt of the notice of such termination.
(i) Limits on Incentive Stock Options. Except as may otherwise be permitted by the Code, the Committee shall not grant to an Eligible
Employee Incentive Stock Options that, in the aggregate, are first exercisable during any one calendar year to the extent that the aggregate fair
market value of the Common Stock, at the time the Incentive Stock Options are granted, exceeds $100,000, or such other amount as the
Internal Revenue Service may decide from time to time.
6. Stock Appreciation Rights
The Committee may, in its discretion, grant a right to receive the appreciation in the fair market value of shares of Common Stock (“Stock
Appreciation Right”) either singly or in combination with an underlying Stock Option granted hereunder or under the Prior Plans. Such Stock
Appreciation Rights shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe:
(a) Time and Period of Grant. If a Stock Appreciation Right is granted with respect to an underlying Stock Option, it may be granted at
the time of the Stock Option grant or at any time thereafter but prior to the expiration of the Stock Option grant. If a Stock Appreciation Right
is granted with respect to an underlying Stock Option, at the time the Stock Appreciation Right is granted the Committee may limit the
exercise period for such Stock Appreciation Right, before and after which period no Stock Appreciation Right shall attach to the underlying
Stock Option. In no event shall the exercise period for a Stock Appreciation Right granted with respect to an underlying Stock Option exceed
the exercise period
3for such Stock Option. If a Stock Appreciation Right is granted without an underlying Stock Option, the period for exercise of the Stock
Appreciation Right shall be set by the Committee.
(b) Value of Stock Appreciation Right. If a Stock Appreciation Right is granted with respect to an underlying Stock Option, the grantee
will be entitled to surrender the Stock Option which is then exercisable and receive in exchange therefor an amount equal to the excess of the
fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the election to surrender is received by the Company over the Stock Option price
multiplied by the number of shares covered by the Stock Option which is surrendered. If a Stock Appreciation Right is granted without an
underlying Stock Option, the grantee will receive upon exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right an amount equal to the excess of the fair
market value of the Common Stock on the date the election to surrender such Stock Appreciation Right is received by the Company over the
fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant multiplied by the number of shares covered by the grant of the Stock
Appreciation Right.
(c) Payment of Stock Appreciation Right. Payment of a Stock Appreciation Right shall be in the form of shares of Common Stock, cash
or any combination of shares and cash. The form of payment upon exercise of such a right shall be determined by the Committee either at the
time of grant of the Stock Appreciation Right or at the time of exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right.
7. Performance Share Awards
The Committee may grant awards under which payment may be made in shares of Common Stock, cash or any combination of shares and
cash if the performance of the Company or any subsidiary, division, affiliate or joint venture of the Company selected by the Committee during
the Award Period meets certain goals established by the Committee (“Performance Share Awards”). Such Performance Share Awards shall be
subject to the following terms and conditions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe:
(a) Award Period and Performance Goals. The Committee shall determine and include in a Performance Share Award grant the period
of time for which a Performance Share Award is made (“Award Period”). The Committee shall also establish performance objectives
(“Performance Goals”) to be met by the Company, subsidiary, division or joint venture during the Award Period as a condition to payment of
the Performance Share Award. The Performance Goals may include earnings per share, return on stockholders’ equity, return on assets, net
income or any other financial or other measurement established by the Committee. The Performance Goals may include minimum and
optimum objectives or a single set of objectives.
(b) Payment of Performance Share Awards. The Committee shall establish the method of calculating the amount of payment to be made
under a Performance Share Award if the Performance Goals are met, including the fixing of a maximum payment. The Performance Share
Award shall be expressed in terms of shares of Common Stock and referred to as “Performance Shares.” After the completion of an Award
Period, the performance of the Company, subsidiary, division or joint venture shall be measured against the Performance Goals, and the
Committee shall determine whether all, none or any portion of a Performance Share Award shall be paid. The Committee, in its discretion,
may elect to make payment in shares of Common Stock, cash or a combination of shares and cash. Any cash payment shall be based on the
fair market value of Performance Shares on, or as soon as practicable prior to, the date of payment.
(c) Revision of Performance Goals. At any time prior to the end of an Award Period, the Committee may revise the Performance Goals
and the computation of payment if unforeseen events occur which have a substantial effect on the performance of the Company, subsidiary,
division or joint
4venture and which, in the judgment of the Committee, make the application of the Performance Goals unfair unless a revision is made.
(d) Requirement of Employment. A grantee of a Performance Share Award must remain in the employ of the Company until the
completion of the Award Period in order to be entitled to payment under the Performance Share Award; provided that the Committee may, in
its discretion, provide for a full or partial payment where such an exception is deemed equitable.
(e) Dividends. The Committee may, in its discretion, at the time of the granting of a Performance Share Award, provide that any dividends
declared on the Common Stock during the Award Period, and which would have been paid with respect to Performance Shares had they been
owned by a grantee, be (i) paid to the grantee, or (ii) accumulated for the benefit of the grantee and used to increase the number of
Performance Shares of the grantee.
(f) Limit on Performance Share Awards. Incentives granted as Performance Share Awards under this section and Restricted Stock
Grants under Section 8 shall not exceed, in the aggregate, six (6) million shares of Common Stock (such number of shares shall be adjusted in
accordance with Section 4(c)).
8. Restricted Stock Grants
The Committee may award shares of Common Stock to a grantee, which shares shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and
such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe (“Restricted Stock Grant”):
(a) Requirement of Employment. A grantee of a Restricted Stock Grant must remain in the employment of the Company during a period
designated by the Committee (“Restriction Period”) in order to retain the shares under the Restricted Stock Grant. If the grantee leaves the
employment of the Company prior to the end of the Restriction Period, the Restricted Stock Grant shall terminate and the shares of Common
Stock shall be returned immediately to the Company provided that the Committee may, at the time of the grant, provide for the employment
restriction to lapse with respect to a portion or portions of the Restricted Stock Grant at different times during the Restriction Period. The
Committee may, in its discretion, also provide for such complete or partial exceptions to the employment restriction as it deems equitable.
(b) Restrictions on Transfer and Legend on Stock Certificates. During the Restriction Period, the grantee may not sell, assign, transfer,
pledge or otherwise dispose of the shares of Common Stock. Each certificate for shares of Common Stock issued hereunder shall contain a
legend giving appropriate notice of the restrictions in the grant.
(c) Escrow Agreement. The Committee may require the grantee to enter into an escrow agreement providing that the certificates
representing the Restricted Stock Grant will remain in the physical custody of an escrow holder until all restrictions are removed or expire.
(d) Lapse of Restrictions. All restrictions imposed under the Restricted Stock Grant shall lapse upon the expiration of the Restriction
Period if the conditions as to employment set forth above have been met. The grantee shall then be entitled to have the legend removed from
the certificates.
(e) Dividends. The Committee shall, in its discretion, at the time of the Restricted Stock Grant, provide that any dividends declared on the
Common Stock during the Restriction Period shall either be (i) paid to the grantee, or (ii) accumulated for the benefit of the grantee and paid
to the grantee only after the expiration of the Restriction Period.
5(f) Limit on Restricted Stock Grant. Incentives granted as Restricted Stock Grants under this section and Performance Share Awards
under Section 7 shall not exceed, in the aggregate, six (6) million shares of Common Stock (such number of shares shall be adjusted in
accordance with Section 4(c)).
9. Transferability
Each Incentive Stock Option granted under the ISP shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution; each
other Incentive granted under the ISP will not be transferable or assignable by the recipient, and may not be made subject to execution,
attachment or similar procedures, other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or as determined by the Committee in accordance
with regulations promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or any other applicable law or regulation.
10. Discontinuance or Amendment of the Plan
The Board of Directors may discontinue the ISP at any time and may from time to time amend or revise the terms of the ISP as permitted by
applicable statutes, except that it may not revoke or alter, in a manner unfavorable to the grantees of any Incentives hereunder, any Incentives
then outstanding, nor may the Board amend the ISP without stockholder approval where the absence of such approval would cause the Plan to
fail to comply with Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or any other requirement of applicable law or regulation. Unless
approved by the Company’s stockholders, no adjustments or reduction of the exercise price of any outstanding Incentives shall be made by
cancellation of outstanding Incentives and the subsequent regranting of Incentives at a lower price to the same individual. No Incentive shall be
granted under the ISP after December 31, 2003, but Incentives granted theretofore may extend beyond that date.
11. No Right of Employment or Participation
The ISP and the Incentives granted hereunder shall not confer upon any Eligible Employee the right to continued employment with the
Company, its subsidiaries, its affiliates or its joint ventures or affect in any way the right of such entities to terminate the employment of an
Eligible Employee at any time and for any reason. No individual shall have a right to be granted an Incentive, or having been granted an
Incentive, to receive any future Incentives.
12. No Limitation on Compensation
Nothing in the ISP shall be construed to limit the right of the Company to establish other plans or to pay compensation to its employees, in
cash or property, in a manner which is not expressly authorized under the ISP.
13. No Impact on Benefits
Except as may otherwise be specifically stated under any employee benefit plan, policy or program, no amount payable in respect of any
Incentive shall be treated as compensation for purposes of calculating an employee’s right under any such plan, policy or program.
14. No Constraint on Corporate Action
Nothing in the ISP shall be construed (i) to limit, impair or otherwise affect the Company’s right or power to make adjustments,
reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer
all or any part of its business or assets, or (ii) except as provided in Section 10, to limit the right or power of the Company or any subsidiary to
take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate.
615. Withholding Taxes
The Company shall be entitled to deduct from any payment under the ISP, regardless of the form of such payment, the amount of all
applicable income and employment taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to such payment or may require the Eligible Employee to
pay to it such tax prior to and as a condition of the making of such payment. In accordance with any applicable administrative guidelines it
establishes, the Committee may allow an Eligible Employee to pay the amount of taxes required by law to be withheld from an Incentive by
withholding from any payment of Common Stock due as a result of such Incentive, or by permitting the Eligible Employee to deliver to the
Company, shares of Common Stock having a fair market value, as determined by the Committee, equal to the amount of such required
withholding taxes.
16. Governing Law
The ISP, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New Jersey.
Merck Change in Control
(a) Options.
1. Vesting of Options Other Than Key R&D Options. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Stock Option which is
outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control, other than the Key R&D Options, shall immediately become fully vested and
exercisable.
2. Vesting of Key R&D Options.
(i) Subject to (a)(2)(ii) of this Schedule, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Key R&D Option shall continue to be subject to
the performance-based vesting schedule applicable thereto immediately prior to the Change in Control.
(ii) Notwithstanding (a)(2)(i) of this Schedule, if the Stock Options do not continue to be outstanding following the Change in Control or
are not exchanged for or converted into options to purchase securities of a successor entity (“Successor Options”), then, upon the occurrence
of a Change in Control, all or a portion of each Key R&D Option shall immediately vest and become exercisable in the following
percentages: (A) if such Key R&D Option’s first milestone has not been reached before the date of the Change in Control, 14% of the then-
unvested portion of the Key R&D Option shall vest and become exercisable and the remainder shall be forfeited; (B) if only such Key R&D
Option’s first milestone has been reached before the date of the Change in Control, 42% of the then-unvested portion of the Key R&D Option
shall vest and become exercisable and the remainder shall be forfeited; and (C) if such Key R&D Option’s first and second milestones have
been reached before the date of the Change in Control, 100% of the then-unvested portion of the Key R&D Option shall vest and become
exercisable.
3. Post-Termination Exercise Period. If Stock Options continue to be outstanding following the Change in Control or are exchanged for or
converted into Successor Options, then the portion of such Stock Options or such Successor Options, as applicable, that is vested and
exercisable immediately following the termination of employment of the holder thereof after the Change in Control shall remain exercisable
following such termination for five years from the date of such termination (but not beyond the remainder of the term thereof) provided,
however, that, if such termination is by reason of gross misconduct, death or retirement (as these terms are applied to awards granted under
the Plans), then those provisions of the Plan that are applicable to a termination by reason of gross misconduct, death or retirement, if any,
shall apply to such termination. If the effect of vesting pursuant to this Section (a) would cause a Stock Option or
7Successor Stock Option to terminate earlier than if such accelerated vesting had not occurred, then the term of such Stock Option shall not
expire earlier than if such accelerated vesting had not occurred.
4. Cashout of Stock Options. If the Stock Options do not continue to be outstanding following the Change in Control and are not
exchanged for or converted into Successor Options, each holder of a vested and exercisable option shall be entitled to receive, as soon as
practicable following the Change in Control, for each share of Common Stock subject to a vested and exercisable option, an amount of cash
determined by the Committee prior to the Change in Control but in no event less than the excess of the Change in Control Price over the
exercise price thereof (subject to any existing deferral elections then in effect). If the consideration to be paid in a Change in Control is not
entirely shares of common stock of an acquiring or resulting corporation, then the Committee may, prior to the Change in Control, provide for
the cancellation of outstanding Stock Options at the time of the Change in Control, in whole or in part, for cash pursuant to this provision or
may provide for the exchange or conversion of outstanding Stock Options at the time of the Change in Control, in whole or in part, and, in
connection with any such provision, may (but shall not be obligated to) permit holders of Stock Options to make such elections related thereto
as it determines are appropriate.
5. Incentive Stock Options Not Amended. This Section does not apply to any incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of
the Internal Revenue Code.
(b) Restricted Stock Units and Performance Share Units.
1. Vesting of Restricted Stock Units. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each unvested restricted stock unit award which is
outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control under the Plan shall immediately become fully vested.
2. Vesting of Performance Share Units. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each unvested performance share unit award which is
outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control under the Plan shall immediately become vested in an amount equal to the PSU Pro
Rata Amount.
3. Settlement of Restricted Stock Units and Performance Share Units.
(i) If the Common Stock continues to be widely held and freely tradable following the Change in Control or is exchanged for or converted
into securities of a successor entity that are widely held and freely tradable, then the restricted stock units and the vested performance share
units shall be paid in shares of Common Stock or such other securities as soon as practicable after the date of the Change in Control (subject
to any existing deferral elections then in effect).
(ii) If the Common Stock does not continue to be widely held and freely tradable following the Change in Control and is not exchanged for
or converted into securities of a successor entity that are widely held and freely tradable, then the restricted stock units and the vested
performance share units shall be paid in cash as soon as practicable after the date of the Change in Control (subject to any existing deferral
elections then in effect).
(c) Other Provisions.
1. Except to the extent required by applicable law, for the entirety of the Protection Period, the material terms of the Plan shall not be
modified in any manner that is materially adverse to the Qualifying Participants (it being understood that this Section (c) of this Schedule
shall not require that any specific type or levels of equity awards be granted to Qualifying Participants following the Change in Control).
2. During the Protection Period, the Plan may not be amended or modified to reduce or eliminate the protections set forth in Section (c)(1)
of this Schedule and may not be terminated.
83. The Company shall pay all legal fees and related expenses (including the costs of experts, evidence and counsel) reasonably and in good
faith incurred by a Qualifying Participant if the Qualifying Participant prevails on his or her claim for relief in an action (x) by the Qualifying
Participant claiming that the provisions of Section (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this Schedule have been violated (but, for avoidance of doubt, excluding
claims for Plan benefits in the ordinary course) and (y) if applicable, by the Company or the Qualifying Participant’s employer to enforce
post-termination covenants against the Qualifying Participant.
4. This section does not apply to any incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code.
5. Anything in the Plan as amended by this Schedule notwithstanding, the Company reserves the right to make such further changes as
may be required if and to the extent required to avoid adverse consequences under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as amended.
(d) Definitions.
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
1. “Change in Control” shall have the meaning set forth in the Company’s Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan; provided, however,
that, as to any award under the Plan that consists of deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code, the definition of “Change in
Control” shall be deemed modified to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Code.
2. “Change in Control Price” shall mean, with respect to a share of Common Stock, the higher of (A) the highest reported sales price,
regular way, of such share in any transaction reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape or other national exchange on which
such shares are listed or on the NASDAQ National Market during the 10-day period prior to and including the date of a Change in Control
and (B) if the Change in Control is the result of a tender or exchange offer, merger, or other, similar corporate transaction, the highest price
per such share paid in such tender or exchange offer, merger or other, similar corporate transaction; provided that, to the extent all or part of
the consideration paid in any such transaction consists of securities or other non-cash consideration, the value of such securities or other non-
cash consideration shall be determined by the Committee.
3. “Key R&D Options” shall mean those performance-based options granted to employees under the Key Research and Development
Program described in the applicable Schedule to the Rules and Regulations for the Plan, if any.
4. “Protection Period” shall mean the period beginning on the date of the Change in Control and ending on the second anniversary of the
date of the Change in Control.
5. “PSU Pro Rata Amount” shall mean for each Performance Share Unit award, the amount determined by multiplying (x) and (y), where
(x) is the number of Target Shares subject to the Performance Share Unit award times the Assumed Performance Percentage and (y) is a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of whole and partial calendar months elapsed during the applicable performance period
(counting any partial month as a whole month for this purpose) and the denominator of which is the total number of months in the applicable
performance period. The Assumed Performance Percentage shall be determined by (1) averaging the ranks during the Award Period as
follows: (A) as to any completed performance year as of the Change in Control, the actual rank (except that, if fewer than 90 days have
elapsed since the completion of such performance year, the Target Rank shall be used), and (B) as to any performance year that is incomplete
or has not yet begun as of the Change in Control, the Target Rank, (2) rounding the average rank calculated pursuant to the foregoing clause
(1) to the nearest whole number using ordinary
9numerical rounding, and (3) using the Final Award Percentage associated with the number determined in the foregoing clause (2). The Target
Rank is the rank associated with 100% on the chart of Final Award Percentages.
6. “Qualifying Participants” shall mean those individuals who participate in the Plan (whether as current or former employees) as of
immediately prior to the Change in Control.
(e) Application.
This Schedule shall apply to Stock Options, restricted stock unit awards and performance share unit awards under the Plans granted prior
to November 24, 2004.
10Exhibit 10.6
MERCK & CO., INC.
2004 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN
(Amended and Restated as of December 19, 2006)MERCK & CO., INC.
2004 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN
(Amended December 19, 2006)
1. Purpose
The 2004 Incentive Stock Plan (the “Plan”), effective May 1, 2003, is established to encourage employees of Merck & Co., Inc. (the
“Company”), its subsidiaries, its affiliates and its joint ventures to acquire Common Stock in the Company (“Common Stock”). It is believed that
the Plan will serve the interests of the Company and its stockholders because it allows employees to have a greater personal financial interest in
the Company through ownership of, or the right to acquire its Common Stock, which in turn will stimulate employees’ efforts on the Company’s
behalf, and maintain and strengthen their desire to remain with the Company. It is believed that the Plan also will assist in the recruitment of
employees.
2. Administration
The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Committee”).
A Director of the Company may serve on the Committee only if he or she (i) is a “Non-Employee Director” for purposes of Rule 16b-3 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and (ii) satisfies the requirements of an “outside director” for purposes of
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”). The Committee shall be responsible for the administration of the Plan including,
without limitation, determining which Eligible Employees receive Incentives, the types of Incentives they receive under the Plan, the number of
shares covered by Incentives granted under the Plan, and the other terms and conditions of such Incentives. Determinations by the Committee
under the Plan including, without limitation, determinations of the Eligible Employees, the form, amount and timing of Incentives, the terms and
provisions of Incentives and the writings evidencing Incentives, need not be uniform and may be made selectively among Eligible Employees
who receive, or are eligible to receive, Incentives hereunder, whether or not such Eligible Employees are similarly situated.
The Committee shall have the responsibility of construing and interpreting the Plan, including the right to construe disputed or doubtful Plan
provisions, and of establishing, amending and construing such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or desirable for the proper
administration of the Plan. Any decision or action taken or to be taken by the Committee, arising out of or in connection with the construction,
administration, interpretation and effect of the Plan and of its rules and regulations, shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, be
within its absolute discretion (except as otherwise specifically provided herein) and shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Company, all
Eligible Employees and any person claiming under or through any Eligible Employee.
The Committee, as permitted by applicable state law, may delegate any or all of its power and authority hereunder to the Chief Executive
Officer or such other senior member of management as the Committee deems appropriate; provided, however, that the Committee may not
delegate its authority with regard to any matter or action affecting an officer subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act and that no such
delegation shall be made in the case of Incentives intended to be qualified under Section 162(m) of the Code.
For the purpose of this section and all subsequent sections, the Plan shall be deemed to include this Plan and any comparable sub-plans
established by subsidiaries which, in the aggregate, shall constitute one Plan governed by the terms set forth herein.
3. Eligibility
(a) Employees. Regular full-time and part-time employees employed by the Company, its parent, if any, or its subsidiaries, its affiliates
and its joint ventures, including officers, whether or not directors of the Company, and employees of a joint venture partner or affiliate of the
Company who provide services to the joint venture with such partner or affiliate (each such person, an “Employee”), shall be eligible to
participate in the Plan if designated by the Committee (“Eligible Employees”).
(b) Non-employees. The term “Employee” shall not include any of the following (collectively, “Excluded Persons”): a director who is not
an employee or an officer; a person who is an independent
1contractor, or agrees or has agreed that he/she is an independent contractor; a person who has any agreement or understanding with the
Company, or any of its affiliates or joint venture partners that he/she is not an employee or an Eligible Employee, even if he/she previously
had been an employee or Eligible Employee; a person who is employed by a temporary or other employment agency, regardless of the
amount of control, supervision or training provided by the Company or its affiliates; or a “leased employee” as defined under Section 414
(n) of the Code. An Excluded Person is not an Eligible Employee and cannot receive Incentives even if a court, agency or other authority
rules that he/she is a common-law employee of the Company or its affiliates.
(c) No Right To Continued Employment. Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company, its
parent, its subsidiaries, its affiliates or its joint ventures to terminate the employment of any participant at any time, nor confer upon any
participant the right to continue in the employ of the Company, its parent, its subsidiaries, its affiliates or its joint ventures. No Eligible
Employee shall have a right to receive an Incentive or any other benefit under this Plan or having been granted an Incentive or other benefit,
to receive any additional Incentive or other benefit. Neither the award of an Incentive nor any benefits arising under such Incentives shall
constitute an employment contract with the Company, its parent, its subsidiaries, its affiliates or its joint ventures, and, accordingly, this Plan
and the benefits hereunder may be terminated at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Company without giving rise to liability
on the part of the Company, its parent, its subsidiaries, its affiliates or its joint ventures for severance. Except as may be otherwise specifically
stated in any other employee benefit plan, policy or program, neither any Incentive under this Plan nor any amount realized from any such
Incentive shall be treated as compensation for any purposes of calculating an employee’s benefit under any such plan, policy or program.
4. Term of the Plan
This Plan shall be effective as of May 1, 2003, subject to the approval of the Plan by the affirmative vote of the stockholders of the Company
entitled to vote thereon at the time of such approval. No Incentive shall be granted under the Plan after April 30, 2013, but the term and exercise
of Incentives granted theretofore may extend beyond that date.
5. Incentives
Incentives under the Plan may be granted in any one or a combination of (a) Incentive Stock Options, (b) Nonqualified Stock Options,
(c) Stock Appreciation Rights, (d) Restricted Stock Grants, (e) Performance Shares, (f) Share Awards and (g) Phantom Stock Awards
(collectively “Incentives”). All Incentives shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and to such other terms and conditions as
may be established by the Committee.
6. Shares Available for Incentives
(a) Shares Available. Subject to the provisions of Section 6(c), the maximum number of shares of Common Stock of the Company that
may be issued under the Plan is 115 million. Any shares under this Plan or under the predecessor Incentive Stock Plans that are not purchased
or awarded under an Incentive that has lapsed, expired, terminated or been cancelled, may be used for the further grant of Incentives under the
Plan. Incentives and similar awards issued by an entity that is merged into or with the Company, acquired by the Company or otherwise
involved in a similar corporate transaction with the Company are not considered issued under this Plan. Shares under this Plan may be
delivered by the Company from its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock or from issued and reacquired Common Stock held as
treasury stock, or both. In no event shall fractional shares of Common Stock be issued under the Plan.
(b) Limit on an Individual’s Incentives. In any calendar year, no Eligible Employee may receive (i) Incentives covering more than
3 million shares of the Company’s Common Stock (such number of shares shall be adjusted in accordance with Section 6(c)), or (ii) any
Incentive if such person owns more than 10 percent of the stock of the Company within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code, or (iii) any
Incentive Stock Option, as defined in Section 422 of the Code, that would result in such person receiving a grant of Incentive Stock Options
for stock that would have an aggregate fair market value in excess of $100,000, determined as of the time that the Incentive Stock Option is
granted, that would be exercisable for the first time by such person during any calendar year.
2(c) Adjustment of Shares. In the event of a reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, extraordinary cash dividend,
combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, spin off, split off, split up or other similar change in the capital structure of the
Company, the Committee shall make equitable adjustments to (i) the number and kind of shares authorized for issuance under the Plan,
(ii) the number and kind of shares subject to outstanding Incentives, (iii) the option price of Stock Options and (iv) the grant value of Stock
Appreciation Rights. Any such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive on all parties.
7. Stock Options
The Committee may grant options qualifying as Incentive Stock Options as defined in Section 422 of the Code, and options other than
Incentive Stock Options (“Nonqualified Options”) (collectively “Stock Options”). Such Stock Options shall be subject to the following terms
and conditions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe:
(a) Stock Option Price. The option price per share with respect to each Stock Option shall be determined by the Committee, but shall not
be less than 100 percent of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the Stock Option is granted, as determined by the
Committee.
(b) Period of Stock Option. The period of each Stock Option shall be fixed by the Committee, provided that the period for all Stock
Options shall not exceed ten years from the grant; provided further, however, that, in the event of the death of an Optionee prior to the
expiration of a Nonqualified Option, such Nonqualified Option may, if the Committee so determines, be exercisable for up to eleven years
from the date of the grant. The Committee may, subsequent to the granting of any Stock Option, extend the term thereof, but in no event shall
the extended term exceed ten years from the original grant date.
(c) Exercise of Stock Option and Payment Therefore. No shares shall be issued until full payment of the option price has been made.
The option price may be paid in cash or, if the Committee determines, in shares of Common Stock or a combination of cash and shares of
Common Stock. If the Committee approves the use of shares of Common Stock as a payment method, the Committee shall establish such
conditions as it deems appropriate for the use of Common Stock to exercise a Stock Option. Stock Options awarded under the Plan shall be
exercised through such procedure or program as the Committee may establish or define from time to time, which may include a designated
broker that must be used in exercising such Stock Options. The Committee may establish rules and procedures to permit an optionholder to
defer recognition of gain upon the exercise of a Stock Option.
(d) First Exercisable Date . The Committee shall determine how and when shares covered by a Stock Option may be purchased. The
Committee may establish waiting periods, the dates on which Stock Options become exercisable or “vested” and, subject to paragraph (b) of
this section, exercise periods. The Committee may accelerate the exercisability of any Stock Option or portion thereof.
(e) Termination of Employment. Unless determined otherwise by the Committee, upon the termination of a Stock Option grantee’s
employment (for any reason other than gross misconduct), Stock Option privileges shall be limited to the shares that were immediately
exercisable at the date of such termination. The Committee, however, in its discretion, may provide that any Stock Options outstanding but
not yet exercisable upon the termination of a Stock Option grantee’s employment may become exercisable in accordance with a schedule
determined by the Committee. Such Stock Option privileges shall expire unless exercised within such period of time after the date of
termination of employment as may be established by the Committee, but in no event later than the expiration date of the Stock Option.
(f) Termination Due to Misconduct . If a Stock Option grantee’s employment is terminated for gross misconduct, as determined by the
Company, all rights under the Stock Option shall expire upon the date of such termination.
(g) Limits on Incentive Stock Options . Except as may otherwise be permitted by the Code, an Eligible Employee may not receive a
grant of Incentive Stock Options for stock that would have an aggregate fair market value in excess of $100,000 (or such other amount as the
Internal Revenue Service may decide from time to time), determined as of the time that the Incentive Stock Option is granted, that would be
exercisable for the first time by such person during any calendar year.
38. Stock Appreciation Rights
The Committee may, in its discretion, grant a right to receive the appreciation in the fair market value of shares of Common Stock (“Stock
Appreciation Right”) either singly or in combination with an underlying Stock Option granted hereunder. Such Stock Appreciation Right shall
be subject to the following terms and conditions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe:
(a) Time and Period of Grant. If a Stock Appreciation Right is granted with respect to an underlying Stock Option, it may be granted at
the time of the Stock Option grant or at any time thereafter but prior to the expiration of the Stock Option grant. If a Stock Appreciation Right
is granted with respect to an underlying Stock Option, at the time the Stock Appreciation Right is granted the Committee may limit the
exercise period for such Stock Appreciation Right, before and after which period no Stock Appreciation Right shall attach to the underlying
Stock Option. In no event shall the exercise period for a Stock Appreciation Right granted with respect to an underlying Stock Option exceed
the exercise period for such Stock Option. If a Stock Appreciation Right is granted without an underlying Stock Option, the period for
exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right shall be set by the Committee.
(b) Value of Stock Appreciation Right. If a Stock Appreciation Right is granted with respect to an underlying Stock Option, the grantee
will be entitled to surrender the Stock Option which is then exercisable and receive in exchange therefor an amount equal to the excess of the
fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the election to surrender is received by the Company in accordance with exercise
procedures established by the Company over the Stock Option price (the “Spread”) multiplied by the number of shares covered by the Stock
Option which is surrendered. If a Stock Appreciation Right is granted without an underlying Stock Option, the grantee will receive upon
exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the election
to surrender such Stock Appreciation Right is received by the Company in accordance with exercise procedures established by the Company
over the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant multiplied by the number of shares covered by the grant of the Stock
Appreciation Right. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in its sole discretion the Committee at the time it grants a Stock Appreciation Right may
provide that the Spread covered by such Stock Appreciation Right may not exceed a specified amount.
(c) Payment of Stock Appreciation Right. Payment of a Stock Appreciation Right shall be in the form of shares of Common Stock, cash
or any combination of shares and cash. The form of payment upon exercise of such a right shall be determined by the Committee either at the
time of grant of the Stock Appreciation Right or at the time of exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right.
9. Performance Share Awards
The Committee may grant awards under which payment may be made in shares of Common Stock, cash or any combination of shares and
cash if the performance of the Company or its parent or any subsidiary, division, affiliate or joint venture of the Company selected by the
Committee during the Award Period meets certain goals established by the Committee (“Performance Share Awards”). Such Performance Share
Awards shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe:
(a) Award Period and Performance Goals. The Committee shall determine and include in a Performance Share Award grant the period
of time for which a Performance Share Award is made (“Award Period”). The Committee also shall establish performance objectives
(“Performance Goals”) to be met by the Company, its parent, subsidiary, division, affiliate or joint venture of the Company during the Award
Period as a condition to payment of the Performance Share Award. The Performance Goals may include share price, pre-tax profits, earnings
per share, return on stockholders’ equity, return on assets, sales, net income or any combination of the foregoing or, solely for an Award not
intended to constitute “performance-based compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Code, any other financial or other measurement
established by the Committee. The Performance Goals may include minimum and optimum objectives or a single set of objectives.
(b) Payment of Performance Share Awards. The Committee shall establish the method of calculating the amount of payment to be made
under a Performance Share Award if the Performance Goals are met, including the fixing of a maximum payment. The Performance Share
Award shall be expressed in terms of shares of Common Stock and referred to as “Performance Shares”. After the completion of an Award
4Period, the performance of the Company, its parent, subsidiary, division, affiliate or joint venture of the Company shall be measured against
the Performance Goals, and the Committee shall determine, in accordance with the terms of such Performance Share Award, whether all,
none or any portion of a Performance Share Award shall be paid. The Committee, in its discretion, may elect to make payment in shares of
Common Stock, cash or a combination of shares and cash. Any cash payment shall be based on the fair market value of Performance Shares
on or as soon as practicable prior to, the date of payment. The Committee may establish rules and procedures to permit a grantee to defer
recognition of income upon the attainment of a Performance Share Award.
(c) Revision of Performance Goals. As to any Award not intended to constitute “performance-based compensation” under Section 162
(m) of the Code, at any time prior to the end of an Award Period, the Committee may revise the Performance Goals and the computation of
payment if unforeseen events occur which have a substantial effect on the performance of the Company, its parent, subsidiary, division,
affiliate or joint venture of the Company and which, in the judgment of the Committee, make the application of the Performance Goals unfair
unless a revision is made.
(d) Requirement of Employment. A grantee of a Performance Share Award must remain in the employ of the Company, its parent,
subsidiary, affiliate or joint venture until the completion of the Award Period in order to be entitled to payment under the Performance Share
Award; provided that the Committee may, in its discretion, provide for a full or partial payment where such an exception is deemed equitable.
(e) Dividends. The Committee may, in its discretion, at the time of the granting of a Performance Share Award, provide that any dividends
declared on the Common Stock during the Award Period, and which would have been paid with respect to Performance Shares had they been
owned by a grantee, be (i) paid to the grantee, or (ii) accumulated for the benefit of the grantee and used to increase the number of
Performance Shares of the grantee.
(f) Limit on Performance Share Awards. Incentives granted as Performance Share Awards under this section, Restricted Stock Grants
under Section 10 and Other Share Based Awards under Section 11 shall not exceed, in the aggregate, 12 million shares of Common Stock
(such number of shares shall be adjusted in accordance with Section 6(c)).
10. Restricted Stock Grants
The Committee may award shares of Common Stock to an Eligible Employee, which shares shall be subject to the following terms and
conditions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe (“Restricted Stock Grant”):
(a) Requirement of Employment. A grantee of a Restricted Stock Grant must remain in the employment of the Company during a period
designated by the Committee (“Restriction Period”) in order to retain the shares under the Restricted Stock Grant. If the grantee leaves the
employment of the Company prior to the end of the Restriction Period, the Restricted Stock Grant shall terminate and the shares of Common
Stock shall be returned immediately to the Company provided that the Committee may, at the time of the grant, provide for the employment
restriction to lapse with respect to a portion or portions of the Restricted Stock Grant at different times during the Restriction Period. The
Committee may, in its discretion, also provide for such complete or partial exceptions to the employment restriction as it deems equitable.
(b) Restrictions on Transfer and Legend on Stock Certificates. During the Restriction Period, the grantee may not sell, assign, transfer,
pledge or otherwise dispose of the shares of Common Stock. Each certificate for shares of Common Stock issued hereunder shall contain a
legend giving appropriate notice of the restrictions in the grant.
(c) Escrow Agreement. The Committee may require the grantee to enter into an escrow agreement providing that the certificates
representing the Restricted Stock Grant will remain in the physical custody of an escrow holder until all restrictions are removed or expire.
(d) Lapse of Restrictions. All restrictions imposed under the Restricted Stock Grant shall lapse upon the expiration of the Restriction
Period if the conditions as to employment set forth above have been met. The grantee shall then be entitled to have the legend removed from
the certificates. The Committee may establish
5rules and procedures to permit a grantee to defer recognition of income upon the expiration of the Restriction Period.
(e) Dividends. The Committee shall, in its discretion, at the time of the Restricted Stock Grant, provide that any dividends declared on the
Common Stock during the Restriction Period shall either be (i) paid to the grantee, or (ii) accumulated for the benefit of the grantee and paid
to the grantee only after the expiration of the Restriction Period.
(f) Performance Goals. The Committee may designate whether any Restricted Stock Grant is intended to be “performance-based
compensation” as that term is used in Section 162(m) of the Code. Any such Restricted Stock Grant designated to be “performance-based
compensation” shall be conditioned on the achievement of one or more Performance Goals (as defined in Section 9(a)), to the extent required
by Section 162(m).
(g) Limit on Restricted Stock Grant. Incentives granted as Restricted Stock Grants under this section, Performance Share Awards under
Section 9 and Other Share Based Awards under Section 11 shall not exceed, in the aggregate, 12 million shares of Common Stock (such
number of shares shall be adjusted in accordance with Section 6(c)).
11. Other Share-Based Awards
The Committee may grant an award of shares of common stock (a “Share Award”) to any Eligible Employee on such terms and conditions as
the Committee may determine in its sole discretion. Share Awards may be made as additional compensation for services rendered by the Eligible
Employee or may be in lieu of cash or other compensation to which the Eligible Employee is entitled from the Company. Incentives granted as
Share Based Awards under this section, Performance Share Awards under Section 9 and Restricted Stock Grants under Section 10 shall not
exceed, in the aggregate, 12 million shares of Common Stock (such number of shares shall be adjusted in accordance with Section 6(c)).
12. Transferability
Each Incentive Stock Option granted under the Plan shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution; each
other Incentive granted under the Plan will not be transferable or assignable by the recipient, and may not be made subject to execution,
attachment or similar procedures, other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or as determined by the Committee in accordance
with regulations promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or any other applicable law or regulation. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Committee, in its discretion, may adopt rules permitting the transfer, solely as gifts during the grantee’s lifetime, of Stock Options
(other than Incentive Stock Options) to members of a grantee’s immediate family or to trusts, family partnerships or similar entities for the
benefit of such immediate family members. For this purpose, immediate family member means the grantee’s spouse, parent, child, stepchild,
grandchild and the spouses of such family members. The terms of a Stock Option shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the beneficiaries,
executors, administrators, heirs and successors of the grantee.
13. Discontinuance or Amendment of the Plan
The Board of Directors may discontinue the Plan at any time and may from time to time amend or revise the terms of the Plan as permitted by
applicable statutes, except that it may not, without the consent of the grantees affected, revoke or alter, in a manner unfavorable to the grantees
of any Incentives hereunder, any Incentives then outstanding, nor may the Board amend the Plan without stockholder approval where the
absence of such approval would cause the Plan to fail to comply with Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, or any other requirement of applicable
law or regulation. Unless approved by the Company’s stockholders or as otherwise specifically provided under this Plan, no adjustments or
reduction of the exercise price of any outstanding Incentives shall be made in the event of a decline in stock price, either by reducing the exercise
price of outstanding Incentives or through cancellation of outstanding Incentives in connection with regranting of Incentives at a lower price to
the same individual.
14. No Limitation on Compensation
Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to limit the right of the Company to establish other plans or to pay compensation to its employees, in
cash or property, in a manner which is not expressly authorized under the Plan.
615. No Constraint on Corporate Action
Nothing in the Plan shall be construed (i) to limit, impair or otherwise affect the Company’s right or power to make adjustments,
reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer
all or any part of its business or assets, or (ii) except as provided in Section 13, to limit the right or power of the Company, its parent, or any
subsidiary, affiliate or joint venture to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate.
16. Withholding Taxes
The Company shall be entitled to deduct from any payment under the Plan, regardless of the form of such payment, the amount of all
applicable income and employment taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to such payment or may require the Eligible Employee to
pay to it such tax prior to and as a condition of the making of such payment. In accordance with any applicable administrative guidelines it
establishes, the Committee may allow an Eligible Employee to pay the amount of taxes required by law to be withheld from an Incentive by
withholding from any payment of Common Stock due as a result of such Incentive, or by permitting the Eligible Employee to deliver to the
Company, shares of Common Stock having a fair market value, as determined by the Committee, equal to the amount of such required
withholding taxes.
17. Compliance with Section 16
With respect to Eligible Employees subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act (“Section 16 Officers”), transactions under the Plan are
intended to comply with all applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3 or its successor under the Exchange Act. To the extent that compliance with any
Plan provision applicable solely to the Section 16 Officers is not required in order to bring a transaction by such Section 16 Officer into
compliance with Rule 16b-3, it shall be deemed null and void as to such transaction, to the extent permitted by law and deemed advisable by the
Committee and its delegees. To the extent any provision of the Plan or action by the Plan administrators involving such Section 16 Officers is
deemed not to comply with an applicable condition of Rule 16b-3, it shall be deemed null and void as to such Section 16 Officers, to the extent
permitted by law and deemed advisable by the Plan administrators.
18. Use of Proceeds
The proceeds received by the Company from the sale of stock under the Plan shall be added to the general funds of the Company and shall be
used for such corporate purposes as the Board of Directors shall direct.
19. Governing Law
The Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New Jersey without
giving effect to the principles of conflicts of laws.
20. Offset and Suspension of Exercise
Anything to the contrary in the Plan notwithstanding, the Plan administrators may (i) offset any Incentive by amounts reasonably believed to
be owed to the Company by the grantee and (ii) disallow an Incentive to be exercised or otherwise payable during a time when the Company is
investigating reasonably reliable allegations of gross misconduct by the grantee.
21. Effect of a Change in Control
(a) Options.
1. Vesting of Options Other Than Key R&D Options. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Stock Option which is outstanding
immediately prior to the Change in Control, other than the Key R&D Options, shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable.
2. Vesting of Key R&D Options.
7(i) Subject to Section 21(a)(2)(ii), upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Key R&D Option shall continue to be subject to the
performance-based vesting schedule applicable thereto immediately prior to the Change in Control.
(ii) Notwithstanding Section 21(a)(2)(i), if the Stock Options do not continue to be outstanding following the Change in Control or are not
exchanged for or converted into options to purchase securities of a successor entity (“Successor Options”), then, upon the occurrence of a
Change in Control, all or a portion of each Key R&D Option shall immediately vest and become exercisable in the following percentages:
(A) if such Key R&D Option’s first milestone has not been reached before the date of the Change in Control, 14% of the then-unvested
portion of the KeyR&D Option shall vest and become exercisable and the remainder shall be forfeited; (B) if only such Key R&D Option’s
first milestone has been reached before the date of the Change in Control, 42% of the then-unvested portion of the Key R&D Option shall
vest and become exercisable and the remainder shall be forfeited; and (C) if such Key R&D Option’s first and second milestones have
been reached before the date of the Change in Control, 100% of the then-unvested portion of the Key R&D Option shall vest and become
exercisable.
3. Post-Termination Exercise Period. If Stock Options continue to be outstanding following the Change in Control or are exchanged for or
converted into Successor Options, then the portion of such Stock Options or such Successor Options, as applicable, that is vested and
exercisable immediately following the termination of employment of the holder thereof after the Change in Control shall remain exercisable
following such termination for five years from the date of such termination (but not beyond the remainder of the term thereof) provided,
however, that, if such termination is by reason of gross misconduct, death or retirement (as these terms are applied to awards granted under
the Plan), then those provisions of the Plan that are applicable to a termination by reason of gross misconduct, death or retirement shall apply
to such termination.
4. Cashout of Stock Options. If the Stock Options do not continue to be outstanding following the Change in Control and are not exchanged
for or converted into Successor Options, each holder of a vested and exercisable option shall be entitled to receive, as soon as practicable
following the Change in Control, for each share of Common Stock subject to a vested and exercisable option, an amount of cash determined
by the Committee prior to the Change in Control but in no event less than the excess of the Change in Control Price over the exercise price
thereof (subject to any existing deferral elections then in effect). If the consideration to be paid in a Change in Control is not entirely shares of
common stock of an acquiring or resulting corporation, then the Committee may, prior to the Change in Control, provide for the cancellation
of outstanding Stock Options at the time of the Change in Control in whole or in part for cash pursuant to this Section 21(a)(4) or may provide
for the exchange or conversion of outstanding Stock Options at the time of the Change in Control in whole or in part, and, in connection with
any such provision, may (but shall not be obligated to) permit holders of Stock Options to make such elections related thereto as it determines
are appropriate.
(b) Restricted Stock Units and Performance Share Units.
1. Vesting of Restricted Stock Units. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each unvested restricted stock unit award which is
outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control under the Plan shall immediately become fully vested.
2. Vesting of Performance Share Units. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each unvested performance share unit award which is
outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control under the Plan shall immediately become vested in an amount equal to the PSU Pro
Rata Amount.
3. Settlement of Restricted Stock Units and Performance Share Units.
(i) If the Common Stock continues to be widely held and freely tradable following the Change in Control or is exchanged for or converted
into securities of a successor entity that are widely held and freely tradable, then the restricted stock units and the vested performance share
units shall be
8paid in shares of Common Stock or such other securities as soon as practicable after the date of the Change in Control (subject to any
existing deferral elections then in effect).
(ii) If the Common Stock does not continue to be widely held and freely tradable following the Change in Control and is not exchanged for
or converted into securities of a successor entity that are widely held and freely tradable, then the restricted stock units and the vested
performance share units shall be paid in cash as soon as practicable after the date of the Change in Control (subject to any existing deferral
elections then in effect).
(c) Other Provisions.
1. Except to the extent required by applicable law, for the entirety of the Protection Period, the material terms of the Plan shall not be
modified in any manner that is materially adverse to the Qualifying Participants (it being understood that this Section 21(c) shall not require
that any specific type or levels of equity awards be granted to Qualifying Participants following the Change in Control).
2. During the Protection Period, the Plan may not be amended or modified to reduce or eliminate the protections set forth in Section 21(c)(1)
and may not be terminated.
3. The Company shall pay all legal fees and related expenses (including the costs of experts, evidence and counsel) reasonably and in good
faith incurred by a Qualifying Participant if the Qualifying Participant prevails on his or her claim for relief in an action (x) by the Qualifying
Participant claiming that the provisions of Section 21(c)(1) or 21(c)(2) of the Plan have been violated (but, for avoidance of doubt, excluding
claims for plan benefits in the ordinary course) and (y) if applicable, by the Company or the Qualifying Participant’s employer to enforce
post-termination covenants against the Qualifying Participant.
(d) Definitions. For purposes of this Section 21, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
1. “Change in Control” shall have the meaning set forth in the Company’s Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan; provided, however,
that, as to any award under the Plan that consists of deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code, the definition of “Change in
Control” shall be deemed modified to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Code.
2. “Change in Control Price” shall mean, with respect to a share of Common Stock, the higher of (A) the highest reported sales price, regular
way, of such share in any transaction reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape or other national exchange on which such
shares are listed or on the Nasdaq National Market during the ten-day period prior to and including the date of a Change in Control and (B) if
the Change in Control is the result of a tender or exchange offer, merger, or other, similar corporate transaction, the highest price per such
share paid in such tender or exchange offer, merger or other, similar corporate transaction; provided that, to the extent all or part of the
consideration paid in any such transaction consists of securities or other noncash consideration, the value of such securities or other noncash
consideration shall be determined by the Committee.
3. “Key R&D Options” shall mean those performance-based options granted to employees under the Key Research and Development
Program described in the applicable Schedule to the Rules and Regulations for the Plan.
4. “Protection Period” shall mean the period beginning on the date of the Change in Control and ending on the second anniversary of the date
of the Change in Control.
5. “PSU Pro Rata Amount” shall mean for each Performance Share Unit award, the amount determined by multiplying (x) and (y), where
(x) is the number of Target Shares subject to the Performance Share Unit award times the Assumed Performance Percentage and (y) is a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of whole and partial calendar months elapsed during the applicable performance period
(counting any partial month as a whole month for this purpose) and the denominator of which is the total number of months in the applicable
performance period. The Assumed Performance Percentage shall be determined by (1) averaging the ranks during the Award Period as
follows: (A) as to any completed performance year
9as of the Change in Control, the actual rank (except that, if fewer than 90 days have elapsed since the completion of such performance year,
the Target Rank shall be used), and (B) as to any performance year that is incomplete or has not yet begun as of the Change in Control, the
Target Rank, (2) rounding the average rank calculated pursuant to the foregoing clause (1) to the nearest whole number using ordinary
numerical rounding, and (3) using the Final Award Percentage associated with the number determined in the foregoing clause (2). The Target
Rank is the rank associated with 100% on the chart of Final Award Percentages.
6. “Qualifying Participants” shall mean those individuals who participate in the Plan (whether as current or former employees) as of
immediately prior to the Change in Control.
(e) Application. This Section 21 shall apply to Stock Options, restricted stock unit awards and performance share unit awards granted after
November 23, 2004. (NOTE: For incentives granted before November 23, 2004, see Merck Change in Control schedule.)
Merck Change in Control
(a) Options.
1. Vesting of Options Other Than Key R&D Options. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Stock Option which is outstanding
immediately prior to the Change in Control, other than the Key R&D Options, shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable.
2. Vesting of Key R&D Options.
(i) Subject to (a)(2)(ii) of this Schedule, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Key R&D Option shall continue to be subject to
the performance-based vesting schedule applicable thereto immediately prior to the Change in Control.
(ii) Notwithstanding (a)(2)(i) of this Schedule, if the Stock Options do not continue to be outstanding following the Change in Control or
are not exchanged for or converted into options to purchase securities of a successor entity (“Successor Options”), then, upon the
occurrence of a Change in Control, all or a portion of each Key R&D Option shall immediately vest and become exercisable in the
following percentages: (A) if such Key R&D Option’s first milestone has not been reached before the date of the Change in Control, 14%
of the then-unvested portion of the Key R&D Option shall vest and become exercisable and the remainder shall be forfeited; (B) if only
such Key R&D Option’s first milestone has been reached before the date of the Change in Control, 42% of the then-unvested portion of the
Key R&D Option shall vest and become exercisable and the remainder shall be forfeited; and (C) if such Key R&D Option’s first and
second milestones have been reached before the date of the Change in Control, 100% of the then- unvested portion of the Key R&D
Option shall vest and become exercisable.
3. Post-Termination Exercise Period. If Stock Options continue to be outstanding following the Change in Control or are exchanged for or
converted into Successor Options, then the portion of such Stock Options or such Successor Options, as applicable, that is vested and
exercisable immediately following the termination of employment of the holder thereof after the Change in Control shall remain exercisable
following such termination for five years from the date of such termination (but not beyond the remainder of the term thereof) provided,
however, that, if such termination is by reason of gross misconduct, death or retirement (as these terms are applied to awards granted under
the Plans), then those provisions of the Plan that are applicable to a termination by reason of gross misconduct, death or retirement, if any,
shall apply to such termination. If the effect of vesting pursuant to this Section (a) would cause a Stock Option or Successor Stock Option to
terminate earlier than if such accelerated vesting had not occurred, then the term of such Stock Option shall not expire earlier than if such
accelerated vesting had not occurred.
4. Cashout of Stock Options. If the Stock Options do not continue to be outstanding following the Change in Control and are not exchanged
for or converted into Successor Options, each holder of a vested and exercisable option shall be entitled to receive, as soon as practicable
following the Change in Control, for
10each share of Common Stock subject to a vested and exercisable option, an amount of cash determined by the Committee prior to the Change
in Control but in no event less than the excess of the Change in Control Price over the exercise price thereof (subject to any existing deferral
elections then in effect). If the consideration to be paid in a Change in Control is not entirely shares of common stock of an acquiring or
resulting corporation, then the Committee may, prior to the Change in Control, provide for the cancellation of outstanding Stock Options at
the time of the Change in Control, in whole or in part, for cash pursuant to this provision or may provide for the exchange or conversion of
outstanding Stock Options at the time of the Change in Control, in whole or in part, and, in connection with any such provision, may (but
shall not be obligated to) permit holders of Stock Options to make such elections related thereto as it determines are appropriate.
5. Incentive Stock Options Not Amended. This Section does not apply to any incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
(b) Restricted Stock Units and Performance Share Units.
1. Vesting of Restricted Stock Units. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each unvested restricted stock unit award which is
outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control under the Plan shall immediately become fully vested.
2. Vesting of Performance Share Units. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each unvested performance share unit award which is
outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control under the Plan shall immediately become vested in an amount equal to the PSU Pro
Rata Amount.
3. Settlement of Restricted Stock Units and Performance Share Units.
(i) If the Common Stock continues to be widely held and freely tradable following the Change in Control or is exchanged for or converted
into securities of a successor entity that are widely held and freely tradable, then the restricted stock units and the vested performance share
units shall be paid in shares of Common Stock or such other securities as soon as practicable after the date of the Change in Control
(subject to any existing deferral elections then in effect).
(ii) If the Common Stock does not continue to be widely held and freely tradable following the Change in Control and is not exchanged for
or converted into securities of a successor entity that are widely held and freely tradable, then the restricted stock units and the vested
performance share units shall be paid in cash as soon as practicable after the date of the Change in Control (subject to any existing deferral
elections then in effect).
(c) Other Provisions.
1. Except to the extent required by applicable law, for the entirety of the Protection Period, the material terms of the Plan shall not be
modified in any manner that is materially adverse to the Qualifying Participants (it being understood that this Section (c) of this Schedule
shall not require that any specific type or levels of equity awards be granted to Qualifying Participants following the Change in Control).
2. During the Protection Period, the Plan may not be amended or modified to reduce or eliminate the protections set forth in Section (c)(1) of
this Schedule and may not be terminated.
3. The Company shall pay all legal fees and related expenses (including the costs of experts, evidence and counsel) reasonably and in good
faith incurred by a Qualifying Participant if the Qualifying Participant prevails on his or her claim for relief in an action (x) by the Qualifying
Participant claiming that the provisions of Section (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this Schedule have been violated (but, for avoidance of doubt, excluding
claims for Plan benefits in the ordinary course) and (y) if applicable, by the Company or the Qualifying Participant’s employer to enforce
post-termination covenants against the Qualifying Participant.
114. This section does not apply to any incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code.
5. Anything in the Plan as amended by this Schedule notwithstanding, the Company reserves the right to make such further changes as may be
required if and to the extent required to avoid adverse consequences under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as amended.
(d) Definitions. For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
1. “Change in Control” shall have the meaning set forth in the Company’s Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan; provided, however,
that, as to any award under the Plan that consists of deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code, the definition of “Change in
Control” shall be deemed modified to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Code.
2. “Change in Control Price” shall mean, with respect to a share of Common Stock, the higher of (A) the highest reported sales price, regular
way, of such share in any transaction reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape or other national exchange on which such
shares are listed or on the Nasdaq National Market during the 10-day period prior to and including the date of a Change in Control and (B) if
the Change in Control is the result of a tender or exchange offer, merger, or other, similar corporate transaction, the highest price per such
share paid in such tender or exchange offer, merger or other, similar corporate transaction; provided that, to the extent all or part of the
consideration paid in any such transaction consists of securities or other non-cash consideration, the value of such securities or other non-
cash consideration shall be determined by the Committee.
3. “Key R&D Options” shall mean those performance-based options granted to employees under the Key Research and Development
Program described in the applicable Schedule to the Rules and Regulations for the Plan, if any.
4. “Protection Period” shall mean the period beginning on the date of the Change in Control and ending on the second anniversary of the date
of the Change in Control.
5. “PSU Pro Rata Amount” shall mean for each Performance Share Unit award, the amount determined by multiplying (x) and (y), where
(x) is the number of Target Shares subject to the Performance Share Unit award times the Assumed Performance Percentage and (y) is a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of whole and partial calendar months elapsed during the applicable performance period
(counting any partial month as a whole month for this purpose) and the denominator of which is the total number of months in the applicable
performance period. The Assumed Performance Percentage shall be determined by (1) averaging the ranks during the Award Period as
follows: (A) as to any completed performance year as of the Change in Control, the actual rank (except that, if fewer than 90 days have
elapsed since the completion of such performance year, the Target Rank shall be used), and (B) as to any performance year that is incomplete
or has not yet begun as of the Change in Control, the Target Rank, (2) rounding the average rank calculated pursuant to the foregoing clause
(1) to the nearest whole number using ordinary numerical rounding, and (3) using the Final Award Percentage associated with the number
determined in the foregoing clause (2). The Target Rank is the rank associated with 100% on the chart of Final Award Percentages.
6. “Qualifying Participants” shall mean those individuals who participate in the Plan (whether as current or former employees) as of
immediately prior to the Change in Control.
(e) Application. This Schedule shall apply to Stock Options, restricted stock unit awards and performance share unit awards under the Plans
granted prior to November 24, 2004.
12Exhibit 10.7
MERCK & CO., INC.
2007 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN
(as amended effective December 19, 2006)MERCK & CO., INC.
2007 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN
(Effective December 19, 2006)
1. Purpose
The 2007 Incentive Stock Plan (the “Plan”), effective May 1, 2006, is established to encourage employees of Merck & Co., Inc. (the
“Company”), its subsidiaries, its affiliates and its joint ventures to acquire Common Stock in the Company (“Common Stock”). It is believed that
the Plan will serve the interests of the Company and its stockholders because it allows employees to have a greater personal financial interest in
the Company through ownership of, or the right to acquire its Common Stock, which in turn will stimulate employees’ efforts on the Company’s
behalf, and maintain and strengthen their desire to remain with the Company. It is believed that the Plan also will assist in the recruitment of
employees.
2. Administration
The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Committee”).
A Director of the Company may serve on the Committee only if he or she (i) is a “Non-Employee Director” for purposes of Rule 16b-3 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and (ii) satisfies the requirements of an “outside director” for purposes of
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”). The Committee shall be responsible for the administration of the Plan including,
without limitation, determining which Eligible Employees receive Incentives, the types of Incentives they receive under the Plan, the number of
shares covered by Incentives granted under the Plan, and the other terms and conditions of such Incentives. Determinations by the Committee
under the Plan including, without limitation, determinations of the Eligible Employees, the form, amount and timing of Incentives, the terms and
provisions of Incentives and the writings evidencing Incentives, need not be uniform and may be made selectively among Eligible Employees
who receive, or are eligible to receive, Incentives hereunder, whether or not such Eligible Employees are similarly situated.
The Committee shall have the responsibility of construing and interpreting the Plan, including the right to construe disputed or doubtful Plan
provisions, and of establishing, amending and construing such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or desirable for the proper
administration of the Plan. Any decision or action taken or to be taken by the Committee, arising out of or in connection with the construction,
administration, interpretation and effect of the Plan and of its rules and regulations, shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, be
within its absolute discretion (except as otherwise specifically provided herein) and shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Company, all
Eligible Employees and any person claiming under or through any Eligible Employee.
The Committee, as permitted by applicable state law, may delegate any or all of its power and authority hereunder to the Chief Executive
Officer or such other senior member of management as the Committee deems appropriate; provided, however, that the Committee may not
delegate its authority with regard to any matter or action affecting an “officer” as such term is defined in Rule 16(a)-1(f) of the Exchange Act (a
“Section 16 Officer”) and that no such delegation shall be made in the case of Incentives intended to be qualified under Section 162(m) of the
Code.
For the purpose of this section and all subsequent sections, the Plan shall be deemed to include this Plan and any comparable sub-plans
established by subsidiaries which, in the aggregate, shall constitute one Plan governed by the terms set forth herein.
3. Eligibility
(a) Employees. Regular full-time and part-time employees employed by the Company, its parent, if any, or its subsidiaries, its affiliates
and its joint ventures, including officers, whether or not directors of the Company, and employees of a joint venture partner or affiliate of the
Company who provide services to the joint venture with such partner or affiliate (each such person, an “Employee”), shall be eligible to
participate in the Plan if designated by the Committee (“Eligible Employees”).
1(b) Non-employees. The term “Employee” shall not include any of the following (collectively, “Excluded Persons”): a director who is not
an employee or an officer; a person who is an independent contractor, or agrees or has agreed that he/she is an independent contractor; a
person who has any agreement or understanding with the Company, or any of its affiliates or joint venture partners that he/she is not an
employee or an Eligible Employee, even if he/she previously had been an employee or Eligible Employee; a person who is employed by a
temporary or other employment agency, regardless of the amount of control, supervision or training provided by the Company or its affiliates;
or a “leased employee” as defined under Section 414 (n) of the Code. An Excluded Person is not an Eligible Employee and cannot receive
Incentives even if a court, agency or other authority rules that he/she is a common-law employee of the Company or its affiliates.
(c) No Right To Continued Employment. Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company, its
parent, its subsidiaries, its affiliates or its joint ventures to terminate the employment of any participant at any time, nor confer upon any
participant the right to continue in the employ of the Company, its parent, its subsidiaries, its affiliates or its joint ventures. No Eligible
Employee shall have a right to receive an Incentive or any other benefit under this Plan or having been granted an Incentive or other benefit,
to receive any additional Incentive or other benefit. Neither the award of an Incentive nor any benefits arising under such Incentives shall
constitute an employment contract with the Company, its parent, its subsidiaries, its affiliates or its joint ventures, and accordingly, this Plan
and the benefits hereunder may be terminated at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Company without giving rise to liability
on the part of the Company, its parent, its subsidiaries, its affiliates or its joint ventures for severance. Except as may be otherwise specifically
stated in any other employee benefit plan, policy or program, neither any Incentive under this Plan nor any amount realized from any such
Incentive shall be treated as compensation for any purposes of calculating an employee’s benefit under any such plan, policy or program.
4. Term of the Plan
This Plan shall be effective as of May 1, 2006, subject to the approval of the Plan by a majority of the votes cast at the Annual Meeting of
stockholders of the Company on or about April 25, 2006. No Incentive shall be granted under the Plan after April 30, 2011 (or such earlier date
that the Plan may be terminated by the Board), but the term and exercise of Incentives granted theretofore may extend beyond that date.
5. Incentives
Incentives under the Plan may be granted in any one or a combination of (a) Incentive Stock Options (“ISOs”), (b) Nonqualified Options
(together with ISOs, “Stock Options”), (c) Stock Appreciation Rights, (d) Restricted Stock Grants, (e) Performance Awards, (f) Share Awards
and (g) Phantom Stock Awards (collectively, “Incentives”). All Incentives shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and to
such other terms and conditions as may be established by the Committee. In general, Incentives may not vest, and Stock Options and Stock
Appreciation Rights may not be exercisable, earlier than one year from their grant date except in case of an intervening event, such as for
example, a change in control of the Company, or the grantee’s death, retirement, termination of the employment caused by the Company, or
other event as established by the Committee, or as required by applicable law.
6. Shares Available for Incentives
(a) Shares Available. Subject to the provisions of Section 6(c), the maximum number of shares of Common Stock of the Company that
may be issued under the Plan is 155 million.
(i) A Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall be counted as one share for purposes of the limit set forth in Section 6(a) at the
time of grant. A combination of Tandem SAR and Stock Option, where the exercise of the Tandem SAR or Stock Option results in the
cancellation of the other, shall be counted as one share for purposes of the limit set forth in Section 6(a) at the time of grant.
(ii) A Restricted Stock Grant, Performance Share, Share Award or Phantom Stock Award shall be counted as four shares for purposes
of the limit set forth in Section 6(a) at the time of grant.
2(iii) Any shares under this Plan or under the 1991, 1996, 2001 or 2004 Incentive Stock Plans that are not purchased or awarded under
an Incentive because such Incentive has lapsed, expired, terminated or been canceled may be used for the further grant of Incentives under the
Plan.
(iv) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary: (a) shares tendered in payment of the exercise price of a Stock Option shall not be added
to the maximum share limitations described above; (b) shares withheld by the Company to satisfy the tax withholding obligation shall not be
added to the maximum share limitations described above; and (c) all shares covered by a Stock Appreciation Right, to the extent that it is
exercised and whether or not shares of Common Stock are actually upon exercise of the right, shall be considered issued or transferred
pursuant to the Plan.
(v) Incentives and similar awards issued by an entity that is merged into or with the Company, acquired by the Company or otherwise
involved in a similar corporate transaction with the Company are not considered issued under this Plan. Shares under this Plan may be
delivered by the Company from its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock or from issued and reacquired Common Stock held as
treasury stock, or both. In no event shall fractional shares of Common Stock be issued under the Plan.
(b) Limit on an Individual’s Incentives. In any calendar year, no Eligible Employee may receive (i) with respect to Incentives
denominated with respect to shares of Common Stock, Incentives covering more than 3 million shares of the Company’s Common Stock
(such number of shares shall be counted as provided in Section 6(a) and shall be adjusted in accordance with Section 6(c)), or (ii) with respect
to Incentives denominated in cash, Incentives with a fair market value exceeding that of 3 million shares of Common Stock determined as of
the date such Incentive is granted.
(c) Adjustment of Shares. In the event of a reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, extraordinary cash dividend,
combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, spin off, split off, split up or other similar change in the capital structure of the
Company, the Committee shall make equitable adjustments to (i) the number and kind of shares authorized for issuance under the Plan,
(ii) the number and kind of shares subject to outstanding Incentives, (iii) the option price of Stock Options and (iv) the grant value of Stock
Appreciation Rights. Any such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive on all parties.
7. Stock Options
The Committee may grant options qualifying as ISOs as defined in Section 422 of the Code, and options other than ISOs (“Nonqualified
Options”). Such Stock Options shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may
prescribe:
(a) Stock Option Price. The option price per share with respect to each Stock Option shall be determined by the Committee, but shall not
be less than 100 percent of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the Stock Option is granted, as determined by the
Committee.
(b) Period of Stock Option. The period of each Stock Option shall be fixed by the Committee, provided that the period for all Stock
Options shall not exceed ten years from the grant, provided further, however, that, in the event of the death of an Optionee prior to the
expiration of a Nonqualified Option, such Nonqualified Option may, if the Committee so determines, be exercisable for up to eleven years
from the date of the grant. The Committee may, subsequent to the granting of any Stock Option, extend the term thereof, but in no event shall
the extended term exceed ten years from the original grant date.
(c) Exercise of Stock Option and Payment Therefore. No shares shall be issued until full payment of the option price has been made.
The option price may be paid in cash or, if the Committee determines, in shares of Common Stock, a combination of cash and shares of
Common Stock, or through a cashless exercise procedure that allows grantees to sell immediately some or all of the shares underlying the
exercised portion of the Option in order to generate sufficient cash to pay the option price. If the Committee approves the use of shares of
Common Stock as a payment method, the Committee shall establish such conditions as it deems appropriate for the use of Common Stock to
exercise a Stock Option. Stock Options awarded under the Plan shall be exercised through such procedure or program as the Committee may
establish or define from time to time, which may include a designated broker that must be used in exercising such Stock Options. The
3Committee may establish rules and procedures to permit an option holder to defer recognition of gain upon the exercise of a Stock Option.
(d) First Exercisable Date . The Committee shall determine how and when shares covered by a Stock Option may be purchased. The
Committee may establish waiting periods, the dates on which Stock Options become exercisable or “vested” and, subject to paragraph (b) of
this section, exercise periods. The Committee may accelerate the exercisability of any Stock Option or portion thereof.
(e) Termination of Employment. Unless determined otherwise by the Committee, upon the termination of a Stock Option grantee’s
employment (for any reason other than gross misconduct), Stock Option privileges shall be limited to the shares that were immediately
exercisable at the date of such termination. The Committee, however, in its discretion, may provide that any Stock Options outstanding but
not yet exercisable upon the termination of a Stock Option grantee’s employment may become exercisable in accordance with a schedule
determined by the Committee. Such Stock Option privileges shall expire unless exercised within such period of time after the date of
termination of employment as may be established by the Committee, but in no event later than the expiration date of the Stock Option.
(f) Termination Due to Misconduct . If a Stock Option grantee’s employment is terminated for gross misconduct, as determined by the
Company, all rights under the Stock Option shall expire upon the date of such termination.
(g) Limits on ISOs . Except as may otherwise be permitted by the Code, an Eligible Employee may not receive a grant of ISOs for stock
that would have an aggregate fair market value in excess of $100,000 (or such other amount as the Internal Revenue Service may decide from
time to time), determined as of the time that the ISO is granted, that would be exercisable for the first time by such person during any calendar
year. If any grant is made in excess of the limits provided in the Code, such grant shall automatically become a Nonqualified Option.
(h) No dividend equivalents . Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, no dividends or dividend equivalents may be paid on
Stock Options.
8. Stock Appreciation Rights
The Committee may, in its discretion, grant a right to receive the appreciation in the fair market value of shares of Common Stock (“Stock
Appreciation Right”) either singly or in combination with an underlying Stock Option granted hereunder. Such Stock Appreciation Right shall
be subject to the following terms and conditions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe:
(a) Time and Period of Grant. If a Stock Appreciation Right is granted with respect to an underlying Stock Option (a “Tandem SAR”), it
may be granted at the time of the Stock Option grant or at any time thereafter but prior to the expiration of the Stock Option grant. At the time
the Tandem SAR is granted the Committee may limit the exercise period for such Stock Appreciation Right, before and after which period no
Stock Appreciation Right shall attach to the underlying Stock Option. In no event shall the exercise period for a Tandem SAR exceed the
exercise period for such Stock Option. If a Stock Appreciation Right is granted without an underlying Stock Option (a “Stand Alone SAR”),
the period for exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right shall be set by the Committee.
(b) Value of Stock Appreciation Right. The grantee of a Tandem SAR will be entitled to surrender the Stock Option which is then
exercisable and receive in exchange therefore an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the
election to surrender is received by the Company in accordance with exercise procedures established by the Company over the Stock Option
price (the “Spread”) multiplied by the number of shares covered by the Stock Option which is surrendered. The grantee of a Stand Alone SAR
will receive upon exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the Common Stock on
the date the election to surrender such Stand Alone SAR is received by the Company in accordance with exercise procedures established by
the Company over the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant multiplied by the number of shares covered by the grant of
the Stand Alone SAR. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in its sole discretion the Committee at the
4time it grants a Stock Appreciation Right may provide that the Spread covered by such Stock Appreciation Right may not exceed a specified
amount.
(c) Payment of Stock Appreciation Right . Payment of a Stock Appreciation Right shall be in the form of shares of Common Stock, cash
or any combination of shares and cash. The form of payment upon exercise of such a right shall be determined by the Committee either at the
time of grant of the Stock Appreciation Right or at the time of exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right.
(d) No dividend equivalents . Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, no dividends or dividend equivalents may be paid on
Stock Appreciation Rights.
9. Performance Awards
The Committee may grant awards denominated in shares of Common Stock (“Performance Shares”), or denominated in dollars(“Performance
Units”) if the performance of the Company or its parent or any subsidiary, division, affiliate or joint venture of the Company selected by the
Committee during the Award Period meets certain goals established by the Committee (“Performance Awards”). Performance Awards shall be
subject to the following terms and conditions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe:
(a) Award Period and Performance Goals. The Committee shall determine and include in a Performance Share Award grant the period
of time for which a Performance Share Award is made (“Award Period”). The Committee also shall establish performance objectives
(“Performance Goals”) to be met by the Company, its parent, subsidiary, division, affiliate or joint venture of the Company during the Award
Period as a condition to payment of the Performance Award. The Performance Goals may include share price, pre-tax profits, earnings per
share, return on stockholders’ equity, return on assets, sales, net income, total shareholder return or any combination of the foregoing or,
solely for an Award not intended to constitute “performance-based compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Code, any other financial or
other measurement established by the Committee. The Performance Goals may include minimum and optimum objectives or a single set of
objectives.
(b) Payment of Performance Awards. The Committee shall establish the method of calculating the amount of payment to be made under
a Performance Award if the Performance Goals are met, including the fixing of a maximum payment. After the completion of an Award
Period, the performance of the Company, its parent, subsidiary, division, affiliate or joint venture of the Company shall be measured against
the Performance Goals, and the Committee shall determine, in accordance with the terms of such Performance Award, whether all, none or
any portion of a Performance Award shall be paid. The Committee, in its discretion, may elect to make payment in shares of Common Stock,
cash or a combination of shares and cash. Any cash payment shall be based on the fair market value of shares of Common Stock on, or as
soon as practicable prior to, the date of payment. The Committee may establish rules and procedures to permit a grantee to defer recognition
of income upon the attainment of a Performance Award.
(c) Revision of Performance Goals. As to any Award not intended to constitute “performance-based compensation” under Section 162
(m) of the Code, at any time prior to the end of an Award Period, the Committee may revise the Performance Goals and the computation of
payment if unforeseen events occur which have a substantial effect on the performance of the Company, its parent, subsidiary, division,
affiliate or joint venture of the Company and which, in the judgment of the Committee, make the application of the Performance Goals unfair
unless a revision is made.
(d) Requirement of Employment. A grantee of a Performance Award must remain in the employ of the Company, its parent, subsidiary,
affiliate or joint venture until the completion of the Award Period in order to be entitled to payment under the Performance Award; provided
that the Committee may, in its discretion, provide for a full or partial payment where such an exception is deemed equitable.
(e) Dividends. The Committee may, in its discretion, at the time of the granting of a Performance Award, provide that any dividends
declared on the Common Stock during the Award Period, and which would have been paid with respect to Performance Shares had they been
owned by a grantee, be (i) paid to the grantee, or (ii) accumulated for the benefit of the grantee and used to increase the number of
Performance Shares of the grantee or (iii) not paid or accumulated.
510. Restricted Stock Grants
The Committee may award actual shares of Common Stock (“Restricted Stock”) or phantom shares of Common Stock (“Restricted Stock
Units”) to an Eligible Employee, which shares shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and such other terms and conditions as the
Committee may prescribe (“Restricted Stock Grants”).
(a) Requirement of Employment. A grantee of a Restricted Stock Grant must remain in the employment of the Company during a period
designated by the Committee (“Restricted Period”) in order to receive the shares, cash or combination thereof under the Restricted Stock
Grant. If the grantee leaves the employment of the Company prior to the end of the Restricted Period, the Restricted Stock Grant shall
terminate and any shares of Common Stock shall be returned immediately to the Company, provided that the Committee may, at the time of
the grant, provide for the employment restriction to lapse with respect to a portion or portions of the Restricted Stock Grant at different times
during the Restricted Period. The Committee may, in its discretion, also provide for such complete or partial exceptions to the employment
restriction as it deems equitable.
(b) Restrictions on Transfer and Legend on Stock Certificates. During the Restricted Period, the grantee may not sell, assign, transfer,
pledge or otherwise dispose of the Restricted Stock Grant, including but not limited to any shares of Common Stock. Any certificate for
shares of Common Stock issued hereunder shall contain a legend giving appropriate notice of the restrictions in the grant.
(c) Escrow Agreement. The Committee may require the grantee to enter into an escrow agreement providing that any certificates
representing the Restricted Stock Grant will remain in the physical custody of an escrow holder until all restrictions are removed or expire.
(d) Lapse of Restrictions. All restrictions imposed under the Restricted Stock Grant shall lapse upon the expiration of the Restricted
Period if the conditions as to employment set forth above have been met. The grantee shall then be entitled to have the legend removed from
any certificates for Restricted Stock. Restricted Stock Units may be paid in the form of shares of Common Stock, cash or any combination of
shares and cash as determined by the Committee. The Committee may establish rules and procedures to permit a grantee to defer recognition
of income upon the expiration of the Restricted Period.
(e) Dividends. The Committee may, in its discretion, at the time of the Restricted Stock Grant, provide that any dividends declared on
Common Stock during the Restricted Period or dividend equivalents be (i) paid to the grantee, or (ii) accumulated for the benefit of the
grantee and paid to the grantee only after the expiration of the Restricted Period or (iii) not paid or accumulated.
(f) Performance Goals. The Committee may designate whether any Restricted Stock Grant is intended to be “performance-based
compensation” as that term is used in Section 162(m) of the Code. Any such Restricted Stock Grant designated to be “performance-based
compensation” shall be conditioned on the achievement of one or more Performance Goals (as defined in Section 9(a)), to the extent required
by Section 162(m).
11. Other Share-Based Awards
The Committee may grant an award of actual shares of common stock (a “Share Award”) or phantom shares of common stock (a “Phantom
Stock Award”) to any Eligible Employee on such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion. Share Awards
may be made as additional compensation for services rendered by the Eligible Employee or may be in lieu of cash or other compensation to
which the Eligible Employee is entitled from the Company.
12. Transferability
Each ISO granted under the Plan shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution; each other Incentive
granted under the Plan will not be transferable or assignable by the recipient, and may not be made subject to execution, attachment or similar
procedures, other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or as determined by the Committee in accordance with the Exchange Act or
any other applicable
6law or regulation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee, in its discretion, may adopt rules permitting the transfer, solely as gifts during
the grantee’s lifetime, of Stock Options (other than ISOs) to members of a grantee’s immediate family or to trusts, family partnerships or similar
entities for the benefit of such immediate family members. For this purpose, immediate family member means the grantee’s spouse, parent,
child, stepchild, grandchild and the spouses of such family members. The terms of a Stock Option shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the
beneficiaries, executors, administrators, heirs and successors of the grantee.
13. Discontinuance or Amendment of the Plan
The Board of Directors may discontinue the Plan at any time and may from time to time amend or revise the terms of the Plan as permitted by
applicable statutes, except that it may not, without the consent of the grantees affected, revoke or alter, in a manner unfavorable to the grantees
of any Incentives hereunder, any Incentives then outstanding, nor may the Board amend the Plan without stockholder approval where the
absence of such approval would cause the Plan to fail to comply with Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, or any other requirement of applicable
law or regulation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, without consent of affected grantees, Incentives may be amended, revised or revoked when
necessary to avoid penalties under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Unless approved by the Company’s
stockholders or as otherwise specifically provided under this Plan, no adjustments or reduction of the exercise price of any outstanding
Incentives shall be made in the event of a decline in stock price, either by reducing the exercise price of outstanding Incentives or through
cancellation of outstanding Incentives in connection with regranting of Incentives at a lower price to the same individual.
14. No Limitation on Compensation
Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to limit the right of the Company to establish other plans or to pay compensation to its employees, in
cash or property, in a manner which is not expressly authorized under the Plan.
15. No Constraint on Corporate Action
Nothing in the Plan shall be construed (i) to limit, impair or otherwise affect the Company’s right or power to make adjustments,
reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer
all or any part of its business or assets, or (ii) except as provided in Section 13, to limit the right or power of the Company, its parent, or any
subsidiary, affiliate or joint venture to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate.
16. Withholding Taxes
The Company shall be entitled to deduct from any payment under the Plan, regardless of the form of such payment, the amount of all
applicable income and employment taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to such payment or may require the Eligible Employee to
pay to it such tax prior to and as a condition of the making of such payment. In accordance with any applicable administrative guidelines it
establishes, the Committee may allow an Eligible Employee to pay the amount of taxes required by law to be withheld from an Incentive by
withholding from any payment of Common Stock due as a result of such Incentive, or by permitting the Eligible Employee to deliver to the
Company, shares of Common Stock having a fair market value, as determined by the Committee, equal to the amount of such required
withholding taxes.
17. Compliance with Section 16
With respect to Eligible Employees who are Section 16 Officers, transactions under the Plan are intended to comply with all applicable
conditions of Rule 16b-3 or its successor under the Exchange Act. To the extent that compliance with any Plan provision applicable solely to the
Section 16 Officers is not required in order to bring a transaction by such Section 16 Officer into compliance with Rule 16b-3, it shall be deemed
null and void as to such transaction, to the extent permitted by law and deemed advisable by the Committee and its delegees. To the extent any
provision of the Plan or action by the Plan administrators involving such Section 16 Officers is deemed not to comply with an applicable
condition of Rule 16b-3, it shall be deemed null and void as to such Section 16 Officers, to the extent permitted by law and deemed advisable by
the Plan administrators.
718. Use of Proceeds
Any proceeds received by the Company under the Plan shall be added to the general funds of the Company and shall be used for such
corporate purposes as the Board of Directors shall direct.
19. Governing Law
The Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New Jersey without
giving effect to the principles of conflicts of laws.
20. Offset and Suspension of Exercise
Anything to the contrary in the Plan notwithstanding, the Plan administrators may (i) offset any Incentive by amounts reasonably believed to
be owed to the Company by the grantee and (ii) disallow an Incentive to be exercised or otherwise payable during a time when the Company is
investigating reasonably reliable allegations of gross misconduct by the grantee.
21. Effect of a Change in Control.
(a) Options .
1. Vesting of Options Other Than Key R&D Options. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Stock Option which is outstanding
immediately prior to the Change in Control, other than the Key R&D Options, shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable.
2. Vesting of Key R&D Options.
(i) Subject to Section 21(a)(2)(ii), upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Key R&D Option shall continue to be subject to the
performance-based vesting schedule applicable thereto immediately prior to the Change in Control.
(ii) Notwithstanding Section 21(a)(2)(i), if the Stock Options do not continue to be outstanding following the Change in Control or are not
exchanged for or converted into options to purchase securities of a successor entity (“Successor Options”), then, upon the occurrence of a
Change in Control, all or a portion of each Key R&D Option shall immediately vest and become exercisable in the following percentages:
(A) if such Key R&D Option’s first milestone has not been reached before the date of the Change in Control, 14% of the then-unvested
portion of the Key R&D Option shall vest and become exercisable and the remainder shall be forfeited; (B) if only such Key R&D
Option’s first milestone has been reached before the date of the Change in Control, 42% of the then-unvested portion of the Key R&D
Option shall vest and become exercisable and the remainder shall be forfeited; and (C) if such Key R&D Option’s first and second
milestones have been reached before the date of the Change in Control, 100% of the then-unvested portion of the Key R&D Option shall
vest and become exercisable.
3. Post-Termination Exercise Period. If Stock Options continue to be outstanding following the Change in Control or are exchanged for or
converted into Successor Options, then the portion of such Stock Options or such Successor Options, as applicable, that is vested and
exercisable immediately following the termination of employment of the holder thereof after the Change in Control shall remain exercisable
following such termination for five years from the date of such termination (but not beyond the remainder of the term thereof) (provided,
however, that, if such termination is by reason of gross misconduct, death or retirement (as these terms are applied to awards granted under
the Plan), then those provisions of the Plan that are applicable to a termination by reason of gross misconduct, death or retirement shall apply
to such termination).
4. Cashout of Stock Options. If the Stock Options do not continue to be outstanding following the Change in Control and are not exchanged
for or converted into Successor Options, each holder of a vested and exercisable option shall be entitled to receive, as soon as practicable
following the Change in Control, for each share of Common Stock subject to a vested and exercisable option, an amount of cash determined
by the Committee prior to the Change in Control but in no event less than the excess of the Change in Control
8Price over the exercise price thereof (subject to any existing deferral elections then in effect). If the consideration to be paid in a Change in
Control is not entirely shares of common stock of an acquiring or resulting corporation, then the Committee may, prior to the Change in
Control, provide for the cancellation of outstanding Stock Options at the time of the Change in Control in whole or in part for cash pursuant to
this Section 21(a)(4) or may provide for the exchange or conversion of outstanding Stock Options at the time of the Change in Control in
whole or in part, and, in connection with any such provision, may (but shall not be obligated to) permit holders of Stock Options to make such
elections related thereto as it determines are appropriate.
(b) Restricted Stock Grants and Performance Share Awards.
1. Vesting of Restricted Stock Grants. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each unvested Restricted Stock Grant which is
outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control under the Plan shall immediately become fully vested.
2. Vesting of Performance Award. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each unvested Performance Award which is outstanding
immediately prior to the Change in Control under the Plan shall immediately become vested in an amount equal to the PSU Pro Rata Amount.
3. Settlement of Restricted Stock Grants and Performance Awards.
(i) If the Common Stock continues to be widely held and freely tradeable following the Change in Control or is exchanged for or converted
into securities of a successor entity that are widely held and freely tradeable, then the vested Incentives shall be paid in shares of Common
Stock or such other securities as soon as practicable after the date of the Change in Control, or in the form of cash with respect to
Performance Units (subject to any existing deferral elections then in effect).
(ii) If the Common Stock does not continue to be widely held and freely tradeable following the Change in Control and is not exchanged
for or converted into securities of a successor entity that are widely held and freely tradeable, then the vested Incentives shall be paid in
cash as soon as practicable after the date of the Change in Control (subject to any existing deferral elections then in effect).
(c) Other Provisions.
1. Except to the extent required by applicable law, for the entirety of the Protection Period, the material terms of the Plan shall not be
modified in any manner that is materially adverse to the Qualifying Participants (it being understood that this Section 21(c) shall not require
that any specific type or levels of equity awards be granted to Qualifying Participants following the Change in Control).
2. During the Protection Period, the Plan may not be amended or modified to reduce or eliminate the protections set forth in Section 21(c)(1)
and may not be terminated.
3. The Company shall pay all legal fees and related expenses (including the costs of experts, evidence and counsel) reasonably and in good
faith incurred by a Qualifying Participant if the Qualifying Participant prevails on his or her claim for relief in an action (x) by the Qualifying
Participant claiming that the provisions of Section 21(c)(1) or 21(c)(2) of the Plan have been violated (but, for avoidance of doubt, excluding
claims for plan benefits in the ordinary course) and (y) if applicable, by the Company or the Qualifying Participant’s employer to enforce
post-termination covenants against the Qualifying Participant.
(d) Definitions . For purposes of this Section 21, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
1. “Change in Control” shall have the meaning set forth in the Company’s Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan; provided, however,
that, as to any award under the Plan that consists of deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code, the definition of “Change in
Control” shall be deemed modified to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Code.
92. “Change in Control Price” shall mean, with respect to a share of Common Stock, the higher of (A) the highest reported sales price, regular
way, of such share in any transaction reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape or other national exchange on which such
shares are listed or on the NASDAQ National Market during the ten-day period prior to and including the date of a Change in Control and
(B) if the Change in Control is the result of a tender or exchange offer, merger, or other, similar corporate transaction, the highest price per
such share paid in such tender or exchange offer, merger or other, similar corporate transaction; provided that, to the extent all or part of the
consideration paid in any such transaction consists of securities or other noncash consideration, the value of such securities or other noncash
consideration shall be determined by the Committee.
3. “Key R&D Options” shall mean those performance-based options granted to employees under the Key Research and Development
Program described in the applicable Schedule to the Rules and Regulations for the Plan.
4. “Protection Period” shall mean the period beginning on the date of the Change in Control and ending on the second anniversary of the date
of the Change in Control.
5. “PSU Pro Rata Amount” shall mean for each Performance Award, the amount determined by the Committee when it grants Performance
Awards.
6. “Qualifying Participants” shall mean those individuals who participate in the Plan (whether as current or former employees) as of
immediately prior to the Change in Control.
10Exhibit 10.13
MERCK & CO., Inc.
2006 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS
STOCK OPTION PLAN
(Effective April 25, 2006; as amended and restated February 27, 2007)2006 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS STOCK OPTION PLAN
The 2006 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (the “Plan”) is established to attract, retain and compensate for service as members of
the Board of Directors of Merck & Co., Inc. (the “Company” or “Merck”) highly qualified individuals who are not current or former employees
of the Company and to enable them to increase their ownership in the Company’s Common Stock. The Plan will be beneficial to the Company
and its stockholders since it will allow these Directors to have a greater personal financial stake in the Company through the ownership of
Company stock, in addition to underscoring their common interest with stockholders in increasing the value of the Company stock longer term.
1. Eligibility
All members of the Company’s Board of Directors who are not current or former employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (“Non-
Employee Directors”) shall participate in this Plan.
2. Awards
Only nonqualified stock options to purchase shares of Merck Common Stock (“NQSOs”) and Restricted Stock Grants (collectively,
“Incentives”) may be granted under this Plan.
3. Shares Available
a) Number of Shares Available: There is hereby reserved for issuance under this Plan 1 million shares of Merck Common Stock, par value
$0.01 per share, which may be authorized but unissued shares, treasury shares, or shares purchased on the open market.
b) Recapitalization Adjustment: In the event of a reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, extraordinary cash dividend,
combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering or other similar change in the capital structure or shares of the Company,
adjustments in the number and kind of shares authorized by this Plan, in the number and kind of shares covered by Incentives, and in the
option price of outstanding NQSOs under, this Plan shall be made if, and in the same manner as, such adjustments are made to
incentives issued under the Company’s then current Incentive Stock Plan subject to any required action by the Board of Directors or the
stockholders of the Company and compliance with applicable securities laws.
4. Annual Grant of Nonqualified Stock Options
Each year on the first Friday following the Company’s Annual Meeting of Stockholders, each individual elected, reelected or continuing as a
Non-Employee Director shall automatically receive an NQSO to purchase 5,000 shares of Merck Common Stock or such other amount as
may be determined by the Board from time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, on that first Friday, the General Counsel of the
Company determines, in her/his sole discretion, that the Company is in possession of material, undisclosed information about the Company,
then the annual grant of NQSOs to Non-Employee Directors shall be suspended until the second business day after public dissemination of
such information and the price, exercisability date and option period shall then be determined by reference to such later date. If Merck
Common Stock is not
1traded on the New York Stock Exchange on any date a grant would otherwise be awarded, then the grant shall be made the next day thereafter
that Merck Common Stock is so traded.
5. Option Price
The price of the NQSO shall be the closing price of Merck Common Stock on the date of the grant as quoted on the New York Stock
Exchange.
6. Option Period
An NQSO granted under this Plan shall become exercisable at 12:01 a.m. in three equal installments (subject to rounding) on each of the first,
second and third anniversaries of the date of grant and shall expire at 11:59 p.m. on the day before the tenth anniversary thereof (“Option
Period”). As used in this Plan, all times shall mean the time for New York, NY.
7. Payment
The NQSO price and any required tax withholding, if any, shall be paid in cash in U.S. dollars at the time the NQSO is exercised or in such
other manner as permitted for option exercises under the Company’s Incentive Stock Plan (the “ISP”) applicable to “officers” (as defined in
Rule 16a-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”)) of Merck and its affiliates. If the Compensation and Benefits
Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approves the use of previously owned shares of Common Stock for any portion of the
exercise price for NQSOs granted under the ISP, then that same provision also shall apply to this Plan. The NQSOs shall be exercised through
the Company’s broker-assisted stock option exercise program, provided such program is available at the time of the option exercise, or by
such other means as in effect from time to time for the ISP.
8. Cessation of Service
Upon cessation of service as a Non-Employee Director (for reasons other than Retirement or death), only those NQSOs immediately
exercisable at the date of cessation of service shall be exercisable by the grantee. Such NQSOs must be exercised by 11:59 p.m. on the day
before the same day of the third month after such cessation of service (but in no event after the expiration of the Option Period) or they shall
be forfeited. For example, if service ends on January 12 and this section applies, the NQSOs would expire no later than 11:59 p.m. on April
11. All other NQSOs shall expire at 11:59 p.m. on the day of such cessation of service.
9. Retirement
If a grantee ceases service as a Non-Employee Director and is then at least age 65 with ten or more years of service or age 70 with five or
more years of service (such cessation of service is a “Retirement” and begins on the first day after service ends), then any of his/her
outstanding NQSOs shall continue to become exercisable as if service had continued. All outstanding NQSOs must be exercised by the
expiration of the Option Period, or such NQSOs shall be forfeited. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a grantee dies before the NQSOs are
forfeited, Section 10 shall control.
210. Death
Upon the death of a grantee, all unvested NQSOs shall become immediately exercisable. The NQSOs which become exercisable upon the
date of death and those NQSOs which were exercisable on the date of death may be exercised by the grantee’s legal representatives or heirs
by the earlier of (i) 11:59 p.m. on the day before the third anniversary of the date of death (ii) the expiration of the Option Period; if not
exercised by the earlier of (i) or (ii), such NQSOs shall be forfeited. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if local law applicable to a deceased
grantee requires a longer or shorter exercise period, these provisions shall comply with that law.
11. Restricted Stock Grant
The Board may award actual shares of Common Stock (“Restricted Stock”) or phantom shares of Common Stock (“Restricted Stock Units”)
to a Non-Employee Director, which shares shall be subject to the terms and conditions and as the Board may prescribe from time to time.
12. Administration and Amendment of the Plan
This Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors of Merck. The Board may delegate to any person or group, who may further so
delegate, the Board’s powers and obligations hereunder as they relate to day to day administration of the exercise process. This Plan may be
terminated or amended by the Board of Directors as it deems advisable. However, an amendment revising the price, date of exercisability,
option period of, or amount of shares under an NQSO shall not be made more frequently than every six months unless necessary to comply
with applicable laws or regulations. Unless approved by the Company’s stockholders, no adjustments or reduction of the exercise price of any
outstanding NQSO shall be made directly or by cancellation of outstanding NQSOs and the subsequent regranting of NQSOs at a lower price
to the same individual. No amendment may revoke or alter in a manner unfavorable to the grantees any Incentives then outstanding, nor may
the Board amend this Plan without stockholder approval where the absence of such approval would cause the Plan to fail to comply with
Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act or any other requirement of applicable law or regulation. An Incentive may not be granted under this Plan
after December 31, 2015 but NQSOs granted prior to that date shall continue to become exercisable and may be exercised, and Restricted
Stock Grants shall continue to vest, according to their terms.
13. Transferability
Except as set forth in this section, the NQSOs granted under this Plan shall not be exercisable during the grantee’s lifetime by anyone other
than the grantee, the grantee’s legal guardian or the grantee’s legal representative, and shall not be transferable other than by will or by the
laws of descent and distribution. Incentives granted under this Plan shall be transferable during a grantee’s lifetime only in accordance with
the following provisions.
The grantee may only transfer an NQSO while serving as a Non-Employee Director of the Company or within one year of ceasing service as
a Non-Employee Director due to Retirement as defined in Section 9.
3The NQSO may be transferred only to the grantee’s spouse, children (including adopted children and stepchildren) and grandchildren
(collectively, “Family Members”), to one or more trusts for the benefit of Family Members or, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, to
one or more partnerships where the grantee and his Family Members are the only partners, in accordance with the rules set forth in this
section. The grantee shall not receive any payment or other consideration for such transfer (except that if the transfer is to a partnership, the
grantee shall be permitted to receive an interest in the partnership in consideration for the transfer).
Any NQSO transferred in accordance with this section shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions in the hands of the
transferee as were applicable to such NQSO prior to the transfer, except that the grantee’s right to transfer such NQSO in accordance with this
section shall not apply to the transferee. However, if the transferee is a natural person, upon the transferee’s death, the NQSO privileges may
be exercised by the legal representatives or beneficiaries of the transferee within the exercise periods otherwise applicable to the NQSO.
Any purported transfer of an NQSO under this section shall not be effective unless, prior to such transfer, the grantee has (1) met the
minimum stock ownership target then in place for Directors of the Company, (2) notified the Company of the transferee’s name and address,
the number of shares under the Option to be transferred, and the grant date and exercise price of such shares, and (3) demonstrated, if
requested by the Board of Directors, that the proposed transferee qualifies as a permitted transferee under the rules set forth in this section. In
addition, the transferee must sign an agreement that he or she is bound by the rules and regulations of the Plan and by the same insider trading
restrictions that apply to the grantee and provide any additional documents requested by the Company in order to effect the transfer. No
transfer shall be effective unless the Company has in effect a registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933 covering the
securities to be acquired by the transferee upon exercise of the NQSO, or the General Counsel of Merck has determined that registration of
such shares is not necessary.
14. Compliance with SEC Regulations
It is the Company’s intent that the Plan comply in all respects with Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act, and any regulations promulgated
thereunder. If any provision of this Plan is later found not to be in compliance with the Rule, the provision shall be deemed null and void. All
grants and exercises of NQSOs under this Plan shall be executed in accordance with the requirements of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, as
amended, and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
15. Miscellaneous
Except as provided in this Plan, no Non-Employee Director shall have any claim or right to be granted an NQSO under this Plan. Neither the
Plan nor any action thereunder shall be construed as giving any director any right to be retained in the service of the Company.
16. Effective Date
This Plan shall be effective April 25, 2006 or such later date as stockholder approval is obtained.
17. No Constraint on Corporate Action
Nothing in this Plan shall be construed (i) to limit or impair or otherwise affect the Company’s right or power to make adjustments,
reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any
part of its
4business or assets, or (ii) except as provided in Section 12, to limit the right or power of the Company or any subsidiary to take any action
which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate.
18. Governing Law
This Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New Jersey.
5Exhibit 10.20
August 24, 2006
Dear Brad:
This letter agreement (“Agreement”) supersedes Peter Loescher’s letter to you dated July 12, 2006 concerning your employment status
with Merck & Co., Inc. (“Merck” or the “Company”) and incorporates revisions to the earlier letter discussed by your attorneys and Merck’s
attorneys. As you and Peter discussed, as part of a general restructuring of Merck’s worldwide human health business, your current position as
President, U.S. Human Health will be eliminated at the close of business on September 30, 2006 and you will be separated from employment.
Merck is offering you severance arrangements set forth below, contingent on your timely acceptance and nonrevocation of the terms set forth in
this Agreement:
1. Employment Status .
(a) Transition Assignment . Effective July 12, 2006 you were relieved of operational responsibilities and your sole assignment is to
effectuate the full transition of your responsibilities as President, U.S. Human Health, under my direction. Your status as an “officer” as
defined in Rule 16a-1(f) as defined under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ended at the close of business on July 12, 2006. You
agree to use your best efforts to perform this assignment and such other duties as I may assign to you and to otherwise conduct yourself
in the best interests of the Company. Your grade and base salary will remain at their current level and you will continue to be eligible to
participate in the Company’s employee benefit plans and programs, as they may be amended from time to time, on the same terms and
conditions applicable to Company employees at your grade level. At my sole discretion, your employment status may be converted at
any time to paid inactive status prior to September 30, 2006. While on paid inactive status, your grade and base salary will be
unchanged; you will continue to receive monthly salary payments; you will continue to accrue pension credit and be eligible to
participate in the plans that you elected under the flexible benefits program; provided, however, that you will not be eligible to
participate in the short term and long term disability benefit plans which benefits you agree to waive.
(b) Termination of Employment . Your employment will terminate on September 30, 2006 (“Separation Date”), provided that you have not
terminated your employment by resignation prior to the Separation Date. Your resignation will be deemed to occur in the event that you
engage in conduct inconsistent with your responsibilities and obligations as a Merck employee or if you voluntarily terminate your
employment by quitting or commencing employment elsewhere. The termination of your employment on the Separation Date will be a
“Separation from Service” (“Separation”) under the Merck & Co., Inc. Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees (“Separation
Plan”) and you will be eligible for the benefits applicable to a “Bridged Employee” described in the brochure entitled “Special
Separation Program for Bridged Employees” (the “Bridged Employee Brochure”) under the Separation Plan. The summary plan
description (“SPD”) that describes the benefits available to you under the Separation Plan and the Bridged Employee Brochure that
describes the effect of a separation on other benefits for a “BridgedPage 2 of 8
Employee” have been provided to you and are incorporated herein by reference. If there is any conflict between the SPD and this
Agreement or between the Bridged Employee Brochure and this Agreement, the SPD or Bridged Employee Brochure, as the case may
be, shall govern.
2. Separation Benefits . Upon your Separation, you will receive the following separation benefits all in accordance with the SPD and Bridged
Employee Brochure:
(a) Separation Pay . Subject to paragraph 3(b) below, you will receive seventy-eight (78) weeks’ pay as described in the SPD, payable in
periodic installments in accordance with the Company’s normal payroll periods, minus applicable deductions and withholdings.
(b) Retirement Plan . You will receive the Bridged Pension Benefit described in the Bridged Employee Brochure, subject to paragraph 3(b)
below.
(c) Medical and Dental Benefits . You will be eligible to select retiree medical and dental benefits as described in the Bridged Employee
Brochure.
(d) Life Insurance . You will be eligible to be considered a retiree for life insurance plan purposes as described in the Bridged Employee
Brochure.
(e) Outplacement . You will eligible to receive Senior Executive Service outplacement services over a period of twelve (12) months.
(f) Equity Grants . You will be considered “retired” for purposes of your outstanding unexercised stock options, restricted stock units,
leader shares and performance share units, in each case, if any. It is your responsibility to familiarize yourself with the terms of your
individual equity grants.
(g) Special Payment in Lieu of EIP Bonus . Subject to paragraph 3(b) below, you will receive a special payment of $412,500, minus
applicable deductions and withholdings, in lieu of an EIP bonus for your performance in 2006. Your deferral election, if any, with
respect to such EIP bonus will not apply to this special payment. In the event that you die before this special payment is made, the
payment will be made to your estate.
3. Payments .
(a) Generally . All payments made pursuant this Agreement will be based on your current base salary and are subject to applicable
deductions and withholding. Upon your Separation, except for the payments described in this Agreement and the attached Bridged
Employee Brochure, no other compensation will be paid to you or on your behalf.
(b) Section 409A . Payments generally may not be made on account of separation from service for six months following the termination of
employment of a “Specified Employee” as defined in Prop. Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or any successor thereto, which in general
includes the top 50 employees of a company ranked by compensation. You are a “Specified Employee.” Thus, where payments are
characterized in this Agreement as subject to this paragraph, no such payments will be made to you prior to the first day of the seventh
month following termination of your employment. Instead, amounts that would otherwise have been payable during the six months
immediately following your Separation will be accumulated and paid in a lump sum, without interest, as soon as administratively
practicable following such six month period (i.e., on or after April 1, 2007).Page 3 of 8
4. Deferral Program Account . Your Deferred Program Account, if applicable, will be paid out to you in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the Merck deferral program applicable to separated employees, subject to paragraph 3(b) of this Agreement.
5. Lump Sum Payment . As soon as practicable after your Separation, Merck will pay to you, subject to appropriate tax withholding, a gross
lump sum in the amount of $137,500. This lump sum payment is not subject to the delay described in paragraph 3(b) of this Agreement. As a
condition of receiving this lump sum payment, you agree to execute and return to me the release of claims attached hereto as Attachment “A” on
or soon after September 30, 2006. Merck’s obligation to pay this lump sum will not arise until the revocation period for such executed release
has passed without your revocation thereof.
6. Financial Counseling . You may continue to participate in the Company’s Executive Financial Services Program through the end of 2007 at
the level established for Management Committee members from time to time (currently, reimbursement up to $10,000 per calendar year).
7. Nondisparagement . You agree not to disparage Merck, its affiliates, subsidiaries, or joint ventures, and their products, officers, directors,
employees, former employees, representatives and agents, in any way whatsoever; provided, however, that nothing set forth herein will prohibit
you from making any statement or engaging in conduct to the extent such statement or conduct is required by law, court order or legal process.
The Company agrees that neither its employees who were executive officers of the Company on July 12, 2006 nor members of the Company’s
Board of Directors will disparage you or your performance as a Merck employee.
8. Noncompete . For a period of eighteen months following your Separation Date, you agree not to conduct business in competition with Merck.
“Conduct business in competition with Merck” means, for purposes of this Agreement,
(a) to be, or become being connected in any manner with, a Competitor as defined below, directly or indirectly, as an individual or as a
director, trustee, officer or employee of, or debt or equity investor in, or consultant or other independent contractor to, a Competitor, or
through ownership, management, operation or control of a person or entity that is a Competitor; provided that in no event shall ownership
of 1% or less of the outstanding equity securities of any issuer whose securities are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, standing alone, be prohibited by this subparagraph so long as you do not have, or exercise, any rights to manage, operate or
control the business of such issuer; or
(b) individually or in partnership or conjunction with any other person or entity to engage in, work in, work for or with as an employee or
consultant, advise, manage, lead, be employed by or affiliated with, or own or operate any enterprise or endeavor, not defined below as a
Competitor, that discovers, develops, markets or sells pharmaceutical or biological products or vaccines, unless you have first obtained the
consent of Merck’s General Counsel. Your request for consent must include the name of the company for which you would like to work
(or otherwise become associated), the nature of your proposed employment, association or relationship with such company, and any other
information requested by the General Counsel. The consent of the General Counsel required hereunder will not be unreasonably withheld,
provided, however, that you understand and agree that the decision whether to grant any such requested consent will be determined by the
General Counsel in the exercise of his or her sole discretion. No such consent will be effective unless it is set forth in a signed, written
communication from the General Counsel to you.Page 4 of 8
(c) “Competitor” means any of the following companies as well as their parents, subsidiaries, affiliates and successors: Abbott
Laboratories, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bristol Myers Squibb, Glaxo Smith Kline, Genentech, Johnson & Johnson, Eli Lilly, Novartis/Chiron,
Pfizer, Roche/Hoffmann-La Roche, Sanofi/Adventis, Schering Plough and Wyeth.
9. Nonsolicitation . For a period of eighteen months following your Separation Date, you agree not to solicit, entice, persuade, induce or
otherwise attempt to influence any person, who is employed by Merck, its subsidiaries or joint ventures on the date of this Agreement, to leave
the employ of Merck, its subsidiaries or joint ventures, by (1) making initial contact with a Merck employee for such purpose or engaging in
discussion with a Merck employee about such purpose or result, (2) causing any third party to make initial contact with a Merck employee for
the purpose of soliciting, enticing, persuading or inducing them to leave the employ of Merck, or (3) providing a third party information about
any Merck employee for the purpose of recruitment of that employee.
10. Confidential Information . You acknowledge and agree that, in the course of your employment with the Company, you had access to trade
secrets, and confidential and proprietary business information (“Confidential Information”) owned by, or pertinent to, the Company and its
subsidiaries or joint ventures. You agree not to disclose Confidential Information except as you determine in good faith, with the advice of
counsel, to be required of you by law or legal process, subpoena or court order, provided that, prior to any such required disclosure, you will use
your reasonable best efforts to provide sufficient notice to the Company so as to enable the Company to interpose an effective objection to such
disclosure.
11. Litigation . In connection with litigation, investigation, inquiry or proceedings before a court, arbitrator, government or administrative
agency or other tribunal, you may be asked by Merck to testify as a witness or to provide information concerning matters you were or might
have been involved in during the course of your employment with Merck. You agree to cooperate fully with Merck’s counsel by making yourself
available to such counsel, upon reasonable advance notice, to discuss your information or to review your testimony reasonably in advance of
such litigation or proceedings, by making yourself available to testify at depositions or trial as required or requested by Merck, and by notifying
Merck immediately upon becoming aware of any litigation, investigation, inquiry or proceedings involving Merck. Other than travel expenses
and applicable, or statutorily mandated, witness fees, you agree that you will not be paid in connection with your testimony, appearance or
participation pursuant to this paragraph in such litigation or proceedings. You further agree that you will not participate in any lawsuit or other
legal action or administrative proceeding initiated by a third party against or involving Merck, except as such participation is solicited by Merck
or authorized by Merck, unless commanded to do so by a valid and lawfully issued subpoena. You agree that if you are subjected to a subpoena
requiring you to bear witness on matters concerning your employment with or your knowledge about Merck, you will contact the Company as
soon as reasonably practicable and cooperate fully with the Company in its chosen manner of proceeding. Nothing in this provision shall be
construed as precluding you from cooperating with law enforcement or regulatory agencies in connection with any lawful government inquiries.
12. Breach of Agreement and Forfeiture of Benefits .
(a) The forfeiture of benefits provision set forth in the SPD is incorporated by reference into this Agreement with respect to all amounts and
benefits payable hereunder.
(b) Separate and apart from any other remedy that Merck may have, in the event that Merck reasonably determines that you have breached
or violated paragraph 7, 8, 9, 10 or 11 of this Agreement, Merck’s obligation to pay amounts described in paragraphs 2(a), 2(g) and 5 of
this Agreement will immediately cease as of the date of such breach or violation and Merck (i) will bePage 5 of 8
relieved of any further obligation to make such payments and (ii) will be entitled to demand, and you agree to immediately tender, all
benefits and payments previously made to you hereunder.
(c) You agree that your breach of paragraph 8, 9 or 10 of this Agreement will cause immediate and irreparable injury to Merck and it is and
will be impossible to estimate and determine the damage that will be suffered by Merck in the event of your breach. You agree that your
breach of any of these paragraphs will cause immediate and irreparable injury to Merck and that it is and will be impossible to estimate
and determine the damage that will be suffered in the event of a breach. Separate and apart from any other remedy that Merck may have,
you further agree that, in the event of such a breach, Merck will be entitled, in addition to any other available remedies, to (i) temporary
and permanent injunctive relief from any such breach by you and by your employers, employees, partners, agents and associates, of the
terms set forth in this paragraph, without the necessity of proving actual damages, or immediate or irreparable harm, or of posting a
bond, ii) an award of liquidated damages equal to all monies paid to you or received by you in accordance with paragraphs 2(a), 2(g)
and 5 of this Agreement, and (iii) all associated attorney’s fees and costs.
13. Reformation . You agree that if any portion(s) of paragraph(s) 8, 9, 10, 11 or 12 is determined to be invalid, such determination will not
affect the enforceability of the remaining portions of such paragraph(s) and such paragraph(s) will be interpreted as if the invalid portions had
not been inserted. You agree that if such invalidity is caused by the length of any period of time or the size of any area, then the period of time or
the area, or both, will, without need of further action by any party, be deemed to be reduced to a period or area that will cure the invalidity.
14. Confidentiality . You agree to hold the existence of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of this Agreement in strict confidence and
you agree not to disclose, except as may be required by law or legal process, any such information to any third party other than members of your
immediate family, your former spouse, financial advisors, outplacement firm, tax authorities, tax consultants or anyone preparing your tax
returns, or legal advisors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you may disclose to executive search firms and prospective employers the provisions
of this Agreement related to your agreement not to conduct business in competition with Merck.
15. Release . In consideration of the promises of the Company as set forth in this Agreement, and with the intent to be bound legally, you agree
to irrevocably RELEASE AND FOREVER DISCHARGE Merck & Co., Inc., together with its benefit plans, subsidiaries and affiliates and their
officers, directors, employees, agents, predecessors, partners, successors, fiduciaries and assigns (“Releasees”) from and with respect to any
manner of actions, suits, debts, claims, demands whatsoever in law or equity arising out of or in any way relating to your employment with the
Company or the termination of your employment, or arising out of or in any way relating to any transaction, occurrence, act or omission or any
loss, damage or injury occurring at any time up to and including the date and time on which you sign this Agreement (“Claims”), including, but
not limited to (a) any and all Claims based upon any law, statute, ordinance, regulation, constitution or executive order or based in contract, tort
or common law or any other legal or equitable theory of relief; (b) any and all Claims based on the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974; (c) any and all Claims arising under the civil rights laws of any federal, state or local jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, Title VII of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964; the Americans with Disabilities Act; Sections 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act; the Family and Medical
Leave Act; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act; the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act; and the New Jersey Law Against
Discrimination; (d) any and all Claims under any whistleblower laws or whistleblower provisions of other laws including, but not limited to, the
New Jersey Conscientious Employee Protection Act; and (e) any and all Claims for counsel fees or costs.Page 6 of 8
You understand that by signing this Agreement, you are waiving any and all Claims against any and all Releasees released by this
Agreement to the greatest extent allowable under law. Nothing in this paragraph shall be read as a waiver of any vested rights in any savings or
pension plan. The foregoing release does not release or waive claims or rights that cannot be waived by law and does not release or waive any
claims or rights to indemnification under Merck’s by-laws, or by applicable law, or under Merck’s directors and officers insurance, that you may
have now or in the future.
16. No Representation . You acknowledge that no promise, other than the promises in this Agreement, have been made to you and that in
signing this Agreement you are not relying upon any statement or representation made by or on behalf of the Releasees and each or any of them
concerning the merits of any Claims or the nature, amount, extent or duration of any damages relating to any Claims or the amount of any
money, benefits, or compensation due you or claimed by you, or concerning the Agreement or concerning any other thing or matter.
17. Voluntariness . You agree that you are relying solely upon your own judgment; that you are legally competent to sign this Agreement; that
you are signing this Agreement of your free will; that you have read and understood the Agreement before signing it; and that you are signing
this Agreement in exchange for consideration that you believe is satisfactory and adequate.
18. No Admissions . You agree and acknowledge that neither the offer of these arrangements nor this Agreement will be construed as an
admission or as evidence that Merck or its agents have failed in any way to act properly in connection with your employment or the termination
thereof. To the contrary, the Company specifically denies any wrongful or unlawful treatment towards you. This Agreement has been proposed
by the Company solely for the purpose of reaching a mutually acceptable resolution of issues you have raised arising out of the termination of
your employment.
19. Applicable Law . You acknowledge and agree that your employment relationship with Merck is governed solely and exclusively under the
laws of the State of New Jersey and the United States and that any question as to the scope, interpretation and effect of this Agreement will be
resolved under the substantive and procedural laws of the State of New Jersey without giving effect to any conflict of laws provisions.
20. Severability . All provisions and portions of this Agreement are severable. If any provision or portion of this Agreement or the application of
any provision or portion of the Agreement will be determined to be invalid or unenforceable to any extent or for any reason, all other provisions
and portions of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect and will continue to be enforceable to the fullest and greatest extent permitted
by law.
21. Amendment, Termination of Plans . Merck retains the right (to the extent permitted by law) to amend or terminate the Separation Plan and
any benefit or plan described in the SPD and/or the Bridged Employee Brochure (or otherwise) at any time, and nothing in this Agreement
affects or alters that right. While it has no current intention to do so, Merck also may extend, or enhance, the Separation Plan in the future. If you
sign and return the Agreement, any later amendment or termination will not decrease the amount of Separation Pay or the other Separation
Benefits you are eligible to receive as described in this Agreement.
22. Complete Agreement . This Agreement constitutes the complete and final agreement between the parties and supersedes and replaces all
prior or contemporaneous agreements, negotiations, or discussions relating to the subject matter of this Agreement.Page 7 of 8
In accordance with the federal Older Workers’ Benefit Protection Act of 1990, you have forty-five (45) days from your initial
receipt of this Agreement within which to consider whether to sign the Agreement. Should you choose to sign this Agreement, you are
entitled to revoke your acceptance at any time within seven (7) calendar days after signing it. If revoked by you within that time period,
the Agreement will be null and void for all purposes. The Agreement will not become effective or enforceable until the revocation period
has expired. Lastly, you have the right to consult with an attorney before signing this Agreement.
Please indicate your acceptance of this Agreement by signing and dating this letter and returning it to me. A duplicate of this letter, signed
by me, is enclosed for your records.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Richard T. Clark
Richard T. Clark
Chief Executive Officer and President
ACCEPTED:
Dated:
B radley ShearesPage 8 of 8
Attachment “A”
RELEASE AND WAIVER OF CLAIMS
In consideration of the lump sum to be paid to me by Merck & Co., Inc. (“Merck” or “the Company”), as set forth in paragraph 5 of the
agreement between me and Merck dated August 24, 2006 (“the Agreement”), and with the intent to be bound legally, I agree to irrevocably
RELEASE AND FOREVER DISCHARGE Merck & Co., Inc., together with its benefit plans, subsidiaries and affiliates and their officers,
directors, employees, agents, predecessors, partners, successors, fiduciaries and assigns (“Releasees”) from and with respect to any manner of
actions, suits, debts, claims, demands whatsoever in law or equity arising out of or in any way relating to my employment with the Company or
the termination of my employment, or arising out of or in any way relating to any transaction, occurrence, act or omission or any loss, damage or
injury occurring at any time up to and including the date and time on which I sign this Release (“Claims”), including, but not limited to (a) any
and all Claims based upon any law, statute, ordinance, regulation, constitution or executive order or based in contract, tort or common law or any
other legal or equitable theory of relief; (b) any and all Claims based on the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; (c) any and all
Claims arising under the civil rights laws of any federal, state or local jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964; the Americans with Disabilities Act; Sections 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act; the Family and Medical Leave Act; the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act; the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act; and the New Jersey Law Against Discrimination; (d) any and all
Claims under any whistleblower laws or whistleblower provisions of other laws including, but not limited to, the New Jersey Conscientious
Employee Protection Act; and (e) any and all Claims for counsel fees or costs.
I understand that by signing this Release, I am waiving any and all Claims against any and all Releasees released by this Release to the
greatest extent allowable under law. Nothing in this Release shall be read as a waiver of any vested rights in any savings or pension plan. This
Release does not release or waive claims or rights that cannot be waived by law and does not release or waive any claims or rights (i) to
indemnification under Merck’s by-laws, or by applicable law, or under Merck’s directors and officers insurance, or (ii) arising under the
Agreement, that I may have now or in the future. I have had 45 days to consider the terms of this Release and I have been advised of my right to
have my counsel review this Release before I sign it. I have the right to revoke my agreement to the terms of this Release by notifying Merck in
writing within 7 calendar days after executing the Release.
Accepted:
Dated:Exhibit 10.21
December 15, 2006
David W. Anstice
Dear David:
This letter agreement (“Agreement”) will confirm our discussions and sets forth the arrangements that have been made concerning your
employment status with Merck & Co., Inc. (“Merck” or the “Company”). We have agreed as follows:
1. Employment Status.
(a) Job Assignment. Effective September 15, 2006, you were appointed to the newly created position of Executive Vice President, Strategic
Initiatives, reporting to me (“New Assignment”). In the New Assignment, you will serve on Executive Committee and will continue as an
“officer” as defined in Rule 16a-1(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(b) Job Duties. Your duties in your New Assignment will include: (i) functioning as the primary sustaining sponsor to the Company’s End-
to-End and Global Support Function initiatives, with full accountability for the successful realization of these two elements of the Company’s
Plan to Win ; (ii) helping to refine the Company’s strategic direction in key pharmaceutical emerging markets (in particular, China and India);
(iii) serving as a member of the Human Health Operating Committee and the Research Strategic Review Committee; (iv) assisting your
successors in their transitions to your former roles of President, Asia Pacific Human Health and leader of the Merck/Schering Plough Joint
Venture, as necessary; and (v) performing such other duties as may be assigned me. You agree to devote your full business time, attention and
best efforts and abilities in the performance of your duties and will not, without the consent of the Company, serve as an employee, director or
consultant or other independent contractor to or in respect to any business other than the Company and its affiliates.
(c) Compensation and Benefits. While employed in the New Assignment, you will remain eligible for salary increases, bonus (subject to
Section 1(d)) and long-term incentives. You will continue to be eligible to participate in the Company’s employee benefit plans and programs, as
they may be amended from time to time, on the same terms and conditions applicable to Company employees at your grade level.
(d) Bonus . You will be eligible for an award under the Company’s Executive Incentive Plan (“EIP”), or, in certain cases an amount in lieu
of such an award, as follows: (i) for performance year 2006, unless your employment is terminated for Cause (as defined in Section 2(a)), the
Company agrees to grant to you an EIP award (or an amount in lieu of such award should your employment ends prior to the payout of such
award) in an amount no less than the amount of the EIP award paid to you for performance year 2005, which amount will be payable in 2007 at
such time when EIP awards are generally paid to other employees; (ii) for any calendar year subsequent to 2006 during which you are employed
for the entire calendar year ( i.e., through the close of business on December 31), you will be eligible for an EIP award determined in accordance
with the manner in which the Company makes such determinations for employees at your level, including, without limitation, the Company’s
performance, your division’s performance and the scope, impact and complexity of your individual contributions, which award (if any)Page 2 of 9
and will be payable in the calendar year following the performance year in question at such time as EIP awards are generally paid to other
employees; and (iii) for the Severance Year (as defined in Section 2(c)), if any, you will be entitled to an amount in lieu of an EIP award in
accordance with Section 4(b).
(e) No Separation. You agree that your appointment to the New Assignment is not a “Separation from Service” within the meaning of the
Company’s Separation Benefits Plan for Non-Union Employees.
(f) Length of Assignment. Your employment will continue to be on an “at will” basis, which means that either you or the Company may
terminate the employment relationship at any time, with or without notice, for any lawful reason.
2. Definitions.
(a) Big Pharmaceutical Competitor. The term “Big Pharmaceutical Competitor” means any of the following companies as well as their
parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, joint ventures and successors: Abbott Laboratories, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bristol Myers Squibb, Glaxo Smith
Kline, Genentech, Johnson & Johnson, Eli Lilly, Novartis/Chiron, Pfizer, Roche/Hoffmann-La Roche, Sanofi/Aventis, Schering Plough and
Wyeth.
(b) Cause. The term “Cause” means your (i) intentional or repeated failure or refusal to perform reasonably assigned duties, (ii) dishonesty,
willful misconduct, gross insubordination or gross negligence in the performance of your duties, (iii) involvement in a transaction in connection
with the performance of the your duties to the Company or any of its affiliates which transaction is adverse to the interests of the Company or
any of its affiliates and which is engaged in for personal profit, (iv) willful violation of any law, rule or regulation in connection with the
performance of your duties (other than traffic violations or similar minor offenses), (v) indictment, conviction or plea of no contest with respect
to (x) any felony or (y) other crime involving moral turpitude (whether or not a felony), (vi) action or inaction materially adversely affecting the
reputation of the Company or any of its affiliates or (vii) breach of the covenants contained in Section 8 of this Agreement or breach of any other
agreement to which you and the Company are parties.
(c) Competitor. The term “Competitor” means any person, company or other entity that (i) discovers, develops, markets or sells
pharmaceutical or biological products or vaccines anywhere in the world; and (ii) is not a Big Pharmaceutical Competitor.
(d) Severance Event . The term “Severance Event” means any cessation of your employment at the Company, whether as a result of a
decision by you or a decision by the Company, except that a “Severance Event” does not occur if the cessation of your employment occurs as the
result of (i) a decision by the Company to terminate your employment for Cause; (ii) a decision by you to leave employment with the Company
in the presence of circumstances that would have supported a decision by the Company to terminate your employment for Cause; or (iii) an
employment termination that entitles you to receive severance benefits under the Merck & Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan
as in effect from time to time.
(e) Severance Year. The term “Severance Year” means that calendar year (if any) during which a Severance Event occurs.
3. Consideration. You acknowledge that in exchange for your agreement to accept and abide by the terms of this Agreement you are receiving
benefits which are being provided to you solely pursuant to this Agreement and to which you otherwise would not be entitled. Specifically, (a) in
consideration ofPage 3 of 9
your initial execution, the Company has agreed to offer to you the New Assignment, a guaranteed EIP award (or amount in lieu of such award)
as set forth in Section 1(d) and other terms of this Agreement; and (b) in consideration of your re-execution of this Agreement, the Company is
providing you with the Severance Benefits as set forth in Section 4 and other terms of this Agreement.
4. Severance Benefits. In consideration of your Agreement to accept and abide by the terms of this Agreement, the Company will provide you
with the following benefits (“Severance Benefits”) on the condition that your employment ends as the result of a Severance Event (as defined in
Section 2(b)) and on the further condition that, upon presentation by the Company after a Severance Event, you re-affirm your acceptance of this
Agreement by re-executing this Agreement within the time period set forth in Section 20 and by not subsequently revoking that acceptance:
(a) Severance Pay. Subject to Section 5(b), you will receive severance pay in the form of continued monthly salary payments, minus
applicable deductions and withholdings, for a period beginning on the day after a Severance Event and ending on the earlier of: (i) that date
which is eighteen months after a Severance Event; (ii) July 31, 2013; or (iii) your breach of any of the conditions set forth in Section 8.
(b) Severance Year Bonus. Subject to Section 5(b), you will be entitled to payment of an amount in lieu of an EIP award should your
employment end in a Severance Year, which amount will be equal to the product obtained by multiplying the amount of your EIP award for the
performance year immediately preceding the Severance Year times a fraction the numerator of which is the number of complete months of
service provided by you in the Severance Year ( i.e., the number of complete months worked by you in the Severance Year immediately
preceding the Severance Event) and the denominator of which is 12. The amount (if any) payable in accordance with this Section 4(b) will be
payable in the calendar year following the Severance Year at such time as EIP awards are generally paid to other employees. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary above, this Section 4(b) will not apply should a Severance Year occur in calendar year 2006. In such case, the amount
(if any) payable in lieu of an EIP award will be as set forth in Section 1(d)(i).
(c) Financial Counseling. You will be eligible to continue to participate in the Company’s Executive Financial Services Program for the
balance of a Severance Year at the then current level established for Executive Committee members from time to time (currently, reimbursement
up to $10,000 per calendar year). In addition, the Company will provide you with reimbursement for tax counseling, if required, relative to your
tax obligations, if any, under the laws of any country for a period commencing on January 1st of the calendar year immediately following the
Severance Year and ending on December 31 st of the third calendar year following the Severance Year. The total cost of such tax/financial
counseling payable by Merck under this Section 4(c) will not exceed $75,000.
(d) Relocation Benefits. If you decide to relocate your primary residence outside the United States, then Merck, in accordance with
Company policy, will provide one-way return trip airfare and temporary living for a maximum of sixty days for you and your accompanying
dependents; will ship your household goods to the point of some other mutually agreed upon area; and will consider you eligible for home sale
assistance, with buyout, under the Company’s then current Relocation Policy, provided that your relocation is completed prior to the two-year
anniversary of a Severance Event, and provided further that Merck’s payment(s) for these benefits will be reduced by any relocation
reimbursement/expenses (for the same move) you may be entitled to by arrangement with another employer. You understand and agree that your
eligibility for the benefits of this Section 4(d) is contingent on your compliance with the procedures of the then current Company Relocation
Policy and other related Company policies.Page 4 of 9
5. Payments .
(a) Generally. All severance payments made pursuant to Section 4(a) of this Agreement will be based on your then current base salary as of
the time of a Severance Event and are subject to applicable deductions and withholding. Subject to Section 5(b), the severance payments
pursuant to Section 4(a) will be made by electronic transfer or by mail, in accordance with your normal manner of payment, on or about the
regularly scheduled paydays for Merck salaried employees or within thirty (30) days after you have re-executed this Agreement and the
revocation period of Section 20 has elapsed, whichever is later.
(b) Section 409 (A). Payments generally may not be made on account of separation from service for six months following the termination of
employment of a “Specified Employee” as defined in Prop. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or any successor thereto, which in general includes the top 50
employees of a company ranked by compensation. You are a “Specified Employee,” thus to the extent required by Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no payments will be made to you prior to the first day of the sixth month following termination of your
employment. Instead, amounts that would otherwise have been payable will be accumulated and paid, without interest, as soon as
administratively practicable following such six month period.
6. Other Benefits. Your entitlement to benefits under the Company’s pension, health and welfare and other plans will be governed by the
relevant plan documents and/or Company policies. For avoidance of doubt, you acknowledge that you are not and will not be eligible for
severance benefits under the Company’s current or any successor Separation Benefits Plan.
7. Release . In consideration of the promises of the Company as set forth in this Agreement, and with the intent to be bound legally, you agree to
irrevocably RELEASE AND FOREVER DISCHARGE Merck & Co., Inc., together with its benefit plans, subsidiaries, affiliates and joint
ventures and their officers, directors, employees, agents, predecessors, partners, successors, fiduciaries and assigns (“Released Parties”) from and
with respect to any manner of actions, suits, debts, claims, demands whatsoever in law or equity arising out of or in any way relating to your
employment with the Company, your transfer to the New Assignment or the cessation of your employment, or arising out of or in any way
relating to any transaction, occurrence, act or omission or any loss, damage or injury occurring at any time up to and including the date and time
on which you sign this Agreement (“Claims”), including, but not limited to (a) any and all Claims based upon any law, statute, ordinance,
regulation, constitution or executive order or based in contract, tort or common law or any other legal or equitable theory of relief; (b) any and all
Claims based on the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; (c) any and all Claims arising under the civil rights laws of any federal,
state or local jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; the Americans with Disabilities Act;
Sections 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act; the Family and Medical Leave Act; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act; the
Pennsylvania Human Relations Act; and the New Jersey Law Against Discrimination; (d) any and all Claims under any whistleblower laws or
whistleblower provisions of other laws including, but not limited to, the New Jersey Conscientious Employee Protection Act; and (e) any and all
Claims for counsel fees or costs.
You understand that by signing this Agreement, you are waiving any and all Claims against any and all Released Parties released by this
Agreement to the greatest extent allowable under law. Nothing in this paragraph shall be read as a waiver of any vested rights in any savings or
pension plan.Page 5 of 9
8. Conditions of Agreement .
(a) Terms and Conditions . This Agreement is conditioned on your abiding by all the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms
and conditions set forth in the Company’s Conditions of Employment Agreement, incorporated herein by reference.
(b) Confidentiality . You agree to hold the existence of this Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the circumstances
surrounding your employment with Merck (including, without limitation, your transfer to the New Assignment) and the cessation thereof, in
strict confidence and you agree not to disclose, except as may be required by law or legal process, any such information to any third party other
than members of your immediate family, tax authorities, tax consultants or legal advisors. You agree that, if you are subjected to a subpoena or
other court process or order requiring you to bear witness on matters concerning your employment with or your knowledge about Merck you
shall contact the Company immediately unless notification is prohibited by law or order of a court. Nothing in this provision shall be construed
as precluding you from cooperating with federal or state law enforcement or regulatory agencies in connection with any lawful government
inquiries.
(c) Non Disparagement . You agree not to communicate negatively about or to otherwise disparage Merck or its products or each and any of
the Released Parties in any way whatsoever.
(d) Agreement Not to Compete. You agree that during your continued employment at the Company and for a period of eighteen months
after the cessation of your employment at the Company, you will not conduct business in competition with Merck. “Conduct business in
competition with Merck,” means, for purposes of this Agreement,
(i) to be, or become connected in any manner with, a Big Pharmaceutical Competitor, directly or indirectly, as an individual or as a director,
trustee, officer or employee of, or debt or equity investor in, or consultant or other independent contractor to, a Big Pharmaceutical
Competitor, or through ownership, management, operation or control of a person or entity that is a Big Pharmaceutical Competitor; provided
that in no event shall ownership of 1% or less of the outstanding equity securities of any issuer whose securities are registered under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, standing alone, be prohibited by this subparagraph so long as you do not have, or exercise, any
rights to manage, operate or control the business of such issuer; or
(ii) to be or become an employee, consultant or other independent contractor, director, trustee, or officer of a Competitor, without the prior
consent of Merck’s General Counsel. Your request for consent must include the name of the company for which you would like to work (or
otherwise become associated), the nature of your proposed employment, association or relationship with such company, and any other
information requested by the General Counsel. While the decision whether to consent to a request made in accordance with this subparagraph
will be within the sole discretion of Merck’s General Counsel, such consent will not be unreasonably withheld. No such consent will be
effective unless it is set forth in a signed, written communication from the General Counsel to you.
(e) Non Solicitation. You agree that during your continued employment at the Company and for a period of eighteen months after the
cessation of your employment at the Company, you will not solicit, entice, persuade, induce or otherwise attempt to influence any Merck
Employee (as defined below) to leave the employ of Merck, its subsidiaries, affiliates or joint ventures, by (i) making initial contact with a
Merck Employee for such purpose or engaging in discussion with a Merck Employee about such purpose or result, (ii) causing any other person
to make initial contact with a Merck Employee forPage 6 of 9
the purpose of soliciting, enticing, persuading or inducing them to leave the employ of Merck, its subsidiaries, affiliates or joint ventures or
(iii) providing any other person information about any Merck Employee for the purpose of recruitment of that employee. For the purposes of this
Section 8(e), a Merck Employee means any person who, at the time of the action, is, or at anytime in the preceding six (6) months was,
employed by Merck, or any of its subsidiaries, affiliates or joint ventures.
(f) Non Disclosure. You acknowledge that, in the course of your employment with the Company, you had access to trade secrets and to
confidential and/or proprietary information owned by the Company. You agree not to disclose such information to third parties.
(g) Extension of Time. The period of time during which you are prohibited from engaging in the activities described in subsections (d) and
(e) of this Section 8 will be extended by the length of time, if any, during which you are in breach of those subsections.
(h) Reformation. You agree that if any portion of this Section 8 is determined to be invalid, such determination will not affect the
enforceability of the remaining portions of Section 8 and this Section 8 will be interpreted as if the invalid portions had not been inserted. You
agree that if such invalidity is caused by the length of any period of time or the size of any area in this paragraph, then the period of time or the
area, or both, will, without need of further action by any party, be deemed to be reduced to a period or area that will cure the invalidity.
9. Remedy . You agree that a violation of any of your agreements contained in Section 8 will cause immediate and irreparable injury to Merck
and it is and will be impossible to estimate and determine the damage that will be suffered by Merck in the event of your breach. Separate and
apart from any other remedy that Merck may have, you agree that, in the event that you violate any of your agreements in Section 8, Merck will
be entitled to (a) temporary and permanent injunctive relief from any such breach by you, your employers, employees, partners, agents, or other
associates or any of them, without the necessity of proving actual damages, or immediate and irreparable harm, or of posting a bond; (b) cease
and desist from providing you with any further benefits under this Agreement; and (c) an award of liquidated damages equal to all monies paid
to you or received by you in accordance with Sections 4(a) and 4(b) of this Agreement; and (d) all associated attorney’s fees and costs.
10. Merck Covenant. Merck agrees to instruct its Executive Officers and the members of its Board of Directors not to disparage you to third
parties.
11. Litigation . In connection with litigation, investigation, inquiry or proceedings before a court, arbitrator, government or administrative
agency or other tribunal, you may be asked by Merck to testify as a witness or to provide information concerning matters you were involved in
during the course of your employment with Merck. You agree to cooperate fully with Merck’s counsel by making yourself reasonably available
to such counsel to discuss your information or to review your testimony reasonably in advance of such litigation or proceedings, by making
yourself available to testify at depositions or trial as required or requested by Merck. Other than travel expenses and applicable, or statutorily
mandated, witness fees, you agree that you will not be paid in connection with your testimony, appearance or participation pursuant to this
paragraph in such litigation or proceedings. This paragraph does not affect any right you may have to indemnification under Merck’s corporate
bylaws or policies, or your eligibility to have Merck advance to you reasonable costs, disbursements and counsel fees under certain
circumstances, in connection with proceedings related to or arising out of your activities as a Merck employee. Merck will continue to pay for
legal counsel bills incurred by you during the course of litigation, subject to the terms of our existing arrangement on this subject.Page 7 of 9
12. No Representation . You acknowledge that no promise, other than the promises in this Agreement, have been made to you and that in
signing this Agreement you are not relying upon any statement or representation made by or on behalf of the Released Parties and each or any of
them concerning the merits of any Claims or the nature, amount, extent or duration of any damages relating to any Claims or the amount of any
money, benefits, or compensation due you or claimed by you, or concerning the Agreement or concerning any other thing or matter.
13. Voluntariness . You agree that you are relying solely upon your own judgment; that you are over eighteen years of age and are legally
competent to sign this Agreement; that you are signing this Agreement of your free will; that you have read and understood the Agreement
before signing it; and that you are signing this Agreement in exchange for consideration that you believe is satisfactory and adequate.
14. Legal Counsel . You acknowledge that you have been informed of your right to consult with legal counsel, have been encouraged to do so,
that you have in fact engaged legal counsel to represent you with respect to this Agreement and that counsel has negotiated the terms of this
Agreement on your behalf.
15. Complete Agreement . This Agreement constitutes the complete and final agreement between the parties and supersedes and replaces all
prior or contemporaneous agreements, negotiations, or discussions relating to the subject matter of this Agreement.
16. Applicable Law . You acknowledge and agree that your employment relationship with Merck is governed solely and exclusively under the
laws of the State of New Jersey and the United States and that any question as to the scope, interpretation and effect of this Agreement will be
resolved under the substantive and procedural laws of the State of New Jersey without giving effect to any conflict of laws provisions.
17. Other Severance Pay. You agree that neither Merck nor any of the Released Parties owes you severance pay, termination indemnity or
other amounts payable upon a termination of employment in the nature of severance or unemployment compensation (“Other Severance Pay”)
under the laws or regulations of any state or country. In the event that a court, administrative agency or other such authority rules that you are
owed Other Severance Pay, amounts payable under Section 3 of this Agreement will be reduced by the amount of such Other Severance Pay and
you agree to be a constructive trustee of such amounts to carry out the purposes of this Section 17.
18. Severability . All provisions and portions of this Agreement are severable. If any provision or portion of this Agreement or the application
of any provision or portion of the Agreement will be determined to be invalid or unenforceable to any extent or for any reason, all other
provisions and portions of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect and will continue to be enforceable to the fullest and greatest
extent permitted by law
19. Initial Execution. Your initial execution of this Agreement will acknowledge your acceptance of the terms and conditions of this
Agreement. By your initial execution, you acknowledge that
(a) Acceptance . You have been given a period of twenty-one (21) days within which to consider your initial execution of this Agreement.
You may accept this Agreement at any time within this period of time by signing the Agreement and returning it me.
(b) Revocability . You have been informed that, upon your initial execution, this Agreement will not become effective or enforceable until
seven (7) calendar days after such execution.Page 8 of 9
You may revoke your acceptance of this Agreement at any time within that seven (7) calendar day period by sending written notice to
me. Such notice must be received by me within the seven (7) calendar day period in order to be effective and, if so received, would void
this Agreement for all purposes.
20. Re-execution. Upon the Company’s determination that a Severance Event has occurred, it will present this Agreement to you for re-
execution. You agree that you must re-execute this Agreement as a condition precedent to your entitlement to the Severance Benefits set forth in
Section 4. By your re-execution of this Agreement, you acknowledge that:
(a) Acceptance . You have been given a period of twenty-one (21) days within which to consider whether to re-execute this Agreement.
You may accept this Agreement at any time within this period of time by signing the Agreement and returning it me.
(b) Revocability . You have been informed that, upon re-execution, this Agreement as re-executed will not become effective or enforceable
until seven (7) calendar days after such re-execution. You may revoke your acceptance of this Agreement as re-executed at any time
within that seven (7) calendar day period by sending written notice to me. Such notice must be received by me within the seven (7)
calendar day period in order to be effective and, if so received, would void this Agreement as re-executed, but will not affect this
Agreement as initially executed.
(c) Release. Upon re-execution, the date of such re-execution will be the date on which you sign this Agreement for the purposes of this
Agreement, including without limitation, for the purposes of the Release set forth in Section 7.
21. Intent to be Bound . You and the Company have entered into this Agreement with the intent to be legally bound.
[ signature page follows ]Page 9 of 9
Please indicate your initial acceptance of this Agreement by signing and dating this letter and returning it to me. A duplicate of this letter, signed
by me, is enclosed for your records.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Richard T. Clark
Richard T. Clark
President, CEO
Merck & Co., Inc.
ACCEPTED:
/s/ David W. Anstice Dated: December 15, 2006
D avid W. Anstice
RE-EXECUTED:
Dated:
D avid W. AnsticeExhibit 12
MERCK & CO., INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges
($ in millions except ratio data)
Twelve Months
Ended
December 31, Years Ended December 31,
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
Income from Continuing Operations
Before Taxes $ 6,221.4 $ 7,363.9 $7 ,974.5 $9 ,051.6 $ 9,651.7 $ 9,948.1
Add (Subtract):
One-third of rents 67.8 68.2 71.9 75.6 67.2 64.2
Interest expense, gross 375.1 385.5 293.7 350.9 390.6 463.7
Interest capitalized, net of amortization 29.4 (1.0) (21.3) (30.1 ) (36.9 ) (66.1 )
Equity (income) loss from affiliates, net
of distributions (362.5) (615.9) (421.2) 79.2 (156.1) (113.7)
Preferred stock dividends, net of tax 120.0 120.0 151.0 150.9 164.3 199.6
Earnings from Continuing
Operations $ 6,451.2 $ 7,320.7 $8 ,048.6 $9 ,678.1 $ 10,080.8 $1 0,495.8
One-third of rents $ 67.8 $ 68.2 $ 71.9 $ 75.6 $ 67.2 $ 64.2
Interest expense, gross 375.1 385.5 293.7 350.9 390.6 463.7
Preferred stock dividends 166.0 166.7 207.1 215.6 234.7 285.1
Fixed Charges from Continuing
Operations $ 608.9 $ 620.4 $ 572.7 $ 642.1 $ 692.5 $ 813.0
Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
from Continuing Operations 11 12 14 15 15 13
For purposes of computing these ratios, “earnings” consist of income from continuing operations before taxes, one-third of rents (deemed by the
Company to be representative of the interest factor inherent in rents), interest expense, net of amounts capitalized, equity (income) loss from
affiliates, net of distributions, and dividends on preferred stock of subsidiary companies. “Fixed charges” consist of one-third of rents, interest
expense as reported in the Company’s consolidated financial statements and dividends on preferred stock of subsidiary companies.Exhibit 21
MERCK & CO., INC. SUBSIDIARIES
as of 12/31/06
The following is a list of subsidiaries of the Company, doing business under the name stated.
Country or State
Name of Incorporation
Abmaxis Inc. Delaware
AMRAD Pharmaceuticals Pty. Ltd. Australia
Banyu Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd. Japan
Blue Jay Investments C.V. Netherlands
BRC Ltd Bermuda
Charles E. Frosst (U.K.) Limited United
Kingdom
Chibret A/S Denmark
Chibret Pharmazeutische GmbH Germany
China-MSD HIV/AIDS Public Private Partnership, Inc. China
Chippewa Holdings LLC Delaware
Cloverleaf International Holdings S.A. Luxembourg
CM Delaware LLC Delaware
Comsort, Inc. Delaware
Coophavet S.A.S. 1 France
Crosswinds B.V. Netherlands
Dieckmann Arzneimittel GmbH Germany
European Insurance Risk Excess Limited Ireland
Farmacox-Companhia Farmaceutica, Lda Portugal
Farmasix-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda Portugal
Financiere MSD S.A.S. France
Fontelabor-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda. Portugal
Fregenal Holdings S.A. Panama
Frosst Iberica, S.A. Spain
Frosst Laboratories, Inc. Delaware
Frosst Portuguesa — Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda. Portugal
GlycoFi, Inc. Delaware
Hangzhou MSD Pharmaceutical Company Limited 1 China
Hawk and Falcon L.L.C. Delaware
Heptafarma Companhia Farmaceutica, Lda. Portugal
Infodoc AS 1 Norway
International Indemnity Ltd. Bermuda
Istituto Di Richerche Di Biologia Molecolare S.p.A. Italy
Istituto Gentili S.p.A./Inc. Italy/Delaware
Johnson & Johnson — Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company 1 New Jersey
KBI Inc. Delaware
KBI Sub Inc. Delaware
KBI-E Inc. Delaware
KBI-P Inc. Delaware
Kiinteisto Oy Viistotie 11 Finland
Laboratoires Merck Sharp & Dohme-Chibret SNC France
Laboratorios Abello, S.A. Spain
Laboratorios Biopat, S.A. SpainCountry or State
Name of Incorporation
Laboratorios Chibret, S.A. Spain
Laboratorios Frosst, S.A. Spain
Laboratorios Medichip S.L. Spain
Laboratorios Neurogard, S.A. Spain
Laboratorios Quimico-Farmaceuticos Chibret, Lda. Portugal
Maple Leaf Holdings SRL Barbados
MCM Vaccine Co. 1 Pennsylvania
Medco de Mexico Managed Care S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Medco Holdings S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Medco Servicios de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Merck and Company, Incorporated Delaware
Merck Borinquen Holdings, Inc. Delaware
Merck Capital Resources, Inc. Delaware
Merck Capital Ventures, LLC Delaware
Merck Cardiovascular Health Company Nevada
Merck Finance Co., Inc. Delaware
Merck Foreign Sales Corporation Ltd. Bermuda
Merck Frosst Canada Ltd. Canada
Merck Frosst Company Canada
Merck Frosst Finco LP Canada
Merck Hamilton, Inc. California
Merck HDAC Research, LLC Delaware
Merck Holdings II Corp. Delaware
Merck Holdings, Inc. Delaware
Merck Institute for Vaccinology Delaware
Merck Investment Co., Inc. Delaware
Merck LMC Cash Management (Bermuda) Ltd. Bermuda
Merck Oncology Holdings, Inc. Delaware
Merck Resource Management, Inc. Delaware
Merck Respiratory Health Company Nevada
Merck SH Inc. Delaware
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Argentina) Inc. Delaware
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Asia) Limited Hong Kong
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Australia) Pty. Limited Australia
Merck Sharp & Dohme (China) Limited Hong Kong
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Enterprises) B.V. Netherlands
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Europe) Inc. Delaware
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Holdings) B.V. Netherlands
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Holdings) Limited United
Kingdom
Merck Sharp & Dohme (I.A.) Corp. Delaware
Merck Sharp & Dohme (International) Limited Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Investments) B.V. Netherlands
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Ireland) Ltd. Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Israel — 1996) Company Ltd. Israel
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Italia) S.p.A. Italy
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Lebanon) S.A.L. Lebanon
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Middle East) Limited Cyprus
Merck Sharp & Dohme (New Zealand) Limited New Zealand
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Panama) S.A. Panama
2Country or State
Name of Incorporation
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Philippines) Inc. Philippines
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Puerto Rico) Ltd. Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Singapore) Ltd. Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) A.B. Sweden
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Switzerland) GmbH Switzerland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Asia Pacific Services Pte Ltd. Singapore
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. Netherlands
Merck Sharp & Dohme Bulgaria EOOD Bulgaria
Merck Sharp & Dohme Chibret A.G. Switzerland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Comercializadora, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o. Croatia
Merck Sharp & Dohme de Espana, S.A. Spain
Merck Sharp & Dohme de Mexico S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Merck Sharp & Dohme de Venezuela S.R.L. Venezuela
Merck Sharp & Dohme Farmaceutica Ltda. Brazil
Merck Sharp & Dohme Finance Europe Limited United
Kingdom
Merck Sharp & Dohme GmbH Austria
Merck Sharp & Dohme Holdings de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Merck Sharp & Dohme Idea AG Switzerland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Industria Quimica e Veterinaria Limitada Brazil
Merck Sharp & Dohme inovativna zdravila d.o.o. Slovenia
Merck Sharp & Dohme International Services B.V. Netherlands
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health) Ltd Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ísland hf Iceland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Limited United
Kingdom
Merck Sharp & Dohme Luxembourg (Holdings) S.a.r.l. Luxembourg
Merck Sharp & Dohme Manufacturing Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme O.U. Estonia
Merck Sharp & Dohme of Pakistan Limited Pakistan
Merck Sharp & Dohme Peru SRL Peru
Merck Sharp & Dohme Pharmaceuticals LLC Russia
Merck Sharp & Dohme Quimica de Puerto Rico, Inc. Delaware
Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Ltd. Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania SRL Romania
Merck Sharp & Dohme S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Merck Sharp & Dohme S.A. Morocco
Merck Sharp & Dohme SIA Latvia
Merck Sharp & Dohme Tunisie Sarl Tunisia
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Limitada Portugal
Merck Sharp Dohme Ilaclari Limited Sirketi Turkey
Merck Technology (U.S.) Company, Inc. Nevada
Merck Ventures, Inc. Delaware
Merck-Banyu Co., Ltd. Japan
Merial (IA) LLP 1 Puerto Rico
Merial (Thailand) Ltd 1 Thailand
Merial Animal Health Co. Ltd. 1 China
Merial Animal Health Ltd 1 United
Kingdom
Merial Argentina SA 1 Argentina
Merial Asia PTE, Ltd. 1 Singapore
3Country or State
Name of Incorporation
Merial Australia PTY LTD 1 Australia
Merial B.V. 1 Netherlands
Merial Belgium 1 Belgium
Merial Colombia S.A. 1 Colombia
Merial Distribution SAS 1 France
Merial GmbH 1 Germany
Merial Hong Kong Limited 1 Hong Kong
Merial Inc. 1 Delaware
Merial International Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 1 China
Merial Italia SpA 1 Italy
Merial Japan, Limited 1 Japan
Merial Korea Ltd 1 Korea
Merial Laboratorios SA 1 Spain
Merial Limited/LLC 1 United
Kingdom/Delaware
Merial Nanjing Animal Health Co. Ltd. 1 China
Merial New Zealand Limited 1 New Zealand
Merial Norden A/S 1 Denmark
Merial Philippines, Inc. 1 Philippines
Merial Portuguesa — Saude Animal LDA 1 Portugal
Merial SA 1 Uruguay
Merial SAS 1 France
Merial Saude Animal LTDA 1 Brazil
Merial Taiwan Co., Ltd. 1 Taiwan
Merial Venezuela , C.A. 1 Venezuela
ML Holdings (Canada) Inc. Canada
MSD (Nippon Holdings) BV Netherlands
MSD (Norge) A/S Norway
MSD (Proprietary) Limited South Africa
MSD (Thailand) Ltd. Thailand
MSD Australia Pty Ltd Australia
MSD Australia Superannuation Pty Ltd. Australia
MSD Brazil (Investments) B.V. Netherlands
MSD Chibropharm GmbH Germany
MSD China (Investments) B.V. Netherlands
MSD Eurofinance L.P. Bermuda
MSD Finance B.V. Netherlands
MSD Finland Oy Finland
MSD International Holdings, Inc. Delaware
MSD Ireland (Holdings) S.A. Luxembourg
MSD Ireland (Investments) Ltd. Bermuda
MSD Ireland Resources Ireland
MSD Korea Ltd. Korea
MSD Lakemedel (Scandinavia) Aktiebolog Sweden
MSD Latin America Services Ltd. Bermuda
MSD Latin America Services S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
MSD Limited United Kingdom
MSD Magyarország Kft Hungary
MSD Mexico (Investments) B.V. Netherlands
MSD Overseas Manufacturing Co. Bermuda
4Country or State
Name of Incorporation
MSD Overseas Manufacturing Co. (Ireland) Ireland
MSD Pharmaceuticals Private Limited India
MSD Polska Sp.z.o.o. Poland
MSD Puerto Rico Holdings, Inc. Puerto Rico
MSD Scandinavia AS Norway
MSD Sharp & Dohme GmbH Germany
MSD Somerset Ltd. Bermuda
MSD Stamford Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore
MSD Technology Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore
MSD Technology, L.P. Delaware
MSD Unterstutzungskasse GmbH Germany
MSD Ventures Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore
MSD Warwick (Manufacturing) Ltd. Bermuda
MSD-Essex GmbH Switzerland
MSDJ Holdings (Canada) Inc. Canada
MSD-SP Ltd. United
Kingdom
MSP Distribution Services (C) LLC 1 Nevada
MSP Distribution Services (R) LLC 1 Nevada
MSP Singapore Company, LLC 1 Delaware
MSP Technology (U.S.) Company, LLC 1 Delaware
Neopharmed S.p.A. Italy
P.T. Merck Sharp & Dohme Indonesia Indonesia
Pasteur Vaccins S.A. 1 France
Readington Investments, Inc. New Jersey
Rosetta Biosoftware UK Ltd. United
Kingdom
Rosetta Inpharmatics LLC Delaware
Ruskin Limited Bermuda
Sanofi Pasteur MSD A/S Denmark
Sanofi Pasteur MSD AB Sweden
Sanofi Pasteur MSD AG Switzerland
Sanofi Pasteur MSD AS Norway
Sanofi Pasteur MSD ApS Denmark
Sanofi Pasteur MSD Gestion S.A. 1 France
Sanofi Pasteur MSD GmbH Austria
Sanofi Pasteur MSD GmbH Germany
Sanofi Pasteur MSD Ltd. United
Kingdom
Sanofi Pasteur MSD Ltd. Ireland
Sanofi Pasteur MSD N.V./S.A. Belgium
Sanofi Pasteur MSD Oy Finland
Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.A. Portugal
Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.A. Spain
Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.p.A. Italy
Sanofi Pasteur MSD SNC 1 France
Seneca I LLC Delaware
Sharp & Dohme, S.A. Spain
Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. Delaware
STELLARx, Inc. Nevada
TELERx Marketing Inc. Pennsylvania
The MSD Foundation Limited United
Kingdom
5Country or State
Name of Incorporation
Thomas Morson & Son Limited United
Kingdom
Tradewinds Manufacturing SRL Barbados
Transrow Manufacturing Ltd. 1 Bermuda
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme Lithuania
Variopharm Arzneimittel GmbH Germany
1 own less than 100%
6EXHIBIT 24.1
POWER OF ATTORNEY
Each of the undersigned does hereby appoint CELIA A. COLBERT and KENNETH C. FRAZIER and each of them, severally, his/her
true and lawful attorney or attorneys to execute on behalf of the undersigned (whether on behalf of the Company, or as an officer or director
thereof, or by attesting the seal of the Company, or otherwise) the Form 10-K Annual Report of Merck & Co., Inc. for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2006 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including amendments thereto and all exhibits and other documents in
connection therewith.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument has been duly executed as of the 22 nd day of February 2007.
MERCK & CO., Inc.
By /s/ Richard T. Clark
Richard T. Clark
(Chief Executive Officer and President)
/s/ Richard T. Clark Chief Executive Officer and President
R ichard T. Clark (Principal Executive Officer; Director)
/s/ Judy C. Lewent Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
J udy C. Lewent (Principal Financial Officer)
/s/ John Canan Vice President, Controller
J ohn Canan (Principal Accounting Officer)
DIRECTORS
/s/ Lawrence A. Bossidy /s/ Thomas E. Shenk
L awrence A. Bossidy T homas E. Shenk
/s/ William G. Bowen /s/ Anne M. Tatlock
W illiam G. Bowen A nne M. Tatlock
/s/ Johnnetta B. Cole /s/ Samuel O. Thier
J ohnnetta B. Cole S amuel O. Thier
/s/ William B. Harrison, Jr. /s/ Wendell P. Weeks
W illiam B. Harrison, Jr. W endell P. Weeks
/s/ William N. Kelley /s/ Peter C. Wendell
W illiam N. Kelley P eter C. Wendell
/s/ Rochelle B. Lazarus
R ochelle B. LazarusEXHIBIT 24.2
I, Debra A. Bollwage, Senior Assistant Secretary of Merck & Co., Inc. (the “Company”), a corporation duly organized and existing under
the laws of the State of New Jersey, do hereby certify that the following is a true copy of a resolution adopted by Unanimous Written Consent of
the Board of Directors of said Company on February 22, 2007 in accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws of said Company:
“ Special Resolution No. - 2007
RESOLVED, that the proposed form of Form 10-K Annual Report of the Company for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 attached
hereto is hereby approved with such changes as the proper officers of the Company, with the advice of counsel, deem appropriate; and
RESOLVED, that each officer and director who may be required to execute the aforesaid Form 10-K Annual Report or any amendments
thereto (whether on behalf of the Company or as an officer or director thereof, or by attesting the seal of the Company, or otherwise) is hereby
authorized to execute a power of attorney appointing Celia A. Colbert and Kenneth C. Frazier and each of them, severally, his/her true and
lawful attorney or attorneys to execute in his/her name, place and stead (in any such capacity) such Form 10-K Annual Report and any and all
amendments thereto and any and all exhibits and other documents necessary or incidental in connection therewith and to file the same with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, each of said attorneys to have power to act with or without the others, and to have full power and
authority to do and perform in the name and on behalf of each of said officers and directors, or both, as the case may be, every act whatsoever
necessary or advisable to be done in the premises as fully and to all intents and purposes as any such officer or director might or could do in
person.”
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my signature and affixed the seal of the Company this 28 th day of February 2007.
[Corporate Seal] /s/ Debra A. Bollwage
Debra A. Bollwage
Senior Assistant SecretaryExhibit 31.1
CERTIFICATION
I, Richard T. Clark, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Merck & Co., Inc.;
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
4. The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15
(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:
a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant’s most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; and
5. The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):
a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal
control over financial reporting.
Date: February 28, 2007
By: /s/ Richard T. Clark
Richard T. Clark
Chief Executive Officer and PresidentExhibit 31.2
CERTIFICATION
I, Judy C. Lewent, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Merck & Co., Inc.;
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
4. The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15
(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:
a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant’s most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; and
5. The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):
a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal
control over financial reporting.
Date: February 28, 2007
By: /s/ Judy C. Lewent
Judy C. Lewent
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerExhibit 32.1
Section 1350
Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of Merck & Co., Inc. (the “Company”), hereby certifies that the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 (the “Report”) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
Dated: February 28, 2007 /s/ Richard T. Clark
Name: Richard T. Clark
Title: Chief Executive Officer and PresidentExhibit 32.2
Section 1350
Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of Merck & Co., Inc. (the “Company”), hereby certifies that the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 (the “Report”) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
Dated: February 28, 2007 /s/ Judy C. Lewent
Name: Judy C. Lewent
Title: Executive Vice President & Chief Financial
Officer