10-K 1 y94582e10vk.htm FORM 10-KTable of Contents
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
Form 10-K
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 Commission File No. 1-6571
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
New Jersey I.R.S. Employer Identification No. 22-1918501
(State of incorporation)
2000 Galloping Hill Road
Kenilworth, N.J. 07033 (908)298-4000
(Address of principal executive offices) (Registrant’s telephone number)
Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Shares, $.50 par value New York Stock Exchange
Preferred Share Purchase Rights* New York Stock Exchange
*At the time of filing, the Rights were not traded separately from the Common Shares.
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months and has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES [X] NO [ ]
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). YES [X] NO [ ]
Aggregate market value of common shares held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common shares were last sold as of June 30, 2003
(the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter): $27,309,591,713
Common shares outstanding as of January 31, 2004: 1,471,196,309
Documents incorporated by reference Part of Form 10-K incorporated into
Schering-Plough Corporation Proxy Part III
Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders on April 27, 2004TABLE OF CONTENTS
Part I
Item 1. Business
Item 2. Properties
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
Part II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters
Item 6. Selected Financial Data
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
Part III
Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
Item 11. Executive Compensation
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services
Part IV
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K
SIGNATURES
GLOBAL NOTE
GLOBAL NOTE
LETTER AGREEMENT
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
AMENDMENT TO SUPPLEMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
SUPPLEMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT TEAM INCENTIVE PLAN
CASH LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
LONG-TERM PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT INCENTIVE PLAN
TRANSFORMATIONAL PERFORMANCE SHARES PROGRAM
DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT
COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
CODE OF ETHICS
SUBSIDIARIES
CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
POWER OF ATTORNEY
CERTIFICATION
CERTIFICATION
CERTIFICATION
CERTIFICATIONTable of Contents
Part I
Item 1. Business
The terms “Schering-Plough” and the “Company,” as used herein, refer to Schering-Plough Corporation and its subsidiaries, except as otherwise indicated by the
context. Schering-Plough Corporation was incorporated in 1970. The trademarks indicated by CAPITAL LETTERS in this Form 10-K are the property of, licensed to,
promoted or distributed by Schering-Plough Corporation, its subsidiaries or related companies.
Subsidiaries of Schering-Plough are engaged in the discovery, development, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products worldwide. Discovery and
development efforts target the field of human health. Occasionally, applications in the field of animal health can result from these efforts. The Company views animal
health applications as a means to maximize the return on investments in discovery and development. The Company operates primarily in the prescription
pharmaceutical marketplace. However, where appropriate, the Company has sought and may in the future seek regulatory approval to switch prescription products to
over-the-counter (OTC) status as a means of extending a product’s life cycle. In this way, the OTC marketplace is yet another means of maximizing the return on
investments in discovery and development.
On November 27, 2002, the Company announced that all five formulations of the CLARITIN brand of non-drowsy allergy products had been approved at their
original prescription strengths by the FDA as OTC medicines for the treatment of allergies. The Company launched OTC CLARITIN in the United States in December
2002. Also in December 2002, a competing OTC loratadine product was launched in the United States. In the third quarter of 2003, the Company began to face
additional private-label competition for its OTC CLARITIN line of nonsedating antihistamines, as the initial 180-day period of exclusivity expired for the first OTC
generic competitor.
The Company continues to market CLARINEX (desloratadine) 5 mg Tablets for the treatment of allergic rhinitis, which combines the indication of seasonal allergic
rhinitis with the indication of perennial allergic rhinitis, as well as the treatment of chronic idiopathic urticaria, or hives of unknown cause. The ability of the Company
to capture and maintain market share for CLARINEX and OTC CLARITIN in the U.S. market will depend on a number of factors, including: additional entrants in the
market for allergy treatments; clinical differentiation of CLARINEX from other allergy treatments and the perception of the extent of such differentiation in the
marketplace; the pricing differentials among OTC CLARITIN, CLARINEX, other allergy treatments and generic OTC loratadine; the erosion rate of OTC CLARITIN
and CLARINEX sales upon the entry of additional generic OTC loratadine products; and whether or not one or both of the other branded second-generation
antihistamines are switched from prescription to OTC status. CLARINEX is experiencing intense competition in the prescription U.S. allergy market. The prescription
allergy market has been shrinking since the OTC switch of CLARITIN in December 2002. The Company is implementing new marketing efforts to address market share
performance for CLARINEX.
-2-Table of Contents
The switch of CLARITIN to OTC status and the introduction of competing OTC loratadine has resulted in a rapid, sharp and material decline in CLARITIN sales in
the United States and the Company’s results of operations. U.S. sales of prescription CLARITIN products were $25 million or 0.3 percent of the Company’s
consolidated global sales in 2003 and $1.4 billion or 14 percent in 2002. Sales of CLARINEX in the United States and abroad have also been materially adversely
affected by the presence of generic OTC loratadine and OTC CLARITIN. In light of the factors described above, management believes that the Company’s December
2002 introduction of OTC CLARITIN, as well as the introduction of a competing OTC loratadine product in December 2002 and additional entrants of generic OTC
loratadine products in the market, have had a rapid, sharp and material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and will likely continue for an
indeterminate period of time.
The Company and Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck) have agreements to jointly develop and market ZETIA (ezetimibe) as a once-daily monotherapy, as co-administration of
ZETIA with statins, and ezetimibe as a once-daily fixed-combination tablet with simvastatin (Zocor), Merck’s cholesterol-modifying medicine. The agreements also
involve the development and marketing of a once-daily, fixed-combination tablet containing CLARITIN and Singulair. Singulair is Merck’s once-daily leukotriene
receptor antagonist for the treatment of asthma and seasonal allergic rhinitis. In January 2002, Schering-Plough/Merck Pharmaceuticals reported on results of Phase
III clinical trials of a fixed-combination tablet containing CLARITIN and Singulair, which did not demonstrate sufficient added benefits in the treatment of seasonal
allergic rhinitis.
In October 2002, Merck/Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals announced that the FDA approved ZETIA (ezetimibe) 10 mg for use either by itself or together with statins
for the treatment of elevated cholesterol levels. In March 2003, the Company announced that ezetimibe (EZETROL, as marketed in Europe) had successfully
completed the European Union (EU) mutual recognition procedure (MRP). With the completion of the MRP process, the 15 EU member states as well as Iceland and
Norway can grant national marketing authorization with unified labeling for EZETROL. EZETROL has been launched in many international markets.
The agreements generally provide for equal sharing of development costs and for co-promotion of approved products by each company in the United States and in
most other countries of the world, except Japan. In Japan, no agreement exists. In general, co-promotion provides that each company will provide equal physician
marketing efforts and that each company will bear the cost of its own sales force in marketing the products. In general, the agreement provides that the venture will
operate in a “virtual” mode to the maximum degree possible by relying on the respective infrastructures of the two companies. However, the companies have agreed
to share certain costs, but these costs are limited to a portion of the costs of manufacturing, the cost of a specialty sales force and certain specially identified
promotion costs. It should be noted that the Company incurs substantial costs, such as selling costs, that are not reflected in Equity income from cholesterol joint
venture and are borne entirely by the Company. The agreements do not provide for any jointly owned facilities and, as such, products resulting from the
collaboration will be manufactured in facilities owned by either Merck or the Company.
-3-Table of Contents
Additional prescription products sold by the Company include: ASMANEX, CELESTAMINE, FORADIL, NASONEX, POLARAMINE and PROVENTIL,
allergy/respiratory; CAELYX, CEDAX, ETHYOL, EULEXIN, GARAMYCIN, INTRON A, PEG-INTRON, REBETOL (ribavirin), REMICADE and TEMODAR, anti-
infective and anticancer; DIPROLENE, DIPROSONE, ELOCON, LOTRISONE, QUADRIDERM and VALISONE, dermatologicals; INTEGRILIN, K-DUR and NITRO-
DUR, cardiovasculars; and CELESTONE, DIPROSPAN and SUBUTEX and TEMGESIC, other pharmaceuticals.
PEG-INTRON and REBETOL combination therapy for hepatitis C contributed substantially to sales in 2003 and 2002. During the fourth quarter of 2002, a competing
pegylated interferon-based combination product, including a brand of ribavirin, received regulatory approval in most major markets, including the United States. The
overall market share of the INTRON franchise has declined sharply, reflecting this new market competition. Management believes that the ability of PEG-INTRON and
REBETOL combination therapy to maintain market share will continue to be adversely affected by new competition in the hepatitis C marketplace.
Animal health products include: CEPRAVIN and NUFLOR, antimicrobials; BANAMINE and ZUBRIN, non-steroidal anti-inflammatories; RALGRO, a growth
promotant implant; OTOMAX, an otic product; a broad range of vaccines for many species; parasiticides, sutures, bandages and nutritional products.
Foot care, OTC and sun care products include: CLEAR AWAY wart remover; DR. SCHOLL’S foot care products; LOTRIMIN and TINACTIN antifungals; A & D
ointment; AFRIN nasal decongestant; CHLOR-TRIMETON antihistamine; CLARITIN allergy; CORICIDIN and DRIXORAL cold and decongestant products;
CORRECTOL laxative; BAIN DE SOLEIL, COPPERTONE and SOLARCAINE sun care products.
Recent Developments
In response to the decline in sales and earnings, the Company has initiated a number of actions including:
• A new management team has been appointed and has implemented many changes, some of which are described in the following sections.
• The quarterly dividend has been reduced to 5.5 cents from 17 cents per common share.
• A program entitled Value Enhancement Initiative (VEI) has commenced. VEI is a tool designed to enable the Company to save and spend wisely. The key
cost-cutting initiatives implemented include:
Ø Eliminating most employee bonuses for 2003 under the Company’s standard plans.
-4-Table of Contents
Ø Eliminating the payout under the Company’s profit sharing plan.
Ø Eliminating routine merit increases throughout 2004, with exceptions only where local contracts or practices prevent this action, for customer-
contact employees, for employees dedicated to fulfillment of the Company’s FDA consent decree obligations and other business-critical
employees.
Ø Targeting an overall reduction in payroll and related expenses of at least 10 percent, again excluding payroll expense associated with customer-
contact employees and employees dedicated to fulfilling the Company’s FDA consent decree obligations. The first step toward achieving this
target was a Voluntary Early Retirement Program (VERP) in the United States. Approximately 900 employees elected to retire under this program.
Ø Installing global procurement programs.
Ø Exercising tight controls over new hires, cutting back in travel costs and reducing meeting expenses.
-5-Table of Contents
Net Sales by Major Product and Therapeutic Category
(Dollars in millions)
For the years ended December 31,
Percent
Change
2003 vs
2003 2002 2002 2001
ANTI-INFECTIVE & ANTICANCER $3,098 $ 3,733 (17)% $2,273
CAELYX 111 71 55 51
INTRON FRANCHISE* 1,851 2,736 (32) 1,447
REMICADE 540 337 60 166
TEMODAR 324 278 16 180
OTHER ANTI-INFECTIVE & ANTICANCER 272 311 (13) 429
ALLERGY & RESPIRATORY 2,003 3,304 (39) 4,217
CLARINEX 694 598 16 **
CLARITIN Rx 370 1,802 (79) 3,159
NASONEX 500 523 (4) 524
PROVENTIL 125 128 (2) 230
OTHER ALLERGY & RESPIRATORY 314 253 24 304
CARDIOVASCULARS 467 433 8 623
INTEGRILIN 306 304 1 231
OTHER CARDIOVASCULARS 161 129 25 392
DERMATOLOGICALS 507 511 (1) 593
OTHER PHARMACEUTICALS 597 807 (26) 715
WORLDWIDE PHARMACEUTICALS 6,672 8,788 (24) 8,421
OTC 563 269 N/M 178
OTC CLARITIN 415 105 N/M —
OTHER OTC 148 164 (10) 178
FOOT CARE 275 279 (1) 291
SUN CARE 127 167 (24) 178
ANIMAL HEALTH 697 677 3 694
CONSOLIDATED NET SALES $8,334 $10,180 (18) $9,762
N/M – Not Meaningful
* The INTRON franchise consists of INTRON A, PEG-INTRON and REBETOL.
**In 2001, sales of CLARINEX, launched in international markets only, are included in CLARITIN Rx sales.
-6-Table of Contents
The Company has three reportable segments: Prescription Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Health Care and Animal Health. The segment sales and profit data that follow
are consistent with the Company’s current management reporting structure, established in the second quarter of 2003. Prior period information presented herein has
been restated to be on a comparable basis. The Prescription Pharmaceuticals segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets human ethical pharmaceutical
products. The Consumer Health Care segment develops, manufactures and markets OTC, foot care and sun care products. The Animal Health segment discovers,
develops, manufactures and markets animal health products.
Net sales by segment:
(Dollars in millions)
Year ended December 31,
2003 2002 2001
Prescription Pharmaceuticals $6,672 $ 8,788 $8,421
Consumer Health Care 965 715 647
Animal Health 697 677 694
Consolidated net sales $8,334 $10,180 $9,762
Profit by segment:
(Dollars in millions)
Year ended December 31,
2003 2002 2001
Prescription Pharmaceuticals $496 $2,543 $2,764
Consumer Health Care 194 174 140
Animal Health 86 93 141
Corporate and other 1/ (822) (247) (522)
Consolidated (loss)/profit before tax $ (46) $2,563 $2,523
1/ In 2003, Corporate and other includes charges of $164 million related to the Voluntary Early Retirement Program (see “Special Charges” footnote under Item 8,
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in this Form 10-K for additional information). It is estimated that the charges relate to the reportable segments as
follows: Prescription Pharmaceuticals - $103 million, Consumer Health Care - $8 million, Animal Health - $4 million and Corporate and other - $49 million.
Corporate and other also includes provisions to increase the litigation reserves, asset impairment charges, interest income and expense, foreign exchange gains and
losses, headquarters expenses and other miscellaneous items. The accounting policies used for segment reporting are the same as those described in the “Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies.”
-7-Table of Contents
The Company has subsidiaries in more than 40 countries outside the United States. Sales outside the United States comprised 57 percent ($4,775 million) of
consolidated net sales in 2003, 43 percent ($4,419 million) in 2002 and 39 percent ($3,789 million) in 2001. No single foreign country, except for France, Japan and Italy,
accounted for 5 percent or more of consolidated net sales during the past three years. France accounted for 8 percent ($691 million), 6 percent ($613 million) and
5 percent ($459 million) of consolidated net sales in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Japan accounted for 5 percent ($414 million), 5 percent ($524 million) and
3 percent ($320 million) of consolidated net sales in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Italy accounted for 5 percent ($436 million), 3 percent ($339 million) and
3 percent ($266 million) of consolidated net sales in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
Net Sales by Geographic Area
(Dollars in millions)
2003 2002 2001
United States $3,559 $ 5,761 $5,973
Europe and Canada 3,410 2,923 2,457
Latin America 716 740 782
Pacific Area and Asia 649 756 550
Consolidated net sales $8,334 $10,180 $9,762
Net sales are presented in the geographic area in which the Company’s customers are located. During 2003, 2002 and 2001, 8 percent ($667 million), 21 percent
($2,092 million) and 16 percent ($1,568 million), respectively, of consolidated net sales were made to McKesson Corporation, a major pharmaceutical and health care
products distributor. Also, during 2003, 2002 and 2001, 9 percent ($771 million), 11 percent ($1,101 million) and 12 percent ($1,160 million), respectively, of
consolidated net sales were made to AmerisourceBergen Corporation, a major pharmaceutical and health care products distributor.
Long-lived Assets by Geographic Location
(Dollars in millions)
2003 2002 2001
United States $2,507 $2,477 $2,297
Ireland 444 430 420
Singapore 828 668 507
Puerto Rico 317 300 258
Other 726 613 546
Total $4,822 $4,488 $4,028
Long-lived assets shown by geographic location are primarily property.
-8-Table of Contents
Sales of products comprising 10 percent or more of the Company’s U.S. or international sales for the year ended December 31, 2003, were as follows: (Dollars in
millions)
U.S. International
INTRON franchise $884 $ 966
CLARINEX 498 196
OTC CLARITIN 415 —
REMICADE — 540
The Company does not disaggregate assets on a segment basis for internal management reporting and, therefore, such information is not presented.
Prescription drugs are introduced and made known to physicians, pharmacists, hospitals, managed care organizations and buying groups by trained professional
sales representatives, and are sold to hospitals, certain managed care organizations, wholesale distributors and retail pharmacists. Prescription products are also
introduced and made known through journal advertising, direct mail advertising, by distributing samples to physicians and through television, radio, internet, print
and other advertising media.
Animal health products are promoted to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers.
Foot care, OTC and sun care products are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets, and are promoted directly to the
consumer through television, radio, internet, print and other advertising media.
The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and includes other large companies with substantial resources for research, product development, advertising,
promotion and field selling support. There are numerous domestic and international competitors in this industry. Some of the principal competitive techniques used
by the Company for its products include research and development of new and improved products, high product quality, varied dosage forms and strengths and
switching prescription products to non-prescription status. In the United States, many of the Company’s products are subject to increasingly competitive pricing as
managed care groups, institutions, federal and state government entities and agencies and buying groups seek price discounts and rebates. Governmental and other
pressures toward the dispensing of generic products may significantly reduce the sales of certain products when they become no longer protected by patents or data
exclusivity arrangements with the FDA.
The Company’s subsidiaries own (or have licensed rights under) a number of patents and patent applications, both in the United States and abroad. Patents and
patent applications relating to the Company’s significant products, including, without limitation, CLARINEX, the CLARITIN family of products, INTRON A, PEG-
INTRON, REBETOL, NASONEX and ZETIA, are of material importance to the Company. The compound patent for loratadine expired on June 19,
-9-Table of Contents
2002, and U.S. market exclusivity for CLARITIN expired on December 19, 2002. A patent covering the compound desloratadine, formulations thereof, and methods of
treatment with desloratadine as it relates to CLARITIN is set to expire on April 21, 2004. Six months’ U.S. market exclusivity would attach to the end of the
desloratadine patent as it relates to CLARITIN and would expire on October 21, 2004. This six-month period of exclusivity was granted because the Company
conducted pediatric clinical trials at the request of the FDA. In addition, generic forms of ribavirin are expected to enter the U.S. market in 2004, assuming FDA’s
approval of a generic ribavirin. These patents are subject to litigation as described in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this Form 10-K.
Worldwide, the Company’s products are sold under trademarks. Trademarks are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance to the business and are
protected by registration or common law in the United States and most other markets where the products are sold.
Raw materials essential to the Company are available in adequate quantities from a number of potential suppliers. Energy is expected to be available to the Company
in sufficient quantities to meet operating requirements.
Seasonal patterns do not have a pronounced effect on the consolidated operations of the Company.
Foreign Operations
Foreign activities are carried out primarily through wholly-owned subsidiaries wherever market potential is adequate and circumstances permit. In addition, the
Company is represented in some markets through licensees or other distribution arrangements. There are approximately 17,000 employees outside the United States.
Foreign operations are subject to certain risks, which are inherent in conducting business overseas. These risks include possible nationalization, expropriation,
importation limitations, pricing restrictions, and other restrictive governmental actions or economic destabilization. Also, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates can impact the Company’s consolidated financial results. For additional information on foreign operations, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Operations and Financial Condition, and the segment information described above in this Form 10-K.
Research and Development
The Company’s research activities are primarily aimed at discovering and developing new and enhanced prescription products of medical and commercial
significance. Company sponsored research and development expenditures were $1,469 million, $1,425 million and $1,312 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
Research expenditures represented approximately 18 percent of consolidated net sales in 2003, 14 percent of consolidated net sales in 2002 and approximately
13 percent of consolidated net sales in 2001. In addition, the Company’s share of research and development costs relating to the cholesterol joint venture with Merck
was $79
-10-Table of Contents
million for 2003 (included in “Equity income from cholesterol joint venture” in the Statements of Consolidated Operations).
The Company’s research activities are concentrated in the therapeutic areas of allergic and inflammatory disorders, infectious diseases, oncology, cardiovascular
diseases, and central nervous system disorders. The Company also has substantial efforts directed toward biotechnology, gene therapy and immunology. Research
activities include expenditures for both internal research efforts and research collaborations with various partners.
While several pharmaceutical compounds are in varying stages of development, it cannot be predicted when or if these compounds will become available for
commercial sale.
Government Regulation
Pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by a number of national, state and local agencies. Of particular importance is the FDA. It has
jurisdiction over all the Company’s businesses and administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and
marketing of the Company’s products. The FDA also regulates the conversion of pharmaceuticals from prescription to OTC status. The extent of FDA requirements
and/or reviews affects the amount of resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States.
On an ongoing basis, the FDA regulates the facilities and procedures used to manufacture pharmaceutical products in the United States or for sale in the United
States. All products made in such facilities are to be manufactured in accordance with Good Manufacturing Practices (GMPs) established by the FDA. The FDA
periodically inspects the Company’s facilities and procedures to evaluate compliance.
On May 17, 2002, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement with the FDA for a consent decree to resolve issues involving the Company’s
compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) at certain manufacturing facilities in New Jersey and Puerto Rico. The U.S. District Court for the
District of New Jersey approved and entered the consent decree on May 20, 2002.
Under terms of the consent decree, the Company agreed to pay a total of $500 million to the U.S. government in two equal installments of $250 million; the first
installment was paid in May 2002, and the second installment was paid in May 2003. As previously reported, the Company accrued a $500 million provision for this
consent decree in the fourth quarter of 2001.
The consent decree requires the Company to complete a number of actions. In the event certain actions agreed upon in the consent decree are not satisfactorily
completed on time, the FDA may assess payments for each deadline missed. The consent decree required the Company to develop and submit for FDA’s
concurrence comprehensive cGMP Work Plans for the Company’s manufacturing facilities in New Jersey and Puerto Rico that are covered by the decree. The
Company received FDA concurrence with its proposed cGMP Work Plans on May 14, 2003.
-11-Table of Contents
The cGMP Work Plans contain a number of Significant Steps whose timely and satisfactory completion are subject to payments of $15 thousand per business day for
each deadline missed. These payments may not exceed $25 million for 2002, and $50 million for each of the years 2003, 2004 and 2005. These payments are subject to
an overall cap of $175 million.
In connection with its discussions with FDA regarding the Company’s cGMP Work Plans, and pursuant to the terms of the decree, the Company and FDA entered
into a letter agreement dated April 14, 2003. In the letter agreement, the Company and FDA agreed to extend by six months the time period during which the Company
may incur payments as described above with respect to certain of the Significant Steps whose proposed due dates are December 31, 2005. The letter agreement does
not increase the yearly or overall caps on payments described above.
In addition, the decree requires the Company to complete programs of revalidation of the finished drug products and bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients
manufactured at the covered manufacturing facilities. The Company is required under the consent decree to complete its revalidation programs for bulk active
pharmaceutical ingredients by September 30, 2005 and for finished drugs by December 31, 2005. In general, the timely and satisfactory completion of the revalidations
are subject to payments of $15 thousand per business day for each deadline missed, subject to the caps described above. However, if a product scheduled for
revalidation has not been certified as having been validated by the last date on the validation schedule, the FDA may assess a payment of 24.6 percent of the net
domestic sales of the uncertified product until the validation is certified. Further, in general, if a product scheduled for revalidation under the consent decree is not
certified within six months of its scheduled date, the Company must cease production of that product until certification is obtained. The completion of the Significant
Steps in the Work Plans and the completion of the revalidation programs are subject to third-party expert certification, which must be accepted by the FDA.
The consent decree provides that if the Company believes that it may not be able to meet a deadline, the Company has the right, upon the showing of good cause, to
request extensions of deadlines in connection with the cGMP Work Plans and revalidation programs. However, there is no guarantee that FDA will grant any such
requests.
Although the Company believes it has made significant progress in meeting its obligations under the consent decree, it is possible that (1) the Company may fail to
complete a Significant Step or a revalidation by the prescribed deadline; (2) the third party expert may not certify the completion of the Significant Step or
revalidation; or (3) the FDA may disagree with an expert’s certification of a Significant Step or revalidation. In such a case, it is possible that the FDA may assess
payments as described above.
The Company would expense any payments assessed under the decree if and when incurred.
Failure to comply with governmental regulations can result in delays in the release of products, delays in the approvals of new products, seizure or recall of products,
suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the production and sale of products, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions.
-12-Table of Contents
The Company’s activities outside the United States are also subject to regulatory requirements governing the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing,
labeling and marketing of the Company’s products. These regulatory requirements vary from country to country. Whether or not FDA approval or approval of the
European Medicines Evaluation Agency has been obtained for a product, approval of the product by comparable regulatory authorities of countries outside of the
United States or the European Union, as the case may be, must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those countries. The approval process may be more or
less rigorous from country to country and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the United States. Approval in one country
does not assure that such product will be approved in another country.
In most international markets, the Company operates in an environment of government-mandated, cost-containment programs. Several governments have placed
restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic drugs and enacted across-the-board price cuts as
methods of cost control.
In recent years, various legislative proposals have been offered in Congress and in many state legislatures that would effect major changes in the affected health care
systems. One such change that could be material to the Company is the addition of an outpatient prescription drug benefit to Medicare. Some states have passed
legislation, and further federal and state legislative and administrative proposals are possible. These could include price or patient reimbursement constraints on
medicines, mandated discounts, supplemental rebates, expansion of existing governmental programs for new patient populations and restrictions on access to certain
products. Similar issues have also arisen in many countries outside of the United States. It is not possible to predict the outcome of such initiatives and their effect
on operations and cash flows cannot be reasonably estimated.
The Company cannot predict what net effect the Medicare prescription drug benefit will have on markets and sales. The program does not go into effect until 2006
and many of the Company’s leading drugs are already covered under Medicare Part B (e.g. TEMODAR, INTEGRILIN, and INTRON A). Others have a relatively small
portion of their sales to the Medicare population (e.g. CLARINEX, the hepatitis C franchise). The Company could experience expanded utilization of ZETIA and new
drugs in the Company’s R&D pipeline. Of greater consequence for the Company may be the legislation’s impact on pricing, rebates and discounts.
The Company is also subject to the jurisdiction of various other federal and state regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Federal Trade
Commission (FTC), the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services in the United States. The Company is, therefore, subject to possible
administrative and legal proceedings and actions by those organizations. Such actions may result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include
fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies.
-13-Table of Contents
Environment
To date, compliance with federal, state and local environmental protection laws has not had a materially adverse effect on the Company. The Company has made and
will continue to make necessary expenditures for environmental protection. Worldwide capital expenditures during 2003 included approximately $9 million for
environmental control purposes. It is anticipated that continued compliance with such environmental regulations will not significantly affect the Company’s financial
statements or its competitive position. For additional information on environmental matters, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, in this form 10-K.
Employees
There were approximately 30,500 people employed by the Company at December 31, 2003.
Available information
The Company makes its annual report on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed with the
SEC available free of charge, on its Web site, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with the SEC. The Company’s address on
the World Wide Web is schering-plough.com. Since the Company began this practice in the third quarter 2002, each such report has been available on the
Company’s Web site within 24 hours of filing. Reports filed by the Company with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth
Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also
maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with
the SEC.
Item 2. Properties
The Company’s corporate headquarters is located in Kenilworth, New Jersey. Principal manufacturing facilities are located in Kenilworth, New Jersey; Miami, Florida;
Omaha, Nebraska; Cleveland, Tennessee; Puerto Rico, Argentina, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Singapore and Spain.
The Company’s principal research facilities are located in Kenilworth and Union, New Jersey; Palo Alto and San Diego, California; and Elkhorn, Nebraska.
On May 17, 2002, the Company announced that it reached an agreement with the FDA to enter into a consent decree to resolve issues involving the Company’s
compliance with cGMP at certain manufacturing facilities in New Jersey and Puerto Rico. Refer to the “Government Regulation” section within Item 1 of this Form 10-
K for additional information regarding the consent decree.
-14-Table of Contents
All properties are owned by the Company. These properties are generally well maintained, insured and in generally good operating condition. The Company’s
manufacturing facilities have capacities considered appropriate to meet the Company’s needs.
-15-Table of Contents
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
Background
The Company has responsibilities for environmental cleanup under various state, local and federal laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. At several Superfund sites (or equivalent sites under state law), the Company is alleged to be a
potentially responsible party (PRP). The Company estimates its obligations for cleanup costs for Superfund sites based on information obtained from the federal
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), an equivalent state agency and/or studies prepared by independent engineers, and on the probable costs to be paid by
other PRPs. The Company records a liability for environmental assessments and/or cleanup when it is probable a loss has been incurred and the amount can be
reasonably estimated.
The Company is also involved in various other claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business, including product liability cases. The
Company adjusts its accrued liabilities to reflect the current best estimate of its probable loss exposure. Where no best estimate is determinable, the Company accrues
the minimum amount within the most probable range of its liability.
The recorded liabilities for the above matters at December 31, 2003, and the related expenses incurred during the 12 months ended December 31, 2003, were not
material. Expected insurance recoveries have not been considered in determining the costs for environmental-related liabilities.
Management believes that, except for the matters discussed in the remainder of this section, it is remote at this time that any material liability in excess of the amounts
accrued will be incurred. With respect to the matters discussed in the remainder of this section, except where noted, it is not practicable to estimate a range of
reasonably possible loss; where it is, a reserve has been included in the financial statements. Resolution of any or all of the matters discussed in the remainder of this
section, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.
Management reviews the status of the matters discussed in the remainder of this section on an ongoing basis and from time to time may settle or otherwise resolve
them on such terms and conditions as management believes are in the best interests of the Company. The Company is aware that settlements of matters of the types
set forth in the remainder of this section, and in particular under “Investigations,” frequently involve fines and/or penalties that are material to the financial condition
and the results of operations of the entity entering into the settlement. There are no assurances that the Company will prevail in any of these matters, that settlements
can be reached on acceptable terms (including the scope of release provided) or in amounts that do not exceed the amounts reserved. Even if an acceptable
settlement were to be reached, there can be no assurance that further investigations or litigations will not be commenced raising similar type issues, potentially
exposing the Company to additional material liabilities. Further, the Company cannot predict the timing of the resolution of these matters or their outcomes.
-16-Table of Contents
Environmental
Residents in the vicinity of a publicly owned waste-water treatment plant in Barceloneta, Puerto Rico, have filed two lawsuits against the plant owner and operator,
and numerous companies that discharge into the plant, including a subsidiary of the Company, for damages and injunctive relief relating to odors allegedly coming
from the plant and connecting sewers. One of these lawsuits is a class action claiming damages of $600 million. No trial date has been set for these cases, but the
matter has been submitted to mediation.
On November 20, 2003, we received a General Notice of Potential Liability from EPA addressed to Arno/Scholl’s Adhesive Tapes, Inc., a former subsidiary of the
Company, relating to the Lake Culmet Cluster Site in Chicago, Illinois. There are several hundred other potentially responsible parties for the site.
In 2003, Schering-Plough responded to an information request from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection relating to contamination of the Lower
Passaic River Basin. Schering-Plough denied having any connection to the contamination. In late September, the Department directed 66 PRPs at 18 contaminated
sites to assess and restore natural resource damage to the Lower Passaic River Basin. The Department did not name Schering-Plough as a PRP. However, the
Department sent Schering-Plough a letter, received September 24, 2003, stating that the Company “may be legally responsible for damages to natural resources” in
the state. The Department has not adopted regulations covering how such liability is to be calculated, making it difficult to accurately predict the ultimate extent of
the Company’s exposure.
Patent Matters
CLARITIN Patents. In February 1998, Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Geneva) submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) to the U.S. FDA seeking to
market generic CLARITIN tablets before the expiration in 2004 of the Company’s desloratadine compound patent, which the Company believes protects CLARITIN.
Geneva alleged that the desloratadine compound patent is invalid. This patent is material to the Company’s business. In March 1998, the Company filed suit in federal
court seeking a ruling that Geneva’s ANDA submission constitutes infringement of the Company’s desloratadine compound patent and that its challenge to this
patent is without merit. In addition to Geneva, from 1998 through 2003, the following companies made similar ANDA submissions for generic CLARITIN tablets:
Zenith Goldline Pharmaceuticals, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva), Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Ranbaxy), Genpharm
Incorporated, and L. Perrigo Company (Perrigo). The following companies made similar ANDA submissions for generic CLARITIN syrup: Teva, Copley
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Novex Pharma, Alpharma USPD Inc., Taro Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., Morton Grove Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Perrigo. Andrx Pharmaceuticals,
L.L.C. (Andrx) and Impax Laboratories Inc. (Impax) made similar ANDA submissions for generic CLARITIN-D 12 Hour and CLARITIN-D 24 Hour formulations.
Ranbaxy made a similar ANDA submission for a generic CLARITIN-D 24 Hour formulation. ESI Lederle, Inc. (Lederle), a subsidiary of Wyeth, made a similar ANDA
submission for a generic CLARITIN REDITAB formulation. The following companies submitted “paper” New Drug Applications (“paper” NDAs) under Section 505
(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act seeking to market a generic OTC form of CLARITIN prior to the expiration of the Company’s desloratadine
compound patent: Whitehall-
-17-Table of Contents
Robins Healthcare, a division of Wyeth (for an OTC REDITAB formulation), McNeil Consumer Healthcare (McNeil) (for OTC tablets), and Perrigo (for OTC tablets).
In each case, the Company filed suit in federal court seeking a ruling that the applicable ANDA or “paper” NDA submission and proposed marketing of a generic
prescription or OTC product constitutes infringement of the Company’s desloratadine compound patent, and that the challenge to the patent is without merit. On
August 8, 2002, a federal district court in New Jersey ruled on motions for summary judgment, finding that certain claims of the desloratadine compound patent were
anticipated by a prior patent and, thus, were not valid. On August 1, 2003, the district court’s decision was sustained by the appellate court, and on October 28, 2003,
the appellate court denied the Company’s petition for rehearing. With these rulings, actions against the defendants for infringement of the desloratadine compound
patent by manufacturers of loratadine will not proceed. The Company had also asserted that Impax’s and Andrx’s ANDAs for their generic CLARITIN-D 24 Hour
formulations infringe the Company’s patent covering its CLARITIN-D 24 Hour formulation. In October 2003, the Company settled this litigation with Impax and
ANDRX and has licensed them under this patent.
REBETOL Patents. In August 2001, Geneva Pharmaceuticals Technology Corp. (Geneva Pharmaceuticals) and Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, L.L.C. (Three Rivers),
and in January 2002, Teva, submitted separate ANDAs with the FDA seeking to market generic forms of 200 mg REBETOL (ribavirin) Capsules in the United States
before the expiration of the Company’s patents covering ribavirin formulations. Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Three Rivers and Teva have asserted that they do not
infringe the Company’s REBETOL patents and/or the patents are invalid. The REBETOL patents are material to the Company’s business. In September 2001, October
2001 and March 2002, the Company filed suits in federal court seeking rulings that the ANDA submissions by Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Three Rivers and Teva,
respectively, constitute infringement of the Company’s patents and that the challenges to the Company’s patents are without merit. During 2003, the Company
entered into separate licensing agreements with Three Rivers, Geneva Pharmaceuticals and Teva that settled all patent litigation between the Company, Three Rivers,
Teva and Geneva Pharmaceuticals, and granted Three Rivers, Geneva Pharmaceuticals and Teva each a non-exclusive, non-sublicensable license to the Company’s
U.S. ribavirin patents. The agreements were subject to dismissal of Three Rivers’, Geneva Pharmaceuticals’ or Teva’s reported patent litigation with Ribapharm, Inc., a
subsidiary of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, (Ribapharm). That litigation was dismissed upon defendants’ motion for summary judgment on July 16, 2003.
Ribapharm has appealed the summary judgment decision. Ribapharm has also petitioned the FDA to deny approval of the Three Rivers, Geneva Pharmaceuticals and
Teva products. The FDA has not acted on the Ribapharm petition as of the date of this report.
PRIME PAC PRRS Patent. In January 2000, a jury found that the Company’s PRIME PAC PRRS (Porcine Respiratory and Reproductive Syndrome) vaccine infringed
a patent owned by Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica, Inc. An injunction was issued in August 2000 barring further sales of the Company’s vaccine. The Company’s
post-trial motions for either a reversal of the jury’s verdict or a new trial were denied in September 2001. The Company appealed, and the verdict was affirmed by the
appellate court in February 2003. Litigation of the damages phase of the case is ongoing. A trial to determine damages has been scheduled for May 3, 2004.
-18-Table of Contents
Investigations
Pennsylvania Investigation. In October 1999, the Company received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, pursuant to
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, concerning the Company’s contracts with pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs) and managed care
organizations to provide disease management services in connection with the marketing of its pharmaceutical products. It appears that the subpoena was one of a
number addressed to industry participants as part of an inquiry into, among other things, pharmaceutical marketing practices. The government’s inquiry has focused
on, among other things, whether the Company’s disease management and other marketing programs and arrangements comply with federal health care laws and
whether the value of its disease management programs and other marketing programs and arrangements should have been included in the calculation of rebates to
the government. The Company has been cooperating with the investigation. In March 2002, the U.S. Attorney’s Office began issuing grand jury subpoenas. The
grand jury investigation appears to be focused on one or more transactions with managed care organizations where the government believes the Company offered or
provided deeply discounted pharmaceutical products (known as “nominally priced” products, which are generally excluded from Medicaid rebate calculations), free
or discounted disease management services, and other marketing programs and arrangements that delivered value, in order to place or retain one or more of the
Company’s major pharmaceutical products on the managed care organization’s formulary. The grand jury appears to be investigating, among other things, (i) whether
the transactions described above and conduct relating thereto violated federal anti-kickback statutes; and (ii) whether the value of the items and services described
above should have been included in the Company’s calculation of Medicaid rebates. The outcome of the investigations could include the commencement of civil
and/or criminal proceedings involving substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement
programs, and the Company cannot predict whether the investigations will affect its marketing practices or sales. During the 2003 third quarter, the Company
increased its litigation reserves related to this investigation and the investigations described below by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts
by $350 million. This increase in reserves reflects maturing discussions in these offices, particularly with the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and an adjustment to
the Company’s estimate of its minimum liability relating to those investigations, in compliance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under
GAAP, companies are required to estimate and recognize a minimum liability when a loss is probable but no better estimate of the loss can be made. In the fourth
quarter of 2002, the Company increased its litigation reserves by $150 million for the same matters. The Company cannot predict the timing of the resolution of these
matters. The Company notes that its total reserves reflect an estimate and that any final settlement or adjudication of any of these matters could possibly be less than
or could materially exceed the aggregate liability accrued by the Company and could have a materially adverse effect on the operations or financial condition of the
Company.
AWP Investigations. The Company is responding to investigations by the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice, the Committee on
Energy and Commerce of the U.S. House of Representatives and certain states into certain industry and Company practices regarding average wholesale price
(AWP). These investigations include a Department of Justice
-19-Table of Contents
review of the merits of a federal action filed by a private entity on behalf of the United States in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida, as well as
an investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts, regarding, inter alia, whether the AWP set by pharmaceutical companies for certain
drugs improperly exceeds the average prices paid by dispensers and, as a consequence, results in unlawful inflation of certain government drug reimbursements that
are based on AWP. In March 2001, the Company received a subpoena from the Massachusetts Attorney General’s office seeking documents concerning the use of
AWP and other pricing and/or marketing practices. The Company is cooperating with these investigations. The outcome of these investigations could include the
imposition of substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies.
Massachusetts Investigation. The U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts is also investigating whether the Company’s sales of a product
manufactured under a private label arrangement with a managed care organization should have been included in the Company’s Medicaid best price calculations. In
early November 2002, the Company was served with two additional grand jury subpoenas by the U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts. Among other
information, the subpoenas seek a broad range of information concerning the Company’s sales, marketing and clinical trial practices and programs with respect to
INTRON A, REBETRON and TEMODAR; the Company’s sales and marketing contacts with managed care organizations and doctors; and the Company’s offering or
provision of grants, honorariums or other items or services of value to managed care organizations, physician groups, doctors and educational institutions. The
Company understands that this investigation is focused on whether certain sales, marketing and clinical trial practices and conduct related thereto, which in certain
instances relate to the use of one or more of the above-mentioned products for indications for which FDA approval had not been obtained - so-called “off-label” uses
- were in violation of federal laws and regulations with respect to off-label promotional activities. The investigation also appears to focus on whether drug samples,
clinical trial grants and other items or services of value were given to providers to incentivize them to prescribe one or more of the above-mentioned products,
including for “off-label” uses, in violation of the federal health care anti-kickback laws. The Company has implemented certain changes to its sales, marketing and
clinical trial practices and is continuing to review those practices to ensure compliance with relevant laws and regulations. The Company is cooperating with these
investigations. Future sales of INTRON A, REBETRON and TEMODAR may be adversely affected, but the Company cannot at this time predict the ultimate impact, if
any, on such sales. The outcome of these investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings involving the imposition of substantial
fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs. During the 2003 third quarter, the Company
increased its litigation reserves related to the investigations by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts described in this paragraph and the
paragraph immediately preceding it and the investigation described above by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, by $350 million. The
increased litigation reserves reflect an adjustment to the Company’s estimate of its minimum liability relating to those investigations, in compliance with GAAP.
Under GAAP, companies are required to estimate and recognize a minimum liability when a loss is probable but no better estimate of the loss can be made. In the
fourth quarter of 2002, the Company increased its litigation reserves by $150 million for the same matters. The Company notes that its total reserves reflect an estimate
and that any final settlement or
-20-Table of Contents
adjudication of any of these matters could possibly be less than or could materially exceed the aggregate liability accrued by the Company and could have a
materially adverse effect on the operations or financial condition of the Company. The Company cannot predict the timing of resolution of these matters or their
outcomes.
As reported in the 8-K filed May 30, 2003, Schering-Plough has disclosed that, in connection with the above-described investigations by the U.S. Attorney’s Office
for the District of Massachusetts into its sales, marketing and clinical trial practices, among other matters, on May 28, 2003, Schering Corporation, a wholly owned
and significant operating subsidiary of Schering-Plough, received a letter (the “Boston Target Letter”) from that Office advising that Schering Corporation (including
its subsidiaries and divisions) is a target of a federal criminal investigation with respect to four areas:
1. Providing remuneration, such as drug samples, clinical trial grants and other items or services of value, to managed care organizations, physicians and others to
induce the purchase of Schering pharmaceutical products for which payment was made through federal health care programs;
2. Sale of misbranded or unapproved drugs, which the Company understands to mean drugs promoted for indications for which approval by the U.S. FDA had not
been obtained (so-called “off-label uses”);
3. Submitting false pharmaceutical pricing information to the government for purposes of calculating rebates required to be paid to the Medicaid program, by failing
to include prices of products under a repackaging arrangement with a managed care customer as well as the prices of free and nominally priced goods provided to
that customer to induce the purchase of Schering products; and
4. Document destruction and obstruction of justice relating to the government’s investigation.
A “target” is defined in Department of Justice guidelines as a person as to whom the prosecutor or the grand jury has substantial evidence linking him or her to the
commission of a crime and who, in the judgment of the prosecutor, is a putative defendant (U.S. Attorney’s Manual, Section 9-11.151).
Consumer Products Matter. The U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, is investigating whether the Company’s Consumer Products Division entered into an
agreement with another company to lower the commission rate of a consumer products broker. In February 2003, the Antitrust Division served a grand jury subpoena
on the Company seeking documents for the first time. The Company is cooperating with the investigation.
NITRO-DUR Investigation. In August 2003, the Company received a civil investigative subpoena issued by the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services, seeking documents concerning the Company’s classification of NITRO-DUR for Medicaid rebate purposes, and the Company’s use of
nominal pricing and bundling of product
-21-Table of Contents
sales. The Company is cooperating with the investigation. It appears that the subpoena is one of a number addressed to pharmaceutical companies concerning an
inquiry into issues relating to the payment of government rebates.
Securities and Class Action Litigation
On February 15, 2001, the Company stated in a press release that the FDA had been conducting inspections of the Company’s manufacturing facilities in New Jersey
and Puerto Rico and had issued reports citing deficiencies concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, primarily relating to production
processes, controls and procedures. The next day, February 16, 2001, a lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against the Company
and certain named officers alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. Additional
lawsuits of the same tenor followed. These complaints were consolidated into one action in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey, and a lead plaintiff,
the Florida State Board of Administration, was appointed by the Court on July 2, 2001. On October 11, 2001, a consolidated amended complaint was filed, alleging the
same violations described in the second sentence of this paragraph and purporting to represent a class of shareholders who purchased shares of Company stock
from May 9, 2000, through February 15, 2001. The Company’s motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint was denied on May 24, 2002. On October 10,
2003, the Court certified the shareholder class. Discovery is ongoing.
In addition to the lawsuits described in the immediately preceding paragraph, two lawsuits were filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey, and two
lawsuits were filed in New Jersey state court against the Company (as a nominal defendant) and certain officers, directors and a former director seeking damages on
behalf of the Company, including disgorgement of trading profits made by defendants allegedly obtained on the basis of material non-public information. The
complaints in each of those four lawsuits relate to the issues described in the Company’s February 15, 2001, press release, and allege a failure to disclose material
information and breach of fiduciary duty by the directors. One of the federal court lawsuits also includes allegations related to the investigations by the U.S.
Attorney’s Offices for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and the District of Massachusetts, the FTC’s administrative proceeding against the Company, and the
lawsuit by the state of Texas against Warrick Pharmaceuticals (Warrick), the Company’s generics subsidiary, all of which are described herein. Each of these lawsuits
is a shareholder derivative action that purports to assert claims on behalf of the Company, but as to which no demand was made on the Board of Directors and no
decision has been made on whether the Company can or should pursue such claims. In August 2001, the plaintiffs in each of the New Jersey state court shareholder
derivative actions moved to dismiss voluntarily the complaints in those actions, which motions were granted. The two shareholder derivative actions pending in the
U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey have been consolidated into one action, which is in its very early stages. On January 2, 2002, the Company received
a demand letter dated December 26, 2001, from a law firm not involved in the derivative actions described above, on behalf of a shareholder who also is not involved
in the derivative actions, demanding that the Board of Directors bring claims on behalf of the Company based on allegations substantially similar to those alleged in
the derivative actions. On January 22, 2002, the Board of Directors adopted a Board resolution establishing an Evaluation Committee, consisting of three
-22-Table of Contents
directors, to investigate, review and analyze the facts and circumstances surrounding the allegations made in the demand letter and the consolidated amended
derivative action complaint described above, but reserving to the full Board authority and discretion to exercise its business judgment in respect of the proper
disposition of the demand. The Committee engaged independent outside counsel to advise it and issued a report on the findings of its investigation to the
independent directors of the Board in late October 2002. That report determined that the shareholder demand should be refused, and finding no liability on the part of
any officers or directors. In November 2002, the full Board adopted the recommendation of the Evaluation Committee.
On August 9, 2001, the Prescription Access Litigation project (PAL), a Boston-based group formed in 2001 to litigate against drug companies, issued a press release
stating that PAL members filed a lawsuit in New Jersey state court against the Company. In December 2001, the Company was served with an amended complaint in
the case. The suit, which PAL purports to be a class action, alleges, among other things, that the Company’s direct-to-consumer advertising falsely depicts the
benefits of CLARITIN in violation of the New Jersey Consumer Fraud Act. In February 2002, the Company filed a motion to dismiss this case. In May 2002, the court
dismissed the complaint in its entirety for failure to state a claim. After the plaintiffs’ appeal was denied by the New Jersey state court, the plaintiffs requested that the
New Jersey Supreme Court hear the case. That request has been denied, ending the litigation.
The Company is a defendant in a number of purported nationwide or state class action lawsuits in which plaintiffs seek a refund of the purchase price of laxatives or
phenylpropanolamine-containing cough/cold remedies (“PPA products”) they purchased. Other pharmaceutical manufacturers are co-defendants in some of these
lawsuits. In general, plaintiffs claim that they would not have purchased or would have paid less for these products had they known of certain defects or medical
risks attendant with their use. In the litigation of the claims relating to the Company’s PPA products, courts in the national class action suit and several state class
action suits have denied certification and dismissed the suits. A similar application to dismiss in New Jersey, the only remaining statewide class action suit involving
the Company, is pending. Approximately 122 individual lawsuits relating to the laxative products, PPA products and recalled albuterol/VANCERIL/VANCENASE
inhalers are also pending against the Company seeking recovery for personal injuries or death. In a number of these lawsuits punitive damages are claimed.
On March 31, 2003, the Company was served with a putative class action complaint filed in the U.S. District Court in New Jersey alleging that the Company, Richard
Jay Kogan (who resigned as Chairman of the Board November 13, 2002, and retired as Chief Executive Officer, President and Director of the Company April 20, 2003)
and the Company’s Employee Savings Plan (Plan) administrator breached their fiduciary obligations to certain participants in the Plan. The allegations primarily relate
to disclosures about the Company’s Good Manufacturing Practices issues (which are discussed earlier in this “Securities and Class Action Litigation” section in
relation to the Company’s disclosures about its consent decree with FDA and related matters) and disclosures about the meetings with investors the week of
September 30, 2002 and other communications (discussed under “SEC Inquiry and Related Litigation” below). In May 2003,
-23-Table of Contents
the Company was served with a second putative class action complaint filed in the same court with allegations nearly identical to the complaint filed March 31, 2003.
On October 6, 2003, a consolidated amended complaint was filed, which names as additional defendants the following directors: Eugene McGrath, Donald Miller, Carl
Mundy, Patricia Russo, Kathryn Turner; two former directors: James Wood and Regina Herzlinger; and other corporate officers. The consolidated amended complaint
also contains allegations associated with the Boston Target Letter described under the “Investigations” section in this footnote. The Company has filed a motion to
dismiss this complaint.
On August 18, 2003, a lawsuit filed in the New Jersey Superior Court, Chancery Division, Union County, was served on the Company (as a nominal defendant) and
the Company’s outside directors, alleging breach of fiduciary duty by the directors relating to the Company’s receipt of the Boston Target Letter described under the
“Investigations” section in this footnote. This action has been temporarily stayed pending adjudication of a separate but related action framed as a shareholder
request for access to the Company’s books and records and seeking documents and other information relating to the Massachusetts investigation.
Antitrust and FTC Matters
The Company is a defendant in numerous antitrust actions commenced (starting in 1993) in state and federal courts by independent retail pharmacies, chain retail
pharmacies and consumers. The plaintiffs allege price discrimination and/or conspiracy between the Company and other defendants to restrain trade by jointly
refusing to sell prescription drugs at discounted prices to the plaintiffs. The Company, in February 1996, agreed to settle a federal class action on behalf of
approximately two-thirds of all retail pharmacies in the United States for a total of $22 million, which has been paid in full. The U.S. District Court in Illinois approved
the settlement of the federal class action in 1996. In 1997, the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed all appeals from that settlement, and it is not subject to
further review.
In April 1997, certain of the plaintiffs in the federal class action commenced another purported class action in the U.S. District Court in Illinois against the Company
and the other defendants who settled the previous federal class action. The complaint alleges that the defendants conspired not to implement the settlement
commitments following the settlement discussed above. The District Court has denied the plaintiffs’ motion for a preliminary injunction hearing.
The Company has either settled or had dismissed on motion all the state court retailer and consumer actions. The settlement amounts were not material to the
Company.
The Federal Court in Illinois remanded the conspiracy portion of the cases of those retailers that opted out of the class action back to the district courts where they
were filed. These cases have now been consolidated in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, New York. The Federal Court in Illinois has jurisdiction over the Robinson-
Patman portion of these cases. A trial of the conspiracy claims is set to begin in October 2004.
Plaintiffs in these antitrust actions generally seek treble damages in an unspecified amount and an injunction against the allegedly unlawful conduct.
-24-Table of Contents
On April 2, 2001, the FTC started an administrative proceeding against the Company, Upsher-Smith, Inc. (Upsher-Smith) and Lederle. The complaint alleges anti-
competitive effects from the settlement of patent lawsuits between the Company and Lederle, and the Company and Upsher-Smith. The lawsuits that were settled
related to generic versions of K-DUR, the Company’s long-acting potassium chloride product, which was the subject of ANDAs filed by Lederle and Upsher-Smith.
In June 2002, the administrative law judge overseeing the case issued a decision that the patent litigation settlements complied with the law in all respects and
dismissed all claims against the Company. An appeal of this decision to the full Commission was filed by the FTC staff. On December 18, 2003, the full Commission
issued an opinion that reversed a 2002 decision of an Administrative Law Judge who had found no violation of the antitrust laws, ruling instead that the Company’s
settlements did in fact violate those laws. The FTC’s decision does not involve a monetary penalty. The Company has appealed the decision to a federal court of
appeals. K-DUR is a potassium chloride supplement used by cardiac patients.
Following the commencement of the FTC administrative proceeding, alleged class action suits were filed on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of K-DUR against
the Company, Upsher-Smith and Lederle in federal and state courts. These suits all allege essentially the same facts and claim violations of federal and state antitrust
laws, as well as other state statutory and/or common law causes of action. A motion to dismiss these actions is pending.
Pricing Matters
During the third quarter of 2000, Warrick Pharmaceuticals (Warrick), the Company’s generics subsidiary, was sued by the state of Texas. In June 2002, the Company
and its subsidiary, Schering Corporation, were added as defendants. The lawsuit alleges that Warrick supplied the state with false reports of wholesale prices, which
caused the state to pay Medicaid claims on prescriptions of Warrick’s albuterol sulfate solution and inhaler at a higher-than-justified level. The state seeks damages
of approximately $106 million against Warrick, including treble damages and penalties. A trial date of April 12, 2004 has been set. The outcome of the litigation could
result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive remedies. If this case goes to trial, there are no assurances that the damages sought by the state will not
exceed the amount set forth in the state’s petition.
In December 2001, PAL filed a class action suit in Federal Court in Massachusetts against the Company. In September 2002, a consolidated complaint was filed in this
court as a result of the coordination by the Multi-District Litigation Panel of all federal court AWP cases from throughout the country. The consolidated complaint
alleges that the Company and Warrick conspired with providers to defraud consumers by reporting fraudulently high AWPs for prescription medications reimbursed
by Medicare or third-party payers. The complaint seeks a declaratory judgment and unspecified damages, including treble damages.
Included in the PAL litigation described in the prior paragraph are lawsuits that allege that the Company and Warrick reported inflated AWPs for prescription
pharmaceuticals and thereby caused state and federal entities and third-party payers to make excess reimbursements to providers. Some of these actions also allege
that the Company and Warrick failed to report accurate prices under the Medicaid Rebate Program and thereby underpaid rebates to some states. These actions,
which began in October 2001, have been brought by state Attorneys General,
-25-Table of Contents
private plaintiffs, nonprofit organizations and employee benefit funds. They allege violations of federal and state law, including fraud, antitrust, Racketeer Influenced
Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) and other claims. In addition, Warrick and the Company are defendants in a number of such lawsuits in state courts. The actions
are generally brought by states and/or political subdivisions and seek unspecified damages, including treble and punitive damages.
SEC Inquiries and Related Litigation
The SEC is investigating compliance by Polish subsidiaries of certain pharmaceutical companies with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 pursuant to an
order dated November 13, 2003. The Company has voluntarily produced documents related to our Polish subsidiary and subsidiaries in other countries. The
Company continues to cooperate with the SEC’s requests. The Company is also cooperating with inquiries from the police in Katowice, Poland asking for related
information.
On September 9, 2003, the SEC and the Company announced settlement of the SEC enforcement proceeding against the Company and Richard Jay Kogan, former
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, regarding meetings held with investors the week of September 30, 2002, and other communications. Without admitting or
denying the allegations, the Company agreed not to commit future violations of Regulation FD and related securities laws and paid a civil penalty of $1 million.
Mr. Kogan paid a civil penalty of $50 thousand.
The federal putative class actions filed against the Company and Mr. Kogan regarding the meetings held with investors the week of September 30, 2002, and other
communications were consolidated and, pursuant to that consolidation, an amended complaint dated March 13, 2003, was filed, alleging violations of Sections 10(b),
20(a) and 20(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 relating to the alleged disclosures made during the meetings mentioned in the paragraph above. The Company
filed a motion to dismiss these class actions May 6, 2003, and the plaintiffs have sought leave of the court, and thereafter filed a second amended complaint. On
October 14, 2003, the Company moved to dismiss the second amended complaint.
On September 25, 2003, a lawsuit was filed in New Jersey Superior Court, Union County, against Richard Jay Kogan and the Company’s outside Directors alleging
breach of fiduciary duty, fraud and deceit and negligent misrepresentation, all relating to the alleged disclosures made during the meetings mentioned above. The
Company removed this case to federal court. A motion to remand to state court is pending.
Other Matters
The Company is subject to pharmacovigilance reporting requirements in many countries and other jurisdictions, including the United States, the European Union
(EU) and the EU member states. The requirements differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but all include requirements for reporting adverse events that occur while a
patient is using a particular drug in order to alert the manufacturer of the drug and the governmental agency to potential problems.
During pharmacovigilance inspections by officials of the British and French medicines agencies conducted at the request of the European Agency for the Evaluation
of Medicinal Products (EMEA), serious deficiencies in reporting processes were identified. The Company is taking
-26-Table of Contents
urgent actions to rectify these deficiencies as quickly as possible. The Company does not know what action, if any, the EMEA or national authorities will take in
response to these findings. Possible actions include further inspections, demands for improvements in reporting systems, criminal sanctions against the Company
and/or responsible individuals and changes in the conditions of marketing authorizations for the Company’s products.
In April 2003, the Company received notice of a False Claims Act complaint brought by an individual purporting to act on behalf of the U.S. government against it
and approximately 25 other pharmaceutical companies in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that the pharmaceutical
companies, including the Company, have defrauded the United States by having made sales to various federal governmental agencies of drugs that were allegedly
manufactured in a manner that did not comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices. The Company and the other defendants filed a motion to dismiss this
action on July 23, 2003.
Tax Matters
In October 2001, IRS auditors asserted, in reports, that the Company is liable for additional tax for the 1990 through 1992 tax years. The reports allege that two interest
rate swaps that the Company entered into with an unrelated party should be recharacterized as loans from affiliated companies, resulting in additional tax on income.
The tax sought by the IRS auditors relating to recharacterization is approximately $195 million, plus interest. Depending upon the Court the Company chooses to
litigate the case, it may be required to pay the tax, and possibly interest prior to litigation. The Company estimates the interest to be approximately $280 million.
Should the Company prevail in the litigation, any amounts paid prior to the litigation would be returned to the Company, plus accrued interest. The Company could
also choose to litigate the case in a Court that would not require payment of tax or interest prior to the litigation. Management believes that it is probable that this
matter will be litigated. Management also believes that its tax reserves are sufficient to absorb any loss resulting from an unfavorable outcome of this litigation.
Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
Not applicable.
-27-Table of Contents
Executive Officers of the Registrant
The following information regarding executive officers is included herein in accordance with Part III, Item 10. Corporate officers are also listed.
Officers are elected to serve for one year and until their successors shall have been duly elected.
Name and Current Position Business Experience Age
Robert J. Bertolini * Present position 2003; 42
Executive Vice President and Chief Partner, PricewaterhouseCoopers 1993-2003
Financial Officer
C. Ron Cheeley * Present position 2003; 53
Senior Vice President, Group Vice President, Global Compensation and
Global Human Resources Benefits, Pharmacia Corporation 1998-2003
Joseph C. Connors * Present position 1996 55
Executive Vice President and General
Counsel
Carrie S. Cox * Present position 2003; 46
Executive Vice President and President, Executive Vice President and President, Global
Global Pharmaceuticals Prescription Business, Pharmacia Corporation 1999-
2003; Senior Vice President and Head of Global
Business Management, Pharmacia & Upjohn 1997-
1999
Douglas J. Gingerella Present position 1999; 45
Vice President, Corporate Staff Vice President, Corporate
Audits Audits 1995 -1998
Fred Hassan * Present position 2003; 58
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer,
President Pharmacia Corporation 2001-2003; Chief Executive
Officer, Pharmacia Corporation 2000-2001; Chief
Executive Officer, Pharmacia & Upjohn 1997-2000
-28-Table of Contents
Name and Current Position Business Experience Age
Thomas H. Kelly * Present position 1991 54
Vice President and Controller
Joseph J. LaRosa Present position 2001; 45
Staff Vice President, Secretary and Staff Vice President, Commercial Law 1999 - 2000;
Associate General Counsel Senior Legal Director 1997 -1999; Legal Director 1995
- 1997
E. Kevin Moore Present position 1996 51
Vice President and Treasurer
Daniel A. Nichols Present position 1991 63
Senior Vice President,
Taxes
Cecil B. Pickett, Ph.D. * Present position 2002; 58
Vice President and President, Schering- Executive Vice President, Discovery Research,
Plough Research Institute Schering-Plough Research Institute 1994-2002
Brent Saunders * Present position 2003; 34
Senior Vice President, Global Partner, PricewaterhouseCoopers 2000-2003; Chief
Compliance and Business Practices Risk Officer, Coventry Health Care 1998-1999
* Officers as defined in Rule 16a-1(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
-29-Table of Contents
Part II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters
The common share dividends, share price data and the approximate number of holders of record are set forth under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data, in this Form 10-K.
Item 6. Selected Financial Data
(Dollars in millions, except per share figures) 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998
Operating Results
Net sales $ 8,334 $10,180 $ 9,762 $ 9,775 $ 9,075 $ 7,991
(Loss)/income before income taxes (1) (46) 2,563 2,523 3,188 2,795 2,326
Net (loss)/income (1) (92) 1,974 1,943 2,423 2,110 1,756
Diluted (loss)/earnings per common share (1) (0.06) 1.34 1.32 1.64 1.42 1.18
Basic (loss)/earnings per common share (1) (0.06) 1.35 1.33 1.65 1.44 1.20
Investments
Research and development $ 1,469 $ 1,425 $ 1,312 $ 1,333 $ 1,191 $ 1,007
Capital expenditures 701 770 759 763 543 389
Financial Condition
Property, net $ 4,527 $ 4,236 $ 3,814 $ 3,362 $ 2,939 $ 2,675
Total assets 15,102 14,136 12,174 10,805 9,375 7,840
Long-term debt 2,410 21 112 109 6 4
Shareholders’ equity 7,337 8,142 7,125 6,119 5,165 4,002
Net book value per common share 4.99 5.55 4.86 4.18 3.51 2.72
Financial Statistics
Net (loss)/income as a percent of sales (1.1)% 19.4% 19.9% 24.8% 23.3% 22.0%
Return on average shareholders’ equity (1.2)% 25.9% 29.3% 42.9% 46.0% 51.5%
Effective tax rate (2) 23.0% 23.0% 24.0% 24.5% 24.5%
Other Data
Cash dividends per common share $ .565 $ .67 $ .62 $ .545 $ .485 $ .425
Cash dividends on common shares 830 983 911 802 716 627
Depreciation and amortization 417 372 320 299 264 238
Number of employees 30,500 30,500 29,800 28,100 26,500 25,100
Average shares outstanding for diluted earnings per
common share (in millions) 1,469 1,470 1,470 1,476 1,486 1,488
Average shares outstanding for basic earnings per common
share (in millions) 1,469 1,466 1,463 1,465 1,470 1,468
Common shares outstanding at year-end (in millions) 1,471 1,468 1,465 1,463 1,472 1,472
-30-Table of Contents
(1) 2003, 2002 and 2001 include Special Charges of $599, $150 and $500, respectively. See “Special Charges” footnote under Item 8, Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data, in this Form 10-K for additional information.
(2) For 2003, the effective tax rate is 15.0 percent excluding the $350 non-tax deductible provision to increase litigation reserves.
-31-Table of Contents
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
About the Company:
Schering-Plough is a worldwide pharmaceutical company committed to discovering, developing, manufacturing and marketing new therapies and treatments to
enhance human health. The Company’s primary business strategy is to continually discover or license human pharmaceutical products that are patent protected for
an extended period of time. When a product’s patent expires, generic competition occurs, resulting in a substantial decline in a product’s average selling price.
Schering-Plough also has leading consumer product brands in the over-the-counter (OTC), foot care and sun care markets and has a global animal health business.
Government regulatory agencies throughout the world regulate the Company’s discovery, development, manufacturing and marketing efforts. The Food and Drug
Administration in the United States (FDA) is a pivotal regulator of the Company’s business.
In the United States, the pricing of the Company’s pharmaceutical products is subject to competitive pressure as managed care organizations seek price discounts.
Also in the United States, the Company is required to provide statutorily defined rebates to various government agencies in order to participate in Medicaid, the
veterans’ health care program and other government-funded programs. In most international markets, the Company operates in an environment of government-
mandated cost-containment programs.
The Company ships its pharmaceutical products to wholesalers and distributors, but markets these products to health care professionals, managed care organizations
and, to a lesser extent, patients themselves. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for the Company are the percentage market shares for its products. Market shares for
the Company’s major products are discussed in the sections that follow.
The current state of the Company:
During the past three years, the Company experienced a confluence of negative events, which are summarized as follows:
• Since 2001, the Company has been working with the FDA to resolve issues involving the Company’s compliance with current Good Manufacturing
Practices (cGMP) at certain of its manufacturing sites in New Jersey and Puerto Rico. In 2002, the Company reached a formal agreement with the FDA for a
consent decree. Under the terms of the consent decree, the Company agreed to make payments totaling $500 million and to revalidate the manufacturing
processes at these sites. These manufacturing sites have remained opened throughout this period; however, the consent
-32-Table of Contents
decree has placed significant additional controls on production and release of products from these sites, including review and third-party certification of
production variances, and, for some products, review and third-party certification of batch production records. The third-party certifications and other
cGMP improvement projects have resulted in higher costs as well as reduced output at these facilities. In addition, the Company has found it necessary to
discontinue certain older products. The impact of the consent decree is discussed in more detail in the sections that follow.
• Certain of the Company’s sales and marketing practices are under investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s Offices in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts.
These investigations pose significant risks to the Company and have caused the Company to significantly increase its litigation reserves. These matters
are discussed in further detail in the sections that follow.
• In December 2002, the Company switched all formulations of CLARITIN in the United States from prescription to OTC status. This switch followed the
loss of marketing exclusivity for the product. The average unit selling price for an OTC product is much lower than the price in the prescription market.
Further, with the loss of marketing exclusivity, the Company faces additional competition from comparable brands and generics in the OTC marketplace.
CLARITIN in the United States had been the Company’s leading product in terms of sales, and even more so in terms of profit. As a result, the Company
has experienced a rapid, sharp and material decline in earnings and cash flow beginning in 2003. The Company does not expect earnings to recover from
the loss of sales of CLARITIN until such time as the Company introduces new products. Recovery may take several years.
• The Company’s other leading franchise is the combination of pegylated interferon (PEG-INTRON) and ribavirin (REBETOL) to treat hepatitis C. In late
2002, a competitor entered the hepatitis C marketplace with its own versions of pegylated interferon and ribavirin. Prior to the introduction of these
competing products, the Company held a leading position in the hepatitis C market. With the introduction of this competitor, the Company’s market
shares have fallen significantly. This decline in sales has exacerbated the overall earnings and cash flow decline.
In addition, generic forms of REBETOL may be approved at any time in the important U.S. market. If this were to occur, the Company’s market shares and
sales would decline further.
-33-Table of Contents
The above matters have resulted in the following:
• Cash flow has declined significantly, particularly in the United States, where the majority of research is conducted and from where dividends are paid.
Also, payments arising from the investigations being conducted by the U.S. Attorney’s Offices could further reduce cash flow in the United States. In
addition, the Company’s credit ratings have been reduced. The impact of the lower credit ratings and the Company’s overall liquidity is discussed in
detail in the sections that follow.
• The Company’s manufacturing sites operate well below optimum levels due to sales declines and the reduction in output related to the consent decree. At
the same time, overall costs of operating the manufacturing sites have increased due to the consent decree activities. The impact of these facts is a
reduction in profit margins. At this time, the major investments in manufacturing capacity are not impaired; however, the Company continues to review
the carrying value of these assets for indications of impairment. Future events and decisions may lead to asset impairment losses and accelerated
depreciation due to shortened asset lives.
In response to the above, the Company has initiated the following actions:
• A new management team has been appointed and has implemented many changes, some of which are described in the following sections.
• The quarterly dividend has been reduced to 5.5 cents from 17 cents per common share.
• A program entitled Value Enhancement Initiative (VEI) has commenced. VEI is a tool designed to enable the Company to save and spend wisely. The key
cost-cutting initiatives implemented include:
Ø Eliminating most employee bonuses for 2003 under the Company’s standard plans.
Ø Eliminating the payout under the Company’s profit sharing plan.
Ø Eliminating routine merit increases throughout 2004, with exceptions only where local contracts or practices prevent this action, for customer-
contact employees, for employees dedicated to fulfillment of the Company’s FDA consent decree obligations and other business-critical
employees.
Ø Targeting an overall reduction in payroll and related expenses of at least 10 percent, again excluding payroll expense associated with customer-
contact employees and employees dedicated to fulfilling the Company’s FDA consent decree obligations. The first step toward achieving this
target was a Voluntary Early Retirement Program (VERP) in the United States. Approximately 900 employees elected to retire under this program.
Ø Installing global procurement programs.
Ø Exercising tight controls over new hires, cutting back in travel costs and reducing meeting expenses.
-34-Table of Contents
On a positive side, the Company is entering the cholesterol-reduction market with the launch of ZETIA (ezetimibe) and the U.S. marketing application for
ezetimibe/simvastatin combination, which was submitted for filing in September 2003. The cholesterol-reduction market is the single largest pharmaceutical market in
the world. Management believes that these products have the potential of enabling the Company to move beyond the loss of CLARITIN and to build long term
financial strength.
In addition, the Company believes that it has several potentially valuable pharmaceutical compounds in its earlier stage research pipeline. The Company is also
aggressively pursuing licensing opportunities with other research-based pharmaceutical companies.
Outlook:
Year-over-year comparisons between 2004 and 2003 will be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including the following:
• The Company experienced downward slopes in sales and market share of several of its key profit-generating products throughout much of 2003.
• The Company is making significant investments in sales and marketing support aimed at stabilizing market shares of its key profit-generating products.
• The Company expects generic competition for REBETOL in the U.S. market to begin in 2004.
• The contraction of the worldwide hepatitis C market that began in 2003 may continue in 2004.
• The absence of LOSEC revenues from Europe due to the end of the agreement with AstraZeneca in the third quarter of 2003. LOSEC revenues were
$130 million in 2003.
The ability of the Company to rebuild its financial strength is highly dependent upon the success of the cholesterol joint venture with Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck). If
this joint venture is highly successful, then the Company may be able to rebuild its financial strength and turn around its operating performance beginning in 2005. If
the joint venture is not highly successful, then the Company must rely on the success of its early-stage pipeline drugs, licensing opportunities, a significant change
in corporate strategy or some combination of these. The reader should note that there is significant uncertainty inherent in any of the factors that could enable the
Company to rebuild its financial strength.
NET SALES
Consolidated net sales in 2003 totaled $8.3 billion, a decrease of $1.8 billion or 18 percent compared with the same period in 2002. Consolidated net sales reflected a
volume decline of 22 percent, a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of 5 percent and an unfavorable price impact of 1 percent. Net sales in the United States
decreased 38 percent versus 2002 and net sales internationally advanced 8 percent. International sales included a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of
11 percent.
-35-Table of Contents
Consolidated 2002 net sales of $10.2 billion increased $418 million or 4 percent versus 2001, reflecting a price increase impact of 3 percent and a favorable foreign
exchange rate impact of 1 percent. Sales volume in 2002 was unchanged versus 2001.
Net sales by major therapeutic category for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows:
(Dollars in millions)
% Increase (Decrease)
2003 2002 2001 2003/2002 2002/2001
Anti-infective & Anticancer $3,098 $ 3,733 $2,273 (17%) 64%
Allergy & Respiratory 2,003 3,304 4,217 (39) (22)
Cardiovasculars 467 433 623 8 (30)
Dermatologicals 507 511 593 (1) (14)
Other Pharmaceuticals 597 807 715 (26) 13
Global Pharmaceuticals 6,672 8,788 8,421 (24) 4
OTC 563 269 178 N/M 51
Foot Care 275 279 291 (1) (4)
Sun Care 127 167 178 (24) (5)
Consumer Health Care 965 715 647 35 11
Animal Health 697 677 694 3 (2)
Consolidated net sales $8,334 $10,180 $9,762 (18%) 4%
N/M – Not a meaningful percentage.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
Net sales of global anti-infective and anticancer products decreased 17 percent compared with 2002. Sales of the INTRON franchise, used primarily for the treatment
of hepatitis C, decreased 32 percent to $1.9 billion due to market share declines, changes in U.S. trade inventory levels and lower sales in Japan. Market share of the
INTRON franchise has been declining, reflecting the entrance of a competitor’s new products in the hepatitis C market in 2003. Also, as previously reported, the
Company anticipates potential generic competition in the United States for REBETOL in 2004. U.S. sales of REBETOL were $306 million in 2003. The INTRON
franchise includes the anticancer/antiviral agent INTRON A Injection, as monotherapy and in combination with REBETOL Capsules for treating hepatitis C, and PEG-
INTRON Powder for Injection, a longer-acting form of INTRON A, as monotherapy and in combination with REBETOL for treating hepatitis C.
Net sales in the anti-infective and anticancer therapeutic category benefited from international sales of REMICADE, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn’s
disease and ankylosing spondylitis. Net sales of REMICADE were up $203 million or 60 percent to $540 million, primarily in Europe, due to increased patient
utilization. Global sales of TEMODAR Capsules, for treating certain types of brain tumors, increased 16 percent to $324 million due to increased market penetration.
International sales of CAELYX, a long-circulating pegylated liposomal formulation of doxorubicin hydrochloride, increased 55 percent to $111 million due to increased
-36-Table of Contents
patient utilization coupled with the ongoing launch of a new indication for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in patients who are at increased cardiac risk.
In 2002, net sales of global anti-infective and anticancer products rose 64 percent compared with 2001, led by the October 2001 market introduction of PEG-INTRON in
combination with REBETOL for hepatitis C in the United States, the continued rollout of this combination therapy in European markets and the December 2001 launch
of REBETOL in combination with INTRON A in Japan. Sales in the anti-infective and anticancer category in 2002 also benefited from higher international sales of
REMICADE and global sales of TEMODAR, reflecting increased market penetration.
Global net sales of allergy and respiratory products decreased 39 percent in 2003 and 22 percent in 2002. This category of sales was negatively impacted by the rapid
decline in sales of prescription CLARITIN, resulting from its loss of market exclusivity in the United States along with conversion from prescription to OTC status in
December 2002. In 2003, global sales of prescription CLARITIN were $370 million, compared with $1.8 billion in 2002 and $3.2 billion in 2001. U.S. sales of prescription
CLARITIN recognized in 2003 were $25 million versus sales of $1.4 billion in 2002 and $2.7 billion in 2001.
Global net sales of CLARINEX for the treatment of seasonal outdoor allergies and year-round indoor allergies were $694 million in 2003, an increase of 16 percent,
reflecting the continued conversion of patients from prescription CLARITIN to CLARINEX, coupled with the launch of CLARINEX in several international markets.
These factors were tempered by contraction of the U.S. prescription antihistamine market following the launch of OTC CLARITIN as well as by changes in U.S. trade
inventory levels. CLARINEX continues to experience intense competition in the U.S. allergy market. Global sales of CLARINEX were $598 million in 2002. CLARINEX
was launched in the United States in January 2002.
Net sales of NASONEX Nasal Spray, a once-daily corticosteroid nasal spray for allergies, decreased 4 percent to $500 million in 2003 due to changes in U.S. trade
inventory levels and market share declines in the United States. NASONEX is experiencing intense competition in the U.S. allergy market. International sales of
NASONEX grew 21 percent to $199 million due to market share gains. Net sales of NASONEX in 2002 were essentially flat versus 2001 due to market share declines in
the United States, tempered by market share gains in international markets.
Global net sales of cardiovascular products increased 8 percent in 2003. Sales of INTEGRILIN Injection, a glycoprotein platelet aggregation inhibitor for the treatment
of patients with acute coronary syndromes, increased 1 percent to $306 million due to increased patient utilization in the United States, tempered by a decline in U.S.
trade inventory levels. In 2002, global net sales of cardiovascular products decreased 30 percent due to lower sales of K-DUR, a sustained-release potassium chloride
supplement, which is subject to generic competition. Partially offsetting this decline were higher sales of INTEGRILIN due to increased patient utilization and
increased market penetration.
Net sales of consumer health care products, which include OTC, foot care and sun care products, increased $250 million or 35 percent in 2003 and increased
$68 million in 2002. OTC product net sales increased $294 million in 2003 and $91 million in 2002 due to the launch of OTC
-37-Table of Contents
CLARITIN in December 2002. Sales of OTC CLARITIN were $415 million in 2003 and $105 million in 2002. During the third quarter of 2003, the Company began to face
additional private-label competition for OTC CLARITIN, as the initial 180-day period of exclusivity expired for the first OTC generic competitor. The comparison of
2002 versus 2001 was negatively impacted by manufacturing issues for other OTC products. Net sales of foot care products decreased $4 million or 1 percent in 2003
due to the nonrecurrence of the 2002 launch of LOTRIMIN ULTRA, a topical antifungal. Foot care sales decreased 4 percent in 2002 due to increasing competition,
tempered by the launch of LOTRIMIN ULTRA. Net sales of sun care products decreased $40 million or 24 percent in 2003, primarily due to unfavorable weather
conditions in the United States. Sun care sales decreased 5 percent in 2002 due to lower sales of BAIN DE SOLEIL products.
Global net sales of animal health products increased 3 percent in 2003 to $697 million. Sales were favorably impacted by foreign exchange of 7 percent, offset by
continued manufacturing supply issues, described in “Additional Factors Influencing Operations” below. Global net sales of animal health products decreased
2 percent in 2002 due to challenging global market conditions, coupled with manufacturing issues.
-38-Table of Contents
SUMMARY OF COSTS, EXPENSES AND EQUITY INCOME
(Dollars in millions)
% Increase (Decrease)
2003 2002 2001 2003/2002 2002/2001
Cost of sales $2,833 $2,505 $2,078 13% 21%
% of net sales 34.0% 24.6% 21.3%
Selling, general and administrative $3,474 $3,681 $3,444 (6%) 7%
% of net sales 41.7% 36.2% 35.3%
Research and development $1,469 $1,425 $1,312 3% 9%
% of net sales 17.6% 14.0% 13.4%
Other (income) expense, net $ 59 $(144) $ (95) N/M 51%
% of net sales 0.7% (1.4%) (1.0%)
Special charges $ 599 $ 150 $ 500 N/M (70%)
% of net sales 7.2% 1.5% 5.1%
Equity income from cholesterol joint venture $ (54) $ — $ — N/M —
% of net sales (0.7%) — —
N/M - Not a meaningful percentage.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales in 2003 increased over 2002, primarily due to a change in product sales mix resulting from the loss of U.S. sales of
prescription CLARITIN. The increase was also the result of higher unit manufacturing costs, including the effect of lower production volumes, coupled with
increased spending for the Company’s cGMP compliance efforts. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales in 2002 increased over 2001, primarily due to a shift in
sales towards products on which royalties are paid and higher costs associated with manufacturing issues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 6 percent to $3.5 billion in 2003 versus $3.7 billion in 2002. The decrease was mostly due to lower marketing
expenses in the global pharmaceutical business, including zero payout of profit sharing and routine bonuses. In addition, field force incentives also declined. These
decreases were tempered by higher promotion for OTC CLARITIN and foreign exchange. The ratio to net sales of 41.7 percent in 2003 was higher than the ratio of
36.2 percent in 2002, primarily due to lower overall sales reported in 2003. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 7 percent in 2002, and the ratio to net
sales increased to 36.2 percent from 35.3 percent in 2001 due to increased spending to support the continued rollout of new and recently introduced products in
international markets.
Research and development spending increased 3 percent to $1.5 billion, representing 17.6 percent of net sales in 2003. Research and development expenses increased
9 percent to $1.4
-39-Table of Contents
billion and represented 14.0 percent of net sales in 2002. The changes in spending in both years reflect the timing of the Company’s funding of both internal research
efforts and research collaborations with various partners to discover and develop a steady flow of innovative products. The change in 2003 also reflects the
presentation of research and development costs related to the cholesterol collaboration with Merck under the equity method of accounting, as discussed below.
In 2003, Other (income) expense, net included higher net interest expense. Other (income) expense, net in 2002 included $80 million of income related to the sale of the
Company’s U.S. marketing rights for SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX sublingual tablets for the treatment of opioid dependence. (See the “Other (Income) Expense, Net”
footnote for additional information.)
SPECIAL CHARGES
The components of special charges are as follows:
(Dollars in millions)
2003 2002 2001
Employee termination costs $179 $— $—
Asset impairment losses 70 — —
Litigation charges 350 150 —
Consent decree charge — — 500
$599 $150 $500
-40-Table of Contents
Employee Termination Costs
In August 2003, the Company announced a global workforce reduction initiative. The first phase of this initiative was a VERP in the United States. Under this
program, eligible employees in the United States had until December 15, 2003, to elect early retirement and receive an enhanced retirement benefit. Approximately 900
employees elected to retire under the program, of which approximately 750 employees retired at or near year-end 2003 and approximately 150 employees have
staggered retirement dates in the future. The total cost of this program is estimated to be $190 million, comprised of increased pension costs of $107 million, increased
post-retirement health care costs of $57 million, vacation payments of $4 million and costs related to accelerated vesting of stock grants of $22 million. For employees
with staggered retirement dates in the future, these amounts will be recognized as a special charge over the employees’ remaining service periods. This delayed
expense recognition follows the guidance in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal
Activities.” Amounts recognized in 2003 for this program were $164 million, and amounts expected to be recognized in 2004 and 2005 are $19 million and $7 million,
respectively.
The expected cash expenditures associated with this program are $25 million and $7 million in 2004 and 2005, respectively.
Also included in employee termination costs in the above table are $15 million of other employee severance costs.
In December 2003, the Company announced that it is targeting an overall reduction in payroll and related expenses of at least 10 percent, excluding payroll expenses
associated with customer-contact employees and employees dedicated to fulfilling the Company’s FDA consent decree obligation. This target includes savings
realized from the VERP. The Company expects to incur additional employee termination costs in 2004 associated with achieving its goal of reducing payroll and
related expenses.
Savings expected to be realized from these actions approximate $150 million annually. The Company expects to reinvest a significant portion of these savings by
expanding its sales forces to maximize the ZETIA and ezetimibe/simvastatin opportunities and further support NASONEX, REMICADE and the INTRON franchise.
Asset Impairment Losses
Asset impairment losses have been recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” and SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” Asset impairment losses related to the following:
• The Company ceased production of certain products produced at one of its manufacturing sites operating under the FDA consent decree. The Company
also announced the closure of its manufacturing site in England. All manufacturing at the site in England has substantially ceased. Sales of all the
affected products have
-41-Table of Contents
not been material. An asset impairment loss of $26 million based on discounted cash flows has been recognized related to the facilities and equipment at
these two sites.
• The Company has ceased marketing a licensed cancer therapy drug that was sold in countries outside the United States. Sales of this product declined
and are not material. The introduction of competing products has resulted in a decline in the market share of the Company’s drug to the point where
management concluded that it was no longer practical to continue to participate in this marketplace. An asset impairment loss of $27 million based on
discounted cash flows has been recognized related to this intangible asset.
• One of the Company’s sun care brands competes in the “high-end” segment of the overall sun care market. Two large cosmetics companies have entered
this market segment, and sales of the Company’s brand have declined. When the Company acquired this brand, a portion of the purchase price was
allocated to the trade name based upon its fair value at that time. The Company performs periodic reviews of all values assigned to intangible assets and,
in connection with those reviews, an impairment loss of $17 million related to the trade name has been recognized based on discounted cash flows. This
reflects the change in market conditions since this brand was acquired. Sales of this sun care brand have not been material.
Litigation Charges
In 2003 and 2002, litigation reserves have been increased by $350 million and $150 million, respectively, primarily as a result of the investigations into the Company’s
sales and marketing practices (see “Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters” footnote for additional information).
Consent Decree Charge
In 2001, a provision of $500 million was recognized for payments to the federal government under a consent decree (see “Consent Decree” footnote for additional
information).
-42-Table of Contents
Summary of Selected Special Charges
The following summarizes the activity in the accounts related to employee termination costs and asset impairment losses:
(Amounts in millions)
Employee Asset
Termination Impairment
Costs Losses
2003 Special charges $ 179 $ 70
Impairment write-off — (70)
Credit to retirement benefit plan liability (144) —
Cash disbursement (6) —
Special charges accrual balance at Dec. 31, 2003 $ 29 $ —
The balance at December 31, 2003, for employee termination costs represents the value of stock grants ($22 million), which will be distributed after year-end 2003, and
severance and accrued vacation payments to be paid in 2004 ($7 million).
EQUITY INCOME FROM CHOLESTEROL JOINT VENTURE
Effective in 2003, the Company is presenting its collaboration with Merck to jointly develop and market ZETIA and ezetimibe/simvastatin combination following the
equity method of accounting. Under that method, the Company records its share of the operating profits less its share of research and development costs in Equity
income from cholesterol joint venture. Included in this line for the full year 2003 are the Company’s share of the operating profits of $113 million and a $20 million
milestone receipt, less its share of research and development costs of $79 million. It should be noted that the Company incurs substantial costs, such as selling costs,
that are not reflected in Equity income from cholesterol joint venture and are borne entirely by the Company. ZETIA was launched in the United States and several
international markets in November 2002. Several additional market launches have occurred to date. Global sales of ZETIA were $471 million in 2003. Prior to 2003, the
venture was in the research and development phase and the Company’s share of research and development expense in 2002 and 2001 of $69 million and $86 million,
respectively, was reported in “Research and development” in the Statements of Consolidated Operations.
NET (LOSS)/INCOME
Net (loss)/income was a loss of ($92) million in 2003 versus income of $2.0 billion and $1.9 billion in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Net (loss)/income in 2003 includes
special charges of $599 million, as described above. Net income in 2002 includes the $150 million pre-tax provision to increase litigation reserves, and 2001 includes
the $500 million pre-tax provision for the consent decree payments. These provisions are both included in special charges.
EFFECTIVE TAX RATE
For the full year 2003, the effective tax rate was 15 percent excluding the $350 million non-tax deductible provision to increase litigation reserves. The effective tax rate
was 23 percent for 2002 and 2001. The Company reduced its effective tax rate in 2003 due to the decrease in profits, primarily in the United States. For additional
information, see the “Income Taxes” footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The impact of the potential early termination of the swaps discussed
in “Liquidity and Financial Resources” may result in a higher effective tax rate in 2004 and beyond.
(LOSS)/EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
Diluted (loss)/earnings per common share decreased to a loss of ($0.06) in 2003 and increased 2 percent to earnings of $1.34 in 2002. The weakening of the U.S. dollar
against most foreign currencies increased growth in earnings per common share in 2003 and 2002. Diluted earnings per share in 2003 and 2002 reflect favorable
exchange impacts of $0.05 and $0.01, respectively. The Company advises that the trend in earnings should be viewed with and without the aforementioned special
charges and the impact of year-to-year changes in foreign exchange rates.
-43-Table of Contents
LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES
Background
The following background information may be useful to the reader in understanding the current state of the Company’s liquidity and financial resources.
At December 31, 2003, approximately 86 percent of all cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments shown in the accompanying balance sheet was held by
wholly owned, foreign-based subsidiaries. At the same time, substantially all of the debt shown in the accompanying balance sheet was owed by the parent company
or wholly owned, U.S.-based subsidiaries.
In years prior to 2003, this geographic disparity between the location of the funds and the location of debt was not a pivotal issue for the Company. However, with
the material decline in earnings following the loss of marketing exclusivity of CLARITIN in the United States, this geographic disparity has taken on more importance.
Cash and cash equivalents, plus short-term investments, exceeded total debt at December 31, 2003 by $1.4 billion. However, using the funds held by the foreign-
based subsidiaries for the cash needs of the U.S.-based subsidiaries may result in U.S. income tax payments. The amount of any U.S. income tax payments would
depend upon a number of factors, including the amount of the funds used and whether the U.S. operations were generating taxable profits or losses.
In 2003, the U.S. operations generated tax losses, primarily due to the decline of CLARITIN sales and the continued investment in research and development. For
2003, the entire amount of the U.S. tax losses will be used to recoup taxes paid in previous years (carryback benefit).
In 2004, management expects the U.S. operations to again generate tax losses. However, only a portion of these losses is expected to be used to recoup taxes paid in
previous years because, under current law, the carryback benefit will be exhausted. The amount of the expected 2004 loss in excess of that used to recoup taxes paid
in previous years becomes available to reduce taxable income in the future (carryforward benefit).
When the U.S. operations generate losses that cannot be used to recoup taxes paid in previous years, the Company has a choice. It can either use the carryforward
benefits in future years, or utilize some or all of those losses to absorb taxable distributions to the U.S. of cash or other assets held by the foreign-based subsidiaries.
Absorbing the U.S. operating losses in this manner allows a portion of the assets held by the foreign-based subsidiaries to become available for use in the U.S.
operations without having to make U.S. income tax payments.
As discussed below, the Company expects to finance a portion of its cash needs in 2004 and possibly beyond by accessing some of the funds held by the foreign-
based subsidiaries. The funds that the Company expects to access represent foreign earnings to be generated in 2004 and beyond. The Company does not expect to
incur additional U.S. income taxes when accessing these funds because these taxable distributions will be absorbed by the expected U.S. operating
-44-Table of Contents
losses. Further, as described below, the Company may make additional taxable distributions of funds held by the foreign-based subsidiaries to the U.S. operations
because the Company has triggered the credit rating downgrade provisions in certain of its financing arrangements. The Company may incur additional U.S. income
taxes because these additional distributions from the foreign-based subsidiaries may exceed the U.S. operating losses.
Discussion of Cash Flow
Cash provided by operating activities totaled $601 million in 2003, $1,980 million in 2002 and $2,512 million in 2001. Cash provided by operating activities declined in
2003 due to lower sales of CLARITIN, lower sales of the products within the INTRON franchise and higher manufacturing costs. A portion of the cash flow impact of
lower sales was mitigated by the collection of accounts receivable that followed the decline in sales.
Cash provided by operating activities in 2003 also includes the second payment of $250 million relating to the FDA consent decree.
In previous filings, the Company had reported that, for 2003 and possibly beyond, cash provided by operating activities would not be sufficient to fund working
capital, capital expenditures and dividends, if these items remained at the then-current levels. In response to the decline in sales and earnings in 2003 as well as the
likelihood of further declines in 2004, the Company announced on August 21, 2003, a reduction in the quarterly dividend from 17 cents to 5.5 cents per common share.
This action saves approximately $170 million per quarter beginning with the fourth quarter of 2003. On that same day, the Company also announced accelerated and
intensified cost-cutting actions, including a global workforce reduction effort.
As shown in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows for 2003, cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures and dividends exceeded cash from operations.
This excess of cash needs over cash generation occurred entirely within the U.S. operations where the deficit was approximately $1,400 million. Foreign operations
generated cash in excess of cash needs. In 2003, the Company borrowed additional funds in the United States to finance the U.S. operations while continuing to
accumulate cash with the foreign-based subsidiaries.
In 2004, management expects its foreign operations to generate cash and its U.S. operations to have cash needs. However, excluding any potential payments arising
from the litigation and investigations discussed below, the U.S. deficit in 2004 is expected to decline. For 2004, dividend payments will be approximately $500 million
less than in 2003, and the Company expects to receive a tax refund in excess of $400 million for the carryback benefit described above. Approximately $600 million of
cash was available in the U.S. at December 31, 2003 to pay down commercial paper balances or fund the U.S. operations.
The above discussion does not take into consideration any payments that may arise from the matters described in the “Legal, Environmental and Regulatory
Matters” footnote included in the financial statements to this report. In particular, the Company has accrued material amounts with respect to the investigations
being conducted by the U.S. Attorney’s Offices in Pennsylvania and
-45-Table of Contents
Massachusetts and with respect to the dispute with the IRS. At this time, management cannot estimate the ultimate amounts or timing of such potential payments
with certainty. Any such payments would increase the cash needs of the U.S. operations and may necessitate additional financing, repatriation of funds held by
foreign-based subsidiaries or a combination of the two. These matters may also affect the Company’s credit ratings and its ability to access commercial paper.
If the Company’s current cash management strategy and capital structure remain unchanged beyond 2004, management expects both the cash held by the foreign-
based subsidiaries and the debt owed by the U.S.-based subsidiaries to increase. Management is in the process of evaluating whether the present strategies and
structure are the most appropriate in light of the increasing debt levels as well as the changing portfolio of the Company’s products.
Management believes the Company possesses sufficient financial resources to meet all of its financial needs. The Company has in excess of $4 billion in cash and
cash equivalents and short-term investments, albeit held by foreign-based subsidiaries, as well as sizable lines of credit with commercial banks, as described below.
Further, management believes the Company has continuing access to the capital markets.
Borrowings and Credit Facilities
On November 26, 2003, the Company issued $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.3 percent senior unsecured notes due 2013 and $1.15 billion aggregate
principal amount of 6.5 percent senior unsecured notes due 2033. Proceeds from this offering of $2.4 billion are being used for general corporate purposes, including
to repay commercial paper outstanding in the United States. Upon issuance, the notes were rated A3 by Moody’s Investors’ Service (Moody’s) and A+ (on
CreditWatch with negative implications) by Standard & Poor’s (S&P). The interest rates payable on the notes are subject to adjustment. If the rating assigned to the
notes by either Moody’s or S&P is downgraded below “A3” or “A-,” respectively, the interest rate payable on that series of notes will increase. See the “Financial
Instruments and Commitments” footnote included in the financial statements to this report for additional information.
The Company has three revolving credit facilities totaling $2 billion. The most recently negotiated facility (September 2003) is a $1 billion, 364-day credit facility from
three major financial institutions that can be drawn down in the United States. This facility matures in September 2004. The other facilities are with a syndicate of
financial institutions and provide for $500 million that can be drawn down in the United States through May 2004 with repayment due May 2005, and a second multi-
currency facility for $500 million that can be drawn down in the United States and internationally through the maturity date in May 2006. At December 31, 2003, no
funds were drawn under any of these facilities.
At December 31, 2003, short-term borrowings totaled $1,023 million. Approximately 92 percent of this was outstanding commercial paper. The commercial paper
ratings discussed below have not significantly affected the Company’s ability to issue or roll over its outstanding commercial paper borrowings at this time.
However, the ability of commercial paper issuers, such as the
-46-Table of Contents
Company, with one or more short-term credit ratings of “P-2” from Moody’s, “A-2” from S&P and/or “F2” from Fitch Ratings (Fitch) to issue or roll over outstanding
commercial paper can, at times, be less than that of companies with higher short-term credit ratings. In addition, the total amount of commercial paper capacity
available to such issuers is typically less than that of higher rated companies. The Company maintains sizable lines of credit with commercial banks, as well as cash
and short-term investments held by foreign-based subsidiaries, to serve as alternative sources of liquidity and to support its commercial paper program.
Credit Ratings
On December 17, 2003, S&P lowered the Company’s corporate credit and long-term debt ratings to “A” from “A+” and said the outlook on the ratings was negative,
noting a weakening in the Company’s INTRON franchise and expected declines in earnings and cash flows. There was no change in the Company’s short-term
corporate credit and commercial paper rating, which was lowered to “A-1” from “A-1+” on July 29, 2003. On January 26, 2004, S&P placed the Company’s corporate
credit rating, short-term credit rating and senior unsecured debt rating on CreditWatch with negative implications. On February 18, 2004, S&P downgraded the
Company’s senior unsecured debt ratings to “A-” from “A.” At the same time, S&P also lowered the Company’s short-term corporate credit and commercial paper
rating to “A-2” from “A-1.” S&P removed the Company from CreditWatch, however, its outlook remains negative.
On October 9, 2003, Moody’s lowered the Company’s corporate credit rating to “A-3” from “A-1” and lowered its commercial paper rating to “P-2” from “P-1.”
Following this rating action, Moody’s removed the Company from its Watchlist and revised its rating outlook to stable from negative. Moody’s also stated that its
credit rating assumed modest outflows to settle outstanding litigation or acquisitions and that a very large payment associated with litigation proceedings or
acquisition activity could place pressure on the rating and/or outlook.
On November 20, 2003, Fitch downgraded the Company’s senior unsecured and bank loan ratings to “A-” from “A+,” and its commercial paper rating to “F2” from
“F1.” The Company’s Rating Outlook remained negative. In announcing the downgrade, Fitch noted that the sales decline in the Company’s leading product
franchise, the INTRON franchise, was greater than anticipated, and that it was concerned that total Company growth is reliant on the performance of two key growth
drivers, ZETIA and REMICADE, in the near term.
-47-Table of Contents
Financial Arrangements Containing Credit Rating Downgrade Triggers
The Company has two separate arrangements that enable it to manage cash flows between its U.S. subsidiaries and its foreign-based subsidiaries. Both of these
arrangements employ interest rate swaps, and both of these arrangements have similar credit rating downgrade triggers which allow the counterparty to call for early
termination. The credit rating downgrade triggers require the Company to maintain a long-term debt rating of at least “A2” by Moody’s or “A” by S&P. Both S&P’s
and Moody’s current credit ratings are below this specified minimum. As a result, the counterparty to the interest rate swaps can elect early termination following a
specified period, as described below.
One of the arrangements utilizes two long-term interest rate swap contracts, one between a foreign-based subsidiary and a bank and the other between a U.S.
subsidiary and the same bank. The two contracts have equal and offsetting terms and are covered by a master netting arrangement. The contract involving the
foreign-based subsidiary permits the subsidiary to prepay a portion of its future obligation to the bank, and the contract involving the U.S. subsidiary permits the
bank to prepay a portion of its future obligation to the U.S. subsidiary. Interest is paid on the prepaid balances by both parties at market rates. Prepayments totaling
$1.9 billion have been made under both contracts as of December 31, 2003. The prepaid amounts have been netted in the preparation of the consolidated balance
sheet in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 39, “Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts.”
This arrangement provides that in the event the Company fails to maintain the required minimum credit ratings, the counterparty may terminate the transaction by
designating an early termination date not earlier than 36 months following the date of such notice to terminate. However, if such notice is given, the early termination
consequences discussed below would occur at the end of the three-year period.
Early termination requires repayment of all prepaid amounts, and repayment must occur in the original tax jurisdiction in which the prepaid amounts were made.
Accordingly, early termination would require the Company’s U.S. subsidiary to repay $1.9 billion to the bank and for the bank to repay $1.9 billion to the Company’s
foreign-based subsidiary.
The financial impact of early termination depends on the manner and extent to which the Company decides to finance its U.S. repayment obligation. The Company
could finance its entire obligation by obtaining short- or long-term financing in the United States. (In this case, cash and debt would increase by equal amounts in the
consolidated balance sheet.) However, the Company’s ability to finance its obligation under the swaps will depend on the Company’s credit ratings and business
operations, as well as market conditions, at the time such financing is contemplated. Alternatively, the Company could repatriate to the United States some or all of
the funds received by the foreign-based subsidiary. Repatriating funds could have U.S. income tax consequences depending primarily on profitability of the U.S.
operations. Any such tax would be accrued against future earnings, and may result in the Company reporting a higher effective tax rate. Currently, the U.S. operations
are generating tax losses. However, future tax
-48-Table of Contents
losses may be insufficient to absorb any or all of the potential tax should the Company repatriate some or all of the funds received by the foreign-based subsidiary.
As stated above, termination of the transaction cannot occur earlier than 36 months following the date on which the Company receives a termination notice from the
counterparty. Accordingly, early termination is not imminent. Due to this fact, as well as the alternative courses of action available to the Company in the event of
early termination, the potential of early termination does not impact current liquidity and financial resources.
The second arrangement utilizes long-term interest rate swap contracts, one entered into in 1991 with a notional principal of $650 million and a second entered into in
1992 with a notional principal of $950 million. The terms of these contracts enable the Company to sell the right to receive payments while retaining the obligation to
make payments. In 1991 and 1992, the U.S. parent company sold the rights to receive payments under both contracts to a foreign-based subsidiary in return for
approximately $700 million (fair value). This intercompany transaction has been eliminated in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. (The Internal
Revenue Service has asserted that these transactions were not a sale but a loan on which additional U.S. income taxes are due. The Company expects to litigate this
matter as described in the “Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters” footnote to the financial statements.)
The contracts allow the counterparty to effectively terminate the transaction if the Company fails to maintain the required minimum credit ratings and within 60 days
does not restore at least one of the required minimum credit ratings. The Company’s credit rating fell below the required minimum credit rating on February 18, 2004. It
is unlikely the Company will restore at least one of its credit ratings in the allotted time. Early termination of these contracts due to a credit rating downgrade would
most likely result in the U.S. parent company reacquiring the right to receive payments from its foreign-based subsidiary and terminating the transaction with the
counterparty on a net basis.
The reacquisition of the rights to receive payments under the swap contracts would occur either by the U.S. parent company buying back the rights for their fair
market value or by having the foreign-based subsidiary dividend the rights back to the U.S. parent company. Buying back the rights would necessitate funding in the
United States, which the Company currently estimates would be approximately $450 million. In this case, cash and debt would increase by equal amounts in the
consolidated balance sheet. Alternatively, having the foreign-based subsidiary dividend the rights back to the U.S. parent company could result in additional U.S.
income taxes.
Presently, the U.S. operations of the Company are generating tax losses. These losses are expected to exceed the value of the intercompany dividend necessary to
reacquire the rights. As a result, in the event of early termination, management has the alternative of reacquiring the rights and terminating the transaction with the
counterparty without materially impacting liquidity or financial resources. Accordingly, management does not view early termination of this arrangement to be a
material event impacting current liquidity and financial resources.
-49-Table of Contents
Contractual Obligations
Payments due by period under the Company’s known contractual obligations at December 31, 2003, are as follows:
(Dollars in millions)
Payments due by period
Less More
than 1-3 3-5 than
Total 1 year years years 5 years
Long-term debt obligations (1) $2,410 $ — $ 14 $ 5 $2,391
Operating lease obligations 281 69 105 67 40
Purchase obligations:
Advertising contracts 95 95 — — —
Research contracts (2) 132 132 — — —
Capital expenditure commitments 193 184 9 — —
Other purchase orders (3) 925 880 45 — —
Other recorded long-term liabilities (4) 517 29 23 19 446
Total $4,553 $1,389 $196 $91 $2,877
(1) Long-term debt obligations include the $1,250 million aggregate principal amount of 5.3 percent senior, unsecured notes due 2013 and $1,150 million aggregate
principal amount of 6.5 percent senior, unsecured notes due 2033. See “Financial Instruments and Commitments” footnote in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information.
(2) Research contracts do not include any potential milestone payments to be made since such payments are contingent on the occurrence of certain events. The
table also excludes those research contracts that are cancelable by the Company without penalty.
(3) Other open purchase orders consist of both cancelable and noncancelable inventory and expense items.
(4) This caption includes obligations, based on undiscounted amounts, for estimated payments under certain of the Company’s pension plans that do not hold
qualified assets and estimated payments under the Company’s deferred compensation plans.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
The Company has responsibilities for environmental cleanup under various state, local and federal laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Environmental expenditures have not had and, based on information currently available, are not
anticipated to have a material impact on the Company. For additional information, see the “Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters” footnote in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.
-50-Table of Contents
ADDITIONAL FACTORS INFLUENCING OPERATIONS
In the United States, many of the Company’s pharmaceutical products are subject to increasingly competitive pricing as managed care groups, institutions,
government agencies and other groups seek price discounts. In most international markets, the Company operates in an environment of government-mandated cost-
containment programs. In the U.S. market, the Company and other pharmaceutical manufacturers are required to provide statutorily defined rebates to various
government agencies in order to participate in Medicaid, the veterans health care program and other government-funded programs. Several governments have placed
restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic drugs and enacted across-the-board price cuts as
methods to control costs.
Since the Company is unable to predict the final form and timing of any future domestic or international governmental or other health care initiatives, including the
passage of laws permitting the importation of pharmaceuticals into the United States, their effect on operations and cash flows cannot be reasonably estimated.
Similarly, the effect on operations and cash flows of decisions of government entities, managed care groups and other groups concerning formularies and
pharmaceutical reimbursement policies cannot be reasonably estimated.
The Company cannot predict what net effect the Medicare prescription drug benefit will have on markets and sales. The program does not go into effect until 2006
and many of the Company’s leading drugs are already covered under Medicare Part B (e.g. TEMODAR, INTEGRILIN and INTRON A). Others have a relatively small
portion of their sales to the Medicare population (e.g. CLARINEX, the hepatitis C franchise). The Company could experience expanded utilization of ZETIA and new
drugs in the Company’s R&D pipeline. Of greater consequence for the Company may be the legislation’s impact on pricing, rebates and discounts.
A significant portion of net sales are made to major pharmaceutical and health care products distributors and major retail chains in the United States. Consequently,
net sales and quarterly growth comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of major distributors, retail chains and other trade buyers. These
fluctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions or other factors.
The market for pharmaceutical products is competitive. The Company’s operations may be affected by technological advances of competitors, industry
consolidation, patents granted to competitors, new products of competitors and generic competition as the Company’s products mature. In addition, patent positions
are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of
products or negatively affect sales of existing products. The effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted.
As noted in the “Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters” footnote included in the financial statements to this report, the Company has sued drug
manufacturers that are marketing or seeking to market certain forms of generic loratadine prior to the expiration of the Company’s compound patent for desloratadine.
In each case, the Company has filed suit in federal court seeking a ruling that the applicable Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) or “paper” New Drug
Application submission and proposed marketing of a generic prescription or OTC product
-51-Table of Contents
constitute infringement of the Company’s patents and that the challenge to the patents is without merit. The compound patent for loratadine expired on June 19, 2002,
and U.S. market exclusivity for CLARITIN expired on December 19, 2002. A patent covering the compound desloratadine, formulations thereof, and methods of
treatment with desloratadine as it relates to CLARITIN is set to expire on April 21, 2004. Six months’ U.S. market exclusivity would attach to the end of the
desloratadine patent as it relates to CLARITIN and would expire on October 21, 2004. This six-month period of exclusivity was granted because the Company
conducted pediatric clinical trials at the request of the FDA. On August 8, 2002, a federal district court in New Jersey ruled on motions for summary judgment, finding
that certain of the desloratadine compound patent claims, which the Company believes protect CLARITIN, were anticipated by a prior patent and, thus, were not
valid. On August 1, 2003, the district court’s decision was sustained by the appellate court, and on October 28, 2003, the appellate court denied the Company’s
petition for rehearing. With these rulings, actions against the defendants for infringement of the desloratadine compound patent by manufacturers of loratadine will
not proceed. The Company had also asserted that ANDAs filed by two manufacturers for generic versions of CLARITIN-D 24 Hour infringe the Company’s patent
covering CLARITIN-D 24 Hour. The Company settled this litigation with Impax and ANDRX in October 2003 and has licensed them under this patent.
On November 27, 2002, the Company announced that all five formulations of the CLARITIN brand of non-drowsy allergy products had been approved at their
original prescription strengths by the FDA as OTC medicines for the treatment of allergies. The Company also has been informed by the FDA that the New Drug
Applications (NDAs) for these CLARITIN formulations, as well as for all indications (allergies and hives), will be transferred from the FDA’s Pulmonary Division
Office of Drug Evaluation II to the Division of Over-the-Counter Drug Products Office of Drug Evaluation V. The Company launched OTC CLARITIN in the United
States in December 2002. Also in December 2002, a competing OTC loratadine product was launched in the United States. In the third quarter of 2003, the Company
began to face additional private-label competition for its OTC CLARITIN line of nonsedating antihistamines, as the initial 180-day period of exclusivity expired for the
first OTC generic competitor.
The Company continues to market CLARINEX (desloratadine) 5 mg Tablets for the treatment of allergic rhinitis, which combines the indication of seasonal allergic
rhinitis with the indication of perennial allergic rhinitis, as well as the treatment of chronic idiopathic urticaria, or hives of unknown cause. The ability of the Company
to capture and maintain market share for CLARINEX and OTC CLARITIN in the U.S. market will depend on a number of factors, including: additional entrants in the
market for allergy treatments; clinical differentiation of CLARINEX from other allergy treatments and the perception of the extent of such differentiation in the
marketplace; the pricing differentials among OTC CLARITIN, CLARINEX, other allergy treatments and generic OTC loratadine; the erosion rate of OTC CLARITIN
and CLARINEX sales upon the entry of additional generic OTC loratadine products; and whether or not one or both of the other branded second-generation
antihistamines are switched from prescription to OTC status. CLARINEX is experiencing intense competition in the prescription U.S. allergy market. The prescription
allergy market has been shrinking since the OTC switch of CLARITIN
-52-Table of Contents
in December 2002. The Company is implementing new marketing efforts to address market share performance for CLARINEX.
The switch of CLARITIN to OTC status and the introduction of competing OTC loratadine has resulted in a rapid, sharp and material decline in CLARITIN sales in
the United States and the Company’s results of operations. U.S. sales of prescription CLARITIN products were $25 million or 0.3 percent of the Company’s
consolidated global sales in 2003 and $1.4 billion or 14 percent in 2002. Sales of CLARINEX in the United States and abroad have also been materially adversely
affected by the presence of generic OTC loratadine and OTC CLARITIN. In light of the factors described above, management believes that the Company’s December
2002 introduction of OTC CLARITIN, as well as the introduction of a competing OTC loratadine product in December 2002 and additional entrants of generic OTC
loratadine products in the market, have had a rapid, sharp and material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and will likely continue for an
indeterminate period of time.
As disclosed in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and as noted in the “Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters” footnote
included in the financial statements to this report, three drug manufacturers have submitted ANDAs to the FDA seeking to market generic forms of REBETOL
(ribavirin) Capsules in the United States before the expiration of the Company’s patents covering ribavirin formulations. The Company has sued those manufacturers
in federal court for infringement. During 2003, the Company entered into separate licensing agreements with Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, L.L.C. (Three Rivers),
Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Geneva) and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva) that settled all patent litigation between the Company, Three Rivers, Geneva and
Teva and granted those three companies each a non-exclusive, non-sublicensable license to the Company’s U.S. ribavirin patents. These settlements do not affect
Three Rivers’, Geneva’s or Teva’s reported patent litigation with Ribapharm, Inc., a subsidiary of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, (Ribapharm), relating to
ribavirin patents. That litigation was dismissed upon defendants’ motion for summary judgment on July 16, 2003. Ribapharm has appealed the summary judgment
decision. Ribapharm has also petitioned the FDA to deny approval of the Three Rivers, Geneva and Teva products. The FDA has not acted on the Ribapharm
petition. Generic forms of ribavirin are expected to enter the U.S. market in 2004, assuming FDA’s approval of a generic ribavirin. The REBETOL patents are material to
the Company’s business. U.S. sales of REBETOL in 2003 were $306 million.
PEG-INTRON and REBETOL combination therapy for hepatitis C contributed substantially to sales in 2003 and 2002. During the fourth quarter of 2002, a competing
pegylated interferon-based combination product, including a brand of ribavirin, received regulatory approval in most major markets, including the United States. The
overall market share of the INTRON franchise has declined sharply, reflecting this new market competition. Management believes that the ability of PEG-INTRON and
REBETOL combination therapy to maintain market share will continue to be adversely affected by new competition in the hepatitis C marketplace.
In October 2002, Merck/Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals announced that the FDA approved ZETIA (ezetimibe) 10 mg for use either by itself or together with statins
for the treatment of elevated cholesterol levels. In March 2003, the Company announced that ezetimibe (EZETROL,
-53-Table of Contents
as marketed in Europe) had successfully completed the European Union (EU) mutual recognition procedure (MRP). With the completion of the MRP process, the 15
EU member states as well as Iceland and Norway can grant national marketing authorization with unified labeling for EZETROL. EZETROL has been launched in many
international markets. The Merck/Schering-Plough partnership is also pursuing the development and marketing of a once-daily tablet combining ezetimibe with
simvastatin (Zocor), Merck’s cholesterol-modifying medicine.
Uncertainties inherent in government regulatory approval processes, including, among other things, delays in approval of new products, formulations or indications,
may also affect the Company’s operations. The effect of regulatory approval processes on operations cannot be predicted.
The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of various national, state and local regulatory agencies and is, therefore, subject to potential administrative actions. Of
particular importance is the FDA in the United States. It has jurisdiction over all the Company’s businesses and administers requirements covering the testing, safety,
effectiveness, approval, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of the Company’s products. From time to time, agencies, including the FDA, may require the Company
to address various manufacturing, advertising, labeling or other regulatory issues, such as those noted below relating to the Company’s current manufacturing
issues. Failure to comply with governmental regulations can result in delays in the release of products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the
authority necessary for the production and sale of products, discontinuance of products, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions. Any such result could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and its results of operations. Additional information regarding government regulation that may affect
future results is provided in Part I, Item I, “Business,” in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. Additional
information about cautionary factors that may affect future results is provided under the caption “Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results (Cautionary
Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995)” in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial Condition.
As noted in the “Consent Decree” footnote included in the financial statements to this report, on May 17, 2002, the Company announced that it had reached an
agreement with the FDA for a consent decree to resolve issues involving the Company’s compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices at certain
manufacturing facilities in New Jersey and Puerto Rico. The U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey approved and entered the consent decree on May 20,
2002.
Under terms of the consent decree, the Company agreed to pay a total of $500 million to the U.S. government in two equal installments of $250 million; the first
installment was paid in May 2002 and the second installment was paid in the second quarter of 2003. As previously reported, the Company accrued a $500 million
provision for this consent decree in the fourth quarter of 2001.
The consent decree requires the Company to complete a number of actions. In the event certain actions agreed upon in the consent decree are not satisfactorily
completed on time, the FDA may assess payments for each deadline missed. The consent decree required the Company to develop
-54-Table of Contents
and submit for FDA’s concurrence comprehensive cGMP Work Plans for the Company’s manufacturing facilities in New Jersey and Puerto Rico that are covered by
the decree. The Company received FDA concurrence with its proposed cGMP Work Plans on May 14, 2003. The cGMP Work Plans contain a number of Significant
Steps whose timely and satisfactory completion are subject to payments of $15,000 per business day for each deadline missed. These payments may not exceed
$25 million for 2002, and $50 million for each of the years 2003, 2004 and 2005. These payments are subject to an overall cap of $175 million.
In connection with its discussions with FDA regarding the Company’s cGMP Work Plans, and pursuant to the terms of the decree, the Company and the FDA
entered into a letter agreement dated April 14, 2003. In the letter agreement the Company and the FDA agreed to extend by six months the time period during which
the Company may incur payments as described above with respect to certain of the Significant Steps whose proposed due dates are December 31, 2005. The letter
agreement does not increase the yearly or overall caps on payments described above.
In addition, the decree requires the Company to complete programs of revalidation of the finished drug products and bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients
manufactured at the covered manufacturing facilities. The Company is required under the consent decree to complete its revalidation programs for bulk active
pharmaceutical ingredients by September 30, 2005, and for finished drugs by December 31, 2005. In general, the timely and satisfactory completion of the revalidations
are subject to payments of $15,000 per business day for each deadline missed, subject to the caps described above. However, if a product scheduled for revalidation
has not been certified as having been validated by the last date on the validation schedule, the FDA may assess a payment of 24.6 percent of the net domestic sales
of the uncertified product until the validation is certified. Further, in general, if a product scheduled for revalidation under the consent decree is not certified within six
months of its scheduled date, the Company must cease production of that product until certification is obtained. The completion of the Significant Steps in the Work
Plans and the completion of the revalidation programs are subject to third-party expert certification, which must be accepted by the FDA.
The consent decree provides that if the Company believes that it may not be able to meet a deadline, the Company has the right, upon the showing of good cause, to
request extensions of deadlines in connection with the cGMP Work Plans and revalidation programs. However, there is no guarantee that FDA will grant any such
requests.
Although the Company believes it has made significant progress in meeting its obligations under the consent decree, it is possible that (1) the Company may fail to
complete a Significant Step or a revalidation by the prescribed deadline; (2) the third party expert may not certify the completion of the Significant Step or
revalidation; or (3) the FDA may disagree with an expert’s certification of a Significant Step or revalidation. In such a case, it is possible that the FDA may assess
payments as described above.
The Company would expense any payments assessed under the decree if and when incurred.
-55-Table of Contents
In addition, the failure to meet the terms of the consent decree could result in delays in approval of new products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or
revocation of the authority necessary for the production and sale of products, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions.
In April 2003, the Company received notice of a False Claims Act complaint brought by an individual purporting to act on behalf of the U.S. government against it
and approximately 25 other pharmaceutical companies in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that the pharmaceutical
companies, including the Company, have defrauded the United States by having made sales to various federal governmental agencies of drugs that were allegedly
manufactured in a manner that did not comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices. The Company and the other defendants filed a motion to dismiss this
action on July 23, 2003.
The Company is subject to pharmacovigilance reporting requirements in many countries and other jurisdictions, including the United States, the European Union
(EU) and the EU member states. The requirements differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but all include requirements for reporting adverse events that occur while a
patient is using a particular drug in order to alert the manufacturer of the drug and the governmental agency to potential problems.
During pharmacovigilance inspections by officials of the British and French medicines agencies conducted at the request of the European Agency for the Evaluation
of Medicinal Products (EMEA), serious deficiencies in reporting processes were identified. The Company is taking urgent actions to rectify these deficiencies as
quickly as possible. The Company does not know what action, if any, the EMEA or national authorities will take in response to these findings. Possible actions
include further inspections, demands for improvements in reporting systems, criminal sanctions against the Company and/or responsible individuals and changes in
the conditions of marketing authorizations for the Company’s products.
As described more specifically in the “Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters” footnote included in the financial statements to this report, to which the reader
of this report is directed, the pricing, sales and marketing programs and arrangements, and related business practices of the Company and other participants in the
health care industry are under increasing scrutiny from federal and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial and administrative entities. These entities include the
Department of Justice and its U.S. Attorney’s Offices, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the FDA, the Federal Trade
Commission (FTC) and various state Attorneys General offices. Many of the health care laws under which certain of these governmental entities operate, including
the federal and state “anti-kickback” statutes and statutory and common law “false claims” laws, have been construed broadly by the courts and permit the
government entities to exercise significant discretion. In the event that any of those governmental entities believes that wrongdoing has occurred, one or more of
them could institute civil or criminal proceedings, which, if instituted and resolved unfavorably, could subject the Company to substantial fines, penalties and
injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs, and the Company also cannot predict whether any
investigations will affect its marketing practices or
-56-Table of Contents
sales. Any such result could have a material adverse effect on the Company, its financial condition or its results of operations.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The following accounting policies are considered significant because changes to certain judgments and assumptions inherent in these policies could affect the
Company’s financial statements:
- Accrual of rebates on sales of pharmaceuticals in the United States;
- Provision for income taxes for undistributed foreign earnings and intercompany pricing matters;
- Impairment of intangible assets; and
- Accounting for legal and regulatory matters.
Pharmaceutical products are sold to direct purchasers (e.g., wholesalers, retailers and certain health maintenance organizations), and the Company invoices those
entities when the products are shipped. In addition, the Company has commercial rebate and discount arrangements with certain indirect purchasers and other market
participants (e.g., managed care organizations that indemnify beneficiaries of health plans for their pharmaceutical costs and pharmacy benefit managers) based upon
the purchase or utilization of Company products. The Company also has governmental rebate obligations under certain federal and state programs. For purposes of
revenue recognition, the Company at the end of each quarter estimates the applicable commercial and governmental rebates that will be paid for products sold during
the quarter and nets those estimated amounts from the total direct sales. These rebates are estimated based on terms, historical experience, trend analysis and
projected market conditions in the various markets served. In the case of the governmental rebate programs, the Company’s payments involve interpretations of
relevant statutes and regulations. These interpretations are subject to challenges and changes in interpretive guidance by governmental authorities. The result of
such a challenge or change could affect whether the estimated governmental rebate amounts are ultimately sufficient to satisfy the Company’s obligations.
Additional information on governmental inquiries focused in part on the calculation of rebates is contained in the “Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters”
footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this report. In addition, it is possible that, as a result of governmental challenges or changes in
interpretive guidance, actual rebates could materially exceed amounts accrued.
As of December 31, 2003, taxes have not been provided on approximately $11.1 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Management has determined
that the assets associated with these earnings have been permanently reinvested in the Company’s overseas operations. If future events require that certain assets
associated with these earnings be repatriated to the United States, additional tax provisions may be necessary.
Also with regard to income taxes, certain of the Company’s consolidated subsidiaries manufacture pharmaceutical ingredients at facilities located in low-tax
jurisdictions. These manufacturing subsidiaries sell the pharmaceutical ingredients to other consolidated subsidiaries for further manufacturing and final sale to
customers. Taxing authorities throughout the world
-57-Table of Contents
can challenge the prices charged by the manufacturing subsidiaries. Management believes its pricing is based upon sound economic facts and circumstances.
However, a successful challenge by a taxing authority, which management believes is unlikely, could result in additional income tax payments materially in excess of
amounts accrued.
Intangible assets representing the capitalized costs of purchased goodwill, patents, licenses and other forms of intellectual property totaled $619 million at
December 31, 2003. The value of these assets is subject to continuing scientific, medical and marketplace uncertainty. For example, if a marketed pharmaceutical
product were to be withdrawn from the market for safety reasons or if marketing of a product could only occur with pronounced warnings, amounts capitalized for
such a product may need to be reduced due to impairment. Events giving rise to impairment are an inherent risk in the pharmaceutical industry and cannot be
predicted. Management regularly reviews intangible assets for possible impairment.
As discussed in the “Special Charges” section, the Company recognized asset impairment losses in 2003 for intangible assets. Asset impairment losses were
recognized for an intangible asset related to a cancer therapy drug due to scientific advancements and for an intangible asset relating to the trade name of a sun care
product due to marketplace competition.
Management judgments and estimates are also required in the accounting for legal and regulatory matters. In particular, the Company has recognized estimated
minimum liabilities in connection with certain of the government investigations into its sales and marketing activities. See “Legal, Environmental and Regulatory
Matters” footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
MARKET RISK DISCLOSURES
The Company is exposed to market risk primarily from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, from interest rates and equity prices. The
following describes the nature of these risks.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
The Company has subsidiaries in more than 40 countries. In 2003, sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 57 percent of global sales. Virtually all
these sales were denominated in currencies of the local country. As such, the Company’s reported profits and cash flows are exposed to changing exchange rates. In
2003, changes in foreign exchange rates increased sales by 5 percent and increased 2003 diluted earnings per common share by $0.05.
To date, management has not deemed it cost effective to engage in a formula-based program of hedging the profits and cash flows of foreign operations using
derivative financial instruments. Because the Company’s foreign subsidiaries purchase significant quantities of inventory payable in U.S. dollars, managing the level
of inventory and related payables and the rate of inventory turnover provides a level of protection against adverse changes in exchange rates. The risk of adverse
exchange rate change is also mitigated by the fact that the Company’s foreign operations are widespread.
-58-Table of Contents
In addition, at any point in time, the Company’s foreign subsidiaries hold financial assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars.
These financial assets and liabilities consist primarily of short-term, third-party and intercompany receivables and payables. Changes in exchange rates affect these
financial assets and liabilities. For the most part, however, gains or losses arise from translation and, as such, do not significantly affect net income.
On occasion, the Company has used derivatives to hedge specific short-term risk situations involving foreign currency exposures. However, these derivative
transactions have not been material.
Interest Rate and Equity Price Risk
The only financial assets exposed to changes in interest rates and/or equity prices are the debt and equity securities held in non-qualified trusts for employee
benefits. These assets totaled $177 million at December 31, 2003. Due to the long-term nature of the liabilities that these trust assets will fund, the Company’s
exposure to market risk is deemed to be low.
The only financial obligations exposed to variability in interest expense are short-term borrowings. The Company maintains a cash and cash equivalent portfolio well
in excess of the amount of short-term borrowings. Accordingly, the Company has no net exposure for changes in interest rates relating to its financial obligations.
The Company has long-term debt outstanding, on which a 10 percent decrease in interest rates would change the fair value of the debt by $130 million. However, the
Company does not expect to refund this debt.
Interest Rate Swaps
In 1991 and 1992, the Company utilized interest rate swaps as part of its international cash management strategy. For additional information, see the “Financial
Instruments and Commitments” footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These swaps subject the Company to a moderate degree of market risk.
The Company accounts for these swaps using fair value accounting, with changes in the fair value recorded in earnings. The fair value of these swaps was a liability
of $1 million at December 31, 2003, and a liability of $1 million at December 31, 2002. It is estimated that a 10 percent change in interest rate structure could change the
fair value of the swaps by less than $1 million.
-59-Table of Contents
CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS
(Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995)
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other sections of this report and other written reports and oral
statements made from time to time by the Company may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements relate to expectations or forecasts of future events. They use words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,”
“forecast,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “potential,” “will,” and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of potential future events,
circumstances or future operating or financial performance. You can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or
current facts.
In particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to future actions, ability to access the capital markets, prospective products, the status of
product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, development programs, expenses and programs to reduce
expenses, the cost of and savings from the VERP, the outcome of contingencies such as litigation and investigations, growth strategy and financial results.
Any or all forward-looking statements here or in other publications may turn out to be wrong. Actual results may vary materially, and there are no guarantees about
the performance of Schering-Plough stock. Schering-Plough does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Many factors could cause actual results to differ from Schering-Plough’s forward-looking statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad
variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they
may include the following:
• A significant portion of net sales are made to major pharmaceutical and health care products distributors and major retail chains in the United States.
Consequently, net sales and quarterly growth comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of major distributors, retail chains and other
trade buyers. These fluctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions or other factors.
• Competitive factors, including technological advances attained by competitors, patents granted to competitors, new products of competitors coming to the
market, new indications for competitive products or generic prescription or OTC competition as Schering-Plough’s products mature and patents expire on
products.
• Increased pricing pressure both in the United States and abroad from managed care organizations, institutions and government agencies and programs. In the
United States, among other developments, consolidation among customers may increase pricing pressures and may result in various customers having greater
influence over prescription decisions through formulary decisions and other policies.
• Government laws and regulations (and changes in laws and regulations) affecting domestic and international operations including health care reform initiatives
and drug importation legislation in the United States at the state and federal level and in other
-60-Table of Contents
countries, as well as laws and regulations relating to trade, antitrust, monetary and fiscal policies, taxes, price controls and possible nationalization.
• Patent positions can be highly uncertain and patent disputes are not unusual. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of
products or negatively impact sales of existing products or result in injunctive relief and payment of financial remedies.
• Uncertainties of the FDA approval process and the regulatory approval and review processes in other countries, including, without limitation, delays in
approval of new products.
• Failure to meet Good Manufacturing Practices established by the FDA and other governmental authorities can result in delays in the approval of products,
release of products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the production and sale of products, fines and other
civil or criminal sanctions. The resolution of manufacturing issues with the FDA discussed in Schering-Plough’s 10-Ks, 10-Qs and 8-Ks are subject to
substantial risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties, including the timing, scope and duration of a resolution of the manufacturing issues, will
depend on the ability of Schering-Plough to assure the FDA of the quality and reliability of its manufacturing systems and controls, and the extent of remedial
and prospective obligations undertaken by Schering-Plough.
• Difficulties in product development. Pharmaceutical product development is highly uncertain. Products that appear promising in development may fail to reach
market for numerous reasons. They may be found to be ineffective or to have harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing, they may fail to receive the
necessary regulatory approvals, they may turn out not to be economically feasible because of manufacturing costs or other factors or they may be precluded
from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others.
• Efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to recalls, withdrawals or declining sales.
• Major products such as CLARITIN, CLARINEX, INTRON A, PEG-INTRON, REBETOL Capsules, REMICADE and NASONEX accounted for a material portion
of Schering-Plough’s 2003 revenues. If any major product were to become subject to a problem such as loss of patent protection, OTC availability of the
Company’s product or a competitive product (as has been disclosed for CLARITIN and its current and potential OTC competition), previously unknown side
effects; if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced; generic availability of competitive products; or if the product is discontinued for any reason,
the impact on revenues could be significant. Further, such information about important new products, such as ZETIA, or important products in our pipeline,
may impact future revenues.
• Unfavorable outcomes of government (local and federal, domestic and international) investigations, litigation about product pricing, product liability claims,
other litigation and environmental concerns could preclude commercialization of products, negatively affect the profitability of existing products, materially
and adversely impact Schering-Plough’s financial condition and results of operations, or contain conditions that impact business operations, such as
exclusion from government reimbursement programs.
• Economic factors over which Schering-Plough has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
-61-Table of Contents
• Instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region - due to the location of manufacturing facilities, distribution facilities or customers -
regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire,
earthquake, storm or diseases.
• Changes in tax laws including changes related to taxation of foreign earnings.
• Changes in accounting standards promulgated by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the
SEC, or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board that would require a significant change to Schering-Plough’s accounting practices.
For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see Schering-Plough’s past and future SEC filings.
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
See the Market Risk Disclosures as set forth in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial Condition and Results of Operation, in
this Form 10-K.
-62-Table of Contents
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Index to Financial Statements
Statements of Consolidated Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001
Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001
Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2003 and 2002
Statements of Consolidated Shareholders’ Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report
-63-Table of Contents
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS
For the Years Ended December 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share figures) 2003 2002 2001
Net sales $8,334 $10,180 $ 9,762
Cost of sales 2,833 2,505 2,078
Selling, general and administrative 3,474 3,681 3,444
Research and development 1,469 1,425 1,312
Other (income) expense, net 59 (144) (95)
Special charges 599 150 500
Equity income from cholesterol joint venture (54) — —
(Loss)/income before income taxes (46) 2,563 2,523
Income taxes 46 589 580
Net (loss)/income $ (92) $ 1,974 $ 1,943
Diluted (loss)/earnings per common share $ (.06) $ 1.34 $ 1.32
Basic (loss)/earnings per common share $ (.06) $ 1.35 $ 1.33
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
-64-Table of Contents
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31,
(Amounts in millions) 2003 2002 2001
Operating Activities:
Net (loss)/income $ (92) $1,974 $ 1,943
Depreciation and amortization 417 372 320
Accounts receivable 603 7 (434)
Inventories (152) (248) (69)
Prepaid expenses and other assets (259) (242) (153)
Accounts payable and other liabilities (509) (33) 405
Special charges 593 150 500
Net cash provided by operating activities 601 1,980 2,512
Investing Activities:
Capital expenditures (701) (770) (759)
Purchases of investments (153) (482) (162)
Reduction of investments 70 303 33
Other, net (6) (19) 25
Net cash used for investing activities (790) (968) (863)
Financing Activities:
Cash dividends paid to common shareholders (830) (983) (911)
Common shares repurchased — — (34)
Net change in short-term borrowings (399) 770 (419)
Issuance of long-term debt 2,369 — 8
Other, net (258) 13 29
Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities 882 (200) (1,327)
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 4 (7) (3)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 697 805 319
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 3,521 2,716 2,397
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year $ 4,218 $3,521 $ 2,716
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
-65-Table of Contents
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
At December 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share figures) 2003 2002
ASSETS
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 4,218 $ 3,521
Short-term investments 587 481
Accounts receivable, less allowances: 2003, $116; 2002, $134 1,329 1,808
Inventories 1,651 1,300
Deferred income taxes 472 625
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 890 537
Total current assets 9,147 8,272
Property, at cost:
Land 78 61
Buildings and improvements 3,009 2,459
Equipment 2,911 2,377
Construction in progress 819 1,311
Total 6,817 6,208
Less accumulated depreciation 2,290 1,972
Property, net 4,527 4,236
Goodwill 218 232
Other intangible assets, net 401 429
Other assets 809 967
Total assets $15,102 $14,136
-66-Table of Contents
At December 31,
2003 2002
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Current Liabilities:
Accounts payable $ 1,030 $ 1,063
Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt 1,023 1,423
U.S., foreign and state income taxes 812 628
Accrued compensation 315 429
Other accrued liabilities 1,429 1,186
Total current liabilities 4,609 4,729
Long-term Liabilities:
Long-term debt 2,410 21
Deferred income taxes 234 358
Other long-term liabilities 512 886
Total long-term liabilities 3,156 1,265
Shareholders’ Equity:
Preferred shares - authorized shares: 50, $1 par value; issued: none — —
Common shares - authorized shares: 2,400, $.50 par value; issued: 2,030 1,015 1,015
Paid-in capital 1,272 1,203
Retained earnings 10,918 11,840
Accumulated other comprehensive income (426) (477)
Total 12,779 13,581
Less treasury shares: 2003, 559; 2002, 562; at cost 5,442 5,439
Total shareholders’ equity 7,337 8,142
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $15,102 $14,136
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
-67-Table of Contents
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Accumulated
Other Total
Compre- Share-
Common Paid-in Retained Treasury hensive holders’
(Amounts in millions) Shares Capital Earnings Shares Income Equity
Balance January 1, 2001 $1,015 $ 974 $ 9,817 $(5,369) $ (318) $6,119
Comprehensive income:
Net income 1,943 1,943
Foreign currency translation (85) (85)
Realized gain reclassified to income, net of tax (23) (23)
Other 3 3
Total comprehensive income 1,838
Cash dividends on common shares (911) (911)
Stock incentive plans 138 (25) 113
Common shares repurchased (34) (34)
Balance December 31, 2001 1,015 1,112 10,849 (5,428) (423) 7,125
Comprehensive income:
Net income 1,974 1,974
Foreign currency translation 5 5
Minimum pension liability, net of tax (18) (18)
Realized gain reclassified to income, net of tax (28) (28)
Other (13) (13)
Total comprehensive income 1,920
Cash dividends on common shares (983) (983)
Stock incentive plans 91 (11) 80
Balance December 31, 2002 1,015 1,203 11,840 (5,439) (477) 8,142
Comprehensive income:
Net loss (92) (92)
Foreign currency translation 218 218
Minimum pension liability, net of tax (178) (178)
Unrealized gain on investments available for sale, net of
tax 13 13
Other (2) (2)
Total comprehensive income (41)
Cash dividends on common shares (830) (830)
Stock incentive plans 69 (3) 66
Balance December 31, 2003 $1,015 $1,272 $10,918 $(5,442) $ (426) $7,337
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
-68-Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Dollars in millions, except per share figures)
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include Schering-Plough Corporation and its subsidiaries (the “Company”). Intercompany balances and transactions are
eliminated. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and use assumptions
that affect certain reported amounts and disclosures. Actual amounts may differ.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include operating cash and highly liquid investments, generally with original maturities of three months or less.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined by using the last-in, first-out method for a substantial portion of inventories located in the
United States. The cost of all other inventories is determined by the first-in, first-out method.
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful lives of the properties, generally by use of the straight-line method. Average useful lives are 50 years for
buildings, 25 years for building improvements and 13 years for equipment. Depreciation expense was $304, $250 and $213 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
Foreign Currency Translation
The net assets of most of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from
translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates are recorded in the foreign currency translation adjustment account, which is included in other
comprehensive income. For the remaining foreign subsidiaries, non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated using historical rates, while monetary assets and
liabilities are translated at current rates, with the U.S. dollar effects of rate changes included in income.
Exchange gains and losses arising from translating intercompany balances of a long-term investment nature are recorded in the foreign currency translation
adjustment account. Other exchange gains and losses are included in income.
-69-Table of Contents
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
Accumulated other comprehensive income primarily consists of the accumulated foreign currency translation adjustment account, unrealized gains and losses on
securities classified for Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 115 purposes as available for sale and a minimum pension liability adjustment.
The components of accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31 were:
2003 2002
Accumulated foreign currency translation $(238) $(456)
Accumulated unrealized gains (losses) on investments available for sale, net of tax 8 (6)
Minimum pension liability, net of tax (196) (18)
Other — 3
Total $(426) $(477)
Gross unrealized pre-tax gains in 2003 were $20; unrealized losses were immaterial. Gross unrealized gains and losses in 2002 were immaterial.
Revenue Recognition
Revenues from the sale of products are recognized when goods are shipped to customers and reliable estimates of product returns can be made. Reliable estimates of
product returns can be made when business conditions permit the Company to make reasonable estimates of expected demand.
Following the approval of CLARITIN as an over-the-counter (OTC) product in the fourth quarter of 2002, revenue from U.S. sales of the prescription form of
CLARITIN was recognized when the product was used to fill patient prescriptions because reliable estimates of product returns could not be made at the time of
shipment. Further, since the expiration of the initial 180-day period of exclusivity for the first generic competitor of the OTC form of CLARITIN, the Company has
experienced additional private-label competition. As a result, revenues from the sales of OTC CLARITIN are recognized at the time of shipment, but only to the extent
that the Company can make reasonable estimates of product returns.
Provisions for discounts and rebates are recorded in the same period the related sales are recorded. For purposes of revenue recognition, at the end of each quarter
the Company estimates the applicable commercial and governmental rebates that will be paid for products sold and reduces recorded sales by those estimated
amounts. These rebates are estimated based on terms, historical experience, trend analysis and projected market conditions in the various markets served.
-70-Table of Contents
Earnings Per Common Share
In 2002 and 2001, diluted earnings per common share are computed by dividing income by the sum of the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding
plus the dilutive effect of shares issuable through deferred stock units and through the exercise of stock options. In 2003, diluted loss per common share excludes the
effect of shares issuable through deferred stock units and through the exercise of stock options because including these would have the effect of decreasing the loss
per share. Basic earnings per common share are computed by dividing income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding.
The shares used to calculate basic and diluted earnings per common share are reconciled as follows:
(Shares in millions) 2003 2002 2001
Average shares outstanding for basic earnings per share 1,469 1,466 1,463
Dilutive effect of options and deferred stock units — 4 7
Average shares outstanding for diluted earnings per share 1,469 1,470 1,470
The equivalent of 77 million, 47 million and 35 million common shares issuable under the Company’s stock incentive plans were excluded from the computation of
diluted earnings per share as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, because their effect would have been antidilutive.
Goodwill
Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” SFAS No. 142 eliminates the requirement to amortize
goodwill and instead requires periodic testing of goodwill for impairment. If goodwill is impaired, it will be written down to its estimated fair value. The Company has
performed the required annual goodwill impairment tests and has found that recorded goodwill is not impaired. Accordingly, the adoption of SFAS No. 142 did not
result in an adjustment to recorded goodwill. Goodwill amortization expense was $5 in 2001. Diluted and basic earnings per common share in 2001 would have been
unchanged if goodwill amortization were excluded from net income on a pro forma basis. The Company’s goodwill is primarily related to the Animal Health business.
Other Intangible Assets
The components of the balance sheet caption “Other intangible assets, net” are as follows:
December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002
Gross Gross
Carrying Accumulated Carrying Accumulated
Amount Amortization Net Amount Amortization Net
Patents and licenses $ 614 $ 318 $296 $ 658 $ 293 $365
Trademarks and other 143 38 105 98 34 64
Total other intangible assets $ 757 $ 356 $401 $ 756 $ 327 $429
-71-Table of Contents
These intangible assets are amortized on the straight-line method over their respective useful lives. In 2003, 2002 and 2001, the Company paid $11, $84 and $121,
respectively, for patent and licensing rights; these costs will be amortized over approximately nine years. The residual value of intangible assets is estimated to be
zero. Amortization expense related to other intangible assets in 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $55, $66 and $65, respectively. Other intangible assets are reviewed to
determine their recoverability by comparing their carrying values to their expected undiscounted future cash flows when events or circumstances warrant such a
review. Full year amortization expense in each of the next five years is estimated to be approximately $50 per year based on the intangible assets recorded as of
December 31, 2003.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
The Company accounts for its stock compensation arrangements using the intrinsic value method. Under the intrinsic value method, the difference between the
amount the employee will pay the Company for stock acquired under the Company’s incentive plans and the stock’s fair value on the date of grant is charged to
expense. Since employees must pay the Company the grant-date fair value for stock options, no expense is recorded for stock options. Alternatively, since employees
do not pay for stock issued for deferred stock units granted, their grant date fair value is recorded as expense.
The following table reconciles net (loss)/income and (loss)/earnings per common share (EPS), as reported, to pro forma net (loss)/income and EPS, as if the Company
had expensed the grant-date fair value of both stock options and deferred stock units as permitted by SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.”
These pro forma amounts may not be representative of the initial impact of adopting SFAS No. 123 since, as amended, it permits alternative methods of adoption.
2003 2002 2001
Net (loss)/income, as reported $ (92) $1,974 $1,943
Add back: Expense included in reported net income for deferred stock units, net of tax 66 69 56
Deduct: Pro forma expense as if both stock options and deferred stock units were charged
against net income, net of tax (143) (150) (137)
Pro forma net (loss)/income using the fair value method $(169) $1,893 $1,862
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share:
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share, as reported $(0.06) $ 1.34 $ 1.32
Pro forma diluted (loss)/earnings per share using the fair value method (0.12) 1.29 1.27
Basic (loss)/earnings per share:
Basic (loss)/earnings per share, as reported $(0.06) $ 1.35 $ 1.33
Pro forma basic (loss)/earnings per share using the fair value method (0.12) 1.29 1.27
-72-Table of Contents
The weighted-average fair value of options granted in 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $5.29, $11.25 and $13.35, respectively. These fair values were estimated using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model, based on the following assumptions:
2003 2002 2001
Dividend yield 1.4% 1.3% 1.5%
Volatility 34% 35% 35%
Risk-free interest rate 2.9% 4.3% 4.9%
Expected term of options (in years) 5 5 5
Other Recently Issued Accounting Standards
In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45, “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others.” In the normal course of business, the Company does not issue guarantees to third parties; accordingly, this interpretation
has no effect on the Company’s financial statements.
In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No.149, “Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” The adoption of SFAS No. 149 had
no effect on the Company’s financial statements.
In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, “Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity,” which requires
certain financial instruments to be classified as a liability (or an asset in some circumstances). The adoption of SFAS No. 150 had no effect on the Company’s
financial statements.
In December 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities” (FIN 46). The adoption of FIN 46 had no effect
on the Company’s financial statements.
In January 2004, the FASB issued Staff Position No. FAS 106-1, titled “Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003” (FSP). The act, signed into law in December 2003, introduces a prescription drug benefit under Medicare as well as a
federal subsidy, under certain conditions, to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans. Presently, authoritative guidance on the accounting for the subsidy has not
been issued. The Company has elected a one-time deferral of the accounting for the effects of the act, as permitted by the FSP. This deferral continues to apply until
authoritative guidance on the accounting for the federal subsidy is issued.
SPECIAL CHARGES
The components of special charges are as follows:
2003 2002 2001
Employee termination costs $179 $— $—
Asset impairment losses 70 — —
Litigation charges 350 150 —
Consent decree charge — — 500
$599 $150 $500
-73-Table of Contents
Employee Termination Costs
In August 2003, the Company announced a global workforce reduction initiative. The first phase of this initiative was a Voluntary Early Retirement Program in the
United States. Under this program, eligible employees in the United States had until December 15, 2003, to elect early retirement and receive an enhanced retirement
benefit. Approximately 900 employees elected to retire under the program, of which approximately 750 employees retired at or near year-end 2003 and approximately
150 employees have staggered retirement dates in the future. The total cost of this program is estimated to be $190, comprised of increased pension costs of $107,
increased post-retirement health care costs of $57, vacation payments of $4 and costs related to accelerated vesting of stock grants of $22. For employees with
staggered retirement dates in the future, these amounts will be recognized as a special charge over the employees’ remaining service periods. This delayed expense
recognition follows the guidance in SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.” Amounts recognized in 2003 for this program
are $164 and amounts expected to be recognized in 2004 and 2005 are $19 and $7, respectively.
Asset Impairment Losses
Asset impairment losses have been recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” and SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long- Lived Assets.” Asset impairment losses related to the following:
• The Company ceased production of certain products produced at one of its manufacturing sites operating under the FDA consent decree. The Company
also announced the closure of its manufacturing site in England. All manufacturing at the site in England has substantially ceased. Sales of all the
affected products have not been material. An asset impairment loss of $26 based on discounted cash flows has been recognized related to the facilities
and equipment at these two sites.
• The Company has ceased marketing a licensed cancer therapy drug that was sold in countries outside the United States. Sales of this product declined
and are not material. The introduction of competing products has resulted in a decline in the market share of the Company’s drug to the point where
management concluded that it was no longer practical to continue to participate in this marketplace. An asset impairment loss of $27 based on discounted
cash flows has been recognized related to this intangible asset.
• One of the Company’s sun care brands competes in the “high-end” segment of the overall sun care market. Two large cosmetics companies have entered
this market segment, and sales of the Company’s brand have declined. When the Company acquired this brand, a portion of the purchase price was
allocated to the trade name based upon its fair value at that time. The Company performs periodic reviews of all values assigned to intangible assets and,
in connection with those reviews, an impairment loss of $17 related to the trade name has been recognized based on discounted cash flows. This reflects
the change in market conditions since this brand was acquired. Sales of this sun care brand have not been material.
-74-Table of Contents
Litigation Charges
In 2003 and 2002, litigation reserves have been increased by $350 and $150, respectively, primarily as a result of the investigations into the Company’s sales and
marketing practices (see “Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters” footnote for additional information).
Consent Decree Charge
In 2001, a provision of $500 was recognized for payments to the federal government under a consent decree (see “Consent Decree” footnote for additional
information).
Summary of Selected Special Charges
The following summarizes the activity in the accounts related to employee termination costs and asset impairment losses:
Employee Asset
Termination Impairment
Costs Losses
2003 Special charges $ 179 $ 70
Impairment write-off — (70)
Credit to retirement benefit plan liability (144) —
Cash disbursement (6) —
Special charges accrual balance at Dec. 31, 2003 $ 29 $ —
The balance at December 31, 2003, for employee termination costs represents the value of stock grants ($22), which will be distributed after year-end 2003, and
severance and accrued vacation payments to be paid in 2004 ($7).
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND COMMITMENTS
SFAS No. 133, as amended, requires all derivatives to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. This statement also provides that the effective portion of
qualifying cash flow hedges be recognized in income when the hedged item affects income; that changes in the fair value of derivatives that qualify as fair value
hedges, along with the change in the fair value of the hedged risk, be recognized as they occur; and that changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify
for hedge treatment, as well as the ineffective portion of qualifying hedges, be recognized in income as they occur.
Risks, Policy and Objectives
The Company is exposed to market risk, primarily from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, from interest rate and equity price changes.
From time to time, the Company will hedge selective foreign currency risks with derivatives. Generally, however, management has not deemed it cost effective to
engage in a formula-based program of hedging the profits and cash flows of foreign operations using derivative financial instruments. Because the Company’s
foreign subsidiaries purchase significant quantities of inventory payable in U.S. dollars, managing the level of inventory and related payables and the rate of
inventory turnover provides a level of protection against adverse changes in exchange rates. Furthermore, the risk of adverse exchange rate change is mitigated by
the fact that the Company’s foreign operations are widespread. On a limited basis, the Company will hedge selective exposures to interest rate risks.
-75-Table of Contents
The Company mitigates credit risk on derivative instruments by dealing only with counterparties considered to be financially sound. Accordingly, the Company does
not anticipate loss for non-performance. The Company does not enter into derivative instruments to generate trading profits.
The table below presents the carrying values and estimated fair values for the Company’s financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments. Estimated
fair values were determined based on market prices, where available, or dealer quotes.
December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002
Carrying Estimated Carrying Estimated
Value Fair Value Value Fair Value
ASSETS:
Cash and cash equivalents $4,218 $4,218 $3,521 $3,521
Short-term investments 587 587 481 481
Long-term investments 177 182 168 168
Interest rate swap contracts — — 53 53
LIABILITIES:
Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt 1,023 1,023 1,423 1,423
Long-term debt 2,410 2,496 21 21
Other financing instruments — — 241 258
Interest rate swap contracts 1 1 1 1
Long-term Investments
Long-term investments, which are included in other non-current assets, primarily consist of debt and equity securities held in non-qualified trusts to fund long-term
employee benefit obligations, which are included as liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These assets can only be used to fund the related liabilities.
Long-term investments are primarily classified as available for sale and are carried at fair value. Realized gains from the sale of securities classified as available for sale
were $0 in 2003, $43 in 2002 and $35 in 2001. Proceeds from these sales totaled $0, $80 and $51, respectively. Realized gains are recorded in other (income) expense,
net.
Interest Rate Swap Contracts
Assets:
To hedge the variable rate risk associated with a $200 variable rate time deposit purchased in 1999, the Company entered into an interest rate swap, which
matured in November 2003. Under the terms of the swap, the Company received a fixed rate of approximately 5.6 percent and paid a three-month LIBOR rate on a
notional amount of $200. This swap was designated as a cash flow hedge, with the effective portion of the swap deferred until the transaction being hedged was
recorded in earnings. The interest rate swap’s maturity value was $58; the swap’s fair value at December 31, 2002 was $53.
-76-Table of Contents
Liabilities:
In 1991 and 1992, the Company utilized interest rate swaps as part of its international cash management strategy. The notional principal of the 1991 arrangement
is $650, and the notional principal of the 1992 arrangement is $950. Both arrangements have 20-year terms. At December 31, 2003, the arrangements provide for
the payment of interest based upon LIBOR and the receipt of interest based upon an annual election of various floating rates. As a result, the Company remains
subject to a moderate degree of market risk through maturity of the swaps. These swaps are not designated as hedging instruments and, accordingly, the
changes in fair value are recorded in earnings. Annual net cash flows for payments and receipts under these interest rate swap contracts are not material. The
net asset or liability under these interest rate swaps is recorded in other current assets or other accrued liabilities, as applicable. The fair value of these swaps
was a liability of $1 at December 31, 2003. The Company has triggered the credit rating downgrade provisions in these swap arrangements and, as a result, the
counterparty can terminate the swaps. The impact of terminating these swaps is not material.
Borrowings
In general, short-term borrowings consist of commercial paper issued in the United States, bank loans and notes payable. In connection with the Company’s
purchase of a research and office facility in 2000, the Company issued a $100 note which was paid in full in March 2003. The imputed interest rate on this note was
6.5 percent. Commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002 was $939 and $1,188, respectively. The weighted-average interest rate for short-term
borrowings at December 31, 2003 and 2002 was 1.8 percent and 3.3 percent, respectively.
On November 26, 2003, the Company issued $1,250 aggregate principal amount of 5.3 percent senior unsecured notes due 2013 and $1,150 aggregate principal amount
of 6.5 percent senior unsecured notes due 2033. Interest is payable semi-annually. The net proceeds from this offering were $2,369. Upon issuance, the notes were
rated A3 by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody’s), and A+ (on CreditWatch with negative implications) by Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (S&P). The
interest rates payable on the notes are subject to adjustment as follows: If the rating assigned to the notes by Moody’s changes to one of the ratings set forth below,
the interest rate payable on that series of notes will increase by the additional interest rate set forth below; similarly, if the rating assigned to the notes by S&P
changes to one of the ratings set forth below, the interest rate payable on that series of notes will increase again by additional interest rate set forth below:
Additional
Interest Rate Moody’s Rating S&P Rating
0.25% Baa1 BBB+
0.50% Baa2 BBB
0.75% Baa3 BBB-
1.00% Ba1 or below BB+ or below
In no event will the interest rate for any of the notes increase by more than 2 percent above the initial coupon rates of 5.3 percent and 6.5 percent, respectively. If
either Moody’s or S&P
-77-Table of Contents
subsequently upgrades its ratings, the interest rates will be correspondingly reduced, but not below 5.3 percent or 6.5 percent, respectively. Furthermore, the interest
rate payable on a particular series of notes will return to 5.3 percent and 6.5 percent, respectively, and the rate adjustment provisions will permanently cease to apply
if, following a downgrade by both Moody’s and S&P below A3 or A-, respectively, both Moody’s and S&P raise their rating to A3 and A-, respectively, or better.
The notes are redeemable in whole or in part, at the Company’s option at any time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (1) 100 percent of the principal amount
of such notes and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest discounted using the rate of treasury notes with
comparable remaining terms plus 25 basis points for the 2013 notes or 35 basis points for the 2033 notes.
The fair value of these combined notes was $2,473 at December 31, 2003.
The Company has three revolving credit facilities totaling $2,000. The most recently negotiated facility (September 2003) is a $1,000 364-day credit facility from three
major financial institutions that can be drawn down in the United States This facility matures in September 2004. The other facilities are with a syndicate of financial
institutions and provide for $500 that can be drawn down in the United States through May 2004 with repayment due May 2005, and a second multi-currency facility
for $500 that can be drawn down in the United States and internationally through the maturity date in May 2006. These facilities are available for general corporate
purposes and are considered as support for the Company’s commercial paper borrowings. These facilities do not require compensating balances; however, a nominal
commitment fee is paid. At December 31, 2003, no funds were drawn under any of these facilities. In addition, the Company’s foreign subsidiaries had approximately
$327 available in unused lines of credit from various financial institutions at December 31, 2003.
Credit Ratings
Changes in Credit Ratings
On December 17, 2003, S&P lowered the Company’s corporate credit and long-term debt ratings to “A” from “A+” and said the outlook on the ratings was negative,
noting a weakening in the Company’s INTRON franchise and expected declines in earnings and cash flows. There was no change in the Company’s short-term
corporate credit and commercial paper rating, which was lowered to “A-1” from “A-1+” on July 29, 2003. On January 26, 2004, S&P placed the Company’s corporate
credit rating, short-term credit rating and senior unsecured debt rating on CreditWatch with negative implications. On February 18, 2004, S&P downgraded the
Company’s senior unsecured debt ratings to “A-” from “A.” At the same time, S&P also lowered the Company’s short-term corporate credit and commercial paper
rating to “A-2” from “A-1.” S&P removed the Company from CreditWatch, however, its outlook remains negative.
On October 9, 2003, Moody’s lowered the Company’s corporate credit rating to “A-3” from “A-1” and lowered its commercial paper rating to “P-2” from “P-1.”
Following this rating action, Moody’s removed the Company from its Watchlist and revised its rating outlook to stable from negative. Moody’s also stated that its
credit rating assumed modest outflows to settle outstanding litigation or acquisitions, and that a very large payment associated with litigation proceedings or
acquisition activity could place pressure on the rating and/or outlook.
On November 20, 2003, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) downgraded the Company’s senior unsecured and bank loan ratings to “A-” from “A+,” and its commercial paper rating
to “F2” from “F1.” The
-78-Table of Contents
Company’s Rating Outlook remained negative. In announcing the downgrade, Fitch noted that the sales decline in the Company’s leading product franchise, the
INTRON franchise, was greater than anticipated, and that it was concerned that total Company growth is reliant on the performance of two key growth drivers,
ZETIA and REMICADE, in the near term.
-79-Table of Contents
Other Financing Instruments
During 1999, a subsidiary of the Company issued $200 of equity-type securities. These securities had certain put and call features. Because of the put and call
features, this obligation was included in other long-term liabilities at December 31, 2002. The securities bore a LIBOR-based yield that was substantially fixed through
November 28, 2003. At December 31, 2002, the rate was 5.2 percent. The Company exercised its call option and fully redeemed these securities in November 2003.
Commitments
Total rent expense amounted to $91 in 2003, $81 in 2002 and $72 in 2001. Future minimum rental commitments on non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31,
2003, range from $69 in 2004 to $32 in 2008, with aggregate minimum lease obligations of $41 due thereafter. As of December 31, 2003, the Company has commitments
totaling $184 related to capital expenditures to be made in 2004.
INSURANCE COVERAGE
The Company maintains insurance coverage with such deductibles and self-insurance as management believes adequate for its needs under current circumstances.
Such coverage reflects market conditions (including cost and availability) existing at the time it is written, and the relationship of insurance coverage to self-insurance
varies accordingly. As a result of recent external events, the availability of insurance has become more restrictive. Management considers the impact of these
changes as it continually assesses the best way to provide for its insurance needs in the future. The Company now self-insures a higher proportion of risk than in the
past (especially as it relates to products’ liability).
OTHER (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
The components of other (income) expense, net are as follows:
2003 2002 2001
Interest cost incurred $92 $ 52 $ 65
Less: amount capitalized on construction (11) (24) (25)
Interest expense 81 28 40
Interest income (57) (75) (121)
Foreign exchange (gains) losses 1 (2) 4
Other, net 34 (95) (18)
Total $59 $(144) $ (95)
Other, net in 2002 includes a gain of $80 from the sale of U.S. marketing rights for SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX. Cash paid for interest, net of amounts capitalized, was
$46, $26 and $47 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
-80-Table of Contents
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
A summary of treasury share transactions follows:
(Shares in millions) 2003 2002 2001
Share balance at January 1 562 565 567
Shares issued under stock incentive plans (3) (3) (3)
Purchase of treasury shares — — 1
Share balance at December 31 559 562 565
The Company has Preferred Share Purchase Rights outstanding that are attached to, and presently only trade with, the Company’s common shares and are not
exercisable. The rights will become exercisable only if a person or group acquires 20 percent or more of the Company’s common stock or announces a tender offer
which, if completed, would result in ownership by a person or group of 20 percent or more of the Company’s common stock. Should a person or group acquire
20 percent or more of the Company’s outstanding common stock through a merger or other business combination transaction, each right will entitle its holder (other
than such acquirer) to purchase common shares of Schering-Plough having a market value of twice the exercise price of the right. The exercise price of the rights is
$100.
Following the acquisition by a person or group of beneficial ownership of 20 percent or more but less than 50 percent of the Company’s common stock, the Board of
Directors may call for the exchange of the rights (other than rights owned by such acquirer), in whole or in part, at an exchange ratio of one common share or one two-
hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock per right. Also, prior to the acquisition by a person or group of beneficial ownership of
20 percent or more of the Company’s common stock, the rights are redeemable for $.005 per right at the option of the Board of Directors. The rights will expire on
July 10, 2007, unless earlier redeemed or exchanged. The Board of Directors is also authorized to reduce the 20 percent thresholds referred to above to not less than
the greater of (i) the sum of .001 percent and the largest percentage of the outstanding shares of common stock then known to the Company to be beneficially owned
by any person or group of affiliated or associated persons and (ii) 10 percent, except that, following the acquisition by a person or group of beneficial ownership of
20 percent or more of the Company’s common stock, no such reduction may adversely affect the interests of the holders of the rights.
EQUITY INCOME FROM CHOLESTEROL JOINT VENTURE
The Company and Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck) have agreements to jointly develop and market ZETIA (ezetimibe) as a once-daily monotherapy, as co-administration of
ZETIA with statins, and ezetimibe as a once-daily fixed-combination tablet with simvastatin (Zocor), Merck’s cholesterol-modifying medicine. The agreements also
involve the development and marketing of a once-daily, fixed-combination tablet containing CLARITIN and Singulair. Singulair is Merck’s once-daily leukotriene
receptor antagonist for the treatment of asthma and seasonal allergic rhinitis. In January 2002, Schering-Plough/Merck Pharmaceuticals reported on results of Phase
III clinical trials of a fixed-combination tablet containing CLARITIN and Singulair, which did not demonstrate sufficient added benefits in the treatment of seasonal
allergic rhinitis.
The agreements generally provide for equal sharing of development costs and for co-promotion of approved products by each company in the United States and in
most other countries of the world, except Japan. In Japan, no agreement exists. In general, co-promotion provides that each
-81-Table of Contents
company will provide equal physician marketing efforts and that each company will bear the cost of its own sales force in marketing the products. In general, the
agreement provides that the venture will operate in a “virtual” mode to the maximum degree possible by relying on the respective infrastructures of the two
companies. However, the companies have agreed to share certain costs, but these costs are limited to a portion of the costs of manufacturing, the cost of a specialty
sales force and certain specially identified promotion costs. It should be noted that the Company incurs substantial costs, such as selling costs, that are not reflected
in Equity income from cholesterol joint venture and are borne entirely by the Company. The agreements do not provide for any jointly owned facilities and, as such,
products resulting from the collaboration will be manufactured in facilities owned by either Merck or the Company.
During 2003, the Company earned a milestone of $20 that relates to certain European approvals of ZETIA. Under certain other conditions, Merck could pay additional
milestones to the Company totaling $132.
Prior to 2003, the venture was in the research and development phase and the Company’s share of research and development expense in 2002 and 2001 of $69 and
$86, respectively, was reported in “Research and development” in the Statements of Consolidated Operations. The venture has now moved beyond the research and
development phase. ZETIA was launched in late 2002, and a U.S. marketing application for the combination of ezetimibe/simvastatin was submitted to the FDA in
September 2003. To reflect the venture’s first full year of commercial operations, the Company adopted the equity method of accounting effective as of the beginning
of 2003. Under that method, the Company records its share of the operating profits less its share of the research and development costs in “Equity income from
cholesterol joint venture” in the Statements of Consolidated Operations. Prior year amounts have not been affected.
Equity income from cholesterol joint venture for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $54. Included in this amount are the Company’s share of operating profits of
$113, the $20 milestone receipt, less its share of research and development costs of $79.
STOCK INCENTIVE PLANS
Under the terms of the Company’s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, which was approved by the Company’s shareholders, 72 million of the Company’s common shares may
be granted as stock options or awarded as deferred stock units to officers and certain employees of the Company through December 2007. As of December 31, 2003,
45 million options and deferred stock units remain available for future year grants under the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. Option exercise prices equal the market price of
the common shares at their grant dates. Options expire not later than 10 years after the date of grant. Standard options granted in 2003 and prior generally had a one-
year vesting term. Other option grants vest over longer periods ranging from three to nine years. Deferred stock units are payable in an equivalent number of common
shares; the shares are distributable in a single installment or in three or five equal annual installments generally commencing one year from the date of the award.
-82-Table of Contents
The following table summarizes stock option activity over the past three years under the current and prior plans, all of which have been approved by the Company’s
shareholders:
2003 2002 2001
Weighted- Weighted- Weighted-
Number Average Number Average Number Average
of Exercise of Exercise of Exercise
(Number of options in millions) Options Price Options Price Options Price
Outstanding at January 1 54 $35.40 50 $35.18 46 $33.77
Granted 23 17.57 8 34.21 8 40.15
Exercised (1) 9.40 (1) 11.64 (2) 16.81
Canceled or expired (5) 33.19 (3) 40.31 (2) 38.61
Outstanding at December 31 71 $30.15 54 $35.40 50 $35.18
Exercisable at December 31 43 $34.94 35 $34.48 30 $33.11
Summarized information about stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2003 is as follows:
(Number of options in millions)
Outstanding Exercisable
Weighted-
Average Weighted- Weighted-
Number Remaining Average Number Average
of Term in Exercise of Exercise
Exercise Price Range Options Years Price Options Price
Under $15 6 1.7 $12.58 6 $12.44
$15 to $25 26 8.4 17.79 4 18.99
$25 to $40 19 6.2 36.34 18 36.55
$40 to $50 13 6.9 42.64 9 41.39
Over $50 7 5.2 53.16 6 53.10
71 43
In 2003, 2002 and 2001, the Company awarded deferred stock units totaling 3.2 million, 2.9 million and 2.7 million, respectively.
INVENTORIES
Year-end inventories consisted of the following:
2003 2002
Finished products $ 664 $ 540
Goods in process 648 449
Raw materials and supplies 339 311
Total inventories $1,651 $1,300
Inventories valued on a last-in, first-out basis comprised approximately 19 percent and 21 percent of total inventories at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
The estimated replacement cost of total inventories at December 31, 2003 and 2002 was $1,704 and $1,346, respectively.
RETIREMENT PLANS AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS
The Company has defined benefit pension plans covering eligible employees in the United States and certain foreign countries, and the Company provides post-
retirement health care benefits to its eligible U.S. retirees and their dependents. The measurement date for the majority of these plans is December 31.
-83-Table of Contents
Net pension expense in 2003 was $117 compared with net pension expense in 2002 of $23. The increase of $94 is principally due to costs associated with the
Voluntary Early Retirement Program (see “Special Charges” footnote for additional information). It is estimated that a one-half percent reduction in the expected long-
term rate of return on consolidated plan assets would increase pension expense by approximately $7. It is estimated that a one-half percent reduction in the discount
rate would increase pension expense by approximately $14.
Also, at December 31, 2003, the Company has an unrecognized net pension loss of $628. Gains and losses arise primarily from plan assets earning more or less than
the long-term expected rate of return and from changes in pension discount rates. If there were no gains in the future to offset the $628 net unrecognized loss,
amortization of these losses would ultimately increase annual pension expense by approximately $25.
The components of net pension and other post-retirement benefits expense (income) were as follows:
Post-retirement
Retirement Plans Health Care Benefits
2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001
Service cost $ 71 $ 60 $ 48 $ 9 $ 7 $ 5
Interest cost 85 79 73 18 15 14
Expected return on plan assets (118) (114) (119) (18) (19) (21)
Amortization, net (1) (2) (3) — (1) (2)
Termination benefits (1) 70 — — 9 — —
Curtailment (1) 8 — — 46 — —
Settlement (1) 2 — — — — —
Net pension and other post-retirement benefits expense
(income) $117 $ 23 $ (1) $64 $ 2 $ (4)
The components of the changes in the benefit obligations were as follows:
Post-retirement
Retirement Plans Health Care Benefits
2003 2002 2003 2002
Benefit obligations at January 1 $1,378 $1,167 $ 265 $ 220
Service cost 71 60 9 7
Interest cost 85 79 18 15
Assumption changes 43 60 — 23
Effects of exchange rate changes 48 32 — —
Benefits paid (98) (51) (15) (14)
Actuarial losses 138 31 97 14
Plan amendments 63 — — —
Termination benefits (1) 83 — 11 —
Curtailment (1) 8 — 46 —
Settlement (1) 3 — — —
Benefit obligations at December 31 $1,822 $1,378 $ 431 $ 265
Benefit obligations of overfunded plans $ 17 $ 12 $ — $ —
Benefit obligations of underfunded plans 1,805 1,366 431 265
(1) Termination benefits, Curtailment and Settlement costs in 2003 primarily relate to the matters discussed in the “Special Charges” footnote.
-84-Table of Contents
The components of the changes in plan assets were as follows:
Post-retirement
Retirement Plans Health Care Benefits
2003 2002 2003 2002
Fair value of plan assets, primarily stocks and bonds, at January 1 $1,090 $1,140 $ 176 $ 212
Actual gain (loss) on plan assets 192 (99) 39 (22)
Contributions 99 75 — —
Effects of exchange rate changes 36 25 — —
Benefits paid (98) (51) (15) (14)
Fair value of plan assets at December 31(1) $1,319 $1,090 $ 200 $ 176
Plan assets of overfunded plans $ 18 $ 14 $ — $ —
Plan assets of underfunded plans 1,301 1,076 200 176
(1) The fair value of plan assets for domestic pension plans was $957 and $827 at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
In addition to the plan assets indicated above, at December 31, 2003 and 2002, securities of $79 and $74, respectively, were held in non-qualified trusts designated to
provide pension benefits for certain underfunded plans.
At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the accumulated benefit obligation for the retirement plans was $1,531 and $1,105, respectively. The aggregated accumulated benefit
obligation and fair value of plan assets for retirement plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is $1,245 and $995, respectively, at
December 31, 2003, and $195 and $63, respectively, at December 31, 2002.
Presently, the Company does not anticipate making any contributions in 2004 to fund the U.S. retirement plan and the post-retirement health care plan.
The following is a reconciliation of the funded status of the plans to the Company’s balance sheet:
Post-retirement Health
Retirement Plans Care Benefits
2003 2002 2003 2002
Benefit obligations in excess of plan assets $(503) $(288) $ (231) $ (89)
Unrecognized net transition assets (2) (11) — —
Unrecognized prior service costs 75 15 (2) (3)
Unrecognized net actuarial loss 628 499 175 97
Net assets at December 31 $198 $215 $ (58) $ 5
Amounts recognized in the balance sheet consist of:
Post-retirement Health
Retirement Plans Care Benefits
2003 2002 2003 2002
Prepaid benefit cost $107 $332 $ — $ 5
Accrued benefit cost (258) (151) (58) —
Intangible assets 48 5 — —
Accumulated other comprehensive income 301 29 — —
Net assets at December 31 $198 $215 $ (58) $ 5
-85-Table of Contents
The Company recognized an additional minimum pension liability of $349 and $34 in 2003 and 2002, respectively, primarily related to domestic retirement plans. This
resulted in an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, of $178 and $18 in 2003 and 2002, respectively.
The consolidated weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31 were:
Post-retirement
Retirement Plans Health Care Benefits
2003 2002 2003 2002
Discount rate 5.7% 6.3% 6.0% 6.7%
Rate of increase in future compensation 3.9% 3.9% N/A N/A
The consolidated weighted-average assumptions used to determine net cost for the years ended December 31 were:
Post-retirement
Retirement Plans Health Care Benefits
2003 2002 2003 2002
Discount rate 6.3% 6.7% 6.7% 7.0%
Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets (1) 8.5% 9.5% 8.0% 9.0%
Rate of increase in future compensation 3.9% 4.0% N/A N/A
(1) The long-term expected rate of return on plan assets for domestic retirement plans was 9.0 percent and 10.0 percent for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
2002, respectively.
The long-term expected rate of return on plan assets is derived proportionally from return assumptions determined for each of the major asset classes, principally
equities, fixed income and real estate. The return expectations for each of these asset classes are based largely on assumptions about economic growth and inflation,
which are supported by long-term historical data.
The weighted-average assumed health care cost inflation rate used for post-retirement measurement purposes is 9 percent for 2004, trending down to 4.5 percent by
2009. A 1 percent increase in the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase combined post-retirement service and interest cost by $7 and the post-retirement
benefit obligation by $64. A 1 percent decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rate would decrease combined post-retirement service and interest cost by $6
and the post-retirement benefit obligation by $52. In 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act (the “Act”) was signed into law in
the United States. The Company has elected to defer the accounting for the effect of the Act as permitted by FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106-1 and, therefore, the
benefit obligations reported herein for the Company’s post-retirement benefit plans do not reflect the impact of the Act. Specific authoritative guidance on the
accounting for the federal subsidy related to the Act is pending and, when issued, could require the Company to change previously reported information.
-86-Table of Contents
U.S. Plan Assets at Fair Value
The asset allocation for the U.S. retirement plan at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the target allocation for 2004 are as follows:
Percentage of Plan
Target Assets at December 31
Allocation
Asset Category 2004 2003 2002
Equity Securities 65% 69% 60%
Debt Securities 25 22 30
Real Estate 10 9 10
Total 100% 100% 100%
The asset allocation for the post-retirement health care benefit trusts at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the target allocation for 2004 are as follows:
Percentage of Plan
Target Assets at December 31
Allocation
Asset Category 2004 2003 2002
Equity Securities 70% 78% 66%
Debt Securities 30 22 34
Total 100% 100% 100%
The Company’s investments related to these plans are broadly diversified, consisting primarily of equities and fixed income securities, with an objective of generating
long-term investment returns that are consistent with an acceptable level of overall portfolio market value risk.
The Company had a defined contribution profit-sharing plan covering substantially all its full-time domestic employees who have completed one year of service. The
annual contribution was determined by a formula based on the Company’s income, shareholders’ equity and participants’ compensation. Profit-sharing expense
totaled $98 and $80 in 2002 and 2001, respectively. There was no profit sharing contribution in 2003 as determined by the formula described above. The Company will
no longer make contributions to this plan effective for 2004.
INCOME TAXES
U.S. and foreign operations contributed to income before income taxes as follows:
2003 2002 2001
United States $(1,169) $ 642 $1,076
Foreign 1,123 1,921 1,447
Total (loss)/income before income taxes $ (46) $2,563 $2,523
-87-Table of Contents
The components of income tax expense/(benefit) were as follows:
2003 2002 2001
Current:
Federal $(299) $273 $397
Foreign 187 263 203
State 21 40 27
Total current (91) 576 627
Deferred:
Federal and state 126 4 (47)
Foreign 11 9 —
Total deferred 137 13 (47)
Total income tax expense $ 46 $589 $580
The difference between income taxes based on the U.S. statutory tax rate and the Company’s income tax expense was due to the following:
2003 2002 2001
Income tax expense/(benefit) at U.S. statutory tax rate $ (16) $897 $883
Increase (decrease) in taxes resulting from:
Lower rates in other jurisdictions, net (308) (378) (305)
Non-deductible litigation reserve 123 — —
Reserve for tax litigation 200 — —
Research tax credit (13) (12) (13)
State income tax 13 36 17
Permanent differences 28 — 14
All other, net 19 46 (16)
Income tax expense at effective tax rate $ 46 $589 $580
The lower rates in other jurisdictions, net, are primarily attributable to certain employment and capital investment actions taken by the Company. As a result, income
from manufacturing activities in these jurisdictions is subject to lower tax rates through 2020.
Due to the tax loss in 2003, the Company has recorded a $450 tax refund receivable as of December 31, 2003.
As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company had total deferred tax assets of $862 and $834, respectively, and deferred tax liabilities of $622 and $552, respectively.
Valuation allowances are $61 as of December 31, 2003; valuation allowances were not significant as of December 31, 2002. Significant deferred tax assets at
December 31, 2003 and 2002 were for operating costs and employee termination costs not currently deductible for tax purposes and totaled $523 and $555,
respectively. Significant deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2003 and 2002 were for depreciation differences, $318 and $286, respectively, and retirement plans, $76
and $101, respectively.
Deferred taxes are not provided on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, considered to be permanent investments, which at December 31, 2003,
approximated $11,100. Determining the tax liability that would arise if these earnings were remitted is not practicable.
-88-Table of Contents
Net consolidated income tax payments during 2003, 2002 and 2001 were $196, $584 and $592, respectively.
As of December 31, 2003, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed its examination of the Company’s tax returns for all years through 1988, and there are
no unresolved issues outstanding for those years. The IRS examination of years 1989 through 1992 is expected to be completed during 2004, at which time it is
anticipated the IRS will commence the examination of years 1993 through 1996.
See “Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters” footnote regarding a tax matter which the Company believes that litigation is probable.
CONSENT DECREE
On May 17, 2002, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement with the FDA for a consent decree to resolve issues involving the Company’s
compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) at certain manufacturing facilities in New Jersey and Puerto Rico. The U.S. District Court for the
District of New Jersey approved and entered the consent decree on May 20, 2002.
Under terms of the consent decree, the Company agreed to pay a total of $500 to the U.S. government in two equal installments of $250; the first installment was paid
in May 2002, and the second installment was paid in May 2003. As previously reported, the Company accrued a $500 provision for this consent decree in the fourth
quarter of 2001.
The consent decree requires the Company to complete a number of actions. In the event certain actions agreed upon in the consent decree are not satisfactorily
completed on time, the FDA may assess payments for each deadline missed. The consent decree required the Company to develop and submit for FDA’s
concurrence comprehensive cGMP Work Plans for the Company’s manufacturing facilities in New Jersey and Puerto Rico that are covered by the decree. The
Company received FDA concurrence with its proposed cGMP Work Plans on May 14, 2003. The cGMP Work Plans contain a number of Significant Steps whose
timely and satisfactory completion are subject to payments of $15 thousand per business day for each deadline missed. These payments may not exceed $25 for 2002,
and $50 for each of the years 2003, 2004 and 2005. These payments are subject to an overall cap of $175.
In connection with its discussions with FDA regarding the Company’s cGMP Work Plans, and pursuant to the terms of the decree, the Company and FDA entered
into a letter agreement dated April 14, 2003. In the letter agreement, the Company and FDA agreed to extend by six months the time period during which the Company
may incur payments as described above with respect to certain of the Significant Steps whose proposed due dates are December 31, 2005. The letter agreement does
not increase the yearly or overall caps on payments described above.
In addition, the decree requires the Company to complete programs of revalidation of the finished drug products and bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients
manufactured at the covered manufacturing facilities. The Company is required under the consent decree to complete its revalidation programs for bulk active
pharmaceutical ingredients by September 30, 2005, and for finished drugs by December 31, 2005. In general, the timely and satisfactory completion of the revalidations
are subject to payments of $15 thousand per business day for each deadline missed, subject to the caps described above. However, if a product scheduled for
revalidation has not been certified as having been validated by the last date on the validation schedule, the FDA may
-89-Table of Contents
assess a payment of 24.6 percent of the net domestic sales of the uncertified product until the validation is certified. Further, in general, if a product scheduled for
revalidation under the consent decree is not certified within six months of its scheduled date, the Company must cease production of that product until certification is
obtained. The completion of the Significant Steps in the Work Plans and the completion of the revalidation programs are subject to third-party expert certification,
which must be accepted by the FDA.
The consent decree provides that if the Company believes that it may not be able to meet a deadline, the Company has the right, upon the showing of good cause, to
request extensions of deadlines in connection with the cGMP Work Plans and revalidation programs. However, there is no guarantee that FDA will grant any such
requests.
Although the Company believes it has made significant progress in meeting its obligations under the consent decree, it is possible that (1) the Company may fail to
complete a Significant Step or a revalidation by the prescribed deadline; (2) the third party expert may not certify the completion of the Significant Step or
revalidation; or (3) the FDA may disagree with an expert’s certification of a Significant Step or revalidation. In such a case, it is possible that the FDA may assess
payments as described above.
The Company would expense any payments assessed under the decree if and when incurred.
Also, as noted in the “Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters” footnote below, the Company has received notice of a False Claims complaint brought by an
individual purporting to act on behalf of the U.S. government against it and approximately 25 other pharmaceutical companies alleging that the pharmaceutical
companies defrauded the United States by having made sales to various federal governmental agencies of drugs that were allegedly manufactured in a manner that
did not comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices. The Company and the other defendants filed a motion to dismiss this action.
SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Company has three reportable segments: Prescription Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Health Care and Animal Health. The segment sales and profit data that follow
are consistent with the Company’s current management reporting structure, established in the second quarter of 2003. Prior period information presented herein has
been restated to be on a comparable basis. The Prescription Pharmaceuticals segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets human ethical pharmaceutical
products. The Consumer Health Care segment develops, manufactures and markets OTC, foot care and sun care products. The Animal Health segment discovers,
develops, manufactures and markets animal health products.
Net sales by segment:
Year ended December 31,
2003 2002 2001
Prescription Pharmaceuticals $6,672 $ 8,788 $8,421
Consumer Health Care 965 715 647
Animal Health 697 677 694
Consolidated net sales $8,334 $10,180 $9,762
-90-Table of Contents
Profit by segment:
Year ended December 31,
2003 2002 2001
Prescription Pharmaceuticals $496 $2,543 $2,764
Consumer Health Care 194 174 140
Animal Health 86 93 141
Corporate and other 1/ (822) (247) (522)
Consolidated (loss)/profit before tax $ (46) $2,563 $2,523
1/ In 2003, Corporate and other includes charges of $164 related to the Voluntary Early Retirement Program (see “Special Charges” footnote for additional
information). It is estimated that the charges relate to the reportable segments as follows: Prescription Pharmaceuticals - $103, Consumer Health Care - $8, Animal
Health - $4 and Corporate and other - $49.
Corporate and other also includes provisions to increase the litigation reserves, asset impairment charges, interest income and expense, foreign exchange gains and
losses, headquarters expenses and other miscellaneous items. The accounting policies used for segment reporting are the same as those described in the “Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies.”
Net Sales by Major Therapeutic Category
2003 2002 2001
Anti-infective & Anticancer $3,098 $ 3,733 $2,273
Allergy & Respiratory 2,003 3,304 4,217
Cardiovasculars 467 433 623
Dermatologicals 507 511 593
Other Pharmaceuticals 597 807 715
Prescription Pharmaceuticals 6,672 8,788 8,421
OTC (includes OTC CLARITIN sales in 2003 and 2002 of $415 and $105, respectively) 563 269 178
Foot Care 275 279 291
Sun Care 127 167 178
Consumer Health Care 965 715 647
Animal Health 697 677 694
Consolidated net sales $8,334 $10,180 $9,762
The Company has subsidiaries in more than 40 countries outside the United States. Sales outside the United States comprised 57 percent ($4,775) of consolidated net
sales in 2003, 43 percent ($4,419) in 2002 and 39 percent ($3,789) in 2001. No single foreign country, except for France, Japan and Italy, accounted for 5 percent or more
of consolidated net sales during the past three years. France accounted for 8 percent ($691), 6 percent ($613) and 5 percent ($459) of consolidated net sales in 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively. Japan accounted for 5 percent ($414), 5 percent ($524) and 3 percent ($320) of consolidated net sales in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
Italy accounted for 5 percent ($436), 3 percent ($339) and 3 percent ($266) of consolidated net sales in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
-91-Table of Contents
Net Sales by Geographic Area
2003 2002 2001
United States $3,559 $ 5,761 $5,973
Europe and Canada 3,410 2,923 2,457
Latin America 716 740 782
Pacific Area and Asia 649 756 550
Consolidated net sales $8,334 $10,180 $9,762
Net sales are presented in the geographic area in which the Company’s customers are located. During 2003, 2002 and 2001, 8 percent ($667), 21 percent ($2,092) and
16 percent ($1,568), respectively, of consolidated net sales were made to McKesson Corporation, a major pharmaceutical and health care products distributor. Also,
during 2003, 2002 and 2001, 9 percent ($771), 11 percent ($1,101) and 12 percent ($1,160), respectively, of consolidated net sales were made to AmerisourceBergen
Corporation, a major pharmaceutical and health care products distributor.
Long-lived Assets by Geographic Location
2003 2002 2001
United States $2,507 $2,477 $2,297
Ireland 444 430 420
Singapore 828 668 507
Puerto Rico 317 300 258
Other 726 613 546
Total $4,822 $4,488 $4,028
Long-lived assets shown by geographic location are primarily property.
Sales of products comprising 10 percent or more of the Company’s U.S. or international sales for the year ended December 31, 2003, were as follows:
U.S. International
INTRON franchise $884 $ 966
CLARINEX 498 196
OTC CLARITIN 415 —
REMICADE — 540
The Company does not disaggregate assets on a segment basis for internal management reporting and, therefore, such information is not presented.
-92-Table of Contents
LEGAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS
Background
The Company has responsibilities for environmental cleanup under various state, local and federal laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. At several Superfund sites (or equivalent sites under state law), the Company is alleged to be a
potentially responsible party (PRP). The Company estimates its obligations for cleanup costs for Superfund sites based on information obtained from the federal
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), an equivalent state agency and/or studies prepared by independent engineers, and on the probable costs to be paid by
other PRPs. The Company records a liability for environmental assessments and/or cleanup when it is probable a loss has been incurred and the amount can be
reasonably estimated.
The Company is also involved in various other claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business, including product liability cases. The
Company adjusts its accrued liabilities to reflect the current best estimate of its probable loss exposure. Where no best estimate is determinable, the Company accrues
the minimum amount within the most probable range of its liability.
The recorded liabilities for the above matters at December 31, 2003, and the related expenses incurred during the 12 months ended December 31, 2003, were not
material. Expected insurance recoveries have not been considered in determining the costs for environmental-related liabilities.
Management believes that, except for the matters discussed in the remainder of this section, it is remote at this time that any material liability in excess of the amounts
accrued will be incurred. With respect to the matters discussed in the remainder of this section, except where noted, it is not practicable to estimate a range of
reasonably possible loss; where it is, a reserve has been included in the financial statements. Resolution of any or all of the matters discussed in the remainder of this
section, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.
Management reviews the status of the matters discussed in the remainder of this section on an ongoing basis and from time to time may settle or otherwise resolve
them on such terms and conditions as management believes are in the best interests of the Company. The Company is aware that settlements of matters of the types
set forth in the remainder of this section, and in particular under “Investigations,” frequently involve fines and/or penalties that are material to the financial condition
and the results of operations of the entity entering into the settlement. There are no assurances that the Company will prevail in any of these matters, that settlements
can be reached on acceptable terms (including the scope of release provided) or in amounts that do not exceed the amounts reserved. Even if an acceptable
settlement were to be reached, there can be no assurance that further investigations or litigations will not be commenced raising similar type issues, potentially
exposing the Company to additional material liabilities. Further, the Company cannot predict the timing of the resolution of these matters or their outcomes.
-93-Table of Contents
Environmental
Residents in the vicinity of a publicly owned waste-water treatment plant in Barceloneta, Puerto Rico, have filed two lawsuits against the plant owner and operator,
and numerous companies that discharge into the plant, including a subsidiary of the Company, for damages and injunctive relief relating to odors allegedly coming
from the plant and connecting sewers. One of these lawsuits is a class action claiming damages of $600. No trial date has been set for these cases, but the matter has
been submitted to mediation.
On November 20, 2003, we received a General Notice of Potential Liability from EPA addressed to Arno/Scholl’s Adhesive Tapes, Inc., a former subsidiary of the
Company, relating to the Lake Culmet Cluster Site in Chicago, Illinois. There are several hundred other potentially responsible parties for the site.
In 2003, Schering-Plough responded to an information request from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection relating to contamination of the Lower
Passaic River Basin. Schering-Plough denied having any connection to the contamination. In late September, the Department directed 66 PRPs at 18 contaminated
sites to assess and restore natural resource damage to the Lower Passaic River Basin. The Department did not name Schering-Plough as a PRP. However, the
Department sent Schering-Plough a letter, received September 24, 2003, stating that the Company “may be legally responsible for damages to natural resources” in
the state. The Department has not adopted regulations covering how such liability is to be calculated, making it difficult to accurately predict the ultimate extent of
the Company’s exposure.
Patent Matters
CLARITIN Patents. In February 1998, Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Geneva) submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) to the U.S. FDA seeking to
market generic CLARITIN tablets before the expiration in 2004 of the Company’s desloratadine compound patent, which the Company believes protects CLARITIN.
Geneva alleged that the desloratadine compound patent is invalid. This patent is material to the Company’s business. In March 1998, the Company filed suit in federal
court seeking a ruling that Geneva’s ANDA submission constitutes infringement of the Company’s desloratadine compound patent and that its challenge to this
patent is without merit. In addition to Geneva, from 1998 through 2003, the following companies made similar ANDA submissions for generic CLARITIN tablets:
Zenith Goldline Pharmaceuticals, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva), Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Ranbaxy), Genpharm
Incorporated, and L. Perrigo Company (Perrigo). The following companies made similar ANDA submissions for generic CLARITIN syrup: Teva, Copley
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Novex Pharma, Alpharma USPD Inc., Taro Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., Morton Grove Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Perrigo. Andrx Pharmaceuticals,
L.L.C. (Andrx) and Impax Laboratories Inc. (Impax) made similar ANDA submissions for generic CLARITIN-D 12 Hour and CLARITIN-D 24 Hour formulations.
Ranbaxy made a similar ANDA submission for a generic CLARITIN-D 24 Hour formulation. ESI Lederle, Inc. (Lederle), a subsidiary of Wyeth, made a similar ANDA
submission for a generic CLARITIN REDITAB formulation. The following companies submitted “paper” New Drug Applications (“paper” NDAs) under Section 505
(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act seeking to market a generic OTC form of CLARITIN prior to the expiration of the Company’s desloratadine
compound patent: Whitehall-Robins Healthcare, a division of Wyeth (for an OTC REDITAB formulation), McNeil Consumer Healthcare (McNeil) (for OTC tablets),
and Perrigo (for OTC tablets). In each case, the Company filed suit in federal court seeking a ruling that the applicable ANDA or “paper” NDA submission and
proposed marketing of a generic prescription or OTC product constitutes infringement of the Company’s desloratadine compound patent, and that the challenge to
the
-94-Table of Contents
patent is without merit. On August 8, 2002, a federal district court in New Jersey ruled on motions for summary judgment, finding that certain claims of the
desloratadine compound patent were anticipated by a prior patent and, thus, were not valid. On August 1, 2003, the district court’s decision was sustained by the
appellate court, and on October 28, 2003, the appellate court denied the Company’s petition for rehearing. With these rulings, actions against the defendants for
infringement of the desloratadine compound patent by manufacturers of loratadine will not proceed. The Company had also asserted that Impax’s and Andrx’s
ANDAs for their generic CLARITIN-D 24 Hour formulations infringe the Company’s patent covering its CLARITIN-D 24 Hour formulation. In October 2003, the
Company settled this litigation with Impax and ANDRX and has licensed them under this patent.
REBETOL Patents. In August 2001, Geneva Pharmaceuticals Technology Corp. (Geneva Pharmaceuticals) and Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, L.L.C. (Three Rivers),
and in January 2002, Teva, submitted separate ANDAs with the FDA seeking to market generic forms of 200 mg REBETOL (ribavirin) Capsules in the United States
before the expiration of the Company’s patents covering ribavirin formulations. Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Three Rivers and Teva have asserted that they do not
infringe the Company’s REBETOL patents and/or the patents are invalid. The REBETOL patents are material to the Company’s business. In September 2001, October
2001 and March 2002, the Company filed suits in federal court seeking rulings that the ANDA submissions by Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Three Rivers and Teva,
respectively, constitute infringement of the Company’s patents and that the challenges to the Company’s patents are without merit. During 2003, the Company
entered into separate licensing agreements with Three Rivers, Geneva Pharmaceuticals and Teva that settled all patent litigation between the Company, Three Rivers,
Teva and Geneva Pharmaceuticals, and granted Three Rivers, Geneva Pharmaceuticals and Teva each a non-exclusive, non-sublicensable license to the Company’s
U.S. ribavirin patents. The agreements were subject to dismissal of Three Rivers’, Geneva Pharmaceuticals’ or Teva’s reported patent litigation with Ribapharm, Inc., a
subsidiary of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, (Ribapharm). That litigation was dismissed upon defendants’ motion for summary judgment on July 16, 2003.
Ribapharm has appealed the summary judgment decision. Ribapharm has also petitioned the FDA to deny approval of the Three Rivers, Geneva Pharmaceuticals and
Teva products. The FDA has not acted on the Ribapharm petition as of the date of this report.
PRIME PAC PRRS Patent. In January 2000, a jury found that the Company’s PRIME PAC PRRS (Porcine Respiratory and Reproductive Syndrome) vaccine infringed
a patent owned by Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica, Inc. An injunction was issued in August 2000 barring further sales of the Company’s vaccine. The Company’s
post-trial motions for either a reversal of the jury’s verdict or a new trial were denied in September 2001. The Company appealed, and the verdict was affirmed by the
appellate court in February 2003. Litigation of the damages phase of the case is ongoing. A trial to determine damages has been scheduled for May 3, 2004.
Investigations
Pennsylvania Investigation. In October 1999, the Company received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, pursuant to
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, concerning the Company’s contracts with pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs) and managed care
organizations to provide disease management services in connection with the marketing of its pharmaceutical products. It appears that the subpoena was one of a
number addressed to industry participants as part of an inquiry into, among other things, pharmaceutical marketing practices. The government’s inquiry has focused
on, among other things, whether the Company’s disease management and other marketing
-95-Table of Contents
programs and arrangements comply with federal health care laws and whether the value of its disease management programs and other marketing programs and
arrangements should have been included in the calculation of rebates to the government. The Company has been cooperating with the investigation. In March 2002,
the U.S. Attorney’s Office began issuing grand jury subpoenas. The grand jury investigation appears to be focused on one or more transactions with managed care
organizations where the government believes the Company offered or provided deeply discounted pharmaceutical products (known as “nominally priced” products,
which are generally excluded from Medicaid rebate calculations), free or discounted disease management services, and other marketing programs and arrangements
that delivered value, in order to place or retain one or more of the Company’s major pharmaceutical products on the managed care organization’s formulary. The
grand jury appears to be investigating, among other things, (i) whether the transactions described above and conduct relating thereto violated federal anti-kickback
statutes; and (ii) whether the value of the items and services described above should have been included in the Company’s calculation of Medicaid rebates. The
outcome of the investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings involving substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or
administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs, and the Company cannot predict whether the investigations will affect its
marketing practices or sales. During the 2003 third quarter, the Company increased its litigation reserves related to this investigation and the investigations described
below by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts by $350. This increase in reserves reflects maturing discussions in these offices, particularly
with the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and an adjustment to the Company’s estimate of its minimum liability relating to those investigations, in compliance with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under GAAP, companies are required to estimate and recognize a minimum liability when a loss is probable
but no better estimate of the loss can be made. In the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company increased its litigation reserves by $150 for the same matters. The Company
cannot predict the timing of the resolution of these matters. The Company notes that its total reserves reflect an estimate and that any final settlement or adjudication
of any of these matters could possibly be less than or could materially exceed the aggregate liability accrued by the Company and could have a materially adverse
effect on the operations or financial condition of the Company.
AWP Investigations. The Company is responding to investigations by the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice, the Committee on
Energy and Commerce of the U.S. House of Representatives and certain states into certain industry and Company practices regarding average wholesale price
(AWP). These investigations include a Department of Justice review of the merits of a federal action filed by a private entity on behalf of the United States in the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of Florida, as well as an investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts, regarding, inter alia,
whether the AWP set by pharmaceutical companies for certain drugs improperly exceeds the average prices paid by dispensers and, as a consequence, results in
unlawful inflation of certain government drug reimbursements that are based on AWP. In March 2001, the Company received a subpoena from the Massachusetts
Attorney General’s office seeking documents concerning the use of AWP and other pricing and/or marketing practices. The Company is cooperating with these
investigations. The outcome of these investigations could include the imposition of substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies.
Massachusetts Investigation. The U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts is also investigating whether the Company’s sales of a product
manufactured under a private label arrangement with a managed care organization should have been included in the Company’s Medicaid best price calculations. In
early November 2002, the Company was served with two
-96-Table of Contents
additional grand jury subpoenas by the U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts. Among other information, the subpoenas seek a broad range of information
concerning the Company’s sales, marketing and clinical trial practices and programs with respect to INTRON A, REBETRON and TEMODAR; the Company’s sales
and marketing contacts with managed care organizations and doctors; and the Company’s offering or provision of grants, honorariums or other items or services of
value to managed care organizations, physician groups, doctors and educational institutions. The Company understands that this investigation is focused on
whether certain sales, marketing and clinical trial practices and conduct related thereto, which in certain instances relate to the use of one or more of the above-
mentioned products for indications for which FDA approval had not been obtained - so-called “off-label” uses - were in violation of federal laws and regulations with
respect to off-label promotional activities. The investigation also appears to focus on whether drug samples, clinical trial grants and other items or services of value
were given to providers to incentivize them to prescribe one or more of the above-mentioned products, including for “off-label” uses, in violation of the federal health
care anti-kickback laws. The Company has implemented certain changes to its sales, marketing and clinical trial practices and is continuing to review those practices
to ensure compliance with relevant laws and regulations. The Company is cooperating with these investigations. Future sales of INTRON A, REBETRON and
TEMODAR may be adversely affected, but the Company cannot at this time predict the ultimate impact, if any, on such sales. The outcome of these investigations
could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings involving the imposition of substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative
remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs. During the 2003 third quarter, the Company increased its litigation reserves related to the
investigations by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts described in this paragraph and the paragraph immediately preceding it and the
investigation described above by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, by $350. The increased litigation reserves reflect an adjustment
to the Company’s estimate of its minimum liability relating to those investigations, in compliance with GAAP. Under GAAP, companies are required to estimate and
recognize a minimum liability when a loss is probable but no better estimate of the loss can be made. In the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company increased its litigation
reserves by $150 for the same matters. The Company notes that its total reserves reflect an estimate and that any final settlement or adjudication of any of these
matters could possibly be less than or could materially exceed the aggregate liability accrued by the Company and could have a materially adverse effect on the
operations or financial condition of the Company. The Company cannot predict the timing of resolution of these matters or their outcomes.
As reported in the 8-K filed May 30, 2003, Schering-Plough has disclosed that, in connection with the above-described investigations by the U.S. Attorney’s Office
for the District of Massachusetts into its sales, marketing and clinical trial practices, among other matters, on May 28, 2003, Schering Corporation, a wholly owned
and significant operating subsidiary of Schering-Plough, received a letter (the “Boston Target Letter”) from that Office advising that Schering Corporation (including
its subsidiaries and divisions) is a target of a federal criminal investigation with respect to four areas:
1. Providing remuneration, such as drug samples, clinical trial grants and other items or services of value, to managed care organizations, physicians and others to
induce the purchase of Schering pharmaceutical products for which payment was made through federal health care programs;
-97-Table of Contents
2. Sale of misbranded or unapproved drugs, which the Company understands to mean drugs promoted for indications for which approval by the U.S. FDA had not
been obtained (so-called “off-label uses”);
3. Submitting false pharmaceutical pricing information to the government for purposes of calculating rebates required to be paid to the Medicaid program, by failing
to include prices of products under a repackaging arrangement with a managed care customer as well as the prices of free and nominally priced goods provided to
that customer to induce the purchase of Schering products; and
4. Document destruction and obstruction of justice relating to the government’s investigation.
A “target” is defined in Department of Justice guidelines as a person as to whom the prosecutor or the grand jury has substantial evidence linking him or her to the
commission of a crime and who, in the judgment of the prosecutor, is a putative defendant (U.S. Attorney’s Manual, Section 9-11.151).
Consumer Products Matter. The U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, is investigating whether the Company’s Consumer Products Division entered into an
agreement with another company to lower the commission rate of a consumer products broker. In February 2003, the Antitrust Division served a grand jury subpoena
on the Company seeking documents for the first time. The Company is cooperating with the investigation.
NITRO-DUR Investigation. In August 2003, the Company received a civil investigative subpoena issued by the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services, seeking documents concerning the Company’s classification of NITRO-DUR for Medicaid rebate purposes, and the Company’s use of
nominal pricing and bundling of product sales. The Company is cooperating with the investigation. It appears that the subpoena is one of a number addressed to
pharmaceutical companies concerning an inquiry into issues relating to the payment of government rebates.
Securities and Class Action Litigation
On February 15, 2001, the Company stated in a press release that the FDA had been conducting inspections of the Company’s manufacturing facilities in New Jersey
and Puerto Rico and had issued reports citing deficiencies concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, primarily relating to production
processes, controls and procedures. The next day, February 16, 2001, a lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against the Company
and certain named officers alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. Additional
lawsuits of the same tenor followed. These complaints were consolidated into one action in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey, and a lead plaintiff,
the Florida State Board of Administration, was appointed by the Court on July 2, 2001. On October 11, 2001, a consolidated amended complaint was filed, alleging the
same violations described in the second sentence of this paragraph and purporting to represent a class of shareholders who purchased shares of Company stock
from May 9, 2000, through February 15, 2001. The Company’s motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint was denied on May 24, 2002. On October 10,
2003, the Court certified the shareholder class. Discovery is ongoing.
In addition to the lawsuits described in the immediately preceding paragraph, two lawsuits were filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey, and two
lawsuits were filed in New
-98-Table of Contents
Jersey state court against the Company (as a nominal defendant) and certain officers, directors and a former director seeking damages on behalf of the Company,
including disgorgement of trading profits made by defendants allegedly obtained on the basis of material non-public information. The complaints in each of those
four lawsuits relate to the issues described in the Company’s February 15, 2001, press release, and allege a failure to disclose material information and breach of
fiduciary duty by the directors. One of the federal court lawsuits also includes allegations related to the investigations by the U.S. Attorney’s Offices for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania and the District of Massachusetts, the FTC’s administrative proceeding against the Company, and the lawsuit by the state of Texas against
Warrick Pharmaceuticals (Warrick), the Company’s generics subsidiary, all of which are described herein. Each of these lawsuits is a shareholder derivative action
that purports to assert claims on behalf of the Company, but as to which no demand was made on the Board of Directors and no decision has been made on whether
the Company can or should pursue such claims. In August 2001, the plaintiffs in each of the New Jersey state court shareholder derivative actions moved to dismiss
voluntarily the complaints in those actions, which motions were granted. The two shareholder derivative actions pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of
New Jersey have been consolidated into one action, which is in its very early stages. On January 2, 2002, the Company received a demand letter dated December 26,
2001, from a law firm not involved in the derivative actions described above, on behalf of a shareholder who also is not involved in the derivative actions, demanding
that the Board of Directors bring claims on behalf of the Company based on allegations substantially similar to those alleged in the derivative actions. On January 22,
2002, the Board of Directors adopted a Board resolution establishing an Evaluation Committee, consisting of three directors, to investigate, review and analyze the
facts and circumstances surrounding the allegations made in the demand letter and the consolidated amended derivative action complaint described above, but
reserving to the full Board authority and discretion to exercise its business judgment in respect of the proper disposition of the demand. The Committee engaged
independent outside counsel to advise it and issued a report on the findings of its investigation to the independent directors of the Board in late October 2002. That
report determined that the shareholder demand should be refused, and finding no liability on the part of any officers or directors. In November 2002, the full Board
adopted the recommendation of the Evaluation Committee.
On August 9, 2001, the Prescription Access Litigation project (PAL), a Boston-based group formed in 2001 to litigate against drug companies, issued a press release
stating that PAL members filed a lawsuit in New Jersey state court against the Company. In December 2001, the Company was served with an amended complaint in
the case. The suit, which PAL purports to be a class action, alleges, among other things, that the Company’s direct-to-consumer advertising falsely depicts the
benefits of CLARITIN in violation of the New Jersey Consumer Fraud Act. In February 2002, the Company filed a motion to dismiss this case. In May 2002, the court
dismissed the complaint in its entirety for failure to state a claim. After the plaintiffs’ appeal was denied by the New Jersey state court, the plaintiffs requested that the
New Jersey Supreme Court hear the case. That request has been denied, ending the litigation.
The Company is a defendant in a number of purported nationwide or state class action lawsuits in which plaintiffs seek a refund of the purchase price of laxatives or
phenylpropanolamine-containing cough/cold remedies (“PPA products”) they purchased. Other pharmaceutical manufacturers are co-defendants in some of these
lawsuits. In general, plaintiffs claim that they would not have purchased or would have paid less for these products had they known of certain defects or medical
risks attendant with their use. In the litigation of the claims relating to the Company’s PPA products, courts in the national class action suit and several state class
action
-99-Table of Contents
suits have denied certification and dismissed the suits. A similar application to dismiss in New Jersey, the only remaining statewide class action suit involving the
Company, is pending. Approximately 122 individual lawsuits relating to the laxative products, PPA products and recalled albuterol/VANCERIL/VANCENASE inhalers
are also pending against the Company seeking recovery for personal injuries or death. In a number of these lawsuits punitive damages are claimed.
On March 31, 2003, the Company was served with a putative class action complaint filed in the U.S. District Court in New Jersey alleging that the Company, Richard
Jay Kogan (who resigned as Chairman of the Board November 13, 2002, and retired as Chief Executive Officer, President and Director of the Company April 20, 2003)
and the Company’s Employee Savings Plan (Plan) administrator breached their fiduciary obligations to certain participants in the Plan. The allegations primarily relate
to disclosures about the Company’s Good Manufacturing Practices issues (which are discussed earlier in this “Securities and Class Action Litigation” section in
relation to the Company’s disclosures about its consent decree with FDA and related matters) and disclosures about the meetings with investors the week of
September 30, 2002 and other communications (discussed under “SEC Inquiry and Related Litigation” below). In May 2003, the Company was served with a second
putative class action complaint filed in the same court with allegations nearly identical to the complaint filed March 31, 2003. On October 6, 2003, a consolidated
amended complaint was filed, which names as additional defendants the following directors: Eugene McGrath, Donald Miller, Carl Mundy, Patricia Russo, Kathryn
Turner; two former directors: James Wood and Regina Herzlinger; and other corporate officers. The consolidated amended complaint also contains allegations
associated with the Boston Target Letter described under the “Investigations” section in this footnote. The Company has filed a motion to dismiss this complaint.
On August 18, 2003, a lawsuit filed in the New Jersey Superior Court, Chancery Division, Union County, was served on the Company (as a nominal defendant) and
the Company’s outside directors, alleging breach of fiduciary duty by the directors relating to the Company’s receipt of the Boston Target Letter described under the
“Investigations” section in this footnote. This action has been temporarily stayed pending adjudication of a separate but related action framed as a shareholder
request for access to the Company’s books and records and seeking documents and other information relating to the Massachusetts investigation.
Antitrust and FTC Matters
The Company is a defendant in numerous antitrust actions commenced (starting in 1993) in state and federal courts by independent retail pharmacies, chain retail
pharmacies and consumers. The plaintiffs allege price discrimination and/or conspiracy between the Company and other defendants to restrain trade by jointly
refusing to sell prescription drugs at discounted prices to the plaintiffs. The Company, in February 1996, agreed to settle a federal class action on behalf of
approximately two-thirds of all retail pharmacies in the United States for a total of $22, which has been paid in full. The U.S. District Court in Illinois approved the
settlement of the federal class action in 1996. In 1997, the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed all appeals from that settlement, and it is not subject to further
review.
In April 1997, certain of the plaintiffs in the federal class action commenced another purported class action in the U.S. District Court in Illinois against the Company
and the other defendants who settled the previous federal class action. The complaint alleges that the defendants conspired not to implement the settlement
commitments following the settlement discussed above. The District Court has denied the plaintiffs’ motion for a preliminary injunction hearing.
-100-Table of Contents
The Company has either settled or had dismissed on motion all the state court retailer and consumer actions. The settlement amounts were not material to the
Company.
The Federal Court in Illinois remanded the conspiracy portion of the cases of those retailers that opted out of the class action back to the district courts where they
were filed. These cases have now been consolidated in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, New York. The Federal Court in Illinois has jurisdiction over the Robinson-
Patman portion of these cases. A trial of the conspiracy claims is set to begin in October 2004.
Plaintiffs in these antitrust actions generally seek treble damages in an unspecified amount and an injunction against the allegedly unlawful conduct.
On April 2, 2001, the FTC started an administrative proceeding against the Company, Upsher-Smith, Inc. (Upsher-Smith) and Lederle. The complaint alleges anti-
competitive effects from the settlement of patent lawsuits between the Company and Lederle, and the Company and Upsher-Smith. The lawsuits that were settled
related to generic versions of K-DUR, the Company’s long-acting potassium chloride product, which was the subject of ANDAs filed by Lederle and Upsher-Smith.
In June 2002, the administrative law judge overseeing the case issued a decision that the patent litigation settlements complied with the law in all respects and
dismissed all claims against the Company. An appeal of this decision to the full Commission was filed by the FTC staff. On December 18, 2003, the full Commission
issued an opinion that reversed a 2002 decision of an Administrative Law Judge who had found no violation of the antitrust laws, ruling instead that the Company’s
settlements did in fact violate those laws. The FTC’s decision does not involve a monetary penalty. The Company has appealed the decision to a federal court of
appeals. K-DUR is a potassium chloride supplement used by cardiac patients.
Following the commencement of the FTC administrative proceeding, alleged class action suits were filed on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of K-DUR against
the Company, Upsher-Smith and Lederle in federal and state courts. These suits all allege essentially the same facts and claim violations of federal and state antitrust
laws, as well as other state statutory and/or common law causes of action. A motion to dismiss these actions is pending.
Pricing Matters
During the third quarter of 2000, Warrick Pharmaceuticals (Warrick), the Company’s generics subsidiary, was sued by the state of Texas. In June 2002, the Company
and its subsidiary, Schering Corporation, were added as defendants. The lawsuit alleges that Warrick supplied the state with false reports of wholesale prices, which
caused the state to pay Medicaid claims on prescriptions of Warrick’s albuterol sulfate solution and inhaler at a higher-than-justified level. The state seeks damages
of approximately $106 against Warrick, including treble damages and penalties. A trial date of April 12, 2004 has been set. The outcome of the litigation could result in
the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive remedies. If this case goes to trial, there are no assurances that the damages sought by the state will not exceed the
amount set forth in the state’s petition.
In December 2001, PAL filed a class action suit in Federal Court in Massachusetts against the Company. In September 2002, a consolidated complaint was filed in this
court as a result of the coordination by the Multi-District Litigation Panel of all federal court AWP cases from throughout the country. The consolidated complaint
alleges that the Company and Warrick conspired with providers to defraud consumers by reporting fraudulently high AWPs for
-101-Table of Contents
prescription medications reimbursed by Medicare or third-party payers. The complaint seeks a declaratory judgment and unspecified damages, including treble
damages.
Included in the PAL litigation described in the prior paragraph are lawsuits that allege that the Company and Warrick reported inflated AWPs for prescription
pharmaceuticals and thereby caused state and federal entities and third-party payers to make excess reimbursements to providers. Some of these actions also allege
that the Company and Warrick failed to report accurate prices under the Medicaid Rebate Program and thereby underpaid rebates to some states. These actions,
which began in October 2001, have been brought by state Attorneys General, private plaintiffs, nonprofit organizations and employee benefit funds. They allege
violations of federal and state law, including fraud, antitrust, Racketeer Influenced Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) and other claims. In addition, Warrick and the
Company are defendants in a number of such lawsuits in state courts. The actions are generally brought by states and/or political subdivisions and seek unspecified
damages, including treble and punitive damages.
SEC Inquiries and Related Litigation
The SEC is investigating compliance by Polish subsidiaries of certain pharmaceutical companies with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 pursuant to an
order dated November 13, 2003. The Company has voluntarily produced documents related to our Polish subsidiary and subsidiaries in other countries. The
Company continues to cooperate with the SEC’s requests. The Company is also cooperating with inquiries from the police in Katowice, Poland asking for related
information.
On September 9, 2003, the SEC and the Company announced settlement of the SEC enforcement proceeding against the Company and Richard Jay Kogan, former
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, regarding meetings held with investors the week of September 30, 2002, and other communications. Without admitting or
denying the allegations, the Company agreed not to commit future violations of Regulation FD and related securities laws and paid a civil penalty of $1 (million).
Mr. Kogan paid a civil penalty of $50 thousand.
The federal putative class actions filed against the Company and Mr. Kogan regarding the meetings held with investors the week of September 30, 2002, and other
communications were consolidated and, pursuant to that consolidation, an amended complaint dated March 13, 2003, was filed, alleging violations of Sections 10(b),
20(a) and 20(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 relating to the alleged disclosures made during the meetings mentioned in the paragraph above. The Company
filed a motion to dismiss these class actions May 6, 2003, and the plaintiffs have sought leave of the court, and thereafter filed a second amended complaint. On
October 14, 2003, the Company moved to dismiss the second amended complaint.
On September 25, 2003, a lawsuit was filed in New Jersey Superior Court, Union County, against Richard Jay Kogan and the Company’s outside Directors alleging
breach of fiduciary duty, fraud and deceit and negligent misrepresentation, all relating to the alleged disclosures made during the meetings mentioned above. The
Company removed this case to federal court. A motion to remand to state court is pending.
Other Matters
The Company is subject to pharmacovigilance reporting requirements in many countries and other jurisdictions, including the United States, the European Union
(EU) and the EU member states. The requirements differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but all include requirements for
-102-Table of Contents
reporting adverse events that occur while a patient is using a particular drug in order to alert the manufacturer of the drug and the governmental agency to potential
problems.
During pharmacovigilance inspections by officials of the British and French medicines agencies conducted at the request of the European Agency for the Evaluation
of Medicinal Products (EMEA), serious deficiencies in reporting processes were identified. The Company is taking urgent actions to rectify these deficiencies as
quickly as possible. The Company does not know what action, if any, the EMEA or national authorities will take in response to these findings. Possible actions
include further inspections, demands for improvements in reporting systems, criminal sanctions against the Company and/or responsible individuals and changes in
the conditions of marketing authorizations for the Company’s products.
In April 2003, the Company received notice of a False Claims Act complaint brought by an individual purporting to act on behalf of the U.S. government against it
and approximately 25 other pharmaceutical companies in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that the pharmaceutical
companies, including the Company, have defrauded the United States by having made sales to various federal governmental agencies of drugs that were allegedly
manufactured in a manner that did not comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices. The Company and the other defendants filed a motion to dismiss this
action on July 23, 2003.
Tax Matters
In October 2001, IRS auditors asserted, in reports, that the Company is liable for additional tax for the 1990 through 1992 tax years. The reports allege that two interest
rate swaps that the Company entered into with an unrelated party should be recharacterized as loans from affiliated companies, resulting in additional tax on income.
The tax sought by the IRS auditors relating to recharacterization is approximately $195, plus interest. Depending upon the Court the Company chooses to litigate the
case, it may be required to pay the tax, and possibly interest prior to litigation. The Company estimates the interest to be approximately $280. Should the Company
prevail in the litigation, any amounts paid prior to the litigation would be returned to the Company, plus accrued interest. The Company could also choose to litigate
the case in a Court that would not require payment of tax or interest prior to the litigation. Management believes that it is probable that this matter will be litigated.
Management also believes that its tax reserves are sufficient to absorb any loss resulting from an unfavorable outcome of this litigation.
-103-Table of Contents
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Schering-Plough Corporation
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Schering-Plough Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003. Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule listed at Item 15. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Corporation’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Schering-Plough Corporation and subsidiaries
as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered
in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
/s/DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Parsippany, New Jersey
February 19, 2004
-104-Table of Contents
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)
Three Months Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31
(Dollars in millions, except per share figures) 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002
Net sales (1) $2,082 $2,556 $2,308 $2,833 $1,998 $2,421 $1,948 $2,370
Cost of sales 658 579 784 675 652 644 739 607
Gross profit 1,424 1,977 1,524 2,158 1,346 1,777 1,209 1,763
Selling, general and administrative 843 919 938 995 873 870 821 897
Research and development (1) 322 305 369 357 382 354 395 409
Other (income) expense, net (1) 13 (26) (4) (16) 41 (4) 10 (98)
Special charges — — 20 — 350 — 229 150
Equity (income)/loss from cholesterol joint
venture (1) 30 — (26) — (24) — (33) —
(Loss)/income before income taxes 216 779 227 822 (276) 557 (213) 405
Income tax (benefit)/expense 43 179 45 189 (11) 128 (32) 92
Net (loss)/income $ 173 $ 600 $ 182 $ 633 $ (265) $ 429 $ (181) $ 313
Diluted (loss)/earnings per common share $ .12 $ .41 $ .12 $ .43 $ (.18) $ .29 $ (.12) $ .21
Basic (loss)/earnings per common share .12 .41 .12 .43 (.18) .29 (.12) .21
Dividends per common share .17 .16 .17 .17 .17 .17 .055 .17
Common share prices:
High 23.68 36.00 20.47 30.77 19.35 25.50 17.39 23.25
Low 15.45 30.94 16.82 23.30 14.95 20.75 14.52 17.30
Average shares outstanding for diluted EPS
(in millions) 1,470 1,471 1,471 1,470 1,469 1,469 1,470 1,469
Average shares outstanding for basic EPS (in
millions) 1,468 1,466 1,469 1,466 1,469 1,466 1,470 1,467
(1) Effective for 2003, the Company is presenting its collaboration with Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck) following the equity method of accounting. Under that method, the
Company records its share of the operating profits less its share of research and development costs in “Equity (income)/loss from cholesterol joint venture.” The
operating profits of the venture that had been included in net sales as alliance revenue in the first three quarters of 2003 have been reclassified to “Equity
(income)/loss from cholesterol joint venture.” Also, the Company’s share of the venture’s research and development costs, which had been reported in “Research
and development” in the previous quarters of 2003, have been reclassified to “Equity (income)/loss from cholesterol joint venture.” Further, in the second quarter of
2003, the Company earned a milestone from Merck of $20 that had been reported in “Other (income) expense, net” in the second quarter. This amount has also been
reclassified to “Equity (income)/loss from cholesterol joint venture.” Prior years have not been affected by this new presentation. See “Equity Income from
Cholesterol Joint Venture” footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
See “Special Charges” footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to Special Charges.
-105-Table of Contents
Cost of sales in the 2002 fourth quarter includes a favorable adjustment of $92 to reflect the settlement of arbitration relating to, among other things, royalty payments
to Biogen. The full year impact is not material because the fourth quarter adjustment is partially offset by related accruals made in the previous three quarters of 2002.
Other (income) expense, net in the 2002 fourth quarter includes a gain of $80 from the sale of U.S. marketing rights for SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX.
The Company’s common shares are listed and principally traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The approximate number of holders of record of common shares as
of January 31, 2004 was 44,000.
-106-Table of Contents
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
Not applicable.
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
Management, including the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer, has evaluated the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of
the period covered by this Form 10-K and has concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective. They also concluded that there were
no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company’s most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or
are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Part III
Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
The information concerning directors and nominees for directors as set forth under the captions “Election of Directors” and “Stock Ownership” in the Company’s
Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of shareholders on April 27, 2004 is incorporated herein by reference.
Information required as to executive officers is included in Part I of this filing under the caption “Executive Officers of the Registrant.”
The Company’s Board of Directors has determined that the Company has at least one audit committee financial expert serving on its audit committee. The financial
expert is Arthur F. Weinbach, and he is independent as defined in the New York Stock Exchange Listing standards, the more restrictive Schering-Plough Board
Independence Standard found in the Schering-Plough Corporate Governance Guidelines (available on the Web site and also included in the Proxy Statement) and as
required under Rule 10A-3(b)(1) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers that applies to the Company’s chief executive officer, chief financial officer and controller.
The Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers is filed as Exhibit 14 to this Form 10-K.
A written copy of the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, as well as the Business Conduct Policy for all employees and the Directors’ Code of Conduct and
Ethics, will be provided at no charge by writing to the Corporate Secretary, Schering-Plough Corporation, 2000 Galloping Hill Road, Mail Stop K-1-4525, Kenilworth,
New Jersey 07033. Also, the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, the Business Conduct Policy for all employees and the Directors’ Code of Conduct and
Ethics are available on the Schering-Plough Web site at http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=89839&p=irol-govConduct.
-107-Table of Contents
Item 11. Executive Compensation
Executive compensation information as set forth under the caption “Executive Compensation” in the Company’s Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of
shareholders on April 27, 2004 is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
Information concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management as set forth under the caption “Stock Ownership” in the Company’s Proxy
Statement for the annual meeting of shareholders on April 27, 2004 is incorporated herein by reference.
Equity Compensation Plan Information — The following information relates to plans under which equity securities of the Company may be issued to employees or
directors. The Company has no plans under which equity securities may be issued to non-employees (except that under the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan and
predecessor plans, certain stock options may be transferable to family members of the employee-optionee or related trusts).
Column C
Column A Number of securities
Number of securities Column B remaining available for future
to be issued upon Weighted-average issuance under equity
exercise of exercise price of compensation plans
outstanding options, outstanding options, (excluding securities
Plan Category warrants and rights warrants and rights reflected in Column A)
Equity compensation plans
approved by security
holders
2002 Stock Incentive
Plan and
Predecessor Plans 71,000,000 $ 30.15 45,000,000
Equity compensation plans
not approved by security
holders
Directors Stock Award
Plan* N/A N/A 562,008
Schering-Plough (Ireland)
Share Purchase
Scheme** N/A N/A **
Non-plan inducement awards
not approved by security 300,000 restricted
holders shares*** N/A 0
Total 45,562,008
-108-Table of Contents
___________________
*The Plan provides an annual grant of 2,500 shares of common stock to each non-employee director. Directors may defer awards into stock units that pay out in
shares of common stock when the deferral period ends.
___________________
**The Plan permits employees who reside in Ireland to enjoy tax advantages by having some or all of their Christmas bonus and between 1% and 5% of their pay
passed to a trustee. The trustee purchases shares of common stock in the open market and allocates the shares to the employees’ accounts. No more than 10,000
Irish pounds by an employee may be deferred in a year. Employees may not sell or withdraw shares allocated to their accounts for two to three years.
___________________
***Represents restricted shares awarded pursuant to Restricted Shares Agreements outside of any equity compensation plan adopted by the Company. Mr. Hassan
was awarded 200,000 restricted shares upon the commencement of his employment in April 2003. Ms. Cox was awarded 100,000 restricted shares upon the
commencement of her employment in May 2003. Both awards of restricted shares vest upon the third anniversary of the award date. Such non-plan awards were
authorized by the Compensation Committee of the Board but have not been approved by the stockholders of the Company.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
Information concerning certain relationships and related transactions as set forth under the caption “Certain Transactions” in the Company’s Proxy Statement for the
annual meeting of shareholders on April 27, 2004 is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services
Information concerning principal accountant fees and services as set forth under the caption “Ratification of Designation of Independent Auditors” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of shareholders on April 27, 2004 is incorporated herein by reference.
-109-Table of Contents
Part IV
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K
(a)1. The financial statements are set forth under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(a)2.Financial Statement Schedules
Page in
Form 10-K
Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 118
Schedules not included have been omitted because they are not applicable or not required or because the required information is set forth in the financial statements
or the notes thereto. Columns omitted from schedules filed have been omitted because the information is not applicable.
Financial statements of fifty percent or less owned companies accounted for by the equity method have been omitted because, considered individually or in the
aggregate, they do not constitute a significant subsidiary.
-110-Table of Contents
(a)3. Exhibits
Exhibit
Number Description
3 (a) A complete copy of the Certificate of Incorporation as amended and currently in effect. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to
the Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1995 on Form 10-Q; Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
Incorporation incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1997 on
Form 10-Q; Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Company’s
Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 1999 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.
3 (b) A complete copy of the By-Laws as amended and currently in effect. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(2) to the Company’s
Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-853; amendment to By-Laws effective September 22, 1998 incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended September 30, 1998 on Form 10-Q; amendment to By-
Laws effective April 24, 2001 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended
March 31, 2001 on Form 10-Q; amendment to By-Laws effective December 3, 2001 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to the
Company’s Annual Report for 2001 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.
4 (a) Rights Agreement between the Company and the Bank of New York dated June 24, 1997. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to
the Form 8-A filed by the Company on June 30, 1997, File No. 1-6571.
4 (b) Form of Participation Rights Agreement between the Company and the Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association) as Trustee.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-4, Amendment No. 1, File No. 33-
65107.
4 (c)(i) Indenture, dated November 26, 2001, between the Company and The Bank of New York as Trustee incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s 8-K filed November 28, 2003, File No. 1-6571.
4 (c)(ii) First Supplemental Indenture (including Form of Note), dated November 26, 2003, incorporated by reference from 8-K filed
November 28, 2003, File No. 1-6571.
-111-Table of Contents
Exhibit
Number Description
4 (c)(iii) Second Supplemental Indenture (including Form of Note), dated November 26, 2003, incorporated by reference from 8-K filed
November 28, 2003, File No. 1-6571.
4 (c)(iv) 5.30% Global Senior Note, due 2013 (filed with this document).
4 (c)(v) 6.50% Global Senior Note, due 2033 (filed with this document).
10 (a) (i) The Company’s Executive Incentive Plan (as amended) and Trust related thereto.* Plan incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to
the Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 1994 on Form 10-Q; Executive Incentive Plan as Amended and
Restated to October 1, 2000 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) (i) to the Company’s Annual Report for 2000 on Form 10-K,
File No. 1-6571.
10 (a) (ii) Trust Agreement* incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company’s Annual Report for 1988 on Form 10-K; amendment
to Trust Agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31,
1997 on Form 10-Q; Amended and Restated Defined Contribution Trust incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to the
Company’s Annual Report for 2000 on Form 10-K , File No. 1-6571.
10 (b) The Company’s 1992 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended).* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company’s Annual
Report for 1992 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571; amendment of December 11, 1995 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the
Company’s Annual Report for 1995 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571; amendment of February 25, 2003 incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(b) to the Company’s Annual Report for 2002 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.
10 (c) The Company’s 1997 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended).* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company’s Quarterly
Report for the period ended September 30, 1997 on Form 10-Q; Amendment to 1997 Stock Incentive Plan incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 1999 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571; amendment
of February 25, 2003 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company’s Annual Report for 2002 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-
6571.
10 (d) The Company’s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan.* Incorporated by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement for the annual meeting
of shareholders on April 23, 2002; amendment of February 25, 2003 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company’s
Annual Report for 2002 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.
-112-Table of Contents
Exhibit
Number Description
10 (e) (i) Employment Agreement dated as of April 20, 2003 between Fred Hassan and Schering-Plough Corporation, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Schering-Plough Corporation 8-K filed April 21, 2003, File No. 1-6571*
10 (e) (ii) Employment Agreement dated as of May 12, 2003 between Carrie Cox and Schering-Plough Corporation, incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 99.6 to the Schering-Plough Corporation 8-K filed May 13, 2003, File No. 1-6571*
10 (e) (iii) Letter agreement dated November 4, 2003 between Robert Bertolini and Schering-Plough Corporation (filed with this document)*
10 (e) (iv) Employment Agreement effective upon a change of control dated as of November 17, 2003 between Robert Bertolini and Schering-
Plough Corporation (filed with this document)*
10 (e) (v) Retirement Agreement between Richard Jay Kogan and Schering-Plough Corporation, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to
Form 8-K filed November 13, 2002, File No. 1-6571*
10 (e) (vi) Employment agreement between the Company and Richard Jay Kogan (as amended).* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(ii)
to the Company’s Annual Report for 1989 on Form 10-K; first amendment incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1994 on Form 10-Q; second amendment incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(e)(ii) to the Company’s Annual Report for 1994 on Form 10-K; third amendment incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(a) to the Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended September 30, 1995 on Form 10-Q; fourth amendment
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 1998 on Form 10-Q;
fifth amendment incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(ii) to the Company’s Annual Report for 1998 on Form 10-K; sixth
amendment incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 2002 on
Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.
-113-Table of Contents
Exhibit
Number Description
10 (e) (vii) Form of employment agreement between the Company and its executive officers effective upon a change of control.* Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(iv) to the Company’s Annual Report for 1994 on Form 10-K; Form of amendment incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended September 30, 1999 on Form 10-Q; Forms of
amendment effective January 1, 2002 incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10(e) (ii) (A) and (B) to the Company’s Annual Report
for 2001 on Form 10-K; Form of employment agreement between the Company and its executive officers effective upon a change of
control incorporating all prior amendments through January 1, 2002 and for new agreements effective beginning January 1, 2002,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(ii)(C) to the Company’s Annual Report for 2001 on Form 10-K, File no. 1-6571.
10(e)(viii) Supplement to employment agreement effective upon a change of control (described in Exhibit 10(e)(vii) of this document index)
between the Company and Joseph C. Connors, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(vi) to the Company’s Annual Report for
2001 on Form 10-K*, File No. 1-6571.
10 (e) (ix) First amendment to supplement to employment agreement effective upon a change of control (described in Exhibit 10(e)(viii) of this
document index) dated as of December 16, 2003 between Joseph C. Connors and Schering-Plough Corporation (filed with this
document)*
10 (e) (x) Supplement to employment agreement effective upon a change of control (described in Exhibit 10(e)(vii) of this document index)
dated as of January 1, 2002 between Schering-Plough Corporation and Raul Kohan (filed with this document)*
10(e)(xi) Supplement to employment agreement effective upon a change of control (described in Exhibit 10(e)(vii) of this document index)
between the Company and Jack Wyszomierski, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(vii) to the Company’s Annual Report for
2001 on Form 10-K*, File No. 1-6571.
10(e)(xii) Supplement to employment agreement effective upon a change of control (described in Exhibit 10(e)(vii) of this document index)
between the Company and Richard W. Zahn, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(viii) to the Company’s Annual Report for
2001 on Form 10-K*, File No. 1-6571.
-114-Table of Contents
Exhibit
Number Description
10 (f) Amended and Restated Directors Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust related thereto.* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(b) to the Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended September 30, 1999 on Form 10-Q; Trust Agreement incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company’s Annual Report for 1998 on Form 10-K; amendment to Trust Agreement incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 1997 on Form 10-Q; Amended and
Restated Defined Contribution Trust incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to the Company’s Annual Report for 2000 on
Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.
10 (g) Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and Trust related thereto.* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Company’s
Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 1998 on Form 10-Q; Amendment incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended September 30, 1998 on Form 10-Q, Second Amendment to Supplemental
Executive Retirement Plan effective as of October 1, 2000; incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Company’s Annual
Report for 2000 on Form 10-K; Amended and Restated Trust Agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the
Company’s Annual Report for 1998 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.
10 (h) Amended and Restated Directors Stock Award Plan incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(h) to the Company’s Annual Report
for 2002 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.*
10 (i) Deferred Compensation Plan.* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended
September 30, 1995 on Form 10-Q; Deferred Compensation Plan as Amended and Restated to October 1, 2000 incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(h) to the Company’s Annual Report for 2000 on Form 10-K , File No. 1-6571.
10 (j) Amended and Restated Directors Deferred Stock Equivalency Program.* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the
Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended September 30, 1999 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.
10 (k) The Company’s Form of Split Dollar Agreement and related Collateral Assignment between the Company and its Executive
Officers.* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Company’s Annual Report for 1997 on Form 10-K; amendments
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Company’s Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 1998 on Form 10-Q,
File No. 1-6571.
-115-Table of Contents
Exhibit
Number Description
10 (l) The Company’s Retirement Benefits Equalization Plan, Second Amendment effective as of October 1, 2000 incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(l) to the Company’s Annual Report for 2000 on Form 10-K.* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company’s Quarterly
Report for the period ended March 31, 1998 on Form 10-Q; amendment incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company’s Quarterly
Report for the period ended September 30, 1998 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.
10 (m) Operations Management Team Incentive Plan (filed with this document)*
10 (n) Cash Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with this document)*
10 (o) Long-Term Performance Share Unit Incentive Plan (filed with this document)*
10 (p) Transformational Performance Contingent Shares Program (filed
with this document)*
10 (q) Cholesterol Governance Agreement, dated as of May 22, 2000, by and among the Company, Merck & Co., Inc. and the other parties
signatory thereto. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 21, 2002.**
10 (r) First Amendment to the Cholesterol Governance Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2001, by and among the Company, Merck & Co., Inc.
and the other parties signatory thereto. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
October 21, 2002.**
10 (s) Master Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2001, by and among the Company, Merck & Co., Inc. and the other parties signatory thereto.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 21, 2002.**
10 (t).1 Consent Decree of Permanent Injunction, dated May 16, 2002, by and among the Company and the other parties thereto. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 20, 2002.
10 (t).2 Letter Agreement dated April 14, 2003 relating to Consent Decree incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Company’s Quarterly
Report for the period ended March 31, 2003 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.
-116-Table of Contents
Exhibit
Number Description
10 (u) Distribution agreement between the Company and Centocor, Inc., dated April 3, 1998.***
12 Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges (filed with this document).
14 Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Executives (filed with this document).
21 Subsidiaries of the registrant (filed with this document).
23 Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP (filed with this document).
24 Power of attorney (filed with this document).
31.1 Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Section 302 Certification for Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President (filed with
this document).
31.2 Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Section 302 Certification for Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (filed with this
document).
32.1 Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Section 906 Certification for Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President (filed with
this document).
32.2 Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Section 906 Certification for Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (filed with this
document).
*Compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.
** Note that information is omitted from Exhibits 10 (q), 10 (r) and 10 (s) pursuant to a request for confidential treatment and is filed separately with the Securities
and Exchange Commission pursuant to rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
*** Note that information is omitted from Exhibit 10(u) pursuant to a request for confidential treatment and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
All other exhibits are not applicable. Copies of above exhibits will be furnished upon request.
-117-Table of Contents
(b) Reports on Form 8-K.
During the three-month period ended December 31, 2003, the Company filed (or furnished) eleven current reports on Form 8-K:
1. Report on Form 8-K, filed October 10, 2003, under Item 5 - Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure, Item 7 - Financial Statements and Exhibits and
Item 9 - Regulation FD Disclosure.
2. Report on Form 8-K, filed October 22, 2003, under Item 5 - Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure, Item 7 - Financial Statements and Exhibits and
Item 12 - Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
3. Report on Form 8-K, filed October 24, 2003, under Item 5 - Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure and Item 7 - Financial Statements and Exhibits.
4. Report on Form 8-K, filed November 5, 2003, under Item 7 - Financial Statements and Exhibits and Item 9 - Regulation FD Disclosure.
5. Report on Form 8-K, filed November 12, 2003, under Item 5 - Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure and Item 7 - Financial Statements and Exhibits.
6. Report on Form 8-K/A, filed November 19, 2003, under Item 5 - Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure and Item 7 - Financial Statements and
Exhibits.
7. Report on Form 8-K, filed November 21, 2003, under Item 5 - Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure and Item 7 - Financial Statements and Exhibits.
8. Report on Form 8-K, filed November 21, 2003, under Item 7 - Financial Statements and Exhibits and Item 9 - Regulation FD Disclosure.
9. Report on Form 8-K, filed November 24, 2003, under Item 5 - Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure and Item 7 - Financial Statements and Exhibits.
10. Report on Form 8-K, filed November 28, 2003, under Item 5 - Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure and Item 7 - Financial Statements and Exhibits.
11. Report on Form 8-K, filed December 18, 2003, under Item 5 - Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure, Item 7 - Financial Statements and Exhibits and
Item 9 – Regulation FD Disclosure.
-118-Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Schering-Plough Corporation
(Registrant)
Date February 26, 2004
By /s/ Thomas H. Kelly
Thomas H. Kelly
Vice President and Controller
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated.
By /s/ Fred Hassan By *
Fred Hassan Carl E. Mundy, Jr.
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer Director
and President
By /s/ Robert J. Bertolini By *
Robert J. Bertolini Richard de J. Osborne
Executive Vice President and Director
Chief Financial Officer
By /s/ Thomas H. Kelly By *
Thomas H. Kelly Patricia F. Russo
Vice President and Controller Director
and Principal Accounting Officer
By * By *
Hans W. Becherer Kathryn C. Turner
Director Director
By * By *
David H. Komansky Robert F. W. van Oordt
Director Director
By * By *
Philip Leder, M.D. Arthur F. Weinbach
Director Director
By *
Eugene R. McGrath
Director
By *
Donald L. Miller
Director
*By /s/Thomas H. Kelly Date: February 26, 2004
Thomas H. Kelly
Attorney-in-fact
-119-Table of Contents
SCHEDULE II
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001
(Dollars in millions)
Valuation and qualifying accounts deducted from assets to which they apply:
Allowances for accounts receivable:
RESERVE RESERVE RESERVE
FOR DOUBTFUL FOR CASH FOR CLAIMS
ACCOUNTS DISCOUNTS AND OTHER TOTAL
2003
Balance at beginning of year $ 68 $ 39 $ 27 $ 134
Additions:
Charged to costs and expenses 18 112 40 170
Deductions from reserves (29) (131) (34) (194)
Effects of foreign exchange 3 2 2 7
Balance at end of year $ 60 $ 22 $ 35 $ 117
2002
Balance at beginning of year $ 68 $ 34 $ 21 $ 123
Additions:
Charged to costs and expenses 22 168 17 207
Deductions from reserves (22) (164) (12) (198)
Effects of foreign exchange — 1 1 2
Balance at end of year $ 68 $ 39 $ 27 $ 134
2001
Balance at beginning of year $ 60 $ 29 $ 7 $ 96
Additions:
Charged to costs and expenses 26 161 20 207
Deductions from reserves (16) (156) (6) (178)
Effects of foreign exchange (2) — — (2)
Balance at end of year $ 68 $ 34 $ 21 $ 123
-120-