Table of ContentsTable of Contents
As filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 13, 2006
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
(cid:1) Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2005
or
(cid:3) Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
For the transition period from to
Commission File No. 1-3305
Merck & Co., Inc.
One Merck Drive
Whitehouse Station, N. J. 08889-0100
(908) 423-1000
Incorporated in New Jersey I.R.S. Employer
Identification No. 22-1109110
Securities Registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Name of Each Exchange
Title of Each Class on which Registered
Common Stock New York and Philadelphia Stock Exchanges
($0.01 par value)
Number of shares of Common Stock ($0.01 par value) outstanding as of February 28, 2006: 2,187,042,320.
Aggregate market value of Common Stock ($0.01 par value) held by non-affiliates on June 30, 2005 based on closing price on June 30, 2005:
$67,643,000,000.
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes (cid:1) No (cid:3)
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes (cid:3) No (cid:1)
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes (cid:1) No (cid:3)
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. (cid:1)
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer.
Large accelerated filer (cid:1) Accelerated filer (cid:3) Non-accelerated filer (cid:3)
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes (cid:3) No (cid:1)
Documents Incorporated by Reference:
Document Part of Form 10-K
Annual Report to stockholders for the fiscal year Parts I and IIended December 31, 2005
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Part III
Stockholders to be held April 25, 2006TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I
Item 1. Business
Item 1A. Risk Factors
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
Item 2. Properties
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities
Item 6. Selected Financial Data
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
Item 9B. Other Information
PART III
Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
Item 11. Executive Compensation
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
SIGNATURES
EX-12: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
EX-13: PORTIONS OF 2005 ANNUAL REPORT TO STOCKHOLDERS
EX-21: SUBSIDIARIES OF MERCK & CO., INC.
EX-24.1: POWER OF ATTORNEY
EX-24.2: CERTIFIED RESOLUTION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EX-31.1: CERTIFICATION
EX-31.2: CERTIFICATION
EX-32.1: CERTIFICATION
EX-32.2: CERTIFICATIONTable of Contents
PART I
Item 1. Business.
Merck & Co., Inc. (“Merck” or the “Company”) is a global research-driven pharmaceutical company that discovers, develops, manufactures
and markets a broad range of innovative products to improve human and animal health, directly and through its joint ventures. The Company
sells its products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and managed health care providers such as
health maintenance organizations and other institutions. The Company’s professional representatives communicate the effectiveness, safety and
value of its products to health care professionals in private practice, group practices and managed care organizations.
Overview — In December 2005, Merck unveiled a plan to reclaim its leadership position in the pharmaceutical industry. As part of the
strategy, Merck is focusing on improving its research and development (“R&D”) productivity by focusing on select therapeutic areas,
implementing a new commercial model that will deliver greater value to customers, and reducing its overall cost structure companywide.
Merck’s new R&D model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the Company’s R&D
resources on nine priority disease areas – Alzheimer’s disease, atherosclerosis, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, novel vaccines, obesity,
oncology, pain and sleep disorders. These therapeutic areas were carefully chosen based on a set of criteria including unmet medical needs,
scientific opportunity and commercial opportunity. Within these therapeutic areas, Merck will commit resources to achieve research breadth and
depth and to develop best-in-class targeted and differentiated products that are valued highly by patients, payers and physicians.
The Company will also make focused investments to pursue specific mechanisms in the following selected disease areas: antibiotics,
antifungals, antivirals (hepatitis C virus, human immunodeficiency virus), asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, neurodegeneration,
ophthalmology, osteoporosis, schizophrenia and stroke. In addition, the Company will capitalize on selected opportunities outside these areas by
continuing to commercialize attractive clinical development candidates in the pipeline and by pursuing appropriate external licensing
opportunities.
Merck’s late-stage pipeline is showing strong progress with three Biologics License Application (“BLA”) submissions to the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration (“FDA”) in 2005, one New Drug Application (“NDA”) already filed with the FDA in 2006, two additional FDA filings
anticipated in 2006, and an expected five programs in Phase III by the first quarter of 2006.
The three FDA BLA submissions in 2005 include Gardasil , a breakthrough vaccine to help prevent cervical cancer, the second leading cause
of cancer deaths in women worldwide; Zostavax , a vaccine to reduce the incidence of shingles; and RotaTeq , a pediatric vaccine to prevent
rotavirus gastroenteritis, a leading cause of diarrhea in infants and young children, which leads to nearly 500,000 deaths worldwide each year.
On February 3, 2006, Merck announced the approval by the FDA of RotaTeq . In addition, on February 7, 2006, Merck announced that the FDA
has accepted the BLA for Gardasil and granted the vaccine priority review designation. The FDA's review of Zostavax is expected to be
completed by late May 2006.
On February 15, 2006, Merck announced that the NDA filed with the FDA for Januvia (the proposed trademark for the compound known as
MK-0431), a novel mechanism for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, was accepted for standard review. Merck also anticipates two additional
FDA filings in 2006: vorinostat (the generic name for the suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid compound), a histone deacetylase inhibitor for
cancer; and MK-0517, an intravenous prodrug of aprepitant to treat chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting.
To improve its commercial selling model, Merck will continue to streamline and restructure its marketing and sales operations worldwide to
improve their effectiveness and generate greater efficiencies. In the United States, the Company already has reduced the number of sales
representatives promoting the same product by 50 percent versus historical levels. In addition, Merck will place more emphasis on active
engagement with key
2Table of Contents
opinion leaders to accelerate the development and diffusion of scientific information and devote additional resources to utilizing technology and
demonstrating product value to physicians, as well as payers and consumers who have increasing influence on prescription decisions. In the
United States, this approach has already resulted in considerable productivity improvements in pilot programs and is expected to lower the
Company’s spending per brand by 15 to 20 percent by 2010, while maximizing sales performance. To provide additional support to its upcoming
vaccine launches, in the United States Merck is redeploying 1,500 sales representatives who currently promote its major in-line products to
support the launch of new vaccines.
In November 2005, the Company announced the first phase of a global restructuring program designed to reduce the Company’s cost
structure, increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. The initial steps will include the implementation of a new supply strategy by the
Merck Manufacturing Division, which is intended to create a leaner, more cost-effective and customer-focused manufacturing model over the
next three years. As part of this program, Merck plans to sell or close five manufacturing sites and two preclinical sites by the end of 2008, and
eliminate approximately 7,000 positions company-wide. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 1,100 positions throughout the Company had
been eliminated. Merck incurred $401.2 million in costs associated with the global restructuring program which were comprised of
$205.4 million of separation costs and $195.8 million of accelerated depreciation and asset impairment costs.
The manufacturing facilities included in this action are: Ponders End, United Kingdom; Okazaki, Japan; Kirkland, Canada; Albany, Georgia
and Danville, Pennsylvania. The two preclinical sites are in Okazaki and Menuma, Japan. The Company will incur significantly larger
accelerated depreciation charges during 2006 associated with these actions. The asset impairment charge was associated with the abandonment
of certain fixed assets that will no longer be used in the business as a result of these restructuring actions. The Company also plans to close its
basic research center in Terlings Park, United Kingdom, and incurred additional accelerated depreciation costs of $103.1 million during 2005
with respect to this site.
Additional charges of approximately $800 million to $1 billion are expected to be recorded during 2006, based on estimated time of
completion, as the sales/closures of the facilities previously discussed occur. Merck expects its cost reduction program to yield cumulative pre-
tax savings of $4.5 to $5.0 billion from 2006 through 2010.
The American Jobs Creation Act (“AJCA”), signed into law in October 2004, created temporary incentives through December 31, 2005 for
U.S. multinationals to repatriate accumulated income earned outside of the United States as of December 31, 2002. In connection with the
AJCA, the Company repatriated $15.9 billion during 2005, and as a result, recorded an income tax charge of $766.5 million. This charge was
partially offset by a $100 million benefit associated with the decision to implement certain tax planning strategies.
As previously disclosed, on September 30, 2004, Merck announced a voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx , its arthritis and acute pain
medication. As a result, the Company recorded a charge to pre-tax income of $726.2 million, or $552.6 million after tax adjustment to net
income, in the third quarter 2004. This did not include charges for future legal defense costs. The Vioxx withdrawal process was completed
during 2005 and the costs associated with the withdrawal were in line with the original amounts recorded by the Company in 2004.
As of December 31, 2004, the Company had established a reserve of $675 million solely for its future Vioxx legal defense costs. During 2005,
the Company spent $285 million in the aggregate in Vioxx legal defense costs worldwide. In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company recorded a
charge of $295 million to increase the reserve solely for its future legal defense costs related to Vioxx to $685 million at December 31, 2005.
This reserve is based on certain assumptions and is the best estimate of the amount that the Company believes, at this time, it can reasonably
estimate will be spent through 2007.
Earnings per common share assuming dilution for 2005 were $2.10, including the impact of the global restructuring program of $0.12 per
share, the net tax charge primarily associated with the AJCA of $0.31 per share and additional reserves established solely for future legal defense
costs for Vioxx litigation (as discussed above).
3Table of Contents
Product Sales
Sales 1 of the Company’s products were as follows:
( $ in millions ) 2005 2004 2003
Zocor $ 4,381.7 $ 5,196.5 $ 5,011.4
Fosamax 3,191.2 3,159.7 2,676.6
Cozaar/Hyzaar 3,037.2 2,823.7 2,486.0
Singulair 2,975.6 2,622.0 2,009.4
Proscar 741.4 733.1 605.5
Primaxin 739.6 640.6 628.9
Vasotec/Vaseretic 623.1 719.2 763.7
Cosopt/Trusopt 617.2 558.8 484.4
Cancidas 570.0 430.0 275.7
Maxalt 348.4 309.9 324.2
Propecia 291.9 270.2 239.0
Vioxx — 1,489.3 2,548.8
Vaccines/Biologicals 1,103.3 1,036.1 1,056.1
Other 3,391.3 2,949.5 3,376.2
Total $2 2,011.9 $2 2,938.6 $2 2,485.9
1 Presented net of discounts and returns.
The Company’s products include therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders.
Among these are Zocor (simvastatin), Merck’s largest-selling atherosclerosis product; Fosamax (alendronate sodium) and Fosamax Plus D
(alendronate sodium/cholecalciferol), Merck’s osteoporosis products for treatment and, in the case of Fosamax , prevention of osteoporosis;
Cozaar (losartan potassium)/ Hyzaar (losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide) and Vasotec (enalapril maleate) , the Company’s most
significant hypertension/heart failure products; Singulair (montelukast sodium), a leukotriene receptor antagonist respiratory product for the
treatment of chronic asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis; Proscar (finasteride), a urology product for the treatment of
symptomatic benign prostate enlargement; Primaxin (imipenem and cilastatin sodium) and Cancidas (caspofungin acetate) , anti-bacterial/anti-
fungal product s ; Cosopt (dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution) and Trusopt (dorzolamide hydrochloride
ophthalmic solution) , the largest-selling ophthalmological products; Maxalt (rizatriptan benzoate) , an acute migraine product; Propecia
(finasteride), a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss; and vaccines/biologicals, which include Varivax (varicella virus vaccine live
[Oka/Merck]), a live virus vaccine for the prevention of chickenpox, M-M-R II (measles, mumps and rubella virus vaccine live), a pediatric
vaccine for the prevention of measles, mumps and rubella, Pneumovax (pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent), a vaccine for the prevention of
pneumococcal disease and Recombivax HB (hepatitis B vaccine [recombinant]), a vaccine for the prevention of hepatitis B.
Other primarily includes sales of other human pharmaceuticals, pharmaceutical and animal health supply sales to the Company’s joint
ventures and revenue from the Company’s relationship with AstraZeneca LP, primarily relating to sales of Nexium (esomeprazole magnesium)
and Prilosec (omeprazole).
Product Approvals — In August 2005, the Company announced that the FDA had approved Singulair for the symptoms of perennial allergic
rhinitis, or year-round allergies, in adults and children six months of age and older.
In September 2005, the FDA approved ProQuad [Measles, Mumps, Rubella, and Varicella (Oka/Merck) Virus Vaccine Live]. ProQuad is a
combination vaccine for simultaneous vaccination against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella in children 12 months to 12 years of age.
4Table of Contents
On February 3, 2006, Merck announced the approval by the FDA of RotaTeq , a pediatric vaccine to prevent rotavirus gastroenteritis.
RotaTeq is an oral pentavalent three-dose liquid vaccine that contains five human serotypes: G1, G2, G3, G4 and P1. Merck has also submitted
applications for licensure of RotaTeq in more than 50 countries including Australia, Canada and countries in Asia and Latin America and,
through the Sanofi Pasteur MSD joint venture, in the European Union (“EU”). RotaTeq also received regulatory approval in Mexico in
November 2005.
Voluntary Withdrawal of Vioxx — On September 30, 2004, Merck announced a voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx , its arthritis and
acute pain medication. The Company’s decision, which was effective immediately, was based on new three-year data from a prospective,
randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial, APPROVe (Adenomatous Polyp Prevention on Vioxx ).
The trial, which was stopped, was designed to evaluate the efficacy of Vioxx 25 mg in preventing the recurrence of colorectal polyps in
patients with a history of colorectal adenomas and to further assess the cardiovascular safety of Vioxx . In this study, there was an increased
relative risk for confirmed cardiovascular events, such as heart attack and stroke, beginning after 18 months of treatment in the patients taking
Vioxx compared to those taking placebo. The results for the first 18 months of the APPROVe study did not show any increased risk of confirmed
cardiovascular events on Vioxx , and in this respect, were similar to the results of two placebo-controlled studies described in the most recent
U.S. labeling for Vioxx .
The Company estimates that there were 105 million U.S. prescriptions written for Vioxx from May 1999 through August 2004. Based on this
estimate, the Company estimates that the number of patients who have taken Vioxx in the United States since its 1999 launch is approximately 20
million. The number of patients outside the United States who have taken Vioxx is undetermined at this time.
In October 2004, the Company received a letter from Senator Charles Grassley, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance, requesting
certain documents and information related to Vioxx . The Company also received requests for information from other Congressional committees.
The Company intends to cooperate with these inquiries so that the Company can continue to describe the reasons for the Company’s voluntary
withdrawal of Vioxx and to answer any questions related to the Company’s development and extensive testing of the medicine and its disclosures
of the results of its studies.
On February 16-18, 2005, the FDA held a joint meeting of the Arthritis Advisory Committee and the Drug Safety and Risk Management
Advisory Committee. The committees discussed the overall benefit-to-risk considerations (including cardiovascular and gastrointestinal safety
concerns) for COX-2 selective nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and related agents. On February 18, 2005, the members of the committees
were asked to vote on whether the overall risk versus benefit profile for Vioxx supports marketing in the United States. The members of the
committees voted 17 to 15 in support of the marketing of Vioxx in the United States. The Company looks forward to further discussions with the
FDA and other regulatory authorities about Vioxx.
As previously announced, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed a Special Committee to review the Company’s actions prior to its
voluntary withdrawal of Vioxx, to act for the Board in responding to shareholder litigation matters related to the withdrawal of Vioxx and to
advise the Board with respect to any action that should be taken as a result of the review. That review is ongoing.
Arcoxia — Arcoxia has been launched in 56 countries in Europe, Latin America, Asia and Africa. In October, 2004, the Company received
an “approvable” letter from the FDA for the Company’s NDA for Arcoxia . The FDA informed the Company in the letter that before approval of
the NDA can be issued, additional safety and efficacy data for Arcoxia are required. On November 28, 2005, the European Commission adopted
a binding Decision on COX-2 inhibitor products, including Arcoxia , marketed in the EU. The Decision resulted from a review by the Committee
for Medicinal Products for Human Use (“CHMP”) of the
5Table of Contents
European Medicines Evaluation Authority (“EMEA”), which considered all aspects of the cardiovascular safety of COX-2 inhibitors, including
thrombotic and cardio-renal events, following the voluntary withdrawal of Vioxx . The Decision adopted the Opinion of the EMEA issued on
June 27, 2005, which recommended new cardiovascular contraindications and warnings for inclusion in the labeling of COX-2 inhibitors,
including Arcoxia , in the EU. The CHMP concluded that the available data show an increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events for COX-2
inhibitors as a class relative to placebo and some NSAIDS and that the data suggested an association between duration of use and dose and the
probability of suffering a cardiovascular event. Label modifications included in the EMEA’s Opinion reflected that use of the lowest effective
dose of COX-2 inhibitors for the shortest possible duration of treatment was recommended. Further, a contra-indication for all COX-2 inhibitors
in patients with ischemic heart disease or stroke and a contra-indication for certain patients having higher classes of congestive heart failure were
included. Specifically with respect to Arcoxia, label changes included a contra-indication in patients with hypertension whose blood pressure is
not under control and that Arcoxia may be associated with more frequent and severe effects on blood pressure, particularly at higher doses, than
some other COX-2 inhibitors, and recommended monitoring of blood pressure for all patients taking Arcoxia. Additional warnings regarding
hypersensitivity and serious skin reactions were also included in the labeling for all COX-2 inhibitors in the EU.
Regulatory agencies in other countries where Arcoxia is approved have made modifications to the product labeling of Arcoxia , as well as
other COX-2 inhibitors, relative to cardiovascular risks and patient usage. In September 2005, the Venezuelan Ministry of Health ordered the
market withdrawal of all COX-2 inhibitors, including Arcoxia . In Mexico, sales of Arcoxia 120 mg were temporarily suspended, but the
suspension has been lifted.
Acquisitions (cid:190) In March 2004, the Company acquired Aton Pharma, Inc. (“Aton”), a privately held biotechnology company focusing on the
development of novel treatments for cancer and other serious diseases. Aton’s clinical pipeline of histone deacetylase inhibitors represents a
class of anti-tumor agents with potential for efficacy based on a novel mechanism of action. The lead product candidate, suberoylanilide
hydroxamic acid, known as vorinostat, is currently in Phase II clinical trials for the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.
In 2003, the Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary, MSD (Japan) Co., Ltd., completed tender offers to acquire the remaining 49% of
the common shares of Banyu Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (“Banyu”) that it did not already own for an aggregate purchase price of approximately
$1.5 billion. On March 30, 2004, Merck completed its acquisition of Banyu. Full ownership of Banyu strengthens Merck’s position in Japan, the
world’s second-largest pharmaceutical market.
Joint Ventures (cid:190) In 2000, the Company and Schering-Plough Corporation (“Schering-Plough”) entered into agreements to create separate
equally-owned partnerships to develop and market in the United States new prescription medicines in the cholesterol-management and
respiratory therapeutic areas. In December 2001, the cholesterol-management partnership agreements were expanded to include all the countries
of the world, excluding Japan. In October 2002, Zetia ( ezetimibe) (marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States), the first in a new class of
cholesterol-lowering agents, was launched in the United States. In July 2004, Vytorin (ezetimibe/simvastatin) (marketed as Inegy outside the
United States), a combination product containing the active ingredients of both Zetia and Zocor, was approved in the United States.
In November 2005, the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership announced the commencement of patient enrollment in its large-scale, clinical
outcomes trial , IMPROVE-IT (Improved Reduction of Outcomes: Vytorin Efficacy International Trial). This trial will evaluate the effectiveness
of Vytorin compared to Zocor alone in treating approximately 10,000 high risk patients with coronary artery disease presenting with “acute
coronary syndromes”. Clinical trial sites are opening throughout North America and Europe.
In 1982, the Company entered into an agreement with Astra AB (“Astra”) to develop and market Astra products in the United States. In 1994,
the Company and Astra formed an equally owned joint venture that developed and marketed most of Astra’s new prescription medicines in the
United States including Prilosec , the
6Table of Contents
first in a class of medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining.
In 1998, the Company and Astra restructured the joint venture whereby the Company acquired Astra’s interest in the joint venture, renamed
KBI Inc. (“KBI”), and contributed KBI’s operating assets to a new U.S. limited partnership named Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (the
“Partnership”), in which the Company maintains a limited partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP, became the exclusive
distributor of the products for which KBI retained rights. The Company earns certain Partnership returns as well as ongoing revenue based on
sales of current and future KBI products. The Partnership returns include a priority return provided for in the Partnership Agreement, variable
returns based, in part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a preferential return representing the Company’s share of
undistributed Partnership GAAP earnings. In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring, for a payment of $443.0 million, Astra purchased an
option to buy the Company’s interest in the KBI products, excluding the Company’s interest in the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and
Prilosec . The Company also granted Astra an option (the “Shares Option”) to buy the Company’s common stock interest in KBI, at an exercise
price based on the present value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec .
In April 1999, Astra merged with Zeneca Group Plc, forming AstraZeneca AB (“AstraZeneca”). As a result of the merger, in exchange for
the Company’s relinquishment of rights to future Astra products with no existing or pending U.S. patents at the time of the merger, Astra paid
$967.4 million, which is subject to a true-up calculation in 2008 that may require repayment of all or a portion of this amount. The merger also
triggers a partial redemption of the Company’s limited partner interest in 2008. Furthermore, as a result of the merger, AstraZeneca’s option to
buy the Company’s interest in the KBI products is exercisable in 2010 and the Company has the right to require AstraZeneca to purchase such
interest in 2008. In addition, the Shares Option is exercisable two years after Astra’s purchase of the Company’s interest in the KBI products.
The exercise of this option by Astra is also provided for in the year 2017 or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a minimum
amount provided, in each case, only so long as either the Merck option in 2008 or AstraZeneca’s option in 2010 has been exercised. The exercise
price is based on the present value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec as determined at the time of exercise.
In 1989, the Company formed a joint venture with Johnson & Johnson to develop and market a broad range of nonprescription medicines for
U.S. consumers. This 50% owned joint venture was expanded into Europe in 1993, and into Canada in 1996. Significant joint venture products
are Pepcid AC (famotidine), an over-the-counter form of the Company’s ulcer medication Pepcid (famotidine), as well as Pepcid Complete, an
over-the-counter product which combines the Company’s ulcer medication with antacids (calcium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide). In
March 2004, the Company sold to Johnson & Johnson its interest in the European joint venture which is discussed further on page 12 under
Divestitures .
Effective April 1992, the Company, through the Merck Vaccine Division, and Connaught Laboratories, Inc. (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.),
agreed to collaborate on the development and marketing of combination pediatric vaccines and to promote selected vaccines in the United States.
The research and marketing collaboration enables the companies to pool their resources to expedite the development of vaccines combining
several different antigens to protect children against a variety of diseases, including Haemophilus influenzae type b, hepatitis B, diphtheria,
tetanus, pertussis and poliomyelitis. While combination vaccine development efforts continue under this agreement, no vaccines are currently
being promoted.
In 1994, the Company, through the Merck Vaccine Division, and Pasteur Mérieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint
venture to market human vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in the then existing
EU and the European Free Trade Association. The Company and Sanofi Pasteur contributed, among other things, their European vaccine
businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as Pasteur Mérieux MSD, S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD, S.N.C.). The joint venture is
subject to monitoring by the EU, to which the partners made certain undertakings in return for an exemption from European Competition Law,
effective until December 2006. The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or
7Table of Contents
through affiliates or branches in Belgium, Italy, Germany, Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the Netherlands, Switzerland and
the United Kingdom, and through distributors in the rest of its territory.
In September, Sanofi Pasteur MSD (“SPMSD”), Merck’s vaccine joint venture with Sanofi Pasteur, entered into a Letter of Undertaking
(LOU) with the EMEA due to EMEA’s concerns regarding the long-term efficacy of the hepatitis B component of Hexavac. The hepatitis B
component of Hexavac is manufactured by Merck. The LOU requires, in relevant part (1) suspension of the EU Hexavac license; (2) suspension
of Hexavac distribution; (3) a recall of Hexavac product in the EU; (4) a recall of Hexavac in a number of non-EU countries; and (5) a
surveillance program and possible future revaccination. SPMSD, which markets and sells Hexavac in part of the EU, has notified Merck that it is
reserving any rights that it may have to seek damages from Merck and to be defended, indemnified and held harmless by Merck in the event of
third party claims.
In September 2005, the EMEA also initiated a formal review of the long-term efficacy of the hepatitis B vaccine, HBvaxPRO , and of the
hepatitis B component of the hepatitis B/Hib combination vaccine, Procomvax . Both products are marketed and sold by SPMSD in its European
territory, and are sold elsewhere, under different names, by Merck. An assessment report prepared for the CHMP and Merck’s response were
considered at a CHMP meeting in February 2006. It is expected that the CHMP will conclude its review in April 2006.
In 1997, the Company and Rhône-Poulenc S.A. (now Sanofi-Aventis S.A.) combined their respective animal health and poultry genetics
businesses to form Merial Limited (“Merial”), a fully integrated animal health company, which is a stand-alone joint venture, equally owned by
each party. Merial provides a comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to enhance the health, well-being and performance of a wide
range of animal species. Merial divested its entire poultry genetics business in three segments. The domestic turkey and layer segments were
divested in 2004 and 2003, respectively, and the broiler and foreign turkey segments were sold in 2005.
Competition (cid:190) The markets in which the Company’s pharmaceutical business is conducted are highly competitive and often highly
regulated. Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and access.
Such competition involves an intensive search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its
long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well prepared to compete in the search for technological innovations.
Additional resources to meet competition include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and
a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through joint ventures and licenses and has
been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. To enhance its product portfolio, the Company
continues to pursue external alliances, from early-stage to late-stage product opportunities, including joint ventures and targeted acquisitions.
However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product replacements, even for
products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat diseases typically increases over time and has resulted in
slowing the growth in sales of certain of the Company’s products.
Legislation enacted in all states in the United States, particularly in the area of human pharmaceutical products, allows, encourages or, in a
few instances, in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing physician, mandates the use of “generic” products (those containing
the same active chemical as an innovator’s product) rather than “brand-name” products. Governmental and other pressures toward the dispensing
of generic products have significantly reduced the sales of certain of the Company’s products no longer protected by patents, such as Vasotec
and Vaseretic (enalapril maleate in combination with hydrochlorothiazide) , the U.S. rights to which have been sold. In addition, Zocor has lost
patent protection in certain countries outside the United States and the Company has experienced a decline in Zocor sales in those countries.
8Table of Contents
Distribution (cid:190) The Company sells its human health products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, clinics, government
agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations and other institutions. Vaccines are also sold directly to
physicians. The Company’s professional representatives communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the Company’s products to health
care professionals in private practice, group practices and managed care organizations.
In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company implemented a new distribution program for U.S. wholesalers to moderate the fluctuations in sales
caused by wholesaler investment buying and improve efficiencies in the distribution of Company pharmaceutical products. The new program
lowered previous limits on average monthly purchases of Company pharmaceutical products by U.S. customers. Following the implementation
of the program, fluctuations in sales caused by wholesaler investment buying significantly moderated.
Raw Materials (cid:190) Raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are
normally available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the Company’s business.
Government Regulation and Investigation (cid:190) The pharmaceutical industry is subject to global regulation by regional, country, state and local
agencies. Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety,
effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements have increased the
amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. In 1997, the Food and Drug
Administration Modernization Act (the “FDA Modernization Act”) was passed and was the culmination of a comprehensive legislative reform
effort designed to streamline regulatory procedures within the FDA and to improve the regulation of drugs, medical devices and food. The
legislation was principally designed to ensure the timely availability of safe and effective drugs and biologics by expediting the premarket
review process for new products. A key provision of the legislation is the re-authorization of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act of 1992, which
permits the continued collection of user fees from prescription drug manufacturers to augment FDA resources earmarked for the review of
human drug applications. This helps provide the resources necessary to ensure the prompt approval of safe and effective new drugs.
In the United States, the government expanded health care access by enacting the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003, which was signed into law in December 2003. Prescription drug coverage began on January 1, 2006. This new
benefit supports the Company’s goal of improving access to medicines by expanding insurance coverage, while preserving market-based
incentives for pharmaceutical innovation. At the same time, the benefit will ensure that prescription drug costs will be controlled by competitive
pressures and by encouraging the appropriate use of medicines. In addressing cost-containment pressure, the Company has made a continuing
effort to demonstrate that its medicines can help save costs in overall patient health care.
For many years, the pharmaceutical industry has been under federal and state oversight with the approval process for new drugs, drug safety,
advertising and promotion, drug purchasing and reimbursement programs and formularies variously under review. The Company believes that it
will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including the introduction of new drugs to the market, in this regulatory environment. One type
of federal initiative to contain federal health care spending is the prospective or “capitated” payment system, first implemented to reduce the rate
of growth in Medicare reimbursement to hospitals. Such a system establishes in advance a flat rate for reimbursement for health care for those
patients for whom the payor is fiscally responsible. This type of payment system and other cost containment systems are now widely used by
public and private payors and have caused hospitals, health maintenance organizations and other customers of the Company to be more cost-
conscious in their treatment decisions, including decisions regarding the medicines to be made available to their patients. The Company
continues to work with private and federal employers to slow increases in health care costs. Further, the Company’s efforts to demonstrate that
its medicines can help save costs in other areas
9Table of Contents
have encouraged the use of the Company’s medicines and have helped offset the effects of increasing cost pressures.
Also, federal and state governments have pursued methods to directly reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example,
federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid, to provide discounts for outpatient medicines
purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and “disproportionate share” hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria), and to provide
minimum discounts of 24% off of a defined “non-federal average manufacturer price” for purchases by certain components of the federal
government such as the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense.
Initiatives in some states seek rebates beyond the minimum required by Medicaid legislation, in some cases for patients beyond those who are
eligible for Medicaid. Under the Federal Vaccines for Children entitlement program, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(“CDC”) funds and purchases recommended pediatric vaccines at a public sector price for the immunization of Medicaid-eligible, uninsured,
Native American and certain underinsured children. The Company was awarded a CDC contract in 2005 for the supply of $340 million of
pediatric vaccines for the Vaccines for Children program. As of January 1, 2006, patients previously eligible for Medicaid who are also
Medicare beneficiaries (65 years and older or disabled) will leave the state-administered Medicaid system to be covered by the new Medicare
prescription drug benefit.
Outside the United States, the Company encounters similar regulatory and legislative issues in most of the countries where it does business.
There, too, the primary thrust of governmental inquiry and action is toward determining drug safety and effectiveness, often with mechanisms
for controlling the prices of prescription drugs and the profits of prescription drug companies. The EU has adopted directives concerning the
classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. The Company’s
policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any
material effect on the Company’s business.
The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies and is, therefore, subject to potential administrative actions. Such
actions may include seizures of products and other civil and criminal sanctions. Under certain circumstances, the Company on its own may deem
it advisable to initiate product recalls. The Company believes that it should be able to compete effectively within this environment.
In addition, certain countries within the EU, recognizing the economic importance of the research-based pharmaceutical industry and the
value of innovative medicines to society, are working with industry representatives and the European Commission on proposals to complete the
“Single Market” in pharmaceuticals and improve the competitive climate through a variety of means including market deregulation.
There has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the United States and the EU. In the
United States and the EU, governments have pursued legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding privacy, including federal privacy
regulations and recently enacted state privacy laws concerning health and other personal information, which have affected the Company’s
operations.
Patents, Trademarks and Licenses (cid:190) Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the Company’s
marketing of human health products in the United States and in most major foreign markets. Patents may cover products per se , pharmaceutical
formulations, processes for or intermediates useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products. Protection for individual products
extends for varying periods in accordance with the date of grant and the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded,
which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage.
Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the Company normally provide market exclusivity. Basic patents are in effect for the
following major products in the United States: Cancidas, Comvax ( Haemophilus b conjugate and hepatitis B [recombinant] vaccine) , Cosopt,
Cozaar, Crixivan , Emend (aprepitant) , Fosamax, Hyzaar , Invanz (ertapenem sodium), Maxalt , Primaxin, Propecia (finasteride) , Proscar,
Recombivax HB,
10Table of Contents
Singulair, Timoptic-XE (timolol maleate ophthalmic gel forming solution), Trusopt, and Zocor . Basic patents are also in effect in the United
States for Zetia and Vytorin , which were developed by the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership. A basic patent is also in effect for
Sustiva/Stocrin (efavirenz). Bristol-Myers Squibb (“BMS”), under an exclusive license from the Company, sells Sustiva in the United States,
Canada and certain European countries. The Company markets Stocrin in other countries throughout the world. The basic patent for Aggrastat
(tirofiban hydrochloride) in the United States was divested with the product in 2003. The Company retains basic patents for Aggrastat outside
the United States.
The FDA Modernization Act includes a Pediatric Exclusivity Provision that may provide an additional six months of market exclusivity in the
United States for indications of new or currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric studies are completed by the applicant. These
exclusivity provisions were re-authorized until October 1, 2007 by the “Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act” passed in January 2002. In 2005,
the FDA granted an additional six months of market exclusivity in the United States to Invanz until August 2013. In 2004, the FDA granted an
additional six months of market exclusivity in the United States to Trusopt until October 2008. In 2002, the FDA granted an additional six
months of market exclusivity in the United States to Cozaar/Hyzaar until February 2010. In 2005, the FDA granted an additional six months of
market exclusivity in the United States to Singulair until August 2012. For further information with respect to the Company’s patents, see
“Patent Litigation” on page 31.
While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a loss of market exclusivity for the covered pharmaceutical product, commercial
benefits may continue to be derived from: (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates related to the most economical method of
manufacture of the active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel compositions
and formulations; and (iv) in the United States, market exclusivity that may be available under federal law. The effect of product patent
expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many other factors such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in
it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product and the
requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other countries.
Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States and other countries through all relevant laws, including laws increasing patent
life. Some of the benefits of increases in patent life have been partially offset by a general increase in the number of, incentives for and use of
generic products. Additionally, improvements in intellectual property laws are sought in the United States and other countries through reform of
patent and other relevant laws and implementation of international treaties.
In June 2006, Zocor will lose its market exclusivity in the United States and the Company expects a significant decline in U.S. Zocor sales
after that time.
In June 2006, the basic patent in the United States covering Proscar will expire. As a result, the Company expects a significant decline in
U.S. Proscar sales after that time. The basic patent for Proscar also covers Propecia; however, Propecia is protected by additional patents
which expire in October 2013.
In 2003, the FDA granted an additional six months of market exclusivity in the United States to Fosamax until February 2008, and Fosamax
Once Weekly until January 2019. However, on January 28, 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, D.C. found
the Company’s patent claims for once-weekly administration of Fosamax to be invalid. The Company exhausted all options to appeal this
decision in 2005. Based on the Court of Appeals’ decision, Fosamax will lose its market exclusivity in the United States in February 2008 and
the Company expects a significant decline in U.S. Fosamax sales after that time.
Worldwide, all of the Company’s important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material
importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed
terms and can be renewed indefinitely.
11Table of Contents
Royalties received during 2005 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $113.7 million. The Company also paid
royalties amounting to $789.6 million in 2005 under patent and know-how licenses it holds.
Discontinued Operations (cid:190) On August 19, 2003, the Company completed the spin-off of Medco Health Solutions, Inc. (“Medco Health”) as
a separate, publicly-traded company. The spin-off was effected by way of a pro rata dividend to Company stockholders of all the outstanding
shares of common stock of Medco Health. Based on a letter ruling the Company received from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, receipt of
Medco Health shares in the distribution was tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but any cash received in lieu of fractional shares was
taxable.
Divestitures (cid:190) In March 2004, the Company completed the sale to Johnson & Johnson of the Company’s 50% equity stake in its European
non-prescription pharmaceuticals joint venture with Johnson & Johnson.
In 2003, the Company sold its U.S. rights in Aggrastat to Guilford Pharmaceuticals Inc., including the basic U.S. product patents (but not
process patents) for the product.
In 2002, the Company sold its U.S. rights in Vasotec, Vaseretic and Vasotec I.V. Injection (enalaprilat) to Biovail Laboratories Incorporated
(“Biovail”), a subsidiary of Biovail Corporation. At the same time, the Company’s Canadian subsidiary, Merck Frosst Canada & Co. (“Merck
Frosst”) and Biovail entered into a supply agreement under which Merck Frosst agreed to supply Biovail for a minimum of five years with bulk
tablets of formulated enalapril maleate and enalapril maleate in combination with hydrochlorothiazide for distribution by Biovail in the United
States as Vasotec and Vaseretic . The basic product patents on Vasotec and Vaseretic had expired in the United States prior to these transactions.
Research and Development
The Company’s business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and
development program. Approximately 12,400 people are employed in the Company’s research activities. Expenditures for the Company’s
research and development programs were $3.8 billion in 2005, $4.0 billion in 2004 and $3.2 billion in 2003 and are estimated to continue at the
same level as the full-year 2005 expense in 2006. The Company maintains its ongoing commitment to research over a broad range of therapeutic
areas and clinical development in support of new products. Total expenditures for the period 1996 through 2005 exceeded $25.6 billion with a
compound annual growth rate of 11%.
The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research
programs directed toward product development. Merck’s new R&D model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of
success by prioritizing the Company’s R&D resources on nine priority disease areas — Alzheimer’s disease, atherosclerosis, cardiovascular
disease, diabetes, novel vaccines, obesity, oncology, pain and sleep disorders. These therapeutic areas were carefully chosen based on a set of
criteria including unmet medical needs, scientific opportunity and commercial opportunity. Within these therapeutic areas, Merck will commit
resources to achieve research breadth and depth and to develop best-in-class targeted and differentiated products that are valued highly by
patients, payers and physicians.
The Company will also make focused investments to pursue specific mechanisms in the following selected disease areas: antibiotics,
antifungals, antivirals (hepatitis C virus, human immunodeficiency virus), asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, neurodegeneration,
ophthalmology, osteoporosis, schizophrenia and stroke. In addition, the Company will capitalize on selected opportunities outside these areas by
continuing to commercialize attractive clinical development candidates in the pipeline and by pursuing appropriate external licensing
opportunities.
In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the United States and most foreign countries
provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation.
Before a new drug may be marketed in the
12Table of Contents
United States, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the NDA or the BLA to the FDA for the required approval.
The development of certain other products is also subject to government regulations covering safety and efficacy in the United States and many
foreign countries.
Once the Company’s scientists discover a new compound that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the Company
commences preclinical testing with that compound. Preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on
chemistry, pharmacology and toxicology. Pending acceptable preclinical data, the Company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with
established regulatory requirements. The clinical testing begins with Phase I studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability,
pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. If favorable, additional, larger Phase II studies are
initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify
any adverse effects that could limit the compound’s usefulness. If the results from the Phase II trials are satisfactory, the Company commences
large-scale Phase III trials to confirm the compound’s efficacy and safety. Upon completion of those trials, if satisfactory, the Company submits
regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. There can be
no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed.
In the United States, the FDA approval process begins once a complete NDA is submitted and received by the FDA. Pursuant to the
Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA review period targets for NDAs or supplemental NDAs is either six months, for priority review, or ten
months, for a standard review. Within 60 days after receipt of an NDA, the FDA determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a
substantive review. The FDA also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. Once the
review timelines are defined, the FDA will act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has been submitted (either
at the Company’s own initiative or the FDA’s request) to the pending application. If this occurs, the FDA may extend the review period to allow
for review of the new information, but by no more than 180 days. Extensions to the review period are communicated to the Company. Based on
FDA statistics, drug development time from initiation of preclinical testing to NDA approval can range from 5 to 20 years with an average of
8.5 years.
In June 2005, the FDA accepted for standard review the BLA for Zostavax, Merck’s investigational vaccine for the prevention of herpes
zoster, commonly known as “shingles” in adults 60 years of age or older. Sanofi Pasteur MSD has submitted an application for licensure of
Zostavax in the EU, and Merck has also submitted applications for licensure of Zostavax in Australia, Canada and in countries in Asia and Latin
America. In February 2006, the FDA extended its review of Zostavax by three months until late May.
In September 2005, Merck presented two studies of Phase II data on the Company’s DPP-4 inhibitor, Januvia, the proposed trademark for
MK-0431 (sitagliptin), a potential new approach in the treatment of type 2 diabetes, at the 41 st annual meeting of the European Association for
the Study of Diabetes. On February 15, 2006, Merck announced that the NDA for Januvia was accepted for standard review by the FDA. Merck
expects FDA action on the NDA by mid-October 2006.
In December 2005, Merck submitted a BLA to the FDA for Gardasil [quadrivalent human papillomavirus (types 6, 11, 16, 18) recombinant
vaccine] , the Company’s vaccine to protect against four types of human papillomavirus (HPV): types 16 and 18, which account for an estimated
70% of cervical cancer cases, and types 6 and 11, which account for an estimated 90% of genital warts cases. On February 7, 2006, Merck
announced that the FDA accepted the BLA for Gardasil and that the investigational cervical cancer vaccine will be given priority review by the
agency. A priority designation is intended for products that address unmet medical needs. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, for BLAs
filed in 2005, the FDA’s goal is to review and act on BLAs designated as priority review within six months of receipt. The FDA has informed
Merck that the review goal date is June 8, 2006. Since the submission to the FDA in December, Merck has also submitted applications for
Gardasil to
13Table of Contents
additional regulatory agencies including those in the EU, Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Taiwan and Singapore.
The Company’s early-stage clinical pipeline includes candidates in each of the following areas: arthritis, atherosclerosis, cancer,
cardiovascular disease, diabetes, endocrine disorders, glaucoma, infectious diseases, insomnia, neurodegenerative disease, obesity, osteoporosis,
psychiatric disease, pain, respiratory disease, urogenital disorders and vaccines. The Company supplements its internal research with an
aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds,
as well as new technologies. The Company completed 44 transactions in 2005, including research collaborations, preclinical and clinical
compounds, and technology transactions (across a broad range of therapeutic categories including neuroscience, obesity and oncology).
In May 2005, Merck and BioXell entered into an agreement to develop new treatments for sepsis and other inflammatory disorders.
In June 2005, Vical Incorporated (“Vical”) exercised three options under a 2003 amendment to an existing research collaboration and
licensing agreement, granting Merck rights to use Vical’s patented non-viral gene delivery technology in cancer vaccine applications.
Merck and Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated announced in June 2005 the initiation of an additional Phase I clinical study with VX-680, a
small molecule inhibitor of Aurora kinases. Aurora kinases are implicated in the onset and progression of human leukemias.
Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd. (formerly known as Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd.) (“Sumitomo”) and Merck signed an
agreement in June 2005 to collaborate on SM13496 (lurasidone), an atypical antipsychotic compound currently in Phase II development for the
treatment of schizophrenia, one of the most chronic and disabling of the severe mental illnesses. Under the agreement, Sumitomo has granted
Merck, through an affiliate, an exclusive license for SM13496 in all parts of the world except for Japan, China, Korea and Taiwan.
In June 2005, Merck announced an agreement with Metabasis Therapeutics to research, develop and commercialize novel small molecule
therapeutics with the potential to treat several diseases, including type 2 diabetes, hyperlipidemia and obesity, by activation of an enzyme in the
liver called AMP-activated Protein Kinase.
In July 2005, Merck and Geron Corporation announced an agreement to develop a cancer vaccine against telomerase. Telomerase is an
enzyme, active in most cancer cells, that maintains telomere length at the ends of chromosomes. This activity allows the cancer to grow and
metastasize over long periods of time.
In September 2005, FoxHollow Technologies, Inc. and Merck announced the formation of a novel pharmacogenomics collaboration. The
collaboration will focus on analyzing atherosclerotic plaque removed from patient arteries as a means of identifying new biomarkers of
atherosclerotic disease progression for use in the development of cardiovascular compounds in Merck’s pipeline. The agreement includes a
research collaboration of up to three years.
In October 2005, Agensys, Inc. (“Agensys”), a cancer biotechnology company, and Merck announced that they have formed a global alliance
to jointly develop and commercialize AGS-PSCA, Agensys’ fully human monoclonal antibody to Prostate Stem Cell Antigen (“PSCA”). The
agreement grants Merck worldwide rights to AGS-PSCA and an exclusive license to PSCA, a proprietary target, as well as rights to other
therapeutic and diagnostic products developed under the alliance.
Also in October 2005, Merck and BMS jointly announced that they have signed separate license agreements with the International
Partnership for Microbicides to develop new antiretroviral compounds as potential microbicides to protect women from HIV. The compounds
are part of a new class of anti-
14Table of Contents
retrovirals known as “entry inhibitors.” Some of the compounds bind directly to HIV; others bind to the CCR5 receptor. They are designed to
prevent HIV from efficiently entering host cells, thus preventing infection.
The Company and BMS reported in October 2005 that the FDA issued an approvable letter for Pargluva , BMS’s investigational oral
medicine for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The FDA requested additional safety information from ongoing trials, or those completed since the
safety data from the last formal regulatory submission, to address more fully the cardiovascular safety profile of Pargluva . This data
requirement may cause a significant delay in the product’s launch. As a result, BMS and the Company terminated the collaborative agreement
for Pargluva , with all rights to Pargluva and a back up compound to Pargluva returning to BMS as of December 21, 2005.
The chart below reflects the Company’s current research pipeline as of February 15, 2006. Candidates shown in Phase III include specific
products. Candidates shown in Phase I and II include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism in a given therapeutic area. Back-
up compounds, regardless of their phase of development, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional line extensions or
formulations for in-line products are not shown. The Company’s programs are generally designed to focus on the development of novel
medicines to address large, unmet medical needs.
Phase I Phase I Phase II Phase III Under Review
Alzheimer’s Disease Diabetes Arthritis AIDS HPV and related
MK-0752 MK-0941 MK-0686 MK-0518 cervical cancer and
MK-0952 MK-0893 Cancer (CTCL) Atherosclerosis genital warts
Arthritis MK-0533 Vorinostat* MK-0524B Gardasil**
MK-0822 Endocrine Endocrine MK-0524A
Atherosclerosis MK-0974 MK-0677 CINV Shingles
MK-0354* Flu Vaccine HIV Vaccine MK-0517 Zostavax
MK-0859 Glaucoma HPV Vaccine** Diabetes
MK-0633 MK-0994 Hypertension MK-0431A Diabetes
Cancer Insomnia MK-0736 Insomnia Januvia
MK-0429 MK-0454 Obesity Gaboxadol*
MK-0752 Obesity MK-0364 Approvable
Agensys* Nastech PYY3-36*** MK-0493 Arthritis/Pain
MK-0731 Osteoporosis Osteoporosis Arcoxia
VX-680* MK-0773 MK-0822
MK-0646* Pain Pain 2005 U.S. Approvals
Cancer Vaccine Neurogen* MK-0686 Osteoporosis
Cardiovascular Parkinson’s Disease MK-0759 Fosamax Plus D
MK-0448 MK-0657 MK-0974 Pediatric Vaccine
Psychiatric Disease Pediatric Vaccine* ProQuad
MK-0249 Psychiatric Disease
Respiratory Disease MK-0364 2006 U.S. Approvals
MK-0633 Lurasidone* Rotavirus
S. aureus Vaccine Stroke Gastroenteritis
ONO 2506*** RotaTeq
Urinary Incontinence
MK-0634
MK-0594
* Licensed, alliance, or acquisition (pipeline)
** Multiple licenses, including CSL, Ltd.
*** Merck is in discussions with its licensing partner regarding further plans for this compound.
On March 1, 2006, Merck terminated its agreement with Nastech Pharmaceutical Company Inc. with respect to PYY3-36.
All product or service marks appearing in type form different from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service marks owned by or
licensed to Merck, its subsidiaries or affiliates (including Zetia and Vytorin , trademarks owned by entities of the Merck/Schering-Plough
partnership), except as noted. Cozaar and Hyzaar are registered trademarks of E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, Wilmington, DE and
Prilosec and Nexium are trademarks of the AstraZeneca group. The U.S. trademarks for Vasotec and Vaseretic are owned by
15Table of Contents
Biovail Laboratories Incorporated. The U.S. trademark for Aggrastat is owned by Guilford Pharmaceuticals Inc. The trademark for Pargluva is
owned by BMS.
Employees
At the end of 2005, the Company had approximately 61,500 employees worldwide, with approximately 31,900 employed in the United
States, including Puerto Rico. Approximately 20% of worldwide employees of the Company are represented by various collective bargaining
groups.
As part of a cost-reduction initiative announced in October 2003 and completed at the end of 2004, the Company had eliminated 5,100
positions. The Company completed a similar program in 2005 with 900 positions being eliminated through December 31, 2005.
On November 28, 2005, the Company announced the first phase of a global restructuring program designed to reduce the Company’s cost
structure, increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. The initial steps will include the implementation of a new supply strategy by the
Merck Manufacturing Division, which is intended to create a leaner, more cost-effective and customer-focused manufacturing model over the
next three years.
As a result, Merck will incur certain costs associated with exit or disposal activities. As part of the global restructuring program, the Company
expects to eliminate approximately 7,000 positions in manufacturing and other divisions worldwide, representing about 11% of its global work
force, by the end of 2008. About half of the position reductions are expected to occur in the United States, with the remainder in other countries.
Merck intends to sell or close five of its 31 manufacturing facilities worldwide and to reduce operations at a number of other sites. The Company
also expects to close one basic research site and two preclinical development sites. The sites identified for closure are expected to be closed by
the end of 2008, subject to compliance with legal obligations.
The pretax costs of the restructuring were $401.2 million in 2005 and are expected to be $800 million to $1 billion in 2006. Through the end
of 2008, when the initial phase of the restructuring program is substantially complete, the cumulative pretax costs of the restructuring activities
announced on November 28, 2005 are expected to range from $1.8 billion to $2.2 billion. Approximately 70% of the cumulative pretax costs are
non-cash, relating primarily to accelerated depreciation for those facilities scheduled for closure.
Environmental Matters
The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. In 2005, the
Company incurred capital expenditures of approximately $35.5 million for environmental protection facilities. The Company is also remediating
environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. Expenditures for remediation and environmental
liabilities were $31.3 million in 2005, and are estimated at $53.5 million for the years 2006 through 2010. These amounts do not consider
potential recoveries from insurers or other parties. The Company has taken an active role in identifying and providing for these costs, and in
management’s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters which are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued. Although it
is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these environmental matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not
believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of those provided should result in a material adverse effect on
the Company’s financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources.
Geographic Area and Segment Information
The Company’s operations are principally managed on a products basis with one reportable segment: The Merck Pharmaceutical segment
which includes products marketed either directly or through joint ventures. Merck Pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive
agents, sold by prescription, for the treatment and prevention of human disorders.
16Table of Contents
The Company’s operations outside the United States are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside
the United States were 42% of sales in 2005, 41% of sales in 2004 and 41% of sales in 2003.
The Company’s worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings
abroad. The Company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. However, the Company closely
reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions.
In recent years, the Company has been expanding its operations in countries located in Latin America, the Middle East, Africa, Eastern
Europe and Asia Pacific where changes in government policies and economic conditions are making it possible for the Company to earn fair
returns. Business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time.
Financial information about geographic areas and operating segments of the Company’s business is incorporated by reference to pages 64
(beginning with the caption “Segment Reporting”) and 65 of the Company’s 2005 Annual Report to stockholders.
Available Information
The Company’s Internet website address is www.merck.com . The Company will make available, free of charge at the “Investor Information”
portion of its website, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to
those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably
practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The Company’s corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Board of Directors’ seven standing committees are available on the
Company’s website at www.merck.com/about/corporategovernance and all such information is available in print to any stockholder who
requests it from the Company.
Item 1A. Risk Factors.
You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest
in any of the Company’s securities. The risks below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks not currently known to the
Company or that the Company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. The Company’s business, financial
condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This Form 10-K also contains forward-
looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-
looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces as described below and elsewhere. See “Cautionary Factors that May
Affect Future Results” on page 22.
The Company faces significant litigation related to Vioxx.
On September 30, 2004, the Company voluntarily withdrew Vioxx , its arthritis and acute pain medication, from the market worldwide. As of
December 31, 2005, approximately 9,650 product liability lawsuits, involving approximately 19,100 plaintiff groups, alleging personal injuries
resulting from the use of Vioxx, have been filed against the Company in state and federal courts in the United States. The Company is also a
defendant in purported class actions related to the use of Vioxx. (All of these suits are referred to as the “ Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits”). In
addition to the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, a number of purported class actions have been brought against the Company and several current
and former officers and directors of the Company alleging that the Company made false and misleading statements regarding Vioxx in violation
of the federal securities laws (all of these suits are referred to as the “ Vioxx Securities Lawsuits”) and the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act (“ERISA”) (all of these suits are referred to as the “ Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits”). In addition, a number of shareholders have filed derivative
suits and one shareholder
17Table of Contents
has filed a demand asserting claims against the Board members and Company officers. (All of these suits are referred to as the “ Vioxx
Derivative Lawsuits” and, together with the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits and the Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits, the “ Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits”). The
Company has also been named as a defendant in actions in various countries outside the United States. (All of these suits are referred to as the “
Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits”). The Company has also been sued by four states with respect to the marketing of Vioxx . The Company anticipates that
additional lawsuits relating to Vioxx will be filed against it and/or certain of its current and former officers and directors in the future.
The SEC is conducting a formal investigation of the Company concerning Vioxx . The U.S. Department of Justice has issued a subpoena
requesting information relating to the Company’s research, marketing and selling activities with respect to Vioxx in a federal health care
investigation under criminal statutes. There are also ongoing investigations by certain Congressional committees and local authorities in Europe.
A group of Attorneys General from thirty-one states and the District of Columbia are conducting an investigation of the Company’s sales and
marketing of Vioxx . The Company is cooperating with authorities in all of these investigations. (All of these investigations are referred to as the
“ Vioxx Investigations”). The Company can not predict the outcome of any of these investigations; however, they could result in potential civil
and/or criminal liability.
Three Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits in the U.S. have gone to trial and resulted in jury verdicts.
On August 19, 2005, in a trial in state court in Texas, the jury in Ernst vs. Merck reached a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and purported to
award her a total of $253 million in compensatory and punitive damages. Under Texas law, the maximum amount that could be awarded to the
plaintiff is capped at approximately $26 million. The Company intends to appeal this verdict after the completion of post-trial proceedings in the
trial court and believes that it has strong points to raise on appeal. Since the Company believes that the potential for an unfavorable outcome is
not probable, the Company has not established a reserve with respect to the verdict.
On November 3, 2005, in the second Vioxx personal injury case to go to trial, Frederick and Mary Jackson Humeston vs. Merck & Co., Inc.,
in the Superior Court of New Jersey, Law Division, Atlantic County, a jury returned a verdict in favor of the Company on all counts. The jury
found, by an 8 to 1 vote, that the Company did not fail to provide an adequate warning to prescribing physicians of an association between Vioxx
and an increased risk of serious cardiovascular events prior to Mr. Humeston’s heart attack. The jury also unanimously found that the Company
did not violate the New Jersey Consumer Fraud Act in marketing the drug to prescribing physicians.
On February 17, 2006, in a re-trial of a case in federal court in New Orleans brought by Evelyn Irvin Plunkett, on behalf of her late husband,
Richard Irvin, Jr., who died from an apparent heart attack, the jury returned a verdict in favor of Merck on all counts.
The outcomes of these first three Vioxx product liability trials should not be interpreted to indicate any trend or what outcome may be likely in
future Vioxx trials.
The Company currently anticipates that a number of Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits will be tried in 2006. The Company cannot predict the
timing of any trials with respect to the Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the Vioxx Product
Liability Lawsuits, Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits and Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits (collectively, the “ Vioxx Lawsuits”) and will vigorously defend
against them. The Company believes that its insurance coverage with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits will not be adequate to cover its defensive
costs and any losses.
During 2005, the Company spent $285 million in the aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide related to (i) the Vioxx Product Liability
Lawsuits, (ii) the Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits, (iii) the Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the Vioxx Investigations (collectively, the ” Vioxx
Litigation”). In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company recorded a charge of $295 million to increase the reserve solely for its future legal
defense costs related to the Vioxx Litigation from $675 million at December 31, 2004 to $685 million at December 31, 2005. This reserve is
based on certain assumptions, described below under “Legal Proceedings”, and is the best estimate of the amount that the
18Table of Contents
Company believes, at this time, it can reasonably estimate will be spent through 2007.
The Company is not currently able to estimate any amount of damages that it may be required to pay in connection with the Vioxx Lawsuits
or Vioxx Investigations. These proceedings, which are expected to continue for years, are currently at a very early stage and the Company has
very little information as to the course they will take. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where
there are many claimants and the claimants seek indeterminate damages, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at
this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits. The Company has not established any
reserves for any potential liability relating to the Vioxx Lawsuits or the Vioxx Investigations.
A series of unfavorable outcomes in the Vioxx Lawsuits or the Vioxx Investigations, resulting in the payment of substantial damages or fines
or resulting in criminal penalties, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial
position and prospects.
Certain of the Company’s major products are going to lose patent protection in the near future and, when that occurs, the Company
expects a significant decline in sales of those products.
The Company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing rights for its products for some period of time. As product patents
for several of the Company’s products have recently expired, or are about to expire, in the United States and in other countries, the Company
faces strong competition from lower price generic drugs. Loss of patent protection for one of the Company’s products typically leads to a rapid
loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. In the case of products that contribute significantly
to the Company’s sales, the loss of patent protection can have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.
In 2003, Zocor, the Company’s statin for modifying cholesterol and currently its largest revenue-producing product, lost its basic patent
protection in Canada and certain countries in Europe, including the United Kingdom and Germany, and the Company experienced a decline in
Zocor sales in those countries as the result of the availability of a generic version. Worldwide sales of Zocor were $4.4 billion in 2005, compared
to $5.2 billion in 2004. In June 2006, Zocor will lose its market exclusivity in the United States, and the Company expects a significant decline
in Zocor sales after that time.
In August 2004, the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office rendered a decision to revoke the Company’s patent in Europe that
covers the weekly administration of alendronate. That decision has been appealed and a hearing is scheduled for March 14 and 15. Decisions in
such proceedings are typically rendered at the end of the hearing. If the decision is upheld, the Company will not be entitled to market
exclusivity for Fosamax in most major European markets after 2007. Moreover, Merck’s basic patent covering the use of alendronate has been
challenged in several European countries and if the Company is unsuccessful in those countries the Company could lose exclusivity rights to
Fosamax before 2007 in such countries. The Company would expect a significant decline in European sales of Fosamax after loss of exclusivity.
Sales of Fosamax outside the United States in 2005 have already been adversely affected by the availability of generic products in some markets,
including the United Kingdom, Canada and Germany. Nonetheless, global sales of Fosamax grew 1% in 2005 to $3.2 billion, as a result of
strong sales in the United States.
On January 28, 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, D.C. found the Company’s patent claims for once-
weekly administration of Fosamax to be invalid. The Company exhausted all options to appeal this decision in 2005. Based on the Court of
Appeals decision, Fosamax will lose its market exclusivity in the United States in February 2008, and the Company expects a significant decline
in Fosamax sales after that time.
19Table of Contents
The Company’s research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and the
Company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other ways; in consequence, the Company may not be able to
replace sales of successful products that have lost patent protection.
Like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain competitive, the Company must continue to launch new products each year.
Declines in sales of products such as Zocor and Fosamax mean that the Company’s future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products,
including new products which it develops through joint ventures and products which it is able to obtain through license or acquisition. To
accomplish this, the Company commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development, both through its own dedicated
resources, and through various collaborations with third parties. To support its research and development efforts the Company must make
ongoing, substantial expenditures, without any assurance that the efforts it is funding will result in a commercially successful product. The
Company must also commit substantial efforts, funds and other resources to recruiting and retaining high quality scientists and other personnel
with pharmaceutical research and development expertise.
Based on FDA statistics, drug development time from initiation of preclinical testing to NDA approval can range from 5 to 20 years with an
average of 8.5 years. For a description of the research and development process, see “Research and Development”. Each phase of testing is
highly regulated, and during each phase there is a substantial risk that the Company will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve its goals,
and accordingly the Company may abandon a product in which it has invested substantial amounts of time and money. Some of the risks
encountered in the research and development process include the following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield disappointing
results; clinical trials of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful side effects; a new drug may
not be approved by the FDA for its intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; or sales of a new product may be
disappointing.
The Company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will be launched; whether it will be
able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be
commercially successful. The Company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand
extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as
profitable products, such as Zocor and Fosamax , lose patent protection or are displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so in
the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position
and prospects.
The Company’s products, including products in development, can not be marketed unless the Company obtains and maintains
regulatory approval.
The Company’s activities, including research, preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing its products, are subject to
extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by foreign
regulatory authorities, including the European Commission. In the United States, the FDA is of particular importance to the Company, as it
administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription
pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and
bring them to market in the United States. Regulation outside the United States also is primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in
many cases, cost reduction. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or
withhold registration and marketing approval and to mandate product withdrawals.
Even if the Company is successful in developing new products, it will not be able to market any of those products unless and until it has
obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. Once obtained, the Company must
maintain approval as long as it plans to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. The Company’s failure to obtain
approval, significant
20Table of Contents
delays in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from selling the new products in that
jurisdiction until approval is obtained, if ever. The Company would not be able to realize revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction
where it does not have approval.
The Company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business would be
adversely affected.
Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the Company’s marketing of human health products in the
United States and in most major foreign markets. Patents covering products that it has introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is
important for the successful marketing and sale of its products. The Company seeks patents covering each of its products in each of the markets
where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful patent protection is available.
Even if the Company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent its
patents and patent applications. It is important for the Company’s business to defend successfully the patent rights that provide market
exclusivity for its products. The Company is often involved in patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or infringement and similar
claims against the Company. The Company aggressively defends its important patents both within and outside the United States, including by
filing claims of infringement against other parties. See “Legal Proceedings – Patent Litigation”. In particular, manufacturers of generic
pharmaceutical products from time to time file Abbreviated New Drug Applications (“ANDA”) with the FDA seeking to market generic forms
of the Company’s products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned by the Company. The Company normally responds by vigorously
defending its patent, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. Patent litigation and other challenges to the Company’s patents are
costly and unpredictable and may deprive the Company of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third party patents may
prevent the Company from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area.
If one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to decline significantly as a
result of generic versions of those products becoming available. The Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales
unless and until the Company has successfully launched commercially successful replacement products.
The Company faces intense competition from lower-cost generic products.
In general, the Company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. The patent rights that protect its products are of
varying strengths and durations. In addition, in some countries, patent protection is significantly weaker than in the United States or the EU. In
the United States, political pressures to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation which encourages the use of generic
products. Although it is the Company’s policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the Company’s products can arise at any
time, and it may not be able to prevent the emergence of generic competition for its products.
Loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the Company’s sales of that product.
Availability of generic substitutes for the Company’s drugs may adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. In addition, proposals
emerge from time to time in the United States and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic
drugs. Any such proposal that is enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the Company’s sales and, potentially, its
results of operations and cash flow.
The Company faces intense competition from new products.
The Company’s products face intense competition from competitors’ products. This competition may increase as new products enter the
market. In such an event, the competitors’ products may be safer or more
21Table of Contents
effective or more effectively marketed and sold than the Company’s products. Alternatively, in the case of generic competition, they may be
equally safe and effective products which are sold at a substantially lower price than the Company’s products. As a result, if the Company fails
to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations.
Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results
(Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995)
This report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company may contain so-called “forward-looking
statements,” all of which are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to
differ materially from those set forth in the statements. One can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as
“expects,” “plans,” “will,” “estimates,” “forecasts,” “projects” and other words of similar meaning. One can also identify them by the fact that
they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to address the Company’s growth strategy, financial results,
product development, product approvals, product potential, and development programs. One must carefully consider any such statement and
should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company’s forward-looking statements. These
factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not.
No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. The Company cautions you not to place undue
reliance on these forward-looking statements. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following:
• Significant litigation related to Vioxx .
• Competition from generic products as the Company’s products lose patent protection.
• Increased “brand” competition in therapeutic areas important to the Company’s long-term business performance.
• The difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. The outcome of the lengthy and complex process of new product
development is inherently uncertain. A candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail
to receive regulatory approval. New product candidates may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy
or safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the
infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. Furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be disappointing and fail
to reach anticipated levels.
• Pricing pressures, both in the United States and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and
governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in
general.
• Changes in government laws and regulations and the enforcement thereof affecting the Company’s business.
22Table of Contents
• Efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals
or declining sales.
• Legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax disputes, environmental
concerns and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude commercialization of products or negatively
affect the profitability of existing products.
• Lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities.
• Increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the United States and the EU. In the United States, federal and state
governments have pursued legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding patient privacy, including federal and recently issued state privacy
regulations concerning health information, which have affected the Company’s operations.
• Changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings.
• Changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards
Board and the SEC, that are adverse to the Company.
• Economic factors over which the Company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
This list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. See “Risk Factors” on page 17.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.
None
Item 2. Properties.
The Company’s corporate headquarters is located in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey. The Company’s U.S. pharmaceutical business is
conducted through divisional headquarters located in Upper Gwynedd and West Point, Pennsylvania. The Company’s vaccines business is
conducted through divisional headquarters located in West Point. Principal research facilities for human health products are located in Rahway,
New Jersey and West Point. The Company also has production facilities for human health products at nine locations in the United States and
Puerto Rico. Branch warehouses provide services throughout the country. Outside the United States, through subsidiaries, the Company owns or
has an interest in manufacturing plants or other properties in Australia, Canada, Japan, Singapore, South Africa, and other countries in Western
Europe, Central and South America, and Asia.
Capital expenditures for 2005 were $1.4 billion compared with $1.7 billion for 2004. In the United States, these amounted to $938.7 million
for 2005 and $1.1 billion for 2004. Abroad, such expenditures amounted to $464.0 million for 2005 and $582.5 million for 2004.
The Company and its subsidiaries own their principal facilities and manufacturing plants under titles which they consider to be satisfactory.
The Company considers that its properties are in good operating condition and that its machinery and equipment have been well maintained.
Plants for the manufacture of products are suitable for their intended purposes and have capacities and projected capacities adequate for current
and projected needs for
23Table of Contents
existing Company products. Some capacity of the plants is being converted, with any needed modification, to the requirements of newly
introduced and future products.
Item 3. Legal Proceedings.
The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business, including product liability,
intellectual property, and commercial litigation, as well as additional matters such as antitrust actions.
Vioxx Litigation
Product Liability Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, federal and state product liability lawsuits involving individual claims, as well as putative class actions, have been
filed against the Company with respect to Vioxx . As of December 31, 2005, the Company has been served or is aware that it has been named as
a defendant in approximately 9,650 lawsuits, which include approximately 19,100 plaintiff groups, alleging personal injuries resulting from the
use of Vioxx . Of these lawsuits, approximately 4,350 lawsuits representing approximately 12,075 plaintiff groups are or are slated to be in the
federal MDL (discussed below) and approximately 4,200 lawsuits representing approximately 4,200 plaintiff groups are included in a
coordinated proceeding in New Jersey Superior Court before Judge Carol E. Higbee. Certain of these lawsuits include allegations regarding
gastrointestinal bleeding, cardiovascular events, thrombotic events or kidney damage. The Company has also been named as a defendant in
approximately 190 putative class actions alleging personal injuries or seeking (i) medical monitoring as a result of the putative class members’
use of Vioxx , (ii) disgorgement of certain profits under common law unjust enrichment theories, and/or (iii) various remedies under state
consumer fraud and fair business practice statutes, including recovering the cost of Vioxx purchased by individuals and third-party payors such as
union health plans (all of the actions discussed in this paragraph are collectively referred to as the “ Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits”). The
actions filed in the state courts of California, Texas, New Jersey, and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, respectively, have been transferred to a single
judge in each state for coordinated proceedings.
On February 16, 2005, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (the “JPML”) transferred all Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits pending in
federal courts nationwide into one Multidistrict Litigation (“MDL”) for coordinated pre-trial proceedings. The MDL has been transferred to the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana before District Judge Eldon E. Fallon.
Judge Fallon has indicated that he intends to try a series of cases during the period November 2005 through 2006, in the following categories:
(i) heart attack with short term use; (ii) heart attack with long term use; (iii) stroke; and (iv) cardiovascular injury involving a prescription written
after April 2002 when the labeling for Vioxx was revised to include the results of the VIGOR trial. In November and December 2005, the case
brought by Evelyn Irvin Plunkett, on behalf of her late husband Richard Irvin, Jr., who died from an apparent heart attack, was tried in Houston,
Texas. Plaintiff alleged that Mr. Irvin took Vioxx for approximately one month and, thus, the action fell within the category of heart attack with
short term use. After deliberating for two and one-half days, the court found that the jury was deadlocked and declared a mistrial. Federal court
rules require a unanimous verdict. The retrial of the case commenced on February 6, 2006 in New Orleans, Louisiana. On February 17, the jury
returned a verdict in favor of Merck on all counts.
The next scheduled MDL trial is Diaz v. Merck, a case in which plaintiffs claim a heart attack with long term use, which is scheduled for June
(it was previously scheduled for May). In addition to the Diaz case and the Garza case discussed below, other Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits
are currently scheduled for trial in 2006. The Company intends to provide a list of such trials at its website at www.Merck.com which it will
periodically update as appropriate. The Company has included its website address only as an inactive textual reference and does not intend it to
be an active link to its website nor does it incorporate by reference the information contained therein.
24Table of Contents
Merck has entered into a tolling agreement (the “Tolling Agreement”) with the MDL Plaintiffs’ Steering Committee that establishes a
procedure to halt the running of the statute of limitations (tolling) as to certain categories of claims allegedly arising from the use of Vioxx by
non-New Jersey citizens. The Tolling Agreement applies to individuals who have not filed lawsuits and may or may not eventually file lawsuits
and only to those claimants who seek to toll claims alleging injuries resulting from a thrombotic cardiovascular event that results in a myocardial
infarction or ischemic stroke. The Tolling Agreement provides counsel additional time to evaluate potential claims. The Tolling Agreement
requires any tolled claims to be filed in federal court. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 3,800 claimants had entered into Tolling
Agreements.
As previously disclosed, on August 19, 2005, in a trial in state court in Texas, the jury in Ernst vs. Merck reached a verdict in favor of the
plaintiff and purported to award her a total of $253 million in compensatory and punitive damages. Under Texas law, the maximum amount that
could be awarded to the plaintiff is capped at approximately $26 million. The Company intends to appeal this verdict after the completion of
post-trial proceedings in the trial court. The Company believes that it has strong points to raise on appeal and is hopeful that the appeals process
will correct the verdict. Since the Company believes that the potential for an unfavorable outcome is not probable, it has not established a reserve
with respect to the verdict.
On November 3, 2005, in the case of Frederick and Mary Jackson Humeston vs. Merck, Superior Court of New Jersey, Law Division,
Atlantic County, a jury returned a verdict in favor of Merck on all counts. The case was the second Vioxx personal injury case to go to trial.
Mr. Humeston, a 60-year old United States Postal employee from Idaho, alleged that he suffered a heart attack in September 2001 as a result of
taking Vioxx . He sought compensatory and punitive damages. The jury found, by an 8 to 1 vote, that Merck did not fail to provide an adequate
warning to prescribing physicians of an association between Vioxx and an increased risk of serious cardiovascular events prior to
Mr. Humeston’s heart attack. The jury also unanimously found that Merck did not violate the New Jersey Consumer Fraud Act in marketing the
drug to prescribing physicians.
The trial of Garza v. Heart Clinic, Evans, Posada and Merck, began on January 24, 2006, in the 229 th Judicial District Court of Starr County,
Texas. The Company believes the evidence in this case will show that Vioxx did not cause the heart attack of Leonel Garza, Sr. Mr. Garza, 71,
died of a heart attack on April 21, 2001, following 23 years of cardiovascular disease and a prior heart attack. Approximately one month before
his death, the Company maintains that Mr. Garza was given a one-week supply of Vioxx 25 mg samples for pain.
In addition, trial proceedings in the consolidated trial of Cona v. Merck and McDarby v. Merck began on February 27, 2006 in the New
Jersey Superior Court, Law Division, Atlantic County before Judge Higbee. The Company believes the evidence will show that Vioxx did not
cause either Mr. McDarby, 77, or Mr. Cona, 59, to have a heart attack.
Other Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, on July 29, 2005, a New Jersey state trial court certified a nationwide class of third-party payors (such as unions and
health insurance plans) that paid in whole or in part for the Vioxx used by their plan members or insureds. The named plaintiff in that case seeks
recovery of certain Vioxx purchase costs (plus penalties) based on allegations that the purported class members paid more for Vioxx than they
would have had they known of the product’s alleged risks. Merck believes that the class was improperly certified. The trial court’s ruling is
procedural only; it does not address the merits of plaintiffs’ allegations, which the Company intends to defend vigorously. The New Jersey state
Superior Court, Appellate Division, has accepted Merck’s appeal of the class certification order on an expedited basis.
As previously reported, the Company has also been named as a defendant in separate lawsuits brought by the Attorneys General of Louisiana,
Mississippi, and Texas. The Attorney General of Alaska has also recently filed a lawsuit. These actions allege that the Company misrepresented
the safety of Vioxx and seek (i) recovery of the cost of Vioxx purchased or reimbursed by the state and its agencies; (ii) reimbursement of all
sums paid by the state and its agencies for medical services for the treatment of persons injured by Vioxx ; (iii) damages under various common
law theories; and/or (iv) remedies under various state statutory theories, including state
25Table of Contents
consumer fraud and/or fair business practices or Medicaid fraud statutes, including civil penalties.
Shareholder Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, in addition to the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, the Company, along with various current and former officers and
directors of the Company, are defendants in a number of putative class actions and individual lawsuits filed in (or removed to) federal court by
shareholders under the federal securities laws (the “ Vioxx Securities Lawsuits”), all of which have been transferred by the JPML, along with
related lawsuits discussed below, to the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey before District Judge Stanley R. Chesler for
inclusion in a nationwide MDL for coordinated pretrial proceedings (the “Shareholder MDL”). Judge Chesler has consolidated the Vioxx
Securities Lawsuits for all purposes. On June 9, 2005, plaintiffs in the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits filed a Fourth Consolidated and Amended
Class Action Complaint superseding prior complaints in the various cases (the “Complaint”). Plaintiffs request certification of a class of
purchasers of Company stock between May 21, 1999 and October 29, 2004. The Complaint alleges that the defendants made false and
misleading statements regarding Vioxx in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and seeks unspecified
compensatory damages and the costs of suit, including attorneys’ fees. The Complaint also asserts a claim under Section 20A of the Securities
and Exchange Act against certain defendants relating to their sales of Merck stock. In addition, the Complaint includes allegations under
Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 that certain defendants made incomplete and misleading statements in a registration
statement and certain prospectuses filed in connection with the Merck Stock Investment Plan, a dividend reinvestment plan. Defendants have
filed a motion to dismiss the Complaint, which is pending.
As previously disclosed, on August 15, 2005, a complaint was filed in Oregon state court by the State of Oregon through the Oregon state
treasurer on behalf of the Oregon Public Employee Retirement Fund against the Company and certain current and former officers and directors.
The complaint, which was brought under Oregon securities law, alleges that plaintiff has suffered damages in connection with its purchases of
Merck common stock at artificially inflated prices due to the Company’s alleged violations of law related to disclosures about Vioxx . The
Company removed this lawsuit to the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon, however, plaintiff moved to remand the case to state court,
which motion was granted.
As previously disclosed, a number of shareholder derivative actions have been filed in federal court and in New Jersey Superior Court naming
the Company as a nominal defendant and certain members of the Board (past and present), together with certain executive officers, as
defendants. The complaints arise out of substantially the same factual allegations that are made in the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits. The derivative
suits, which are purportedly brought to assert rights of the Company, assert claims against the Board members and officers for breach of
fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment, abuse of control and gross mismanagement. All of the actions discussed in this
paragraph are collectively referred to as the “ Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits”. The JPML has transferred the Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits pending in
federal court to the Shareholder MDL. Judge Chesler has consolidated the Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits for all purposes. On June 20, 2005, the
federal derivative plaintiffs filed a Verified Consolidated Shareholders’ Derivative Complaint superseding prior complaints in the various cases.
Defendants have filed a motion to dismiss this complaint, which is pending. In addition, the Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits pending in New Jersey
Superior Court were consolidated and transferred to Judge Higbee in Atlantic County, and on April 29, 2005, state plaintiffs filed a superseding
Verified Consolidated Amended Shareholder Derivative Complaint. On January 19, 2006, these two shareholder derivative cases were dismissed
without prejudice. The cases were dismissed when the Court granted defendants’ motion to stay the cases. The Court’s order permits plaintiffs to
re-file their complaints once the consolidated federal shareholder derivative case has been resolved.
As previously disclosed, on October 29, 2004, two individual shareholders made a demand on the Board to take legal action against
Mr. Raymond Gilmartin, former Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and other individuals for allegedly causing damage to the
Company with respect to the allegedly improper marketing of Vioxx . In response to that demand letter, the Board of Directors determined at its
November 23, 2004 meeting that the Board would take the shareholders’ request under consideration and it remains under consideration.
26Table of Contents
In addition, as previously disclosed, a number of putative class actions have been filed against the Company and certain current and former
officers and directors of the Company in federal court (the “ Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits” and, together with the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits and the
Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits, the “ Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits”) on behalf of certain of the Company’s current and former employees who are
participants in certain of the Company’s retirement plans asserting claims under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”). The
lawsuits make similar allegations to the allegations contained in the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits and claim that the defendants breached their duties
as plan fiduciaries. The JPML has transferred all Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits to the Shareholder MDL. Judge Chesler has consolidated the Vioxx
ERISA Lawsuits for all purposes. A consolidated and amended complaint was filed in the Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits on August 2, 2005. Defendants
have filed a motion to dismiss this complaint, which is pending.
International Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, in addition to the lawsuits discussed above, the Company has been named as a defendant in litigation relating to
Vioxx in various countries (collectively, the “ Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits”) in Europe, Canada, Brazil, Australia, Turkey, and Israel.
Additional Lawsuits
Based on media reports and other sources, the Company anticipates that additional Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, Vioxx Shareholder
Lawsuits and Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits (collectively, the “ Vioxx Lawsuits”) will be filed against it and/or certain of its current and former officers
and directors in the future.
Insurance
As previously disclosed, the Company has product liability insurance for claims brought in the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits with stated
upper limits of approximately $630 million after deductibles and co-insurance. This insurance provides coverage for legal defense costs and
potential damage amounts that have been or will be incurred in connection with the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits. The Company believes
that this insurance coverage extends to additional Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits that may be filed in the future. The Company has Directors
and Officers insurance coverage applicable to the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits and Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits with stated upper limits of
approximately $190 million. The Company has fiduciary and other insurance for the Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits with stated upper limits of
approximately $275 million. Additional insurance coverage for these claims may also be available under upper-level excess policies that provide
coverage for a variety of risks. There are disputes with certain insurers about the availability of some or all of this insurance coverage and there
are likely to be additional disputes. At this time, the Company believes that its insurance coverage with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits will not be
adequate to cover its defense costs and any losses.
As previously disclosed, the Company’s upper level excess insurers (which provide excess insurance potentially applicable to all of the Vioxx
Lawsuits) have commenced an arbitration seeking, among other things, to cancel those policies, to void all of their obligations under those
policies and to raise other coverage issues with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits. A second arbitration against one of the Company’s upper level
excess insurers has also been commenced. Merck intends to contest vigorously the insurers’ claims and will attempt to enforce its rights under
applicable insurance policies. The amounts actually recovered under the policies discussed in this section may be less than the amounts specified
in the preceding paragraph.
Investigations
As previously disclosed, in November 2004, the Company was advised by the staff of the SEC that it was commencing an informal inquiry
concerning Vioxx . On January 28, 2005, the Company announced that it received notice that the SEC issued a formal notice of investigation.
Also, the Company received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) requesting information related to the Company’s
research, marketing and selling activities with respect to Vioxx in a federal health care investigation under criminal statutes. There are also
ongoing investigations by certain Congressional committees. As previously disclosed, the Company’s U.K. subsidiary has been notified by the
Medicines and Healthcare
27Table of Contents
Products Regulatory Agency in the United Kingdom (the “MHRA”) of an investigation by the MHRA of compliance by the Company with EU
adverse experience reporting requirements in connection with Vioxx . In addition, as previously disclosed, investigations are being conducted by
local authorities in certain cities in Europe in order to determine whether any criminal charges should be brought concerning Vioxx . The
Company is cooperating with these governmental entities in their respective investigations (the “ Vioxx Investigations”). The Company cannot
predict the outcome of these inquiries; however, they could result in potential civil and/or criminal dispositions.
As previously disclosed, the Company has received a Civil Investigative Demand (“CID”) from a group of Attorneys General from 31 states
and the District of Columbia who are investigating whether the Company violated state consumer protection laws when marketing Vioxx . The
Company is cooperating with the Attorneys General in responding to the CID.
Reserves
The Company currently anticipates that a number of Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits will be tried in 2006. The Company cannot predict the
timing of any trials with respect to the Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the Vioxx Lawsuits
and will vigorously defend against them. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are
many claimants and the claimants seek indeterminate damages, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time
cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits. The Company has not established any reserves
for any potential liability relating to the Vioxx Lawsuits or the Vioxx Investigations.
Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. As of
December 31, 2004, the Company had established a reserve of $675 million solely for its future legal defense costs related to the Vioxx
Litigation.
During 2005, the Company spent $285 million in the aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide related to (i) the Vioxx Product Liability
Lawsuits, (ii) the Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits, (iii) the Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the Vioxx Investigations (collectively, the “ Vioxx
Litigation”). In the fourth quarter, the Company recorded a charge of $295 million to increase the reserve solely for its future legal defense costs
related to the Vioxx Litigation to $685 million at December 31, 2005. This reserve is based on certain assumptions and is the best estimate of the
amount that the Company believes, at this time, it can reasonably estimate will be spent through 2007. Some of the significant factors considered
in the establishment and ongoing review of the reserve for the Vioxx legal defense costs were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the
Company up to that time; the development of the Company’s legal defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of the Vioxx Litigation; the
number of cases being brought against the Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the anticipated timing, progression, and
related costs of pre-trial activities and trials in the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits. Events such as scheduled trials, that are expected to occur
throughout 2006 and into 2007, and the inherent inability to predict the ultimate outcomes of such trials, limit the Company’s ability to
reasonably estimate its legal costs beyond the end of 2007. The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the
adequacy of the associated reserves. Unfavorable outcomes in the Vioxx L itigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
financial position, liquidity and results of operations.
Commercial Litigation
Beginning in 1993, the Company was named in a number of antitrust suits, certain of which were certified as class actions, instituted by most
of the nation’s retail pharmacies and consumers in several states. The Company settled the federal class action, which represented the single
largest group of claims and has settled substantially all of the remaining cases on satisfactory terms. The few remaining cases have been inactive
for several years. The Company has not engaged in any conspiracy and no admission of wrongdoing was made or included in any settlement
agreements.
As previously disclosed, the Company was joined in ongoing litigation alleging manipulation by
28Table of Contents
pharmaceutical manufacturers of Average Wholesale Prices (“AWP”), which are sometimes used in calculations that determine public and
private sector reimbursement levels. In 2002, the JPML ordered the transfer and consolidation of all pending federal AWP cases to federal court
in Boston, Massachusetts. Plaintiffs filed one consolidated class action complaint, which aggregated the claims previously filed in various
federal district court actions and also expanded the number of manufacturers to include some which, like the Company, had not been defendants
in any prior pending case. In May 2003, the court granted the Company’s motion to dismiss the consolidated class action and dismissed the
Company from the class action case. Subsequent to the Company’s dismissal, the plaintiffs filed an amended consolidated class action
complaint, which did not name the Company as a defendant. The Company and many other pharmaceutical manufacturers are defendants in
similar complaints pending in federal and state court brought individually by a number of counties in the State of New York. The Company and
the other defendants are awaiting the final ruling on their motion to dismiss in the Suffolk County case, which was the first of the New York
county cases to be filed. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, the Company was a defendant in state cases brought by the Attorneys General of
Kentucky, Illinois, Alabama, Wisconsin, Mississippi, and Arizona, all of which are being vigorously defended. The Company has also received a
letter inquiry from the Attorney General of Idaho.
As previously disclosed, the Company has been named as a defendant in antitrust cases in federal court in Minnesota and in state court in
California, each alleging an unlawful conspiracy among different sets of pharmaceutical manufacturers to protect high prices in the United States
by impeding importation into the United States of lower-priced pharmaceuticals from Canada. The court dismissed the federal claims in the
Minnesota case with prejudice and the plaintiffs have filed a Notice of Appeal. The state claims in that action were dismissed without prejudice.
As previously disclosed, a suit in federal court in Alabama by two providers of health services to needy patients alleges that 15
pharmaceutical companies overcharged the plaintiffs and a class of those similarly situated, for pharmaceuticals purchased by the plaintiffs under
the program established by Section 340B of the Public Health Service Act. The Company and the other defendants filed a motion to dismiss the
complaint on numerous grounds which was recently denied by the court.
As previously disclosed, in January 2003, the DOJ notified the federal court in New Orleans, Louisiana that it was not going to intervene at
that time in a pending Federal False Claims Act case that was filed under seal in December 1999 against the Company. The court issued an order
unsealing the complaint, which was filed by a physician in Louisiana, and ordered that the complaint be served. The complaint, which alleged
that the Company’s discounting of Pepcid in certain Louisiana hospitals led to increases in costs to Medicaid, was dismissed. An amended
complaint was filed under seal and the case has been administratively closed by the Court until the seal is lifted. The State of Louisiana has filed
its own amended complaint, incorporating the allegations contained in the sealed amended complaint. The allegations contained in the sealed
amended complaint are unknown.
In April 2005, the Company was named in a qui tam lawsuit under the Nevada False Claims Act. The suit, in which the Nevada Attorney
General has intervened, alleges that the Company inappropriately offered nominal pricing and other marketing and pricing inducements to
certain customers and also failed to comply with its obligations under the Medicaid Best Price scheme related to such arrangements. The
Company is vigorously defending against this lawsuit.
Governmental Proceedings
As previously disclosed, the Company has received a subpoena from the DOJ in connection with its investigation of the Company’s
marketing and selling activities, including nominal pricing programs and samples. The Company has also reported that it has received a CID
from the Attorney General of Texas regarding the Company’s marketing and selling activities relating to Texas. As previously disclosed, the
Company received another CID from the Attorney General of Texas asking for additional information regarding the Company’s marketing and
selling activities related to Texas, including with respect to certain of its nominal pricing programs and samples. In April 2004, the Company
received a subpoena from the
29Table of Contents
office of the Inspector General for the District of Columbia in connection with an investigation of the Company’s interactions with physicians in
the District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia. In November 2004, the Company received a letter request from the DOJ in connection with its
investigation of the Company’s pricing of Pepcid . In September 2005, the Company received a subpoena from the Illinois Attorney General.
The subpoena seeks information related to repackaging of prescription drugs.
As previously disclosed, the Company has received a letter from the DOJ advising it of the existence of a qui tam complaint alleging that the
Company violated certain rules related to its calculations of best price and other federal pricing benchmark calculations, certain of which may
affect the Company’s Medicaid rebate obligation.
The Company is cooperating with all of these investigations. The Company cannot predict the outcome of these investigations; however, it is
possible that unfavorable outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations.
In addition, from time to time, other federal, state or foreign regulators or authorities may seek information about practices in the pharmaceutical
industry or the Company’s business practices in inquiries other than the investigations discussed in this section. It is not feasible to predict the
outcome of any such inquiries.
On February 23, 2004, the Italian Antitrust Authorities adopted a measure commencing a formal investigation of Merck Sharp & Dohme
(Italia) S.p.A. (“MSD Italy”) and the Company under Article 14 of the Italian Competition Law and Article 82 EC to ascertain whether the
Company and MSD Italy committed an abuse of a dominant position by virtue of the Company’s refusal to grant to ACS Dobfar S.p.A.
(“Dobfar”), an Italian company, a voluntary license, pursuant to domestic legislation passed in 2002, to permit Dobfar to manufacture Tienam
(imipenem and cilastatin) in Italy for sale outside Italy, in countries where patent protection under the applicable domestic rules has expired or
never existed. The Company has a Supplementary Protection Certificate (“SPC”) which provides the Company certain rights with respect to the
manufacture and sale of Tienam in Italy which expired in January 2006. A hearing before the Italian Antitrust Authorities was held on May 2,
2005. On June 17, 2005, the Italian Antitrust Authority (“ICA”) issued an order imposing interim measures requiring the Company to grant a
license to manufacture Tienam in Italy. Pursuant to the ICA’s order, the license granted to Dobfar will be limited to the right to only manufacture
and build supply stock of Tienam and will not allow Dobfar to export Tienam outside of Italy or to sell their Tienam product within Italy prior to
the expiry of the SPC. On November 16, 2005, the Italian Administrative court denied the Company’s appeal of the ICA’s order. Proceedings
before the ICA are ongoing.
Vaccine Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company is a party in claims brought under the Consumer Protection Act of 1987 in the United Kingdom, which
allege that certain children suffer from a variety of conditions as a result of being vaccinated with various bivalent vaccines for measles and
rubella and/or trivalent vaccines for measles, mumps and rubella, including the Company’s M-M-R II. The conditions include autism, with or
without inflammatory bowel disease, epilepsy, encephalitis, encephalopathy, Guillain-Barre syndrome and transverse myelitis. There are now 26
claimants proceeding or, to the Company’s knowledge, intending to proceed against the Company. The Company will vigorously defend against
these lawsuits.
As previously disclosed, the Company is also a party to individual and class action product liability lawsuits and claims in the United States
involving pediatric vaccines (e.g., hepatitis B vaccine) that contained thimerosal, a preservative used in vaccines. Merck has not distributed
thimerosal-containing pediatric vaccines in the United States since the fall of 2001. As of December 31, 2005, there were approximately 275
active thimerosal related lawsuits with approximately 775 plaintiffs. Other defendants include other vaccine manufacturers who produced
pediatric vaccines containing thimerosal as well as manufacturers of thimerosal. In these actions, the plaintiffs allege, among other things, that
they have suffered neurological injuries as a result of exposure to thimerosal from pediatric vaccines. Two state court cases and two Federal
District Court cases were scheduled for trial in 2005. All of these cases have been dismissed. One case set for trial in 2006 was also dismissed.
Certain of the dismissals have been appealed. The Company will vigorously defend against these
30Table of Contents
lawsuits; however, it is possible that unfavorable outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity
and results of operations.
The Company has been successful in having cases of this type either dismissed or stayed on the ground that the action is prohibited under the
National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act (the “Vaccine Act”). The Vaccine Act prohibits any person from filing or maintaining a civil action (in
state or federal court) seeking damages against a vaccine manufacturer for vaccine-related injuries unless a petition is first filed in the United
States Court of Federal Claims (hereinafter the “Vaccine Court”). Under the Vaccine Act, before filing a civil action against a vaccine
manufacturer, the petitioner must either (a) pursue his or her petition to conclusion in Vaccine Court and then timely file an election to proceed
with a civil action in lieu of accepting the Vaccine Court’s adjudication of the petition or (b) timely exercise a right to withdraw the petition prior
to Vaccine Court adjudication in accordance with certain statutorily prescribed time periods. The Company is aware that there are numerous
cases pending in Vaccine Court involving allegations that thimerosal-containing vaccines and/or the M-M-R II vaccine cause autism spectrum
disorders. All of the cases referred to in the preceding paragraph as having been dismissed have been brought by plaintiffs who claim to have
made a timely withdrawal of their Vaccine Court petition. The Company is not a party to the Vaccine Court proceedings because the petitions
are brought against the Department of Health and Human Services.
Patent Litigation
From time to time, generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical products file ANDA’s with the FDA seeking to market generic forms of the
Company’s products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned by the Company. Generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have submitted
ANDA’s to the FDA seeking to market in the United States a generic form of Fosamax , Prilosec, Nexium , Propecia, Trusopt and Cosopt prior
to the expiration of the Company’s (and AstraZeneca’s in the case of Prilosec and Nexium ) patents concerning these products. The generic
companies’ ANDA’s generally include allegations of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of the patents. Generic manufacturers
have received FDA approval to market a generic form of Prilosec . The Company has filed patent infringement suits in federal court against
companies filing ANDA’s for generic alendronate ( Fosamax ), finasteride ( Propecia ), dorzolamide ( Trusopt ) and dorzolamide/timolol
( Cosopt ), and AstraZeneca and the Company have filed patent infringement suits in federal court against companies filing ANDA’s for generic
omeprazole ( Prilosec ) and esomeprazole ( Nexium ). Similar patent challenges exist in certain foreign jurisdictions. The Company intends to
vigorously defend its patents, which it believes are valid, against infringement by generic companies attempting to market products prior to the
expiration dates of such patents. As with any litigation, there can be no assurance of the outcomes, which, if adverse, could result in significantly
shortened periods of exclusivity for these products.
As previously disclosed, on January 28, 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, D.C. found the Company’s
patent claims for once-weekly administration of Fosamax to be invalid. The Company exhausted all options to appeal this decision in 2005.
Based on the Court of Appeals’ decision, Fosamax will lose its market exclusivity in the United States in February 2008 and the Company
expects a significant decline in U.S. Fosamax sales after that time.
In May 2005, the Federal Court of Canada Trial Division issued a decision refusing to bar the approval of generic alendronate on the ground
that Merck’s patent for weekly alendronate was likely invalid. This decision cannot be appealed and generic alendronate was launched in Canada
in June 2005. In July 2005, Merck was sued in the Federal Court of Canada by Apotex seeking damages for lost sales of generic weekly
alendronate due to the patent proceeding.
In January 2003, the High Court of Justice for England and Wales held that patents of the Company protecting the alendronate daily and
weekly products were invalid in the United Kingdom. On November 6, 2003, the Court of Appeals of England and Wales affirmed the ruling by
the High Court of Justice for England and Wales.
31Table of Contents
European countries permit companies seeking approval of a generic product to reference data of the innovative product in certain
circumstances under data exclusivity regulations. The High Court of Justice has affirmed the decision of the UK regulatory authority that its data
for weekly alendronate may be referenced by companies seeking approval of generic weekly alendronate products. The Company has filed for
leave to appeal a judgment of a Swedish Administration Court affirming a grant by the Swedish regulatory authority of approval of generic
weekly alendronate products which referenced the Company’s data on weekly alendronate for their approval. The Company has filed similar
cases in other countries.
As previously announced by the Company, on July 20, 2004, the Opposition Division (the “Opposition Division”) of the European Patent
Office (the “EPO”) rendered an oral decision to revoke the Company’s patent in Europe that covers the once-weekly administration of
alendronate. On August 19, 2004, the written opinion was issued confirming the oral decision revoking the Company’s patent. On September 16,
2004, the Company filed an appeal of this decision. The hearing on the appeal is scheduled for March 14 and 15, 2006. Decisions in such
proceedings are typically rendered at the end of the hearing. If the decision is upheld, the Company will not be entitled to market exclusivity for
Fosamax in most major European markets after 2007. In addition, Merck’s basic patent covering the use of alendronate has been challenged in
several European countries and if the Company is unsuccessful in those countries the Company could lose exclusivity rights to Fosamax before
2007 in such countries. The Company is defending the alendronate weekly product in other major European markets based on other patents.
On October 5, 2004, in an action in Australia challenging the validity of the Company’s Australian patent for the once-weekly administration
of alendronate, the patent was found to be invalid. The Company has appealed the decision.
In addition, as previously disclosed, in Japan a proceeding has been filed challenging the validity of the Company’s Japanese patent for the
once-weekly administration of alendronate.
On January 18, 2006, the Company sued Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. (“Hi-Tech”) of Amityville, New York for patent infringement in
response to Hi-Tech’s application to the FDA seeking approval of a generic version of Merck’s ophthalmic drugs Trusopt and Cosopt , which are
used for treating elevated intraocular pressure in people with ocular hypertension or glaucoma. In the lawsuit, Merck sued to enforce a patent
covering an active ingredient dorzolamide, which is present in both Trusopt and Cosopt . Merck has elected not to enforce two U.S. patents listed
with the FDA which cover the combination of dorzolamide and timolol, the two active ingredients in Cosopt . This lawsuit will automatically
stay FDA approval of Hi-Tech’s ANDA’s for 30 months or until an adverse court decision, whichever may occur earlier. The patent covering
dorzolamide provides exclusivity for Trusopt and Cosopt until October 2008 (including six months of pediatric exclusivity). After such time, the
Company expects sales of these products to decline.
In the case of omeprazole, the trial court in the United States rendered an opinion in October 2002 upholding the validity of the Company’s
and AstraZeneca’s patents covering the stabilized formulation of omeprazole and ruling that one defendant’s omeprazole product did not
infringe those patents. The other three defendants’ products were found to infringe the formulation patents. In December 2003, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the decision of the trial court. With respect to the Company’s patent infringement claims against certain
other generic manufacturers’ omeprazole products, trial is scheduled for March 2006.
The Company and AstraZeneca received notice in October 2005 that Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited (“Ranbaxy”) has filed an ANDA for
esomeprazole magnesium. The ANDA contains Paragraph IV challenges to patents on Nexium . On November 21, 2005, the Company and
AstraZeneca sued Ranbaxy in the United States District Court in New Jersey. Accordingly, FDA approval of Ranbaxy’s ANDA is stayed for
30 months until April 2008 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier.
In the case of finasteride, an ANDA has been filed seeking approval of a generic version of Propecia and alleging invalidity of the
Company’s patents. The Company filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the District Court of Delaware in September 2004. A trial is scheduled
for June 2006.
32Table of Contents
In Europe, the Company is aware of various companies seeking registration for generic losartan (the active ingredient for Cozaar ). The
Company has patent rights to losartan via license from E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (“du Pont”). The Company and du Pont have filed
patent infringement proceedings against various companies in Portugal.
Other Litigation
On July 27, 2005, Merck was served with a further shareholder derivative suit filed in the New Jersey Superior Court for Hunterdon County
against the Company and certain current and former officers and directors. This lawsuit seeks to recover or cancel compensation awarded to the
Company’s executive officers in 2004, and asserts claims for breach of fiduciary duty, waste and unjust enrichment.
In November 2005, an individual shareholder delivered a letter to the Board alleging that the Company had sustained damages through the
Company’s adoption of its Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan (the “CIC Plan”) in November 2004. The shareholder made a demand on
the Board to take legal action against the Board’s current or former members for allegedly causing damage to the Company with respect to the
adoption of the CIC Plan. In response to that demand letter, the independent members of the Board determined at the November 22, 2005 Board
meeting that the Board would take the shareholder’s request under consideration and it remains under consideration.
As previously disclosed, on July 6, 2004, the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey granted a motion by the Company,
Medco Health Solutions, Inc. (“Medco Health”) and certain officers and directors to dismiss a purported class action complaint involving claims
related to the Company’s revenue recognition practice for retail co-payments paid by individuals to whom Medco Health provides
pharmaceutical benefits as well as other allegations. The complaint was dismissed with prejudice. On August 20, 2004, the same court granted
the Company’s motion to dismiss with prejudice a related shareholder derivative action. Plaintiffs in both actions appealed the decisions. On
December 15, 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit upheld the District Court’s decision dismissing the class action complaint. In
a separate decision issued the same day, the Court of Appeals upheld most of the District Court’s decision dismissing the shareholder derivative
suit, and sent the issue of whether the Company’s Board of Directors properly refused the shareholder demand relating to the Company’s
treatment of retail co-payments back to the District Court for reconsideration under a different legal standard.
As previously disclosed, prior to the spin-off of Medco Health, the Company and Medco Health agreed to settle, on a class action basis, a
series of lawsuits asserting violations of ERISA (the “Gruer Cases”). The Company, Medco Health and certain plaintiffs’ counsel filed the
settlement agreement with the federal district court in New York, where cases commenced by a number of plaintiffs, including participants in a
number of pharmaceutical benefit plans for which Medco Health is the pharmacy benefit manager, as well as trustees of such plans, have been
consolidated. Medco Health and the Company agreed to the proposed settlement in order to avoid the significant cost and distraction of
prolonged litigation. The proposed class settlement has been agreed to by plaintiffs in five of the cases filed against Medco Health and the
Company. Under the proposed settlement, the Company and Medco Health have agreed to pay a total of $42.5 million, and Medco Health has
agreed to modify certain business practices or to continue certain specified business practices for a period of five years. The financial
compensation is intended to benefit members of the settlement class, which includes ERISA plans for which Medco Health administered a
pharmacy benefit at any time since December 17, 1994. The district court held hearings to hear objections to the fairness of the proposed
settlement and approved the settlement in 2004, but has not yet determined the number of class member plans that have properly elected not to
participate in the settlement. The settlement becomes final only if and when all appeals have been resolved. Certain class member plans have
indicated that they will not participate in the settlement. Cases initiated by three such plans and two individuals remain pending in the Southern
District of New York. Plaintiffs in these cases have asserted claims based on ERISA as well as other federal and state laws that are the same as
or similar to the claims that had been asserted by settling class members in the Gruer Cases. The Company and Medco Health are named as
defendants in these cases.
33Table of Contents
Three notices of appeal were filed and the appellate court heard oral argument in May 2005. On December 8, 2005, the appellate court issued
a decision vacating the district court’s judgment and remanding the cases to the district court to allow the district court to resolve certain
jurisdictional issues. A hearing was held to address such issues on February 24, 2006.
After the spin-off of Medco Health, Medco Health assumed substantially all of the liability exposure for the matters discussed in the
foregoing two paragraphs. These cases are being defended by Medco Health.
There are various other legal proceedings, principally product liability and intellectual property suits involving the Company, which are
pending. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such proceedings or the proceedings discussed in this Note, in the opinion of the
Company, all such proceedings are either adequately covered by insurance or, if not so covered, should not ultimately result in any liability that
would have a material adverse effect on the financial position, liquidity or results of operations of the Company, other than proceedings for
which a separate assessment is provided in this Note.
Environmental Matters
The Company is a party to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
Act, commonly known as Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents. These proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste
disposal facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators of hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to reimburse
the government for cleanup costs. The Company has been made a party to these proceedings as an alleged generator of waste disposed of at the
sites. In each case, the government alleges that the defendants are jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs. Although joint and several
liability is alleged, these proceedings are frequently resolved so that the allocation of cleanup costs among the parties more nearly reflects the
relative contributions of the parties to the site situation. The Company’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. For some sites the
potential liability is de minimis and for others the costs of cleanup have not yet been determined. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome
of many of these proceedings brought by federal or state agencies or private litigants, in the opinion of the Company, such proceedings should
not ultimately result in any liability which would have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations, liquidity or
capital resources of the Company. The Company has taken an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and such amounts do not
include any reduction for anticipated recoveries of cleanup costs from insurers, former site owners or operators or other recalcitrant potentially
responsible parties.
As previously disclosed, in December 2003, the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality (“VADEQ”) issued a Notice of Violation of
the Company’s Elkton, Virginia facility for air permit limit exceedances reported by the facility as a result of performance testing of a process
train. In 2005, the Company settled this matter with VADEQ by agreeing (i) to make $3.1 million in capital improvements at the site, (ii) to pay
VADEQ a $200,000 fine, and (iii) to perform a Supplemental Environmental Project for $300,000.
On December 21, 2005, the Company settled claims brought by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection for alleged damages
to natural resources at four New Jersey Merck remediation sites. In the settlement, the Company agreed to pay $2.38 million, donate 10 acres of
land adjacent to the Rahway River and fund a $30,000 restoration project in the Passaic River watershed for groundwater contamination found at
the Company’s sites.
Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
Not applicable.
34Table of Contents
Executive Officers of the Registrant (ages as of February 1, 2006)
RICHARD T. CLARK — Age 59
May, 2005 — Chief Executive Officer and President
June, 2003 — President, Merck Manufacturing Division — responsible for the Company’s manufacturing, information services and
operational excellence organizations worldwide
January, 2003 — Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Medco Health Solutions, Inc. (Medco Health), formerly a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company
January, 2000 — President, Medco Health
DAVID W. ANSTICE — Age 57
August, 2005 — President, Human Health-Asia Pacific — responsible for the Company’s prescription drug business in the Asia Pacific
region, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and the Company’s joint venture relationship with Schering-Plough
January, 2003 — President, Human Health — responsible for the Company’s prescription drug business in Japan, Latin America, Canada,
Australia, New Zealand and the Company’s joint venture relationship with Schering-Plough
March, 2001 — President, The Americas and U.S. Human Health — responsible for one of the two prescription drug divisions comprising
U.S. Human Health, as well as the Company’s prescription drug business in Canada and Latin America, and the Company’s joint venture
relationship with Schering-Plough
January, 1997 — President, Human Health — The Americas — responsible for the Company’s human health business in the United States,
Canada and Latin America
CELIA A. COLBERT — Age 49
January, 1997 — Vice President, Secretary (since September, 1993) and Assistant General Counsel (since November, 1993)
WILLIE A. DEESE — Age 50
May, 2005 — President, Merck Manufacturing Division — responsible for the Company’s global manufacturing, procurement, and
operational excellence functions
January, 2004 — Senior Vice President, Global Procurement
Prior to January, 2004, Mr. Deese was Senior Vice President, Global Procurement and Logistics (2001 to 2003) for GlaxoSmithKline plc
CAROLINE DORSA — Age 46
August, 2002 — Vice President and Treasurer — responsible for the Company’s treasury and tax functions, and for providing financial
support for the Merck Manufacturing and Merck Research Laboratories Divisions as well as Human Resources
September, 1999 — Vice President and Treasurer — responsible for the Company’s treasury and tax functions and for providing financial
support for the Asia Pacific Division
35Table of Contents
KENNETH C. FRAZIER — Age 51
December, 1999 — Senior Vice President and General Counsel — responsible for legal and public affairs functions and The Merck Company
Foundation (a not-for-profit charitable organization affiliated with the Company)
RICHARD C. HENRIQUES JR. — Age 50
August, 2002 — Vice President, Controller — responsible for the Corporate Controller’s Group and providing financial support for the
Human Health operations in the United States, Canada, Latin America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Japan, and Australia/New Zealand
and the Merck Vaccine Division (MVD)
November, 2000 — Vice President, Controller (since February, 1999) — responsible for the Corporate Controller’s Group and providing
financial support for U.S. Human Health, Canada and Latin America (The Americas) and MVD
PETER S. KIM — Age 47
January, 2003 — President, Merck Research Laboratories (MRL)
February, 2001 — Executive Vice President, Research and Development, MRL
JUDY C. LEWENT — Age 57
August, 2005 — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer — responsible for the Company’s strategic planning, financial and
corporate development functions, internal auditing, corporate licensing, the Company’s joint venture relationships, and Merck Capital
Ventures, LLC, a subsidiary of the Company
January, 2003 — Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and President, Human Health Asia — responsible for financial and
corporate development functions, internal auditing, corporate licensing, the Company’s prescription drug business in Asia North and Asia
South, the Company’s joint venture relationships, and Merck Capital Ventures, LLC
February, 2001 — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (since April, 1990) — responsible for financial and corporate
development functions, internal auditing, corporate licensing, the Company’s joint venture relationships, and Merck Capital Ventures, LLC
ADEL MAHMOUD — Age 64
September, 2005 — Chief Medical Advisor, Vaccines and Infectious Diseases — responsible for representing the Company in external
medical, policy and government forums on matters of infectious diseases and vaccines
May, 1999 — President, Merck Vaccines
MARGARET G. MCGLYNN — Age 46
August, 2005 — President, Merck Vaccines — global responsibilities for the vaccines business including the Company’s Sanofi-Aventis joint
venture
January, 2003 — President, U.S. Human Health — responsible for one of the two prescription drug divisions (hospital and specialty product
franchises) comprising U.S. Human Health (USHH), and the Managed Care Group of USHH
August, 2001 — Executive Vice President, Customer Marketing and Sales, USHH
November, 1998 — Senior Vice President, Worldwide Human Health Marketing
36Table of Contents
J. CHRIS SCALET — Age 47
January, 2006 — Senior Vice President, Global Process and Services, and Chief Information Officer (CIO) — responsible for Global Shared
Services across the human resources, finance, site services and information services function; and the enterprise business process redesign
initiative
March, 2003 — Senior Vice President, Information Services, and CIO — responsible for all areas of information technology and services
including application development, technical support, voice and data communications, and computer operations worldwide
Prior to March, 2003, Mr. Scalet was Senior Vice President, Information Technology & CIO (1997 to 2003) for International Paper Company
(global forest products, paper and packaging company)
BRADLEY T. SHEARES — Age 49
August, 2005 — President, U.S. Human Health — responsible for the entire prescription drug business comprising U.S. Human Health
(USHH)
January, 2003 — President, U.S. Human Health — responsible for one of the two prescription drug divisions (primary care product
franchises) comprising USHH
March, 2001 — President, U.S. Human Health — responsible for one of the two prescription drug divisions (hospital and specialty product
franchises) comprising USHH
July, 1998 — Vice President, Hospital Marketing and Sales, USHH
JOAN E. WAINWRIGHT — Age 45
January, 2001 — Vice President, Public Affairs
PER WOLD-OLSEN — Age 58
August, 2005 — President, Human Health Intercontinental — responsible for the Company’s prescription drug business in Europe, the
Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Canada and worldwide human health marketing
January, 1997 — President, Human Health-Europe, Middle East & Africa — responsible for the Company’s prescription drug business in
Europe, the Middle East and Africa and worldwide human health marketing
All officers listed above serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. None of these officers was elected pursuant to any arrangement or
understanding between the officer and the Board.
37Table of Contents
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.
The required information on market information and dividends is incorporated by reference to page 38 of the Company’s 2005 Annual Report
to stockholders and the required information on the number of holders of the Company’s common stock is incorporated by reference to page 68
of the Company’s 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders.
Issuer purchases of equity securities for the three month period ended December 31, 2005 are as follows:
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Total Number of ($ in millions)
Total Shares Purchased Approx. Dollar Value
Number Average as Part of Of Shares That May Yet
of Shares Price Paid Publicly Announced Be Purchased Under the
Period Purchased Per Share Plans or Programs Plans or Programs
October 1 — October 31, 2005 3,091,800 $ 2 7.08 3,091,800 $ 7 ,697.3
November 1 — November 30, 2005 2,818,000 $ 2 9.80 2,818,000 $ 7 ,613.4
December 1 — December 31, 2005 2,729,600 $ 3 0.63 2,729,600 $ 7 ,529.7
Total 8,639,400 $ 2 9.09 8,639,400 $ 7 ,529.7
Item 6. Selected Financial Data.
The information required for this item is incorporated by reference to the data for the last five fiscal years of the Company included under
Results for Year and Year-End Position in the Selected Financial Data table on page 68 of the Company’s 2005 Annual Report to stockholders.
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
The information required for this item is incorporated by reference to pages 20 through 38 of the Company’s 2005 Annual Report to
stockholders.
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
The information required for this item is incorporated by reference to pages 32 (beginning with the caption “Financial Instruments Market
Risk Disclosures”) to 33 of the Company’s 2005 Annual Report to stockholders.
38Table of Contents
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
(a) Financial Statements
The consolidated balance sheet of Merck & Co., Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated
statements of income, of retained earnings, of comprehensive income and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2005, and the report dated February 24, 2006 of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, are
incorporated by reference to pages 39 through 65 and page 67, respectively, of the Company’s 2005 Annual Report to stockholders.
(b) Supplementary Data
Selected quarterly financial data for 2005 and 2004 are incorporated by reference to the data contained in the Condensed Interim Financial
Data table on page 38 of the Company’s 2005 Annual Report to stockholders.
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
Not applicable.
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.
Management of the Company, with the participation of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of
the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on their evaluation, as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-K, the
Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) are effective.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in
Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the
framework in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005
based on criteria in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by COSO. Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm, and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has issued a report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting, which is incorporated by reference to page 67 of the Company’s 2005 Annual Report to stockholders.
There have been no changes in internal control over financial reporting for the period covered by this report that have materially affected, or
are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Item 9B. Other Information.
None.
PART III
Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
The required information on directors and nominees is incorporated by reference to pages 6 through 9 of the Company’s Proxy Statement for
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 25, 2006. Information on executive officers is set forth in Part I of this document on pages
35 through 37.
39Table of Contents
The required information on the audit committee financial expert is incorporated by reference to page 13 (under the heading “Financial
Expert on Audit Committee”) of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 25, 2006.
The required information on the identification of the audit committee is incorporated by reference to page 13 (under the caption “Board
Committees”) of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 25, 2006.
The required information on compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by reference to page 56
(under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance”) of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held April 25, 2006.
The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct — Our Values and Standards applicable to all employees, including the principal executive
officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer. The Code of Conduct is available on the Company’s website at
www.merck.com/about/corporategovernance . The Company intends to post on this website any amendments to, or waivers from, its Code of
Conduct. A printed copy will be sent, without charge, to any stockholder who requests it by writing to the Chief Ethics Officer of Merck & Co.,
Inc., One Merck Drive, Whitehouse Station, NJ 08889-0100.
Item 11. Executive Compensation.
The information required for this item is incorporated by reference to pages 17 (under the caption “Compensation of Directors”) through 18;
pages 26 (beginning with the caption “Summary Compensation Table”) through 29; pages 31 (beginning with the caption “Annual Benefits
Payable Under Merck & Co., Inc. Retirement Plans”) to 38; page 15 (under the caption “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation”) of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 25, 2006.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.
Information with respect to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference to page 30 (under
the caption “Equity Compensation Plan Information”) of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
April 25, 2006. Information with respect to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated by reference to
pages 19 (under the caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management”) to 20 of the Company’s Proxy Statement for
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 25, 2006.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
The information required for this item is incorporated by reference to page 12 (under the caption “Relationships with Outside Firms”) and
page 38 (under the caption “Indebtedness of Management”) of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held April 25, 2006.
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services.
The information required for this item is incorporated by reference to pages 40 (beginning with the caption “Pre-Approval Policy for Services
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm”) to 41 of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held April 25, 2006.
40Table of Contents
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.
Documents filed as part of this Form 10-K
1. Financial Statements
The following consolidated financial statements and report of independent registered public accounting firm are incorporated herein by
reference to the Company’s 2005 Annual Report to stockholders, as noted on page 39 of this document:
Consolidated statement of income for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
Consolidated statement of retained earnings for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
Consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005 and 2004
Consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting firm
2. Financial Statement Schedules
Schedules are omitted because they are either not required or not applicable.
Financial statements of affiliates carried on the equity basis have been omitted because, considered individually or in the aggregate, such
affiliates do not constitute a significant subsidiary.
3. Exhibits
Exhibit
Number Description
2.1 — Master Restructuring Agreement dated as of June 19, 1998 between Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc., Astra USA,
Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises, Inc., KBI Sub Inc., Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of
this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment filed with the Commission) — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q
Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
3.1 — Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Merck & Co., Inc. (October 1, 2004) — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly
Report for the period ended September 30, 2004
3.2 — By-Laws of Merck & Co., Inc. (as amended effective May 24, 2005) — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K
dated May 24, 2005
4.1 — Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1991, between Merck & Co., Inc. and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Trustee —
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-39349)
4.2 — First Supplemental Indenture between Merck & Co., Inc. and First Trust of New York, National Association, as Trustee —
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-36383)
41Table of Contents
Exhibit
Number Description
*10.1 — Executive Incentive Plan (as amended effective February 27, 1996) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
*10.2 — Base Salary Deferral Plan (as adopted on October 22, 1996, effective January 1, 1997) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K
Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
*10.3 — Merck & Co., Inc. Deferral Program (amended and restated as of December 15, 2005) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Current
Report on Form 8-K dated December 16, 2005
*10.4 — 1991 Incentive Stock Plan (as amended effective February 23, 1994) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
*10.5 — 1996 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of February 22, 2005) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual
Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004
*10.6 — 2001 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of February 22, 2005) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual
Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004
*10.7 — 2004 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of February 22, 2005) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual
Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004
*10.8 — Merck & Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated
November 23, 2004
*10.9 — Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated February 24, 1998) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-
K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
*10.10 — 1996 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (as amended April 27, 1999) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly
Report for the period ended June 30, 1999
*10.11 — 2001 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (as amended April 19, 2002) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly
Report for the period ended June 30, 2002
*10.12 — Supplemental Retirement Plan (as amended effective January 1, 1995) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
*10.13 — Retirement Plan for the Directors of Merck & Co., Inc. (amended and restated June 21, 1996) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1996
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
42Table of Contents
Exhibit
Number Description
*10.14 — Plan for Deferred Payment of Directors’ Compensation (amended and restated as of May 31, 2005) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to
Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 24, 2005
10.15 — Limited Liability Company Agreement of Merck Capital Ventures, LLC (dated as of November 27, 2000) (cid:190) Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000
*10.16 — Offer Letter between Merck & Co., Inc. and Peter S. Kim, dated December 15, 2000 (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K
Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003
10.17 — Amended and Restated License and Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra AB and Astra Merck Inc. (cid:190)
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10.18 — KBI Shares Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc. and Merck Holdings, Inc. (cid:190)
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10.19 — KBI-E Asset Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc. and Astra
Merck Enterprises Inc. (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10.20 — KBI Supply Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra Merck Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of this Exhibit
are subject to a request for confidential treatment filed with the Commission) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly
Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10.21 — Second Amended and Restated Manufacturing Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 among Merck & Co., Inc., Astra AB, Astra
Merck Inc. and Astra USA, Inc. (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10.22 — Limited Partnership Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between KB USA, L.P. and KBI Sub Inc. (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10.23 — Distribution Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra Merck Enterprises Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (cid:190)
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
43Table of Contents
Exhibit
Number Description
10.24 — Agreement to Incorporate Defined Terms dated as of June 19, 1998 between Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc., Astra
USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises Inc., KBI Sub Inc., Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (cid:190)
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
12 — Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges
13 — 2005 Annual Report to stockholders (only those portions incorporated by reference in this document are deemed “filed”)
21 — Subsidiaries of Merck & Co., Inc.
23 — Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (cid:190) Contained on page 46 of this Report
24.1 — Power of Attorney
24.2 — Certified Resolution of Board of Directors
31.1 — Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
31.2 — Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
32.1 — Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer
32.2 — Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Copies of the exhibits may be obtained by stockholders upon written request directed to the Stockholder Services Department, Merck & Co.,
Inc., P.O. Box 100 — WS 3AB-40, Whitehouse Station, New Jersey 08889-0100.
44Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
MERCK & CO., INC.
Dated: March 13, 2006
By RICHARD T. CLARK
(Chief Executive Officer and President)
By CELIA A. COLBERT
Celia A. Colbert
(Attorney-in-Fact)
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signatures Title Date
RICHARD T. CLARK Chief Executive Officer and March 13, 2006
President; Principal
Executive Officer; Director
JUDY C. LEWENT Executive Vice President and March 13, 2006
Chief Financial Officer;
Principal Financial Officer
RICHARD C. HENRIQUES, JR. Vice President, Controller; March 13, 2006
Principal Accounting
Officer
LAWRENCE A. BOSSIDY Director March 13, 2006
WILLIAM G. BOWEN Director March 13, 2006
JOHNNETTA B. COLE Director March 13, 2006
WILLIAM B. HARRISON, JR. Director
WILLIAM N. KELLEY Director March 13, 2006
ROCHELLE B. LAZARUS Director March 13, 2006
THOMAS E. SHENK Director March 13, 2006
ANNE M. TATLOCK Director
SAMUEL O. THIER Director March 13, 2006
WENDELL P. WEEKS Director March 13, 2006
PETER C. WENDELL Director March 13, 2006
Celia A. Colbert, by signing her name hereto, does hereby sign this document pursuant to powers of attorney duly executed by the
persons named, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to this document, on behalf of such persons, all in the
capacities and on the date stated, such persons including a majority of the directors of the Company.
By CELIA A. COLBERT
Celia A. Colbert
(Attorney-in-Fact)
45Table of Contents
Exhibit 23
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 33-39349, 33-60322, 33-51785, 33-
57421, 333-17045, 333-36383, 333-77569, 333-72546, 333-87034 and 333-118186) and on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-21087, 33-21088, 33-40177, 33-
51235, 33-53463, 33-64273, 33-64665, 333-91769, 333-30526, 333-31762, 333-40282, 333-53246, 333-56696, 333-72206, 333-65796, 333-
101519, 333-109296, 333-117737 and 333-117738) of Merck & Co., Inc. of our report dated February 24, 2006, relating to the consolidated
financial statements, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, which appears in the 2005 Annual Report to stockholders, which is incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Florham Park, New Jersey
March 13, 2006
46Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX
Exhibit
Number Description
2.1 — Master Restructuring Agreement dated as of June 19, 1998 between Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc., Astra USA,
Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises, Inc., KBI Sub Inc., Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of
this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment filed with the Commission) — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q
Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
3.1 — Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Merck & Co., Inc. (October 1, 2004) — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly
Report for the period ended September 30, 2004
3.2 — By-Laws of Merck & Co., Inc. (as amended effective May 24, 2005) — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K
dated May 24, 2005
4.1 — Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1991, between Merck & Co., Inc. and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Trustee —
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-39349)
4.2 — First Supplemental Indenture between Merck & Co., Inc. and First Trust of New York, National Association, as Trustee —
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-36383)
*10.1 — Executive Incentive Plan (as amended effective February 27, 1996) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
*10.2 — Base Salary Deferral Plan (as adopted on October 22, 1996, effective January 1, 1997) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K
Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
*10.3 — Merck & Co., Inc. Deferral Program (amended and restated as of December 15, 2005) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Current
Report on Form 8-K dated December 16, 2005
*10.4 — 1991 Incentive Stock Plan (as amended effective February 23, 1994) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
*10.5 — 1996 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of February 22, 2005) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual
Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004
*10.6 — 2001 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of February 22, 2005) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual
Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
47Table of Contents
Exhibit
Number Description
*10.7 — 2004 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of February 22, 2005) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual
Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004
*10.8 — Merck & Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated
November 23, 2004
*10.9 — Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated February 24, 1998) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-
K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
*10.10 — 1996 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (as amended April 27, 1999) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly
Report for the period ended June 30, 1999
*10.11 — 2001 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (as amended April 19, 2002) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly
Report for the period ended June 30, 2002
*10.12 — Supplemental Retirement Plan (as amended effective January 1, 1995) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
*10.13 — Retirement Plan for the Directors of Merck & Co., Inc. (amended and restated June 21, 1996) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1996
*10.14 — Plan for Deferred Payment of Directors’ Compensation (amended and restated as of May 31, 2005) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to
Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 24, 2005
10.15 — Limited Liability Company Agreement of Merck Capital Ventures, LLC (dated as of November 27, 2000) (cid:190) Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000
*10.16 — Offer Letter between Merck & Co., Inc. and Peter S. Kim, dated December 15, 2000 (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K
Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003
10.17 — Amended and Restated License and Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra AB and Astra Merck Inc. (cid:190)
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10.18 — KBI Shares Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc. and Merck Holdings, Inc. (cid:190)
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
48Table of Contents
Exhibit
Number Description
10.19 — KBI-E Asset Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc. and Astra
Merck Enterprises Inc. (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10.20 — KBI Supply Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra Merck Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of this Exhibit
are subject to a request for confidential treatment filed with the Commission) (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly
Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10.21 — Second Amended and Restated Manufacturing Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 among Merck & Co., Inc., Astra AB, Astra
Merck Inc. and Astra USA, Inc. (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10.22 — Limited Partnership Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between KB USA, L.P. and KBI Sub Inc. (cid:190) Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10.23 — Distribution Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra Merck Enterprises Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (cid:190)
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10.24 — Agreement to Incorporate Defined Terms dated as of June 19, 1998 between Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc., Astra
USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises Inc., KBI Sub Inc., Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (cid:190)
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
12 — Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges
13 — 2005 Annual Report to stockholders (only those portions incorporated by reference in this document are deemed “filed”)
21 — Subsidiaries of Merck & Co., Inc.
23 — Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (cid:190) Contained on page 46 of this Report
24.1 — Power of Attorney
24.2 — Certified Resolution of Board of Directors
31.1 — Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
31.2 — Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
32.1 — Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer
32.2 — Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer
49Exhibit 12
MERCK & CO., INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Computation Of Ratios Of Earnings To Fixed Charges
($ in millions except ratio data)
Twelve Months
Ended
December 31 Years Ended December 31
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
Income from Continuing Operations
Before Taxes $ 7,363.9 $ 7,974.5 $9 ,051.6 $ 9,651.7 $ 9,948.1 $9 ,362.3
Add (Subtract):
One-third of rents 68.2 71.9 75.6 67.2 64.2 55.9
Interest expense, gross 385.5 293.7 350.9 390.6 463.7 484.0
Interest capitalized, net of amortization (1.0 ) (21.3 ) (30.1) (36.9 ) (66.1 ) (99.0 )
Equity (income) loss from affiliates, net
of distributions (615.9) (421.2) 79.2 (156.1) (113.7 ) (288.3)
Preferred stock dividends, net of tax 120.0 151.0 150.9 164.3 199.6 205.0
Earnings from Continuing
Operations $ 7,320.7 $ 8,048.6 $9 ,678.1 $1 0,080.8 $1 0,495.8 $9 ,719.9
One-third of rents $ 68.2 $ 71.9 $ 75.6 $ 67.2 $ 64.2 $ 55.9
Interest expense, gross 385.5 293.7 350.9 390.6 463.7 484.0
Preferred stock dividends 166.7 207.1 215.6 234.7 285.1 292.9
Fixed Charges from Continuing
Operations $ 620.4 $ 572.7 $ 642.1 $ 692.5 $ 813.0 $ 832.8
Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
from Continuing Operations 12 14 15 15 13 12
For purposes of computing these ratios, “earnings” consist of income from continuing operations before taxes, one-third of rents (deemed by
the Company to be representative of the interest factor inherent in rents), interest expense, net of amounts capitalized, equity (income) loss from
affiliates, net of distributions, and dividends on preferred stock of subsidiary companies. “Fixed charges” consist of one-third of rents, interest
expense as reported in the Company’s consolidated financial statements and dividends on preferred stock of subsidiary companies.Exhibit 13
Financial Section
Contents Financial Review
Financial Review Description of Merck’s Business
Description of Merck’s Business 20 Merck is a global research-driven pharmaceutical company that
Overview 20 discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range
Competition and the Health Care Environment 22 of innovative products to improve human and animal health,
Operating Results 22 directly and through its joint ventures. Merck sells its products
Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information 29 primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, clinics,
Capital Expenditures 31 government agencies and managed health care providers such
Analysis of Liquidity and Capital Resources 31 as health maintenance organizations and other institutions. The
Financial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures 32 Company’s professional representatives communicate the
Critical Accounting Policies and Other Matters 33 effectiveness, safety and value of our products to health care
Recently Issued Accounting Standards 37 professionals in private practice, group practices and managed
Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results 37 care organizations.
Cash Dividends Paid per Common Share 38
Common Stock Market Prices 38 Overview
Condensed Interim Financial Data 38 In December 2005, Merck unveiled a plan to reclaim its
Consolidated Statement of Income 39 leadership position in the pharmaceutical industry. As part of the
Consolidated Statement of Retained Earnings 39 strategy, Merck is focusing on improving its research and
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 39 development (R&D) productivity by focusing on select
Consolidated Balance Sheet 40 therapeutic areas, implementing a new commercial model that
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 41 will deliver greater value to customers, and reducing its overall
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 42 cost structure company-wide.
Management’s Report 66 Merck’s new R&D model is designed to increase productivity
Audit Committee’s Report 66 and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Company’s R&D resources on nine priority disease areas-
Firm 67 Alzheimer’s disease, atherosclerosis, cardiovascular disease,
Compensation and Benefits Committee’s Report 67 diabetes, novel vaccines, obesity, oncology, pain and sleep
Selected Financial Data 68 disorders. These therapeutic areas were carefully chosen based
on a set of criteria including unmet medical needs, scientific
opportunity and commercial opportunity. Within these
therapeutic areas, Merck will commit resources to achieve
research breadth and depth and to develop best-in-class
targeted and differentiated products that are valued highly by
patients, payers and physicians.
The Company will also make focused investments to pursue
specific mechanisms in the following selected disease areas:
antibiotics, antifungals, antivirals (hepatitis C virus, human
immunodeficiency virus), asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, neurodegeneration, ophthalmology, osteoporosis,
schizophrenia and stroke. In addition, the Company will
capitalize on selected opportunities outside these areas by
continuing to commercialize attractive clinical development
candidates in the pipeline and by pursuing appropriate external
licensing opportunities.
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 20Merck’s late-stage pipeline is showing strong progress with $205.4 million of separation costs and $195.8 million of
three Biologics License Application (BLA) submissions to the accelerated depreciation and asset impairment costs.
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2005, one New The manufacturing facilities included in this action are:
Drug Application (NDA) already filed with the FDA in 2006, two Ponders End, United Kingdom; Okazaki, Japan; Kirkland,
additional FDA filings anticipated in 2006, and an expected five Canada; Albany, Georgia and Danville, Pennsylvania. The two
programs in Phase III by the first quarter of 2006. preclinical sites are in Okazaki and Menuma, Japan. The
The three FDA submissions in 2005 include Gardasil, a Company will incur significantly larger accelerated depreciation
breakthrough vaccine to help prevent cervical cancer, the charges during 2006 associated with these actions. The asset
second leading cause of cancer deaths in women worldwide; impairment charge was associated with the abandonment of
Zostavax, a vaccine to reduce the incidence of shingles; and certain fixed assets that will no longer be used in the business
RotaTeq, a pediatric vaccine to prevent rotavirus gastroenteritis, as a result of these restructuring actions. The Company also
a leading cause of diarrhea in infants and young children, which plans to close its basic research center in Terlings Park, United
leads to nearly 500,000 deaths worldwide each year. On Kingdom, and incurred additional accelerated depreciation costs
February 3, 2006, Merck announced the approval by the FDA of of $103.1 million during 2005 with respect to this site.
RotaTeq. In addition, on February 7, 2006, Merck announced Additional charges of approximately $800 million to $1 billion
that the FDA has accepted the BLA for Gardasil and granted the are expected to be recorded during 2006, based on estimated
vaccine priority review designation. time of completion, as the sales/closures of the facilities
On February 15, 2006, Merck announced that the NDA filed previously discussed occur. Merck expects its cost reduction
with the FDA for Januvia (the proposed trademark for the program to yield cumulative pre-tax savings of $4.5 to
compound known as MK-0431), a novel mechanism for the $5.0 billion from 2006 through 2010.
treatment of type 2 diabetes, was accepted for standard review. The American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA), signed into law in
Merck also anticipates two additional FDA filings in 2006: October 2004, created temporary incentives through
vorinostat (the generic name for the suberoylanilide hydroxamic December 31, 2005 for U.S. multinationals to repatriate
acid (SAHA) compound), a histone deacetylase inhibitor for accumulated income earned outside of the United States as of
cancer; and MK-0517, an intravenous prodrug of aprepitant to December 31, 2002. In connection with the AJCA, the Company
treat chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. repatriated $15.9 billion during 2005, and as a result, recorded
To improve its commercial selling model, Merck will continue an income tax charge of $766.5 million. This charge was
to streamline and restructure its marketing and sales operations partially offset by a $100 million benefit associated with the
worldwide to improve their effectiveness and generate greater decision to implement certain tax planning strategies.
efficiencies. In the United States, the Company already has As previously disclosed, on September 30, 2004, Merck
reduced the number of sales representatives promoting the announced a voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx, its
same product by 50 percent versus historical levels. In addition, arthritis and acute pain medication. As a result, the Company
Merck will place more emphasis on active engagement with key recorded a charge to pre-tax income of $726.2 million, or
opinion leaders to accelerate the development and diffusion of $552.6 million after tax adjustment to net income, in the third
scientific information and devote additional resources to utilizing quarter 2004. This did not include charges for future legal
technology and demonstrating product value to physicians, as defense costs. The Vioxx withdrawal process was completed
well as payers and consumers who have increasing influence during 2005 and the costs associated with the withdrawal were
on prescription decisions. In the United States, this approach in line with the original amounts recorded by the Company in
has already resulted in considerable productivity improvements 2004.
in pilot programs and is expected to lower the Company’s As of December 31, 2004, the Company had established a
spending per brand by 15 to 20 percent by 2010, while reserve of $675 million solely for its future Vioxx legal defense
maximizing sales performance. To provide additional support to costs. During 2005, the Company spent $285 million in the
its upcoming vaccine launches, in the United States Merck is aggregate in Vioxx legal defense costs worldwide. In the fourth
redeploying 1,500 sales representatives who currently promote quarter of 2005, the Company recorded a charge of $295 million
its major in-line products to support the launch of new vaccines. to increase the reserve solely for its future legal defense costs
In November 2005, the Company announced the first phase related to Vioxx to $685 million at December 31, 2005. This
of a global restructuring program designed to reduce the reserve is based on certain assumptions and is the best
Company’s cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance estimate of the amount that the Company believes, at this time,
competitiveness. The initial steps will include the it can reasonably estimate will be spent through 2007.
implementation of a new supply strategy by the Merck Earnings per common share assuming dilution for 2005 were
Manufacturing Division, which is intended to create a leaner, $2.10, including the impact of the global restructuring program
more cost-effective and customer-focused manufacturing model of $0.12 per share, the net tax charge primarily associated with
over the next three years. As part of this program, Merck plans the AJCA of $0.31 per share and additional reserves
to sell or close five manufacturing sites and two preclinical sites established solely for future legal defense costs for Vioxx
by the end of 2008, and eliminate approximately 7,000 positions litigation (as discussed above).
company-wide. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 1,100
positions throughout the Company had been eliminated. Merck
incurred $401.2 million in costs associated with the global
restructuring program which were comprised of
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 21Competition and the Health Care Environment antiretroviral regimens containing either Crixivan or Stocrin.
The markets in which the Company conducts its business are Through these and other actions, Merck is working
highly competitive and often highly regulated. Global efforts independently and with partners in the public and private
toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure sectors alike to focus on the most critical barriers to access to
on product pricing and access. medicines in the developing world: the need for sustainable
In the United States, the government expanded health care financing, increased international assistance and additional
access by enacting the Medicare Prescription Drug investments in education, training and health infrastructure and
Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, which was signed capacity in developing countries.
into law in December 2003. Prescription drug coverage began There has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy
on January 1, 2006. This new benefit supports the Company’s issues in countries around the world, including the United States
goal of improving access to medicines by expanding insurance and the EU. In the United States and the EU, governments have
coverage, while preserving market-based incentives for pursued legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding privacy,
pharmaceutical innovation. At the same time, the benefit will including federal privacy regulations and recently enacted state
ensure that prescription drug costs will be controlled by privacy laws concerning health and other personal information,
competitive pressures and by encouraging the appropriate use which have affected the Company’s operations.
of medicines. Although no one can predict the outcome of these and other
In addressing cost-containment pressure, the Company has legislative, regulatory and advocacy initiatives, the Company is
made a continuing effort to demonstrate that its medicines can well-positioned to respond to the evolving health care
help save costs in overall patient health care. In addition, pricing environment and market forces.
flexibility across the Company’s product portfolio has As certain of the Company’s products face patent expiration,
encouraged growing use of its medicines and mitigated the Merck will consider entering into authorized generic agreements
effects of increasing cost pressures. which would allow the Company to benefit when these
Outside the United States, in difficult environments medicines become available in generic form.
encumbered by government cost-containment actions, the The Company anticipates that the worldwide trend toward
Company has worked in partnership with payers on allocating cost-containment will continue, resulting in ongoing pressures
scarce resources to optimize health care outcomes, limiting the on health care budgets. As the Company continues to
potentially detrimental effects of government policies on sales successfully launch new products, contribute to health care
growth and access to innovative medicines and vaccines, and to debates and monitor reforms, its new products, policies and
support the discovery and development of innovative products strategies should enable it to maintain a strong position in the
to benefit patients. The Company also is working with changing economic environment.
governments in many emerging markets in Eastern Europe,
Latin America and Asia to encourage them to increase their Operating Results
investments in health and thereby improve their citizens’ access Sales
to medicines. Countries within the European Union (EU), Worldwide sales for 2005 decreased 4% in total over 2004,
recognizing the economic importance of the research-based reflecting a decrease of 7% related to the voluntary worldwide
pharmaceutical industry and the value of innovative medicines withdrawal of Vioxx, offset by revenue growth in all other
to society, are working with industry representatives and the products of 3%. This growth reflects a 1% favorable effect from
European Commission on proposals to complete the “Single foreign exchange, a 1% favorable effect from price changes and
Market” in pharmaceuticals and improve the competitive climate a volume increase of 1%. Sales performance over 2004 reflects
through a variety of means including market deregulation. strong growth of Singulair, a once-a-day oral medicine indicated
The Company is committed to improving access to for the treatment of chronic asthma and the relief of symptoms
medicines and enhancing the quality of life for people around of allergic rhinitis, Cancidas for antifungal infections,
the world. The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnerships Cozaar/Hyzaar for high blood pressure and higher revenues
(ACHAP) in Botswana, a partnership between the government from the Company’s relationship with AstraZeneca LP
of Botswana, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and The (AZLP) primarily driven by Nexium. Sales growth was offset by
Merck Company Foundation/Merck & Co., Inc. is supporting declining sales of Zocor for high cholesterol.
Botswana’s response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive Domestic sales declined 5%, reflecting the unfavorable effect
and sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment from the voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx of 7% which
and support. In May 2005, the Company initiated a similar was offset by revenue growth in all other products of 2%.
partnership with the People’s Republic of China (focused initially Foreign sales declined 2% also reflecting the unfavorable effect
in Sichuan Province) to help strengthen China’s response to the from the voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx of 6% and was
HIV epidemic. offset by revenue growth in all other products of 4%. Foreign
To further catalyze access to HIV medicines in developing sales represented 42% of total sales in 2005.
countries, under price reduction guidelines that the Company Worldwide sales for 2004 increased 2% in total over 2003,
announced in 2001, Merck makes no profit on the sale of its reflecting a 3% favorable effect from foreign exchange, a 1%
current HIV/AIDS medicines in the world’s poorest countries and favorable effect from price changes and a volume decline of 2%.
those hardest hit by the pandemic, and offers its HIV/AIDS Sales for 2004 were unfavorably impacted by the voluntary
medicines at significantly reduced prices to medium-income worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx. Foreign sales represented 41%
countries. By the end of 2005, more than 475,000 patients in of total sales for 2004.
more than 75 developing countries were being treated with
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 22Sales (1) of the Company’s products were as follows: similar growth rates as children taking placebo. In the same
study, children taking an inhaled steroid had slower growth rates
($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 than children on either Singulair or placebo.
Z ocor $ 4,381.7 $ 5,196.5 $ 5,011.4 In 2005, the FDA approved two new indications for Singulair
Fosamax 3,191.2 3,159.7 2,676.6 and accepted for review the supplemental NDA for Singulair for
Cozaar/Hyzaar 3,037.2 2,823.7 2,486.0 use in the prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm
Singulair 2,975.6 2,622.0 2,009.4 (EIB) in patients 15 years of age or older. In December 2005,
Proscar 741.4 733.1 605.5 Merck received an approvable letter from the FDA for the EIB
Primaxin 739.6 640.6 628.9 indication for Singulair. Merck is currently in discussions with the
Vasotec/Vaseretic 623.1 719.2 763.7 FDA to determine what additional data or revisions to its
Cosopt/Trusopt 617.2 558.8 484.4 application will be necessary to obtain approval for this
Cancidas 570.0 430.0 275.7 indication.
Maxalt 348.4 309.9 324.2 In August 2005, Merck announced that the FDA had
Propecia 291.9 270.2 239.0 approved Singulair for the symptoms of perennial allergic
Vioxx — 1,489.3 2,548.8 rhinitis, or year-round allergies, in adults and children six
Vaccines/Biologicals 1,103.3 1,036.1 1,056.1 months of age and older.
Other 3,391.3 2,949.5 3,376.2 In January 2005, Merck announced that a new indication for
$ 22,011.9 $ 22,938.6 $ 22,485.9 Singulair to treat symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis in
asthmatic patients was launched in the EU. This new indication
(1) Presented net of discounts and returns.
has been launched in several countries in the EU and is the only
The Company’s products include therapeutic and preventive respiratory therapy approved for the treatment of both asthma
agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of and seasonal allergic rhinitis in asthmatic patients. An indication
human disorders. Among these are Zocor, Merck’s largest- for Singulair for the treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis was
selling atherosclerosis product; Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D, granted in the United States in late 2002.
Merck’s osteoporosis products for treatment and, in the case of Merck expects to seek new indications for Singulair for acute
Fosamax, prevention of osteoporosis; Cozaar/Hyzaar and asthma in 2007 and for respiratory syncytial bronchiolitis in
Vasotec, the Company’s most significant hypertension/heart 2008.
failure products; Singulair, a leukotriene receptor antagonist Global sales for Cozaar, and its companion agent Hyzaar (a
respiratory product for the treatment of chronic asthma and for combination of Cozaar and the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide), for
the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis; Proscar, a urology the treatment of hypertension were strong in 2005, reaching
product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate $3.0 billion, an 8% increase over 2004.
enlargement; Primaxin and Cancidas, antibacterial/antifungal Cozaar and Hyzaar compete in the fastest-growing class in
products; Cosopt and Trusopt, the largest-selling the antihypertensive market, angiotensin II antagonists (AIIA).
ophthalmological products; Maxalt, an acute migraine product; Cozaar/Hyzaar continues to be the largest-selling branded AIIA
Propecia, a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss; in Europe and the second most frequently prescribed AIIA in the
and vaccines/biologicals, which include Varivax, a live virus United States.
vaccine for the prevention of chickenpox, M-M-R II, a pediatric In early October 2005, the FDA approved a new tablet,
vaccine for measles, mumps and rubella, Pneumovax, a Hyzaar 100/12.5 mg, a new dosage offering the once-daily
vaccine for the prevention of pneumococcal disease, and efficacy of Cozaar 100 mg with a low-dose diuretic. This new
Recombivax HB, a vaccine for the prevention of hepatitis B. formulation addresses the need for titration flexibility as an
Other primarily includes sales of other human intermediate step between Cozaar 100 mg and Hyzaar 100/25
pharmaceuticals, pharmaceutical and animal health supply mg. Filings for this new formulation outside the United States
sales to the Company’s joint ventures and revenue from the have occurred throughout 2005, including in the United
Company’s relationship with AZLP, primarily relating to sales of Kingdom, Germany, France and Italy.
Nexium and Prilosec. Revenue from AZLP was $1.7 billion, In April 2005, the FDA approved a new indication for Hyzaar,
$1.5 billion, and $1.9 billion in 2005, 2004 and 2003, based on the Losartan Intervention for Endpoint Reduction
respectively. (LIFE) trial, for reduction in the risk of stroke in patients with
Singulair, Merck’s once-a-day oral respiratory medicine hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), but there is
indicated for the treatment of chronic asthma and the relief of evidence that this benefit does not apply to black patients.
symptoms of allergic rhinitis, continued its strong performance in Global sales for Fosamax, the most prescribed medicine
2005, reflecting the continued demand for asthma medications worldwide for the treatment of postmenopausal, male and
and the new indication for perennial allergic rhinitis in the United glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis, were $3.2 billion in 2005,
States. Total 2005 sales of Singulair were $3.0 billion, an an increase of 1% over 2004. In 2005, Merck enhanced its
increase of 13% over 2004. osteoporosis franchise with the addition of Fosamax Plus D, a
In December 2005, Merck announced a U.S. label change new product that provides the proven power of Fosamax to
for Singulair incorporating the positive results from a clinical reduce the risk of both hip and spine fractures plus the
study that showed children with asthma taking Singulair had assurance of offering a minimum vitamin D intake consistent
with the recommended guidelines, which became available in
the United States early in 2005. On August 25, 2005, the
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 23European Commission granted marketing authorization for this and vomiting associated with moderately and highly emetogenic
product, which is known in Europe as Fosavance. The approval cancer chemotherapy, Maxalt to treat migraine pain, Invanz for
of Fosamax Plus D will not extend the patent for Fosamax. the treatment of selected moderate to severe infection in adults
Fosamax Plus D is an important innovation in osteoporosis and Propecia for male pattern hair loss. Also contributing to
treatment that will help satisfy an unmet medical need. An Merck’s total sales in 2005 was revenue resulting from the
estimated 70% of women aged 51-70 and almost 90% of Company’s relationship with AZLP, primarily relating to sales of
women over age 70 are not getting adequate intake of vitamin Nexium .
D. Vitamin D insufficiency is associated with reduced calcium Global sales of Cancidas, a once-daily antifungal medicine,
absorption, bone loss and increased risk of fracture. were strong, reaching $570.0 million, an increase of 33% over
Additionally, new one-year extension results of the U.S. 2004. The strong results were driven by the new indication
FACT ( Fosamax Actonel Comparison Trial) study showed that received from the FDA in October 2004, as an empirical therapy
Fosamax delivered significantly greater increases in bone for presumed fungal infections in febrile neutropenic patients.
mineral density (BMD) at both the hip and spine than Proscar , Merck’s urology product for the treatment of
risedronate over two years. The increases in BMD seen with symptomatic benign prostate enlargement, will go off patent and
Fosamax were even greater compared to risedronate at year lose its market exclusivity in the United States in June 2006. As
two than year one. Fosamax also delivered superior reductions a result, the Company expects a significant decline in U.S.
in bone turnover than risedronate, with a significantly greater Proscar sales after that time. The basic patent for Proscar also
effect after only three months of treatment. covers Propecia, however, Propecia is protected by additional
As previously disclosed, on January 28, 2005, the U.S. Court patents which expire in October 2013.
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, D.C. found the As reported by the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership,
Company’s patent claims for once-weekly administration of global sales of Zetia and Vytorin in the aggregate reached
Fosamax to be invalid. The Company exhausted all options to $2.4 billion. Global sales of Zetia (marketed as Ezetrol outside
appeal this decision in 2005. Based on the Court of Appeals’ the United States), the cholesterol-absorption inhibitor, reached
decision, Fosamax will lose its market exclusivity in the United $1.4 billion in 2005, a 33% increase over 2004. Global sales of
States in February 2008 and the Company expects a significant Vytorin (marketed as Inegy outside the United States) reached
decline in U.S. Fosamax sales after that time. Additionally, sales $1.0 billion in 2005. Vytorin is the first single tablet cholesterol
of Fosamax in 2005 have declined in certain countries in which treatment to provide LDL cholesterol lowering through the dual
the patent has already expired. inhibition of cholesterol production and absorption. Vytorin was
Zocor , Merck’s statin for modifying cholesterol, achieved approved in the United States in July 2004 and is demonstrating
worldwide sales of $4.4 billion in 2005, a decrease of 16% from consistent growth.
2004. Sales of Zocor were affected by increased competition in In November 2005, the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership
the United States and generic competition in most markets announced the commencement of patient enrollment in its
outside of the United States. Currently, Zocor is available for large-scale, clinical outcomes trial, IMPROVE-IT (Improved
93 percent of managed care lives; and 100 percent of the Reduction of Outcomes: Vytorin Efficacy International Trial).
targeted managed care contracts have been renewed through This trial will evaluate the effectiveness of Vytorin compared to
2006. In June 2006, Zocor will lose its market exclusivity in the Zocor (simvastatin) alone in treating approximately 10,000 high
United States and the Company expects a significant decline in risk patients with coronary artery disease presenting with acute
U.S. Zocor sales after that time. Global sales of Zocor are coronary syndromes. Clinical trial sites are opening throughout
estimated to be $2.3 to $2.6 billion for full-year 2006. North America and Europe.
Other products experiencing growth in 2005 include The Company records the results from its interest in the
Cancidas to treat certain life-threatening fungal infections, Merck/Schering-Plough partnership in Equity income from
Primaxin for treatment of bacterial infections, Cosopt to treat affiliates.
glaucoma, Emend for prevention of acute and delayed nausea
Costs, Expenses and Other
( $ in millions) 2005 Change 2004 Change 2003
M aterials and production $ 5,149.6 + 4 % $ 4,959.8 +12 % $ 4,436.9
Marketing and administrative 7,155.5 - 1 % 7,238.7 +17 % 6,200.3
Research and development 3,848.0 - 4 % 4,010.2 +22 % 3,279.9
Restructuring costs 322.2 * 107.6 -45 % 194.6
Equity income from affiliates (1,717.1 ) +70 % (1,008.2 ) * (474.2 )
Other (income) expense, net (110.2 ) -68 % (344.0 ) +69 % (203.2 )
$ 14,648.0 - 2 % $ 14,964.1 +11 % $ 13,434.3
* 100% or greater.
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 24Materials and Production or close two pre-clinical sites by the end of 2008 in Okazaki and
In 2005, materials and production costs increased 4%, Menuma, Japan in connection with the global restructuring
compared to a 4% decline in sales. Included in the increase is a program. In addition, the decrease reflects the 2004 impact of
1% unfavorable effect from inflation and a 3% increase in $225.0 million of licensing expense for the initial payments for
volume. The increase is attributable to $177.1 million recorded certain disclosed research collaborations and $125.5 million of
in 2005 primarily related to the global restructuring program. Of acquired research expense from the acquisition of Aton
this, $111.2 million represents impairment charges associated Pharma, Inc. in 2004. Partially offsetting the decrease is an 8%
with the abandonment of certain fixed assets that will no longer increase in other research and development activities in support
be used in the business as a result of these restructuring of Merck’s pipeline.
actions. The remaining $65.9 million represents accelerated In December 2005, Merck submitted a BLA to the FDA for
depreciation associated with Merck’s plan to sell or close five of Gardasil (quadrivalent human papillomavirus (types 6, 11, 16,
its owned manufacturing facilities (see Note 4). The variance in 18) recombinant vaccine), the Company’s vaccine to protect
these costs relative to the sales decline reflects the impact of against four types of human papillomavirus (HPV); types 16 and
the items noted above, as well as the unfavorable effect on 18, which account for an estimated 70% of cervical cancer
sales associated with the voluntary worldwide withdrawal of cases, and types 6 and 11, which account for an estimated 90%
Vioxx in 2004. of genital warts cases. Cervical cancer results in approximately
In 2004, materials and production costs increased 12% 300,000 deaths worldwide each year. In the United States, an
compared to a 2% sales growth rate. Included in the increase is estimated 10,000 new cases of cervical cancer were diagnosed
a 2% unfavorable effect from inflation, 2% unfavorable effect in 2005 and there were approximately 3,700 deaths. There are
from exchange and an 8% increase in volume. The increase in an estimated 86 million women in the United States and the EU
these costs relative to the sales growth reflects the unfavorable between the ages of 9 and 26, the expected age range for the
effect associated with the voluntary worldwide withdrawal of initial indication of Gardasil.
Vioxx and the impact of changes in product mix. Gross margin In October 2005, Merck presented results of the FUTURE II
was 76.6% in 2005 compared to 78.4% in 2004 and 80.3% in study, a Phase III efficacy study for Gardasil in 12,167 women
2003. The 2005 restructuring charge noted above and the aged 16 to 26 years. These data, presented at the Infectious
impact of the voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx had an Diseases Society of America (IDSA) annual meeting, reported
unfavorable effect on the gross margin in 2005 and 2004. that Gardasil prevented 100% of high-grade cervical pre-
cancers and non-invasive cervical cancers (CIN 2/3 or AIS)
Marketing and Administrative
associated with HPV types 16 and 18. The primary analysis
In 2005, marketing and administrative expenses decreased 1%.
compared Gardasil to placebo in women who were not infected
Included in the decrease is a 4% unfavorable effect from
with HPV 16 and 18 at enrollment, who remained free of
inflation, a 1% unfavorable effect from exchange, and a 6%
infection through the completion of the seven-month vaccination
decline in volume. The decrease was primarily due to costs
regimen, and who received all three doses of Gardasil. Women
recorded in 2004 of $141.4 million for the voluntary worldwide
were followed for an average of two years after enrollment. No
withdrawal of Vioxx (see Note 3) and $604 million for the
cases of CIN 2/3 or AIS were observed in the vaccine group
establishment of a reserve solely for legal defense costs for
(n=5,301) compared to 21 cases in the placebo group
Vioxx litigation. Partially offsetting the decrease was an
(n=5,258). CIN (cervical intraepithelial neoplasia) 2 is a
additional reserve of $295 million for Vioxx legal defense costs
moderate-grade lesion of the cervix while CIN 3 represents both
recorded in the current year, as well as costs required to
high-grade lesions and CIS (carcinoma in situ), the immediate
prepare for the launch of three new investigational vaccines,
pre-cursor to invasive squamous cell cervical cancer. AIS is the
maintaining activities in support of Merck’s in-line products and
early development of adenocarci-noma (or glandular cancer) of
rolling out new product indications and critical outcome data
the cervix.
globally.
A secondary analysis, also presented at IDSA, evaluated the
In 2004, marketing and administrative expenses increased
incidence of CIN 2/3 and AIS starting 30 days after the
17%. Included in the increase is a 3% unfavorable effect from
administration of the first dose in all of the women in the primary
inflation, a 4% unfavorable effect from exchange, and a 10%
analysis group, as well as women who may have become
increase in volume. The increase in 2004 reflects the impact of
infected with HPV 16 or HPV 18 during the vaccination period.
an additional $604 million reserve recorded solely for future
Women who may have violated the protocol in significant ways
legal defense costs for Vioxx litigation and $141.4 million of
(for example, by missing certain protocol visits) were also
estimated costs to undertake the voluntary worldwide
included. On average, these women were followed for
withdrawal of Vioxx .
approximately two years from the time of enrollment. In this
Research and Development group, Gardasil reduced the risk of developing high-grade
Research and development expenses decreased 4% in 2005. cervical pre-cancer and non-invasive cervical cancer (CIN 2/3,
Included in the decrease is a 2% unfavorable effect from or AIS) associated with HPV 16 and 18 by 97% (n=5,736); one
inflation and a 6% decline in volume. Included in 2005 are case was observed in the vaccine group compared to 36 in the
accelerated depreciation costs of $103.1 million related to the placebo group (n=5,766).
closure of the basic research center located in Terlings Park, On February 7, 2006, Merck announced that the FDA
United Kingdom, as well as $18.7 million associated with plans accepted the BLA for Gardasil and that the investigational
to sell cervical cancer vaccine will be given priority review by the
agency. A priority designation is intended for products that
address unmet
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 25medical needs. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, for lanilide hydroxamic acid, a new class of anti-tumor agents that
BLAs filed in 2005, the FDA’s goal is to review and act on BLAs inhibits histone deacetylase. In the study, eight of the 33
designated as priority review within six months of receipt. The patients with advanced, refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma
FDA has informed Merck that the review goal date is June 8, (CTCL) experienced partial responses (physician assessment of
2006. Since the submission to the FDA in December, Merck has >50 percent reduction in overall disease burden), the primary
also submitted applications for Gardasil to additional regulatory endpoint of the study. These results were presented at the
agencies including those in the EU, Australia, Mexico, Brazil, annual meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology in
Argentina, Taiwan and Singapore. Orlando, Florida.
In February 2005, the Company announced that it and CTCL, a type of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, is a slow-growing
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) entered into a cross-license and form of cancer in which some of the body’s white blood cells
settlement agreement for certain patent rights related to HPV known as T-lymphocytes or T-cells become malignant. CTCL
vaccines. Pursuant to the agreement, GSK will receive an affects 20,000 patients in the United States, with another 1,500
upfront payment and royalties from the Company based upon new cases reported each year.
sales of Gardasil, upon development and launch. The In September 2005, Merck presented two studies of Phase II
agreement resolves competing intellectual property claims data on the Company’s DPP-4 inhibitor, Januvia, the proposed
related to the Company’s and GSK’s vaccine candidates. In trademark for MK-0431 (sitagliptin), a potential new approach in
addition, in 1995, Merck entered into a license agreement and the treatment of type 2 diabetes, at the 41 st annual meeting of
collaboration with CSL Limited relating to technology used in the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD).
Gardasil. Gardasil is also the subject of other third-party The studies showed that Januvia significantly improved
licensing agreements. glycemic control in patients with primarily mild-to-moderate
In September 2005, the FDA approved ProQuad [Measles, hyperglycemia and in patients with more severe hyperglycemia,
Mumps, Rubella, and Varicella (Oka/Merck) Virus Vaccine Live]. as compared with placebo. In these studies, Januvia was
ProQuad is a combination vaccine for simultaneous vaccination generally well-tolerated. On February 15, 2006, Merck
against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella in children announced that the NDA for Januvia was accepted for standard
12 months to 12 years of age. ProQuad combines two review by the FDA. Merck expects FDA action on the NDA by
established Merck vaccines, M-M-R II [Measles, Mumps, mid-October 2006.
Rubella Virus Vaccine Live] and Varivax [Varicella Virus As announced in December 2005, Merck is also developing
Vaccine Live (Oka/Merck)]. In March, the U.S. Centers for MK-0431A, a combination of Januvia and metformin for the
Disease Control (CDC) announced that rubella, or German treatment of type 2 diabetes.
measles, was no longer a public health threat in the United Also announced in December 2005, Merck has, or is on track
States. At this time, Merck is the sole manufacturer of vaccines to have by the first quarter 2006, promising drugs in Phase III
that protect against rubella, as well as measles, mumps and development for diabetes, insomnia, high cholesterol, heart
varicella, in the United States. disease, and HIV/AIDS. The Phase III candidates include the
In August 2005, Merck’s vaccine for hepatitis A, Vaqta, was following:
approved by the FDA for use in children 12 months of age and Gaboxadol, a unique mechanism from Merck’s alliance with
older. Previously, Vaqta was approved for use in people two H. Lundbeck A/S, has the potential to provide benefits beyond
years of age and older. existing therapies with respect to sleep quality and next-day
On February 3, 2006, Merck announced the approval by the effects.
FDA of RotaTeq, its pentavalent vaccine to protect against MK-0524A and MK-0524B hold significant promise in further
rotavirus gastroenteritis. RotaTeq is an oral, three-dose liquid addressing the critical need for lipid/cholesterol management.
vaccine that contains five human serotypes: G1, G2, G3, G4 MK-0524A represents a novel approach in treating HDL-C and
and P1. Merck has also submitted applications for licensure of triglycerides, combining Merck’s own extended release niacin
RotaTeq in Australia, Mexico, Canada and countries in Asia and with MK-0524. MK-0524B combines MK-0524A with the proven
Latin America and, through the Sanofi Pasteur MSD joint benefits of simvastatin to potentially reduce the risk of coronary
venture, in the EU. heart disease beyond what statins provide alone.
In June 2005, the FDA accepted for standard review the BLA MK-0518 is expected to be the first in a new class of anti-
for Zostavax , Merck’s investigational vaccine for the prevention retrovirals that is effective in inhibiting integrase, an enzyme
of herpes zoster, commonly known as “shingles,” in adults necessary for the survival of HIV. On February 9, 2006, Merck
60 years of age or older. Sanofi Pasteur MSD has submitted an announced interim results from a dose-ranging Phase II trial of
application for licensure of Zostavax in the EU, and Merck has MK-0518 (n=167) which showed that the oral investigational
also submitted applications for licensure of Zostavax in medication at all three doses studied (200 mg, 400 mg and 600
Australia, Canada and in countries in Asia and Latin America. In mg orally twice daily) in combination with optimized background
February 2006, the FDA extended its review by three months therapy (OBT) had greater antiretroviral activity than placebo
until late May. with OBT. Study results also showed that MK-0518 in
In May 2005, Merck announced the results of a Phase II combination with OBT was generally well-tolerated in these
open label study of vorinostat, an investigational oral suberoy- patients
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 26with advanced HIV infection who were failing antiretroviral identifying new biomarkers of atherosclerotic disease
therapy (ART), who had viruses resistant to at least one drug of progression for use in the development of cardiovascular
each of the three available classes of oral ARTs and who had compounds in Merck’s pipeline. The agreement includes a
limited active ARTs as options for treatment. The results were research collaboration of up to three years.
presented at the 13th Annual Conference on Retroviruses and In October 2005, Agensys, Inc., a cancer biotechnology
Opportunistic Infections. company, and Merck announced that they have formed a global
Merck continues to remain focused on augmenting its alliance to jointly develop and commercialize AGS-PSCA,
internal research efforts by capitalizing on growth opportunities, Agensys’ fully human monoclonal antibody (MAb) to Prostate
ranging from research collaborations, preclinical and clinical Stem Cell Antigen (PSCA). The agreement grants Merck world-
compounds and technology transactions that will drive both wide rights to AGS-PSCA and an exclusive license to PSCA, a
near- and long-term growth. The Company completed 44 proprietary target, as well as rights to other therapeutic and
transactions in 2005 across a broad range of therapeutic diagnostic products developed under the alliance.
categories including neuroscience, obesity and oncology, as Also in October 2005, Merck and Bristol-Myers Squibb
well as early-stage technology transactions. Merck is currently (BMS) jointly announced that they have signed separate license
evaluating more than 40 other opportunities, and is actively agreements with the International Partnership for Microbicides
monitoring the landscape for a range of targeted acquisitions to develop new antiretroviral compounds as potential
that meet the Company’s strategic criteria. Highlights for the microbicides to protect women from HIV. This agreement marks
year include: the first time a pharmaceutical company has licensed an anti-
In May 2005, Merck and BioXell entered into an agreement HIV compound for development as a microbicide when the class
to develop new treatments for sepsis and other inflammatory of drugs is so early in development. The compounds are part of
disorders. a new class of antiretrovirals known as “entry inhibitors.” Some
In June 2005, Vical Incorporated exercised three options of the compounds bind directly to HIV; others bind to the CCR5
under a 2003 amendment to an existing research collaboration receptor. They are designed to prevent HIV from efficiently
and licensing agreement, granting Merck rights to use Vical’s entering host cells, thus preventing infection.
patented non-viral gene delivery technology in cancer vaccine The Company and BMS reported in October 2005 that the
applications. FDA issued an approvable letter for Pargluva, BMS’s investiga-
Merck and Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated announced tional oral medicine for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, and
in June the initiation of an additional Phase I clinical study with requested additional safety information to address more fully the
VX-680, a small molecule inhibitor of Aurora kinases. Aurora cardiovascular safety profile of Pargluva. This data requirement
kinases are implicated in the onset and progression of human may cause a significant delay in the product’s launch. As a
leukemias. result, BMS and Merck terminated the collaborative agreement
Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. (Sumitomo) and Merck for Pargluva, with all rights to Pargluva and a back-up
signed an agreement in June to collaborate on SM13496 compound to Pargluva returning to BMS as of December 21,
(lurasidone), an atypical antipsychotic compound currently in 2005.
Phase II development for the treatment of schizophrenia, one of The following chart reflects the Company’s current research
the most chronic and disabling of the severe mental illnesses. pipeline as of February 15, 2006. Candidates shown in Phase III
Under the agreement, Sumitomo has granted Merck, through an include specific products. Candidates shown in Phase I and II
affiliate, an exclusive license for SM13496 in all parts of the include the most advanced compound with a specific
world except for Japan, China, Korea and Taiwan. mechanism in a given therapeutic area. Back-up compounds,
In June 2005, Merck announced an agreement with regardless of their phase of development, additional indications
Metabasis Therapeutics to research, develop and in the same therapeutic area and additional line extensions or
commercialize novel small molecule therapeutics with the formulations for in-line products are not shown. The Company’s
potential to treat several diseases, including type 2 diabetes, programs are generally designed to focus on the development
hyperlipidemia and obesity, by activation of an enzyme in the of novel medicines to address large, unmet medical needs. As
liver called AMP-activated Protein Kinase. announced in December 2005, the Company intends to focus its
In July 2005, Merck and Geron Corporation announced an research efforts primarily on the following nine priority areas:
agreement to develop a cancer vaccine against telomerase. Alzheimer’s disease; atherosclerosis; cardiovascular disease;
Telomerase is an enzyme, active in most cancer cells, that diabetes; novel vaccines; obesity; oncology; pain; and sleep
maintains telomere length at the ends of chromosomes. This disorders.
activity allows the cancer to grow and metastasize over long
periods of time.
In September 2005, FoxHollow Technologies and Merck
announced the formation of a novel pharmacogenomics
collaboration. The collaboration will focus on analyzing
atherosclerotic plaque removed from patient arteries as a
means of
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 27Research and development expenses increased 22% in
Research Pipeline
2004. Included in the increase is a 2% unfavorable effect from
P hase I
inflation, a 2% unfavorable effect from exchange, and an 18%
A lzheimer’s Disease MK-0752, MK-0952 increase in volume, which reflects the Company’s ongoing
Arthritis MK-0822 commitment to both basic and clinical research, as well as the
Atherosclerosis MK-0354*, MK-0633, impact of the licensing agreements and acquired research and
MK-0859 development discussed above.
Cancer MK-0429, MK-0752,
Agensys*, MK-0731, Research and development in the pharmaceutical industry is
VX-680*, MK-0646* inherently a long-term process. The following data show a multi-
Cancer Vaccine year trend in the Company’s research and development
Cardiovascular Disease MK-0448 spending. For the period 1996 to 2005, the compounded annual
Diabetes MK-0941, MK-0893, growth rate in research and development was 11%.
MK-0533
Research and Development Expenditures
Endocrine MK-0974
$ in millions
Flu Vaccine
Glaucoma MK-0994
Insomnia MK-0454
Obesity Nastech PYY3-36***
Osteoporosis MK-0773
Pain Neurogen*
Parkinson’s Disease MK-0657
Psychiatric Disease MK-0249
Respiratory Disease MK-0633
S. aureus Vaccine
P hase II
A rthritis MK-0686
Cancer (CTCL) Vorinostat*
Endocrine MK-0677
HIV Vaccine
HPV Vaccine**
Hypertension MK-0736
Obesity MK-0364, MK-0493
Osteoporosis MK-0822
Pain MK-0686, MK-0759,
MK-0974
Pediatric Vaccine*
Psychiatric Disease MK-0364, Lurasidone*
Stroke ONO 2506***
Urinary Incontinence MK-0634, MK-0594
P hase III Restructuring Costs
A IDS MK-0518 Restructuring costs were $322.2 million and $107.6 million for
Atherosclerosis MK-0524B, MK-0524A 2005 and 2004, respectively. Included in 2005 are separation
CINV MK-0517 costs associated with Merck’s plan to eliminate approximately
Diabetes MK-0431A 7,000 positions company-wide by the end of 2008. In the fourth
Insomnia Gaboxadol* quarter 2005, Merck incurred $205.4 million in separation costs
U nder Regulatory Review associated with this global restructuring program. The
H PV and Related Cervical Cancer separation costs for 2005 are associated with the elimination of
and Genital Warts Gardasil** approximately 1,100 positions as of December 31, 2005 (which
Shingles Zostavax is comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination
Diabetes Januvia of contractors and vacant positions), as well as estimates of
A pprovable future terminations of roughly 2,400 positions that were
A rthritis/Pain Arcoxia
probable and could be reasonably estimated at December 31,
2005 (see Note 4).
2 005 U.S. Approvals
O steoporosis Fosamax Plus D As part of the cost-reduction initiative announced in
Pediatric Vaccine ProQuad October 2003 and completed at the end of 2004, the Company
2 006 U.S. Approvals eliminated 5,100 positions. The Company completed a similar
R otavirus Gastroenteritis RotaTeq
program in 2005 with 900 positions being eliminated through
December 31, 2005. As a result of these restructuring actions,
* L icensed, alliance or acquisition (pipeline)
the Company recorded restructuring costs of $116.8 million for
** M ultiple licenses, including CSL, Ltd. 2005 and $107.6 million for 2004.
*** M erck is in discussions with its licensing partner regarding further plans for
this compound.Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 28Equity Income from Affiliates Other (Income) Expense, Net
Equity income from affiliates reflects the performance of the The decrease in other (income) expense, net, in 2005 primarily
Company’s joint ventures and partnership returns from AZLP. In reflects a $176.8 million gain in 2004 from the sale of the
2005, the increase in equity income from affiliates primarily Company’s 50-percent equity stake in its European joint venture
reflects the successful performance of Zetia and Vytorin through with Johnson & Johnson, as well as realized gains on the
the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership and higher partnership Company’s investment portfolio recorded in 2004. These
returns from AZLP relative to 2004. In 2004, the increase in transactions were also the primary driver for the increase in
equity income from affiliates reflected the successful other (income) expense, net, in 2004 over 2003.
performance of Zetia through the Merck/Schering-Plough
partnership as well as higher partnership returns from AZLP.
Earnings
( $ in millions except per share amounts) 2005 C hange 2004 C hange 2003
I ncome from continuing operations $ 4,631.3 -20 % $ 5,813.4 -12 % $ 6,589.6
As a % of sales 21.0 % 25.3 % 29.3 %
Net income 4,631.3 5,813.4 6,830.9
As a % of average total assets 10.6 % 14.0 % 14.9 %
Earnings per common share assuming dilution from
continuing operations $ 2.10 -20 % $ 2.61 -11 % $ 2.92
Taxes on Income Earnings per Common Share
The Company’s effective income tax rate was 37.1% in 2005, Earnings per common share assuming dilution from continuing
27.1% in 2004 and 27.2% in 2003. The higher tax rate in 2005 operations declined 20% in 2005 compared to a decline of 11%
reflects a net tax charge primarily related to the Company’s in 2004 reflecting the impact of the net tax charge and the
decision to repatriate $15.9 billion of foreign earnings in restructuring costs recorded in 2005 and the unfavorable impact
accordance with the AJCA of 2004. As a result, the Company of the voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx in 2004.
recorded an income tax charge of $766.5 million in Taxes on
income in 2005 related to this repatriation. This charge was Distribution of 2005 Sales and Equity Income
partially offset by a $100 million benefit associated with a
decision to implement certain tax planning strategies. This net
tax charge resulted in an increase of 9.1 percentage points to
the effective tax rate for the year. A change in mix of domestic
and foreign income also had an unfavorable impact on the
income tax rate. Partially offsetting the increase in the tax rate is
the tax impact of the restructuring costs. The lower tax rate in
2004 and 2003 resulted in a change in mix of domestic and
foreign income, which in 2004 included the impact of the Vioxx
withdrawal, and in 2003 included the impact of restructuring
costs and the wholesaler distribution program.
Income from Continuing Operations
Income from continuing operations declined 20% in 2005
compared to a 12% decline in 2004. Income from continuing Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information
operations as a percentage of sales was 21.0% in 2005, 25.3% To expand its research base and realize synergies from
in 2004 and 29.3% in 2003. The decrease in the percentage of combining capabilities, opportunities and assets, the Company
sales ratio as compared to 2004 reflects the unfavorable impact has formed a number of joint ventures. (See Note 9 to the
of the voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx in 2004, as well financial statements for further information.)
as the impact of the global restructuring charge recorded in In 2000, the Company and Schering-Plough Corporation
2005. The percentage of sales for 2003 includes the (Schering-Plough) entered into agreements to create separate
implementation of a new wholesaler distribution program. Net equally-owned partnerships to develop and market in the United
income as a percentage of average total assets was 10.6% in States new prescription medicines in the cholesterol-
2005, 14.0% in 2004 and 14.9% in 2003. management and respiratory therapeutic areas. In 2001, the
cholesterol-management partnership agreements were
expanded to include all the countries of the world, excluding
Japan. In 2002, ezetimibe, the first in a new class of cholesterol-
lowering agents, was launched in the United States as Zetia
(marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States). As reported by
the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership, global sales of Zetia
totaled $1.4 billion in 2005, $1.1 billion in 2004 and $469.4
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 29million in 2003. In July 2004, a combination product containing segments were sold in 2005. These transactions completed the
the active ingredients of both Zetia and Zocor was approved in divestiture of Merial’s interest in the poultry genetics business.
the United States as Vytorin (marketed as lnegy outside the For comparative purposes the amounts presented above for
United States). Vytorin has been approved in over 47 countries 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, do not include revenue
outside the United States. Global sales of Vytorin were earned from the poultry genetics business.
$1.0 billion in 2005 and $132.4 million in 2004. The results from In 1994, Merck and Pasteur Merieux Connaught (now Sanofi
the Company’s interest in the Merck/Schering-Plough Pasteur S.A.) established a 50% owned joint venture to market
partnership are recorded in Equity income from affiliates. Merck vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of
recognized income of $570.4 million in 2005, $132.0 million in combination vaccines for distribution in Europe. In September,
2004 and a loss of $92.5 million in 2003. Sanofi Pasteur MSD (SPMSD), Merck’s vaccine joint venture
In 1982, the Company entered into an agreement with Astra with Sanofi Pasteur, entered into a Letter of Undertaking (LOU),
AB (Astra) to develop and market Astra products in the United with the European Medicines Agency due to Agency concerns
States. In 1994, the Company and Astra formed an equally- regarding the long-term efficacy of the hepatitis B component of
owned joint venture that developed and marketed most of Hexavac. The hepatitis B component of Hexavac is
Astra’s new prescription medicines in the United States manufactured by Merck. The LOU requires, in relevant part
including Prilosec, the first in a class of medications known as (1) suspension of the EU Hexavac license; (2) suspension of
proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from Hexavac distribution; (3) a recall of Hexavac product in the EU;
the cells of the stomach lining. (4) a recall of Hexavac in a number of non-EU countries; and
In 1998, the Company and Astra restructured the joint (5) a surveillance program and possible future revaccination.
venture whereby the Company acquired Astra’s interest in the SPMSD, which markets and sells Hexavac in part of the EU,
joint venture, renamed KBI Inc. (KBI), and contributed KBI’s has notified Merck that it is reserving any rights that it may have
operating assets to a new U.S. limited partnership named Astra to seek damages from Merck and to be defended, indemnified
Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (the Partnership), in which the Company and held harmless by Merck in the event of third party claims.
maintains a limited partner interest. The Partnership, renamed In September 2005, the European Medicines Agency
AstraZeneca LP (AZLP), became the exclusive distributor of the (EMEA) initiated a formal review of the long-term efficacy of the
products for which KBI retained rights. hepatitis B vaccine, HBvaxPRO, and of the hepatitis B
Merck earns ongoing revenue based on sales of current and component of the hepatitis B/Hib combination vaccine
future KBI products and such revenue was $1.7 billion, Procomvax. Both products are marketed and sold by SPMSD in
$1.5 billion and $1.9 billion in 2005, 2004 and 2003, its European territory, and are sold elsewhere, under different
respectively, primarily relating to sales of Nexium and Prilosec. names, by Merck. An assessment report prepared for the EMEA
In addition, Merck earns certain Partnership returns, which are Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
recorded in Equity income from affiliates. Such returns include a recommends limitations on the use of both products. This
priority return provided for in the Partnership Agreement, recommendation and Merck’s response will be considered at a
variable returns based, in part, upon sales of certain former CHMP meeting in February 2006.
Astra USA, Inc. products, and a preferential return representing Sales of joint venture products were as follows:
Merck’s share of undistributed AZLP GAAP earnings. These
returns aggregated $833.5 million, $646.5 million and
$391.5 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The 2003 ($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003
results reflect a lower preferential return, primarily resulting from H epatitis vaccines $ 81.1 $ 80.5 $ 73.6
the impact of generic competition for Prilosec. Viral vaccines 78.5 54.0 51.5
In 1997, Merck and Rhône-Poulenc S.A. (now Sanofi-Aventis Other vaccines 705.5 672.5 543.9
S.A.) combined their animal health and poultry genetics $ 865.1 $ 807.0 $ 669.0
businesses to form Merial Limited (Merial), a fully integrated In 1989, Merck formed a joint venture with Johnson &
animal health company, which is a stand-alone joint venture, Johnson to develop and market a broad range of nonprescrip-
equally owned by each party. Merial provides a comprehensive tion medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50% owned joint
range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to enhance the health, venture was expanded in Europe in 1993, and into Canada in
well-being and performance of a wide range of animal species. 1996. In March 2004, Merck sold its 50% equity stake in its
Sales of joint venture products were as follows: European joint venture to Johnson & Johnson for $244.0 million
and recorded a $176.8 million gain as Other (income) expense,
($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 net. Merck will continue to benefit through royalties on certain
F ipronil products $ 757.7 $ 679.1 $ 577.2 products and also regained the rights to potential future
Avermectin products 467.5 452.4 476.7 products that switch from prescription to over-the-counter status
Other products 761.8 704.3 634.9 in Europe.
$ 1,987.0 $ 1,835.8 $ 1,688.8 Sales of joint venture products were as follows:
The poultry genetics business consisted of three segments.
The domestic turkey and layer segments were divested in 2004 ($ in millions) 2005 2004* 2003
and 2003, respectively, and the broiler and foreign turkey G astrointestinal products $ 250.8 $ 269.2 $ 299.6
Other products 2.5 46.1 146.2
$ 253.3 $ 315.3 $ 445.8
* Includes sales of the European joint venture up through March 2004.
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 30Capital Expenditures Analysis of Liquidity and Capital Resources
Capital expenditures were $1.4 billion in 2005 and $1.7 billion in Merck’s strong financial profile enables the Company to fully
2004. Expenditures in the United States were $938.7 million in fund research and development, focus on external alliances,
2005 and $1.1 billion in 2004. Expenditures during 2005 support in-line products and maximize upcoming launches while
included $510.7 million for production facilities, $476.8 million providing significant cash returns to shareholders. Cash
for research and development facilities, $35.5 million for provided by operating activities of $7.6 billion continues to be
environmental projects, and $379.7 million for administrative, the Company’s primary source of funds to finance capital
safety and general site projects. Capital expenditures approved expenditures, treasury stock purchases and dividends paid to
but not yet spent at December 31, 2005 were $540.1 million. stockholders. At December 31, 2005, the total of worldwide
Capital expenditures for 2006 are estimated to be $1.3 billion. cash and investments was $16.7 billion, including $15.6 billion
Depreciation was $1.5 billion in 2005 and $1.3 billion in of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, and
2004, of which $1.1 billion and $908.4 million, respectively, $1.1 billion of long-term investments.
applied to locations in the United States. Total depreciation in In October 2004, the AJCA was signed into law. The AJCA
2005 includes accelerated depreciation of $84.6 million created temporary incentives through Decembers 31, 2005 for
associated with the global restructuring plan and $103.1 million U.S. multinationals to repatriate accumulated income earned
associated with the closure of the Terlings Park basic research outside of the United States as of December 31, 2002. In
center (see Note 4). The Company will incur significantly larger connection with the AJCA, the Company repatriated $15.9
accumulated depreciation charges during 2006 as a result of billion during 2005. As a result, the Company recorded an
these restructuring actions. income tax charge of $766.5 million in Taxes on Income in 2005
related to this repatriation, $185 million of which was paid in
Capital Expenditures
2005 and $582 million of which will be paid in the first quarter of
$ in millions
2006. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $5.2 billion of
the AJCA repatriation was invested in fully collateralized
overnight repurchase agreements and are included in Short-
term investments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. During the
first quarter of 2006, the Company began reinvesting its
repurchase agreement balances into other short- and long-term
investments.
Selected Data
( $ in millions) 2005 2004 2003
W orking capital $ 7,745.8 $ 1,731.1 $ 1,957.6
Total debt to total liabilities 18.1 % 16.1 % 16.7 %
and equity
Cash provided by operations 0.9:1 1.3:1 1.2:1
to total debt
To enable execution of the AJCA repatriation, the Company
changed its mix of investments from long-term to short-term,
resulting in a significant increase in working capital as of
December 31, 2005. Working capital levels are more than
adequate to meet the operating requirements of the Company.
The ratios of total debt to total liabilities and equity and cash
provided by operations to total debt reflect the strength of the
Company’s operating cash flows and the ability of the Company
to cover its contractual obligations.
The Company’s contractual obligations as of December 31,
2005 are as follows:
Payments Due by Period
2007- 2009-
($ in millions) Total 2006 2008 2010 Thereafter
P urchase obligations $ 1,568.2 $ 423.2 $ 753.2 $ 372.6 $ 19.2
Loans payable and current portion of long-term debt 2,972.0 2,972.0 — — —
Long-term debt 5,125.6 — 1,739.6 311.9 3,074.1
Operating leases 266.3 79.8 94.3 45.9 46.3
$ 9,932.1 $ 3,475.0 $ 2,587.1 $ 730.4 $ 3,139.6
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 31Purchase obligations consist primarily of goods and services research and development. To the extent the dollar value of
that are enforceable and legally binding and include obligations cash flows is diminished as a result of a strengthening dollar,
for minimum inventory contracts, research and development the Company’s ability to fund research and other dollar-based
and advertising. Research contracts do not include milestone strategic initiatives at a consistent level may be impaired. The
payments contingent upon future events. Loans payable and Company has established revenue hedging and balance sheet
current portion of long-term debt includes $500 million of notes risk management programs to protect against volatility of future
with a final maturity in 2011, which, on an annual basis, will foreign currency cash flows and changes in fair value caused by
either be repurchased from the holders at the option of the volatility in foreign exchange rates.
remarketing agent and remarketed, or redeemed by the The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce
Company. Loans payable and current portion of long-term debt the potential for longer-term unfavorable changes in foreign
also reflect $337.5 million of long-dated notes that are subject to exchange to decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash flows
repayment at the option of the holders on an annual basis. derived from foreign currency denominated sales, primarily the
Loans payable also includes $1.6 billion of commercial paper euro and Japanese yen. To achieve this objective, the Company
issued by a foreign subsidiary under a $3.0 billion commercial will partially hedge anticipated third-party sales that are
paper borrowing facility established in October 2005 to provide expected to occur over its planning cycle, typically no more than
funding for a portion of the Company’s AJCA repatriation. three years into the future. The Company will layer in hedges
Required funding obligations for 2006 relating to the Company’s over time, increasing the portion of sales hedged as it gets
pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected closer to the expected date of the transaction, such that it is
to be material. probable the hedged transaction will occur. The portion of sales
In December 2004, the Company increased the capacity of hedged is based on assessments of cost-benefit profiles that
its shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and consider natural offsetting exposures, revenue and exchange
Exchange Commission (SEC) to issue debt securities by an rate volatilities and correlations, and the cost of hedging
additional $3.0 billion. In February 2005, the Company issued instruments. The hedged anticipated sales are a specified
$1.0 billion of 4.75% ten-year notes under the shelf. The component of a portfolio of similarly denominated foreign
remaining capacity under the Company’s shelf registration currency-based sales transactions, each of which responds to
statement is approximately $2.8 billion. the hedged risk in the same manner. Merck manages its
In February 2005, the Company established a $1.5 billion, anticipated transaction exposure principally with purchased local
5-year revolving credit facility to provide backup liquidity for its currency put options, which provide the Company with a right,
commercial paper borrowing facility and for general corporate but not an obligation, to sell foreign currencies in the future at a
purposes. The Company has not drawn funding from this predetermined price. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the
facility. currency of the hedged anticipated sales, total changes in the
The Company’s long-term credit ratings assigned by Moody’s options cash flows fully offset the decline in the expected future
and Standard & Poor’s are Aa3 and AA-, respectively. These U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales.
ratings continue to allow access to the capital markets and Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the options’ value
flexibility in obtaining funds on competitive terms. The Company reduces to zero, but the Company benefits from the increase in
continues to maintain a conservative financial profile. Total cash the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows. While a
and investments of $16.7 billion exceeds the sum of loans weaker U.S. dollar would result in a net benefit, the market
payable and long-term debt of $8.1 billion. The Company also value of the Company’s hedges would have declined by
has long-term credit ratings that remain among the top 4% of $113.0 million and $45.2 million, respectively, from a uniform
rated non-financial corporations. Despite this strong financial 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2005 and
profile, certain contingent events, if realized, which are 2004. The market value was determined using a foreign
discussed in Note 11, could have a material adverse impact on exchange option pricing model and holding all factors except
the Company’s liquidity and capital resources. The Company exchange rates constant. Because Merck principally uses
does not participate in any off-balance sheet arrangements purchased local currency put options, a uniform weakening of
involving unconsolidated subsidiaries that provide financing or the U.S. dollar will yield the largest overall potential loss in the
potentially expose the Company to unrecorded financial market value of these options. The sensitivity measurement
obligations. assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the
In July 2002, the Board of Directors approved purchases U.S. dollar would not affect other foreign currencies relative to
over time of up to $10.0 billion of Merck shares. Total treasury the U.S dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company
stock purchased under this program in 2005 was $1.0 billion. As believes that a 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near-
of December 31, 2005, $7.5 billion remains under the 2002 term changes in Merck’s major foreign currency exposures
stock repurchase authorization approved by the Merck Board of relative to the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts
Directors. are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows.
Financial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures The primary objective of the balance sheet risk management
Foreign Currency Risk Management program is to protect the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency
While the U.S. dollar is the functional currency of the Company’s denominated net monetary assets from the effects of volatility in
foreign subsidiaries, a significant portion of the Company’s foreign exchange that might occur prior to their conversion to
revenues are denominated in foreign currencies. Merck relies U.S. dollars. Merck principally utilizes forward exchange
on sustained cash flows generated from foreign sources to contracts, which enable the Company to buy and
support its long-term commitment to U.S. dollar-based
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 32sell foreign currencies in the future at fixed exchange rates and The Company’s investment portfolio includes cash
economically offset the consequences of changes in foreign equivalents and short-term investments, which at December 31,
exchange on the amount of U.S. dollar cash flows derived from 2005 included repurchase agreements, the market values of
the net assets. Merck routinely enters into contracts to fully which are not significantly impacted by changes in interest
offset the effects of exchange on exposures denominated in rates. The market value of the Company’s medium- to long-term
developed country currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese fixed-rate investments is modestly impacted by changes in U.S.
yen. For exposures in developing country currencies, the interest rates. Changes in medium- to long-term U.S. interest
Company will enter into forward contracts on a more limited rates have a more significant impact on the market value of the
basis and only when it is deemed economical to do so based on Company’s fixed-rate borrowings, which generally have longer
a cost-benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the maturities. A sensitivity analysis to measure potential changes
exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate and the cost of the in the market value of the Company’s investments, debt and
hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the effect related swap contracts from a change in interest rates indicated
of exchange on monetary assets and liabilities by managing that a one percentage point increase in interest rates at
operating activities and net asset positions at the local level. December 31, 2005 and 2004 would have positively impacted
The Company periodically uses forward contracts to hedge the the net aggregate market value of these instruments by
changes in fair value of certain foreign currency denominated $236.2 million and $75.4 million, respectively. A one percentage
available-for-sale securities attributable to fluctuations in foreign point decrease at December 31, 2005 and 2004 would have
currency exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis to changes in negatively impacted the net aggregate market value by
the value of the U.S. dollar on foreign currency denominated $283.6 million and $115.4 million, respectively. The increased
derivatives, investments and monetary assets and liabilities sensitivity is attributable to a change in the mix of investments
indicated that if the U.S. dollar uniformly weakened by 10% from long-term fixed rate to short-term variable rate as of
against all currency exposures of the Company at December December 31, 2005. The fair value of the Company’s debt was
31, 2005, Income from continuing operations before taxes would determined using pricing models reflecting one percentage point
have declined by $3.5 million. Because Merck is in a net short shifts in the appropriate yield curves. The fair value of the
position relative to its major foreign currencies after Company’s investments was determined using a combination of
consideration of forward contracts, a uniform weakening of the pricing and duration models.
U.S. dollar will yield the largest overall potential net loss in
earnings due to exchange. At December 31, 2004, the Critical Accounting Policies and Other Matters
Company was in a net long position relative to its major foreign The consolidated financial statements include certain amounts
currencies after consideration of forward contracts, therefore, a that are based on management’s best estimates and judgments.
uniform 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar would have Estimates are used in determining such items as provisions for
reduced Income from continuing operations before taxes by sales discounts and returns, depreciable and amortizable lives,
$7.8 million. This measurement assumes that a change in one recoverability of inventories produced in preparation for product
foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not affect other launches, amounts recorded for contingencies, environmental
foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not liabilities and other reserves, pension and other postretirement
predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 10% threshold benefit plan assumptions, and taxes on income. Because of the
reflects reasonably possible near-term changes in Merck’s uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ
major foreign currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The from these estimates. Application of the following accounting
cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating policies result in accounting estimates having the potential for
activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. the most significant impact on the financial statements.
Interest Rate Risk Management Revenue Recognition
In addition to the revenue hedging and balance sheet risk Revenues from sales of products are recognized when title and
management programs, the Company may use interest rate risk of loss passes to the customer. Revenues for domestic
swap contracts on certain investing and borrowing transactions pharmaceutical sales are recognized at the time of shipment,
to manage its net exposure to interest rate changes and to while for many foreign subsidiaries, as well as for vaccine sales,
reduce its overall cost of borrowing. The Company does not use revenues are recognized at the time of delivery. Recognition of
leveraged swaps and, in general, does not leverage any of its revenue also requires reasonable assurance of collection of
investment activities that would put principal capital at risk. At sales proceeds and completion of all performance obligations.
December 31, 2005, the Company was a party to three pay- Domestically, sales discounts are issued to customers as direct
floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap contracts designated as discounts at the point-of-sale or indirectly through an
fair value hedges of fixed-rate notes maturing in 2006, 2007 and intermediary wholesale purchaser, known as chargebacks, or
2013, respectively. The notional amounts of these swaps, which indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally, sales are generally
match the amount of the hedged fixed-rate notes, were made with a limited right of return under certain conditions.
$500 million, $350 million and $500 million, respectively. The Revenues are recorded net of provisions for sales discounts
swaps effectively convert the fixed-rate obligations to floating- and returns, which are established at the time of sale.
rate instruments. The cash flows from these contracts are
reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of
Cash Flows.
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 33and subsequent to the expiration date (generally, six months
The provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts
before and twelve months after product expiration). The
covers chargebacks and rebates. Chargebacks are discounts
estimate of the provision for returns is based upon historical
that occur when a contracted customer purchases directly
experience with actual returns. Additionally, the Company
through an intermediary wholesale purchaser. The contracted
considers factors such as levels of inventory in the distribution
customer generally purchases product at its contracted price
channel, product dating and expiration period, whether products
plus a mark-up from the wholesaler. The wholesaler, in turn,
have been discontinued, entrance in the market of additional
charges the Company back for the difference between the price
generic competition, changes in formularies or launch of over-
initially paid by the wholesaler and the contract price paid to the
the-counter products, to name a few. The product returns
wholesaler by the customer. The provision for chargebacks is
provision, as well as actual returns, were approximately 0.5% of
based on expected sell-through levels by the Company’s
net sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003.
wholesale customers to contracted customers, as well as
Through the distribution program for U.S. wholesalers,
estimated wholesaler inventory levels. Rebates are amounts
implemented in 2003, the Company incents wholesalers to align
owed based upon definitive contractual agreements or legal
purchases with underlying demand and maintain inventories
requirements with private sector and public sector (Medicaid)
within specified levels. The terms of the program allow the
benefit providers, after the final dispensing of the product by a
wholesalers to earn fees upon providing visibility into their
pharmacy to a benefit plan participant. The provision is based
inventory levels as well as by achieving certain performance
on expected payments, which are driven by patient usage and
parameters, such as, inventory management, customer service
contract performance by the benefit provider customers.
levels, reducing shortage claims and reducing product returns.
The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and
Information provided through the wholesaler distribution
Modernization Act of 2003, commonly referred to as Medicare
program includes items such as sales trends, inventory on-
Part D, became effective January 1, 2006. The Company does
hand, on-order quantity and product returns.
not anticipate that Medicare Part D will have a material impact
Wholesalers generally provide only the above mentioned
on its results of operations.
data to the Company, as there is no regulatory requirement to
The Company assumes a first-in, first-out movement of
report lot level information to manufacturers, which is the level of
inventory within the supply chain for purposes of estimating its
information needed to determine the remaining shelf life and
aggregate indirect customer discount accrual. In addition, the
original sale date of inventory. Given current wholesaler
Company uses historical customer segment mix, adjusted for
inventory levels, which are generally less than a month, the
other known events, in order to estimate the expected provision.
Company believes that collection of order lot information across
Amounts accrued for aggregate indirect customer discounts are
all wholesale customers would have limited use in estimating
evaluated on a quarterly basis through comparison of
sales discounts and returns.
information provided by the wholesalers and other customers to
the amounts accrued. Adjustments are recorded when trends or Inventories Produced in Preparation
significant events indicate that a change in the estimated for Product Launches
provision is appropriate. The Company capitalizes inventories produced in preparation
The Company continually monitors its provision for for product launches sufficient to support initial market demand.
aggregate indirect customer discounts. There were no material Typically, capitalization of such inventory does not begin until
adjustments to estimates associated with the aggregate indirect the related product candidates are in Phase III clinical trials and
customer discount provision in 2005, 2004 and 2003. are considered to have a high probability of regulatory approval.
Summarized information about changes in the aggregate At December 31, 2005, inventories produced in preparation for
indirect customer discount accrual is as follows: product launches consisted of three vaccine products, which are
in Phase III clinical trials, a new formulation for an existing
2005 2004 vaccine product; and a new compound for type 2 diabetes. The
B alance, January 1 $ 1,030.3 $ 752.2 Company continues to monitor the status of each respective
Current provision 4,419.1 4,031.6 product within the regulatory approval process; however, the
Adjustments relating to prior years 134.7 57.7 Company generally does not disclose specific timing for
Payments (4,417.6 ) (3,811.2 ) regulatory approval. If the Company is aware of any specific
B alance, December 31 $ 1,166.5 $ 1,030.3 risks or contingencies other than the normal regulatory approval
process or if there are any specific issues identified during the
Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct reduction
research process relating to safety, efficacy, manufacturing,
to accounts receivable and accruals for rebates as accrued
marketing or labeling, the related inventory would generally not
expenses. The accrued balances relative to these provisions
be capitalized. There are no significant issues with respect to
included in Accounts receivable and Accrued and other current
any of these products. Expiry dates of the inventory are
liabilities were $164.3 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, at
impacted by the stage of completion. The Company manages
December 31, 2005, and $133.7 million and $896.6 million,
the levels of inventory at each stage to optimize the shelf life of
respectively, at December 31, 2004.
the inventory in relation to anticipated market demand in order
The Company maintains a returns policy that allows its
to avoid product expiry issues. The shelf lives for substantially
customers to return product within a specified period prior to
all of these products range from a minimum of 8 to 13 years.
Anticipated future sales of the
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 34products support the realization of the inventory value as the were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company up to
inventory shelf life is sufficient to meet initial product launch that time; the development of the Company’s legal defense
requirements. strategy and structure in light of the scope of the Vioxx
In addition, the Company produced inventory in preparation Litigation; the number of cases being brought against the
for the launch of Arcoxia in the United States. Arcoxia has been Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the
launched in 56 countries in Europe, Latin America, Asia and anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial
Africa. Additionally, the Company continues to work with activities and trials in the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits.
regulatory agencies from other countries on registration Events such as scheduled trials that are expected to occur
materials to launch Arcoxia in those countries. In October 2004, throughout 2006 and into 2007, and the inherent inability to
the Company received an “approvable” letter from the FDA for predict the ultimate outcomes of such trials, limit the Company’s
the Company’s NDA for Arcoxia . The FDA informed the ability to reasonably estimate its legal costs beyond the end of
Company in the letter that before approval of the NDA can be 2007. The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense
issued, additional safety and efficacy data for Arcoxia are costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves.
required. Outside of the United States, Merck continues to work The Company currently anticipates that a number of Vioxx
with local regulatory agencies to review and adjust prescribing Product Liability Lawsuits will be tried in 2006. The Company
information contained on Arcoxia’s label in those countries. cannot predict the timing of any trials with respect to the Vioxx
While the minimum shelf life for Arcoxia is approximately Shareholder Lawsuits. The Company believes that it has
4 years, anticipated worldwide market demand in countries meritorious defenses to the Vioxx Lawsuits and will vigorously
where Arcoxia has been approved supports the value of defend against them. In view of the inherent difficulty of predict-
inventory capitalized. The buildup of inventory for Arcoxia and ing the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many
inventories produced in preparation for product launches did not claimants and the claimants seek indeterminate damages, the
have a material effect on the Company’s liquidity. Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and
at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or
Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities
range of loss with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits. The Company
The Company is involved in various claims and legal
has not established any reserves for any potential liability
proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business,
relating to the Vioxx Litigation.
including product liability, intellectual property and commercial
The Company is a party to a number of proceedings brought
litigation, as well as additional matters such as antitrust actions.
under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
(See Note 11 to the financial statements for further information.)
Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as
The Company records accruals for contingencies when it is
Superfund. When a legitimate claim for contribution is asserted,
probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can
a liability is initially accrued based upon the estimated
be reasonably estimated. These accruals are adjusted
transaction costs to manage the site. Accruals are adjusted as
periodically as assessments change or additional information
feasibility studies and related cost assessments of remedial
becomes available. For product liability claims, a portion of the
techniques are completed, and as the extent to which other
overall accrual is actuarially determined and considers such
potentially responsible parties (PRPs) who may be jointly and
factors as past experience, number of claims reported and
severally liable can be expected to contribute is determined.
estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Individually
The Company is also remediating environmental
significant contingent losses are accrued when probable and
contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of
reasonably estimable.
its sites and takes an active role in identifying and providing for
Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection
these costs. A worldwide survey was initially performed to
with a loss contingency are accrued when probable and
assess all sites for potential contamination resulting from past
reasonably estimable. As of December 31, 2004, the Company
industrial activities. Where assessment indicated that physical
had established a reserve of $675 million solely for its future
investigation was warranted, such investigation was performed,
legal defense costs related to the Vioxx Lawsuits and the Vioxx
providing a better evaluation of the need for remedial action.
Investigations. During 2005, the Company spent $285 million in
Where such need was identified, remedial action was then
the aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide related to (i) the
initiated. Estimates of the extent of contamination at each site
Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, (ii) the Vioxx Shareholder
were initially made at the pre-investigation stage and liabilities
Lawsuits, (iii) the Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the Vioxx
for the potential cost of remediation were accrued at that time.
Investigations (collectively, the “ Vioxx Litigation”). In the fourth
As more definitive information became available during the
quarter, the Company recorded a charge of $295 million to
course of investigations and/or remedial efforts at each site,
increase the reserve solely for its future legal defense costs
estimates were refined and accruals were adjusted accordingly.
related to Vioxx to $685 million at December 31, 2005. This
These estimates and related accruals continue to be refined
reserve is based on certain assumptions and is the best
annually.
estimate of the amount that the Company believes, at this time,
The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material
it can reasonably estimate will be spent through 2007. Some of
respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations.
the significant factors considered in the establishment and
Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were
ongoing review of the reserve for the Vioxx legal defense costs
$31.3 million in 2005, and are estimated at $53.5 million for the
years 2006 through 2010. In management’s opinion, the
liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and
reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 35$100.4 million and $127.5 million at December 31, 2005 and portfolio, which approximates 13%, reflects both the equity
December 31, 2004, respectively. These liabilities are allocation and the diversification benefits among the asset
undiscounted, do not consider potential recoveries from insurers classes in which the portfolio invests.
or other parties and will be paid out over the periods of Actuarial assumptions are based upon management’s best
remediation for the applicable sites, which are expected to occur estimates and judgment. A reasonably possible change of plus
primarily over the next 15 years. Although it is not possible to (minus) 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption, with
predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated
ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe $40.8 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on net pension and
that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred postretirement benefit cost. A reasonably possible change of
in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $88.0 million plus (minus) 25 basis points in the expected rate of return
in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have
expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the an estimated $12.1 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on net
Company’s financial position, results of operations, liquidity or pension and postretirement benefit cost. The Company does not
capital resources for any year. expect to have a minimum pension funding requirement under
the Internal Revenue Code during 2006. The preceding
Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans hypothetical changes in the discount rate and expected rate of
return assumptions would not impact the Company’s funding
Net pension and other postretirement benefit cost totaled
requirements.
$561.8 million in 2005 and $521.5 million in 2004. Pension and
other postretirement benefit plan information for financial Unrecognized net loss amounts reflect experience
reporting purposes is calculated using actuarial assumptions differentials primarily relating to differences between expected
including a discount rate for plan benefit obligations and an and actual returns on plan assets as well as the effects of
expected rate of return on plan assets. changes in actuarial assumptions. Expected returns are based
on a calculated market-related value of assets. Under this
The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a
methodology, asset gains/losses resulting from actual returns
regular basis. For both the pension and other postretirement
that differ from the Company’s expected returns are recognized
benefit plans, the discount rate is evaluated annually and
modified to reflect the prevailing market rate at December 31 of in the market-related value of assets ratably over a five-year
a portfolio of high-quality fixed-income debt instruments that period. Total unrecognized net loss amounts in excess of
would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits certain thresholds are amortized into net pension and other
postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining service
included in the benefit obligation as they come due. At
life of employees. Amortization of total unrecognized net losses
December 31, 2005, the Company changed its discount rate to
for the Company’s U.S. plans at December 31, 2005 is
5.75% from 6.0% for its U.S. pension plan. The discount rate for
the Company’s U.S. other postretirement benefit plan remained expected to increase net pension and other postretirement
the same at 5.75%. benefit cost by approximately $126.0 million annually from 2006
The expected rate of return for both the pension and other through 2010.
postretirement benefit plans represents the average rate of
return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits Taxes on Income
included in the benefit obligation are to be paid. In developing The Company’s effective tax rate is based on pre-tax income,
the expected rate of return, the Company considers long-term statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in
compound annualized returns of historical market data as well the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. An
as actual returns on the Company’s plan assets and applies estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to the
adjustments that reflect more recent capital market experience. Company’s quarterly operating results. In the event that there is
Using this reference information, the Company develops a significant unusual or one-time item recognized, or expected
forward-looking return expectations for each asset category and to be recognized, in the Company’s quarterly operating results,
a weighted average expected long-term rate of return for a the tax attributable to that item would be separately calculated
targeted portfolio allocated across these investment categories. and recorded at the same time as the unusual or one-time item.
The expected portfolio performance reflects the contribution of The Company considers the resolution of prior year tax matters
active management as appropriate. As a result of this analysis, to be such items. Significant judgment is required in determining
for 2006, the Company’s expected rate of return of 8.75% the Company’s effective tax rate and in evaluating its tax
remained unchanged from 2005 for its U.S. pension and other positions. The Company establishes reserves when, despite its
postretirement benefit plans. belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, certain
The target investment portfolio of the Company’s U.S. positions are likely to be challenged and that it may not
pension and other postretirement benefit plans is allocated 45% succeed. (See Note 17 to the financial statements for further
to 60% in U.S. equities, 20% to 30% in international equities, information.) The Company adjusts these reserves in light of
15% to 25% in fixed-income investments and up to 8% in cash changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax
and other investments. The portfolio’s equity weighting is audit.
consistent with the long-term nature of the plans’ benefit Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return
obligation. The expected annual standard deviation of returns of at different times than the items are reflected in the financial
the target statements. As a result, the effective tax rate reflected in the
financial statements is different than that reported in the
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 36tax return. Some of these differences are permanent, such as Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of
expenses that are not deductible on the tax return, and some Share-Based Payment Awards, which provides an optional
are timing differences, such as depreciation expense. Timing short cut method for calculating the historical pool of windfall
differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred benefits upon adoption of FAS 123R. The Company will adopt
tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax FAS 123R, and the FSP effective January 1, 2006. The
deduction or credit in the tax return in future years for which the Company will continue to use the Black-Scholes valuation
Company has already recorded the tax benefit in the financial method and will apply the modified prospective method. As a
statements. The Company establishes valuation allowances for result of the adoption of this Statement, Merck’s compensation
its deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future expense for share-based payments is expected to be
taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction approximately $220 million in 2006.
or credit. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP 115-1 and FSP
recognized in the financial statements for which payment has 124-1, The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and
been deferred or expense for which the Company has already its Application to Certain Investments. The FSP addresses the
taken a deduction on the tax return, but has not yet recognized determination as to when an investment is considered impaired,
as expense in the financial statements. whether the impairment is other than temporary, and the
As previously disclosed, in October 2004, the AJCA was measurement of an impairment loss as well as accounting
signed into law. The AJCA creates a temporary incentive for considerations subsequent to the recognition of an other-than-
U.S. multinationals to repatriate accumulated income earned temporary impairment and requires certain disclosures about
outside of the United States as of December 31, 2002. In unrealized losses that have not been recognized as other-than-
connection with the AJCA, the Company repatriated $15.9 temporary impairments. The FSP is effective beginning
billion during 2005 (see Note 17). As a result of this repatriation, January 1, 2006. The effect of this Statement on the Company’s
the Company recorded an income tax charge of $766.5 million financial position or results of operations is not expected to be
in Taxes on Income in 2005 related to this repatriation. This material.
charge was partially offset by a $100 million benefit associated In December 2005, the SEC issued an Interpretation,
with a decision to implement certain tax planning strategies. The Commission Guidance Regarding Accounting for Sales of
Company has not changed its intention to indefinitely reinvest Vaccines and BioTerror Countermeasures to the Federal
accumulated earnings earned subsequent to December 31, Government for Placement into the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile
2002. At December 31, 2005, foreign earnings of $8.3 billion or the Strategic National Stockpile, which is effective beginning
have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary companies for January 1, 2006. Under the Interpretation, the SEC will not
reinvestment. No provision will be made for income taxes that object to revenue recognition from the sale of vaccines and
would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings and it is bioterror countermeasures to the Federal government for
not practicable to determine the amount of the related placement into stockpiles related only to the Vaccines for
unrecognized deferred income tax liability. Children Program or the Strategic National Stockpile. The effect
of adoption of this Interpretation on the Company’s financial
Recently Issued Accounting Standards position or results of operations is not expected to be material.
In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 151,
Inventory Costs-an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4 (FAS Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results
151), which is effective beginning January 1, 2006. FAS 151 This annual report and other written reports and oral statements
requires that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, made from time to time by the Company may contain so-called
handling costs and wasted material be recognized as current “forward-looking statements,” all of which are based on
period charges. The Statement also requires that the allocation management’s current expectations and are subject to risks and
of fixed production overhead be based on the normal capacity of uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from
the production facilities. The effect of this Statement on the those set forth in the statements. One can identify these
Company’s financial position or results of operations is not forward-looking statements by their use of words such as
expected to be material. “expects,” “plans,” “will,” “estimates,” “forecasts,” “projects” and
In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 123R, other words of similar meaning. One can also identify them by
Share-Based Payment (FAS 123R), which was originally the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current
intended to become effective beginning July 1, 2005. In facts. These statements are likely to address the Company’s
April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission growth strategy, financial results, product development, product
(SEC) issued a new rule which delayed the Company’s effective approvals, product potential and development programs. One
date of FAS 123R beginning January 1, 2006. FAS 123R must carefully consider any such statement and should
requires all share-based payments to employees to be understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ
expensed over the requisite service period based on the grant- materially from the Company’s forward-looking statements.
date fair value of the awards and requires that the unvested These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad
portion of all outstanding awards upon adoption be recognized variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are
using the same fair value and attribution methodologies known and some that are not. No forward-looking statement can
previously determined under Statement No. 123, Accounting for be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially.
Stock-Based Compensation. On November 10, 2005 the FASB
issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) 123R-3,
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 37The Company does not assume the obligation to update any Cash Dividends Paid per Common Share
forward-looking statement. One should carefully evaluate such
statements in light of factors, including risk factors, described in Year 4th Q 3rd Q 2nd Q 1st Q
the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange 2 005 $ 1.52 $ .38 $ .38 $ .38 $ .38
Commission, especially on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. In Item 1 2004 $ 1.49 $ .38 $ .37 $ .37 $ .37
of the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2005, which will be filed in March 2006,
Common Stock Market Prices
the Company discusses in more detail various important factors
that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historic
2 005 4th Q 3rd Q 2nd Q 1st Q
results. The Company notes these factors for investors as
H igh $ 32.54 $ 32.34 $ 35.20 $ 32.61
permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
Low 25.50 26.97 30.40 27.48
1995. Prior to the filing of the Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2005, reference should be made to Item 1 of the 2 004
Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended H igh $ 34.32 $ 47.73 $ 48.78 $ 49.33
December 31, 2004. One should understand that it is not Low 25.60 32.46 44.28 42.85
possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, the
The principal market for trading of the common stock is the
reader should not consider any such list to be a complete
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol MRK. The
statement of all potential risks or uncertainties.
common stock market price information above is based on
historical NYSE market prices.
Condensed Interim Financial Data (1)
( $ in millions except per share amounts) 4th Q (2) 3rd Q (3) 2nd Q (4) 1st Q
2 005
S ales $ 5,765.9 $ 5,416.2 $ 5,467.5 $ 5,362.2
Materials and production costs 1,478.8 1,238.8 1,160.6 1,271.4
Marketing and administrative expenses 2,139.1 1,661.4 1,749.5 1,605.5
Research and development expenses 1,112.0 942.6 946.8 846.6
Restructuring costs 228.9 79.8 5.8 7.8
Equity income from affiliates (586.6 ) (480.1 ) (334.1 ) (316.3 )
Other (income) expense, net (126.3 ) (24.7 ) 14.0 26.5
Income from continuing operations before taxes 1,520.0 1,998.4 1,924.9 1,920.7
Net income 1,119.7 1,420.9 720.6 1,370.1
Basic earnings per common share $ .51 $ .65 $ .33 $ .62
Earnings per common share assuming dilution $ .51 $ .65 $ .33 $ .62
2 004
S ales $ 5,748.0 $ 5,538.1 $ 6,021.7 $ 5,630.8
Materials and production costs 1,283.6 1,364.2 1,163.7 1,148.2
Marketing and administrative expenses 2,347.2 1,718.4 1,594.3 1,578.7
Research and development expenses 1,108.6 919.3 986.0 996.3
Restructuring costs 18.6 34.5 21.9 32.7
Equity income from affiliates (285.9 ) (307.1 ) (220.5 ) (194.7 )
Other (income) expense, net (103.9 ) (4.2 ) 37.5 (273.3 )
Income from continuing operations before taxes 1,379.8 1,813.0 2,438.8 2,342.9
Net income 1,101.1 1,325.6 1,768.1 1,618.6
Basic earnings per common share $ .50 $ .60 $ .80 $ .73
Earnings per common share assuming dilution $ .50 $ .60 $ .79 $ .73
(1) Prior period amounts have been reclassified to reflect separate line item presentation of Restructuring costs.
(2) Amounts for 2005 include the impact of restructuring actions (see Note 4). Amounts for 2005 and 2004 include the impact of the reserve for Vioxx legal defense
costs (see Note 11).
(3) Amounts for 2004 include the impact of the voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx ( see Note 3).
(4) Amounts for 2005 include the impact of the net tax charge primarily associated with the AJCA repatriation (see Note 17).
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 38Consolidated Statement of Income
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years Ended December 31
($ in millions except per share amounts)
2005 2004 2003
S ales $ 22,011.9 $ 22,938.6 $ 22,485.9
C osts, Expenses and Other
Materials and production 5,149.6 4,959.8 4,436.9
Marketing and administrative 7,155.5 7,238.7 6,200.3
Research and development 3,848.0 4,010.2 3,279.9
Restructuring costs 322.2 107.6 194.6
Equity income from affiliates (1,717.1 ) (1,008.2 ) (474.2 )
Other (income) expense, net (110.2 ) (344.0 ) (203.2 )
14,648.0 14,964.1 13,434.3
I ncome from Continuing Operations Before Taxes 7,363.9 7,974.5 9,051.6
Taxes on Income 2,732.6 2,161.1 2,462.0
I ncome from Continuing Operations 4,631.3 5,813.4 6,589.6
Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Taxes — — 241.3
N et Income $ 4,631.3 $ 5,813.4 $ 6,830.9
B asic Earnings per Common Share
Continuing Operations $ 2.11 $ 2.62 $ 2.95
Discontinued Operations — — .11
Net Income $ 2.11 $ 2.62 $ 3.05 *
E arnings per Common Share Assuming Dilution
Continuing Operations $ 2.10 $ 2.61 $ 2.92
Discontinued Operations — — .11
Net Income $ 2.10 $ 2.61 $ 3.03
* Amount does not add as a result of rounding.
Consolidated Statement of Retained Earnings
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years Ended December 31
($ in millions)
2005 2004 2003
B alance, January 1 $ 36,626.3 $ 34,142.0 $ 35,434.9
N et Income 4,631.3 5,813.4 6,830.9
Common Stock Dividends Declared (3,338.7 ) (3,329.1 ) (3,264.7 )
Spin-off of Medco Health — — (4,859.1 )
B alance, December 31 $ 37,918.9 $ 36,626.3 $ 34,142.0
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years Ended December 31
($ in millions)
2005 2004 2003
N et Income $ 4,631.3 $ 5,813.4 $ 6,830.9
O ther Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Net unrealized gain (loss) on derivatives, net of tax and net income realization 81.3 (31.7 ) (21.3 )
Net unrealized gain (loss) on investments, net of tax and net income realization 50.3 (100.9 ) (46.3 )
Minimum pension liability, net of tax (7.0 ) (4.9) 231.9
Cumulative translation adjustment relating to equity investees, net of tax (26.4 ) 26.1 —
98.2 (111.4 ) 164.3
C omprehensive Income $ 4,729.5 $ 5,702.0 $ 6,995.2
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 39Consolidated Balance Sheet
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
December 31
($ in millions)
2005 2004
A ssets
Current Assets
Cash and cash equivalents $ 9,585.3 $ 2,878.8
Short-term investments 6,052.3 4,211.1
Accounts receivable 2,927.3 3,627.7
Inventories (excludes inventories of $753.8 in 2005 and $638.7 in 2004 classified in Other
assets—see Note 7) 1,658.1 1,898.7
Prepaid expenses and taxes 826.3 858.9
T otal current assets 21,049.3 13,475.2
I nvestments 1,107.9 6,727.1
P roperty, Plant and Equipment (at cost)
Land 433.0 366.6
Buildings 9,479.6 8,874.3
Machinery, equipment and office furnishings 12,785.2 11,926.1
Construction in progress 1,015.5 1,641.6
23,713.3 22,808.6
Less allowance for depreciation 9,315.1 8,094.9
14,398.2 14,713.7
G oodwill 1,085.7 1,085.7
O ther Intangibles, Net 518.7 679.2
O ther Assets 6,686.0 5,891.9
$ 44,845.8 $ 42,572.8
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
Current Liabilities
Loans payable and current portion of long-term debt $ 2,972.0 $ 2,181.2
Trade accounts payable 471.1 421.4
Accrued and other current liabilities 5,381.2 5,288.1
Income taxes payable 3,649.2 3,012.3
Dividends payable 830.0 841.1
T otal current liabilities 13,303.5 11,744.1
L ong-Term Debt 5,125.6 4,691.5
D eferred Income Taxes and Noncurrent Liabilities 6,092.9 6,442.1
M inority Interests 2,407.2 2,406.9
S tockholders’ Equity
Common stock, one cent par value
Authorized—5,400,000,000 shares
Issued—2,976,223,337 shares—2005
—2,976,230,393 shares—2004 29.8 29.8
Other paid-in capital 6,900.0 6,869.8
Retained earnings 37,918.9 36,626.3
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 52.3 (45.9 )
44,901.0 43,480.0
Less treasury stock, at cost
794,299,347 shares—2005
767,591,491 shares—2004 26,984.4 26,191.8
T otal stockholders’ equity 17,916.6 17,288.2
$ 44,845.8 $ 42,572.8
The accompanying notes are an Integral part of this consolidated financial statement.
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 40Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years Ended December 31
($ in millions)
2005 2004 2003
C ash Flows from Operating Activities of Continuing Operations
Net income $ 4,631.3 $ 5,813.4 $ 6,830.9
Less: Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes — — (241.3 )
I ncome from continuing operations 4,631.3 5,813.4 6,589.6
Adjustments to reconcile income from continuing operations to net cash provided
by operating activities of continuing operations:
Depreciation and amortization 1,708.1 1,450.7 1,314.2
Deferred income taxes 9.0 48.9 131.7
Equity income from affiliates (1,717.1 ) (1,008.2 ) (474.2 )
Dividends and distributions from equity affiliates 1,101.2 587.0 553.4
Other 695.5 385.8 (177.3 )
Net changes in assets and liabilities:
Accounts receivable 345.9 173.1 320.9
Inventories 125.6 331.9 (435.3 )
Trade accounts payable 63.6 (323.8 ) (21.6 )
Accrued and other current liabilities 238.2 1,382.3 505.4
Income taxes payable 663.2 453.9 494.1
Noncurrent liabilities (412.2 ) (445.4 ) (255.3 )
Other 156.2 (50.5 ) (119.1 )
N et Cash Provided by Operating Activities of Continuing Operations 7,608.5 8,799.1 8,426.5
C ash Flows from Investing Activities of Continuing Operations
Capital expenditures (1,402.7 ) (1,726.1 ) (1,915.9 )
Purchase of securities, subsidiaries and other investments (125,308.4 ) (82,256.4 ) (61,586.9 )
Proceeds from sale of securities, subsidiaries and other investments 128,981.4 82,363.8 60,823.4
Acquisitions of Banyu shares — (12.8 ) (1,527.8 )
Other (3.1 ) (6.6 ) (25.0 )
N et Cash Provided (Used) by Investing Activities of Continuing Operations 2,267.2 (1,638.1 ) (4,232.2 )
C ash Flows from Financing Activities of Continuing Operations
Net change in short-term borrowings 1,296.2 (252.4 ) (2,347.2 )
Proceeds from issuance of debt 1,000.0 405.1 1,300.3
Payments on debt (1,014.9 ) (37.3 ) (736.2 )
Redemption of preferred units of subsidiary — (1,500.0 ) —
Purchase of treasury stock (1,015.3 ) (974.6 ) (2,034.1 )
Dividends paid to stockholders (3,349.8 ) (3,310.7 ) (3,250.4 )
Proceeds from exercise of stock options 136.5 240.3 388.2
Other (93.1 ) (161.8 ) (148.5 )
N et Cash Used by Financing Activities of Continuing Operations (3,040.4 ) (5,591.4 ) (6,827.9 )
E ffect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents (128.8 ) 108.2 155.7
D iscontinued Operations (Revised)
Net cash provided by Medco Health operating activities — — 279.2
Net cash provided by Medco Health investing activities — — (31.2 )
Dividend received from Medco Health, net of intercompany settlements and cash
transferred — — 1,187.9
N et Cash Provided by Discontinued Operations — — 1,435.9
N et Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 6,706.5 1,677.8 (1,042.0 )
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year 2,878.8 1,201.0 2,243.0
C ash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year $ 9,585.3 $ 2,878.8 $ 1,201.0
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated financial statement.
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 41Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
($ in millions except per share amounts)
1 fair value. The Company considers available evidence in
Nature of Operations evaluating potential impairment of its investments, including
Merck is a global research-driven pharmaceutical company the duration and extent to which fair value is less than cost and
that discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a broad the Company’s ability and intent to hold the investment.
range of innovative products to improve human and animal
health, directly and through its joint ventures. The Company’s Revenue Recognition — Revenues from sales of products are
products include therapeutic and preventive agents, generally recognized when title and risk of loss passes to the customer.
sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Revenues for domestic pharmaceutical sales are recognized at
the time of shipment, while for many foreign subsidiaries, as
2 well as for vaccine sales, revenues are recognized at the time
Summary of Accounting Policies
of delivery. Recognition of revenue also requires reasonable
Principles of Consolidation — The consolidated financial
assurance of collection of sales proceeds and completion of all
statements include the accounts of the Company and all of its
performance obligations. Domestically, sales discounts are
subsidiaries in which a controlling interest is maintained.
issued to customers as direct discounts at the point-of-sale or
Controlling interest is determined by majority ownership
indirectly through an intermediary wholesale purchaser, known
interest and the absence of substantive third-party participating
as chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates.
rights or, in the case of variable interest entities, by majority
Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of
exposure to expected losses, residual returns or both. For
return under certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of
those consolidated subsidiaries where Merck ownership is less
provisions for sales discounts and returns, which are
than 100%, the outside stockholders’ interests are shown as
established at the time of sale. Accruals for chargebacks are
Minority interests. Investments in affiliates over which the
reflected as a direct reduction to accounts receivable and
Company has significant influence but not a controlling
accruals for rebates as accrued expenses. The accrued
interest, such as interests in entities owned equally by the
balances relative to these provisions included in Accounts
Company and a third party that are under shared control, are
receivable and Accrued and other current liabilities were
carried on the equity basis.
$164.3 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, at December 31,
Foreign Currency Translation — The U.S. dollar is the 2005 and $133.7 million and $896.6 million, respectively, at
functional currency for the Company’s foreign subsidiaries. December 31, 2004.
Cash and Cash Equivalents — Cash equivalents are Depreciation — Depreciation is provided over the estimated
comprised of certain highly liquid investments with original useful lives of the assets, principally using the straight-line
maturities of less than three months. method. For tax purposes, accelerated methods are used. The
estimated useful lives primarily range from 10 to 50 years for
Inventories — Substantially all domestic pharmaceutical
Buildings, and from 3 to 15 years for Machinery, equipment
inventories are valued at the lower of last-in, first-out (LIFO)
and office furnishings.
cost or market for both book and tax purposes. Foreign
pharmaceutical inventories are valued at the lower of first-in, Goodwill and Other Intangibles — Goodwill represents the
first-out (FIFO) cost or market. Inventories consist of currently excess of acquisition costs over the fair value of net assets of
marketed products and certain products awaiting regulatory businesses purchased. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units
approval. In evaluating the recoverability of inventories within the Company’s segments and evaluated for impairment
produced in preparation for product launches, the Company on at least an annual basis, using a fair value based test.
considers the probability that revenue will be obtained from the Other acquired intangibles are recorded at cost and are
future sale of the related inventory together with the status of amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful
the product within the regulatory approval process. lives (see Note 8). When events or circumstances warrant a
review, the Company will assess recoverability from future
Investments — Investments classified as available-for-sale are
operations of other intangibles using undiscounted cash flows
reported at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses, to the
derived from the lowest appropriate asset groupings, generally
extent not hedged, reported net of tax in Accumulated other
the subsidiary level. Impairments are recognized in operating
comprehensive income. Investments in debt securities
results to the extent that carrying value exceeds fair value,
classified as held-to-maturity, consistent with management’s
which is determined based on the net present value of
intent, are reported at cost. Impairment losses are charged to
estimated future cash flows.
Other (income) expense, net, for other-than-temporary
declines in
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 42Research and Development — Research and development is the grant-date fair value of the awards and requires that the
expensed as incurred. Upfront and milestone payments made unvested portion of all outstanding awards upon adoption be
to third parties in connection with research and development recognized using the same fair value and attribution
collaborations prior to regulatory approval are expensed as methodologies previously determined under Statement
incurred. Payments made to third parties subsequent to No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. In
regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized over the November 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
shorter of the remaining license or product patent life. (FSP) 123R-3, Transition Election Related to Accounting for
the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards, which
Stock-Based Compensation — Employee stock-based
provides an optional short cut method for calculating the
compensation is recognized using the intrinsic value method.
historical pool of windfall benefits upon adoption of FAS 123R.
Generally, employee stock options are granted to purchase
The Company will adopt FAS 123R, and the FSP effective
shares of Company stock at the fair market value at the time of
January 1, 2006. The Company will continue to use the Black-
grant. Accordingly, no compensation expense is recognized for
Scholes valuation method and will apply the modified
the Company’s stock-based compensation plans other than for
prospective method.
its performance-based awards, restricted stock units and
In accordance with the current accounting requirements,
options granted to employees of certain equity method
the Company recognizes pro forma compensation expense for
investees.
all employees, including retirement-eligible employees, over
The effect on net income and earnings per common share if
the vesting period for employee stock options. Upon the
the Company had applied the fair value method for recognizing
adoption of FAS 123R, compensation expense will be
employee stock-based compensation is as follows:
recognized immediately for awards granted to retirement-
eligible employees or over the period from the grant date to the
Years Ended December 31 2005 2004 2003
date retirement eligibility is achieved. This approach is known
N et income, as reported $ 4,631.3 $ 5,813.4 $ 6,830.9
as the non-substantive vesting period approach. If the
Compensation expense, net of
Company had been applying the non-substantive vesting
tax:
period approach for stock options granted to retirement-eligible
Reported 31.2 16.7 4.9
employees, the effect on pro forma earnings per share
Fair value method (357.1 ) (491.8 ) (559.4 )
assuming dilution for all periods presented, as provided in the
P ro forma net income $ 4,305.4 $ 5,338.3 $ 6,276.4
above table, would not have been significant.
E arnings per common share Prior to 2004, pro forma compensation expense for options
from continuing operations: with graded vesting terms was calculated using the Black-
Assuming dilution-as reported $ 2.10 $ 2.61 $ 2.92 Scholes model based on a single-option valuation approach
Assuming dilution-pro forma $ 1.96 $ 2.39 $ 2.73 using the straight-line method of amortization. In 2004, the
Earnings per common share: Company revised the assumptions utilized by the Black-
Basic- as reported $ 2.11 $ 2.62 $ 3.05 Scholes model in determining pro forma compensation
Basic-pro forma $ 1.96 $ 2.41 $ 2.81 expense based on historical data, such that expense is
Assuming dilution-as reported $ 2.10 $ 2.61 $ 3.03 determined using separate expected term assumptions for
Assuming dilution-pro forma $ 1.96 $ 2.39 $ 2.79 each vesting tranche. As a result, pro forma compensation
expense for any stock options granted after January 1, 2004
The average fair value of employee and non-employee
but prior to January 1, 2006 has been calculated using the
director options granted during 2005, 2004 and 2003 was
accelerated amortization method prescribed in FASB
$6.66, $10.50 and $12.54, respectively. This fair value was
Interpretation No. 28, Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights
estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model based
and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans. Upon
on the weighted average market price at grant date of $31.64
adoption of FAS 123R, effective January 1, 2006, the
in 2005, $45.51 in 2004 and $50.07 in 2003 and the following
Company will recognize compensation expense using the
weighted average assumptions:
straight-line method.
In 2003, in connection with the Medco Health Solutions, Inc.
Years Ended December 31 2005 2004 2003
(Medco Health) spin-off, options granted to Medco Health
D ividend yield 4.8 % 3.4 % 2.7 %
employees prior to February 2002 and some options granted
Risk-free interest rate 4.0 % 3.1 % 2.9 %
after February 2002 became fully vested in accordance with
Volatility 32 % 30 % 31 %
the original terms of the grants. As a result, 2003 pro forma
Expected life (years) 5.7 5.7 5.8
compensation expense reflects the accelerated vesting of
these options. In addition, certain stock options granted to
In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards
Medco Health employees in 2003 and 2002 were converted to
Board (the FASB) issued Statement No. 123R, Share-Based
Medco Health options with terms and amounts that maintained
Payment (FAS 123R), which was originally intended to
the option holders’ positions. Therefore, pro forma
become effective beginning July 1, 2005. In April 2005, the
compensation expense for these options is reflected only
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a new rule
through the date of the spin-off.
which delayed the Company’s effective date of FAS 123R
beginning January 1, 2006. FAS 123R requires all share-
based payments to employees to be expensed over the
requisite service period based on
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 43The pre-tax costs of this restructuring program were
Legal Defense Costs — Legal defense costs expected to be
$401.2 million in 2005 and are expected to be $800 million to
incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued
$1 billion in 2006. Through the end of 2008, when the initial
when probable and reasonably estimable.
phase of the restructing program is expected to be
Use of Estimates — The consolidated financial statements are substantially complete, the cumulative pre-tax costs of the
prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally program are expected to range from $1.8 billion to $2.2 billion.
accepted in the United States (GAAP) and, accordingly, Approximately 70% of the cumulative pre-tax costs are non-
include certain amounts that are based on management’s best cash, relating primarily to accelerated depreciation for those
estimates and judgments. Estimates are used in determining facilities scheduled for closure.
such items as provisions for sales discounts and returns, The $401.2 million of costs incurred in 2005 were
depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of inventories comprised of $205.4 million of separation costs recorded to
produced in preparation for product launches, amounts Restructuring costs and $195.8 million of accelerated
recorded for contingencies, environmental liabilities and other depreciation and asset impairment costs, of which
reserves, pension and other postretirement benefit plan $177.1 million was recorded to Materials and production and
assumptions, and taxes on income. Because of the uncertainty $18.7 million was recorded to Research and development. The
inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these Company also plans to close its basic research center in
estimates. Terlings Park, United Kingdom, and incurred additional
accelerated depreciation costs of $103.1 million recorded to
Reclassifications —Certain reclassifications have been made
Research and development during 2005, which reduced the
to prior year amounts to conform with current year
assets of this research center down to their net realizable
presentation.
values. Subsequent to December 31, 2005, no further
research and development will be performed at this site.
3 The separation costs are associated with the elimination of
Voluntary Product Withdrawal
approximately 1,100 positions as of December 31, 2005 (which
On September 30, 2004, the Company announced a
is comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the
voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx, its arthritis and acute
elimination of contractors and vacant positions), as well as
pain medication. The Company’s decision, which was effective
estimates of future terminations of roughly 2,400 positions that
immediately, was based on new three-year data from a
were probable and could be reasonably estimated at
prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial,
December 31, 2005. Included in the $205.4 million of
APPROVe (Adenomatous Polyp Prevention on Vioxx).
separation costs is $23.0 million related to curtailment,
In connection with the withdrawal, in 2004 the Company
settlement and termination charges on the Company’s pension
recorded an unfavorable adjustment to net income of
and other postretirement benefit plans (see Note 15).
$552.6 million, or $.25 per share. The adjustment to pre-tax
Of the $195.8 million, approximately $111.2 million is
income was $726.2 million. Of this amount, $491.6 million
associated with the abandonment of certain fixed assets that
related to estimated customer returns of product previously
will no longer be used in the business as a result of these
sold and was recorded as a reduction of Sales, $93.2 million
restructuring actions and must therefore, be written off. The
related to writeoffs of inventory held by the Company and was
remaining $84.6 million reflects accelerated depreciation costs
recorded in Materials and production expense, and
primarily related to the five Merck owned manufacturing
$141.4 million related to estimated costs to undertake the
facilities worldwide and two preclinical sites to be sold or
withdrawal of the product and was recorded in Marketing and
closed by the end of 2008. The manufacturing facilities
administrative expense. The tax benefit of this adjustment was
included in this action are: Ponders End, United Kingdom;
$173.6 million, which reflects the geographical mix of Vioxx
Okazaki, Japan; Kirkland, Canada; Albany, Georgia, and
returns and the cost of the withdrawal. The adjustment did not
Danville, Pennsylvania. The two preclinical sites are in Okazaki
include charges for future legal defense costs (see Note 11).
and Menuma, Japan. These actions are in an effort to reduce
At December 31, 2004, $173.8 million of the remaining
costs and consolidate the Company’s manufacturing and
accrued balance was reported in Accrued and other current
research facilities. As of December 31, 2005, no buyers have
liabilities and $235.0 million was reported as a reduction to
been identified for these sites, however, the closures are
Accounts receivable. The Vioxx withdrawal process was
anticipated to be completed by the end of 2008, subject to
completed during 2005 and the costs associated with the
compliance with legal obligations. All of these sites will
withdrawal were in line with the original amounts recorded by
continue to operate up through the respective closure dates,
the Company in 2004.
and since future cash flows are sufficient to recover the
respective book values, Merck was required to accelerate
4
Restructuring depreciation of the site assets rather than writing them off
immediately. The site assets include manufacturing and
In November 2005, the Company announced the first phase
research facilities and equipment.
of a global restructuring program designed to reduce the
As part of the cost-reduction initiative announced in
Company’s cost structure, increase efficiency and enhance
October 2003 and completed at the end of 2004, the Company
competitiveness. The initial steps will include the
eliminated 5,100 positions. The Company completed a similar
implementation of a new supply strategy by the Merck
program in 2005 with 900 positions being eliminated through
Manufacturing Division, which is intended to create a leaner,
more cost-effective and customer-focused manufacturing
model over the next three years. As part of this program,
Merck plans to sell or close five manufacturing sites and two
preclinical sites by the end of 2008, and eliminate
approximately 7,000 positions company-wide.Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 44December 31, 2005. As a result of these restructuring actions, is continued, could receive additional payments as well as
the Company recorded restructuring costs of $116.8 million for royalties based upon achieving program objectives.
2005 and $107.6 million for 2004. Of these amounts, in 2005 In July 2005, Merck entered into an agreement with Geron
and 2004, respectively, $91.5 million and $84.4 million related Corporation (Geron) to develop a cancer vaccine against
to employee severance benefits, $25.3 million and telom-erase. Telomerase is an enzyme, active in most cancer
$21.5 million related to curtailment, settlement and termination cells, that maintains telomere length at the ends of
charges on the Company’s pension and other postretirement chromosomes. This activity allows the cancer to grow and
benefit plans (see Note 15) and $1.7 million related to a metastasize over long periods of time. Geron received an
modification in the terms of certain employees’ stock option upfront payment and based upon certain developments and
grants in 2004 only. regulatory events could receive additional payments as well as
The Company records restructuring activities in accordance royalties.
with FAS 112, Employers’ Accounting for Postemployment Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. (Sumitomo) and
Benefits-an amendment of FASB Statement No. 5 and 43 and Merck signed an agreement in June 2005 to collaborate on
FAS No. 88, Employers’ Accounting for Settlements and SM13496 (lurasidone), an atypical antipsychotic compound
Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans for Termination currently in Phase II development for the treatment of
Benefits, and FAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment and schizophrenia, one of the most chronic and disabling of the
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets and FAS No. 146, Accounting severe mental illnesses. Under the agreement, Sumitomo has
for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. granted Merck, through an affiliate, an exclusive license for
Summarized information relative to the employee SM13496 in all parts of the world except for Japan, China,
severance benefits accrual, excluding pension and other Korea and Taiwan.
postretirement benefit activity (see Note 15), is as follows: In April 2004, Merck and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
(BMS) entered into a worldwide collaborative agreement to
2005 2004 globally develop and market Pargluva, BMS’s investigational
B alance, January 1 $ 45.7 $ 78.3 oral medicine for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. As
Expense 273.9 84.4 previously reported by the Company and BMS, in
Payments (79.3 ) (117.0 ) October 2005, the FDA issued an approvable letter for
B alance, December 31 $ 240.3 $ 45.7 Pargluva and requested additional safety information to
address more fully the cardiovascular safety profile of
Pargluva. This data requirement may cause a significant delay
5
Research Collaborations, Acquisitions/Divestitures and in the product’s launch. As a result, BMS and Merck
License Agreements terminated the collaborative agreement for Pargluva with all
Merck continues its strategy of establishing strong external rights to Pargluva and a back-up compound to Pargluva
alliances to complement its substantial internal research returning to BMS as of December 21, 2005.
capabilities, including research collaborations, licensing pre- In March 2004, the Company acquired Aton Pharma, Inc.
clinical and clinical compounds and technology transfers to (Aton), a privately held biotechnology company focusing on the
drive both near-and long-term growth. During 2005, Merck development of novel treatments for cancer and other serious
signed 44 such agreements. diseases. Aton’s clinical pipeline of histone deacetylase
In October 2005, Agensys, Inc. (Agensys), a cancer inhibitors represents a class of anti-tumor agents with potential
biotechnology company, and Merck announced the formation for efficacy based on a novel mechanism of action. Aton’s lead
of a global alliance to jointly develop and commercialize AGS- product candidate, suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, known as
PSCA, Agensys’ fully human monoclonal antibody (MAb) to vorinostat, has been extensively studied for the treatment of
Prostate Stem Cell Antigen (PSCA). The agreement grants cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Consideration for the acquisition
Merck worldwide rights to AGS-PSCA and an exclusive license consisted of an upfront payment and may include contingent
to PSCA, a proprietary Agensys target, as well as rights to payments based upon the regulatory filing, approval and sale
other therapeutic and diagnostic products developed under the of products. In connection with the transaction, the Company
alliance. Upon signing the agreement, Agensys received an recorded a charge of $125.5 million for acquired research
upfront payment, and could receive up to $95 million in associated with products in development for which, at the
milestone payments, upon successful development and acquisition date, technological feasibility had not been
launch, that could increase to more than $170 million if multiple established and no alternative future use existed. This charge
oncology indications are successfully developed and approved was recorded in Research and development expense. The
in addition to royalties on worldwide sales. remaining net assets acquired in this transaction were not
In September 2005, FoxHollow Technologies, Inc. material. Because Aton was a development stage company
(FoxHollow) and Merck announced the formation of a novel that had not commenced its planned principal operations, the
pharmacogenomics collaboration. The collaboration will focus transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of assets
on analyzing atherosclerotic plaque removed from patient rather than as a business combination and, therefore, goodwill
arteries as a means of identifying new biomarkers of was not recorded. Aton’s results of operations have been
atherosclerotic disease progression for use in the development included with the Company’s since the acquisition date.
of cardiovascular compounds in Merck’s pipeline. The In February 2004, Merck and H. Lundbeck A/S (Lundbeck)
agreement includes a research collaboration of up to three entered into an agreement for the exclusive U.S. development
years. FoxHollow received an upfront payment and, if the and commercialization of gaboxadol, a compound for the
collaboration treatment of sleep disorders. Under the terms of the
agreement, Lundbeck received an initial payment of
$70.0 million and, dur-
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 45ing the term of the agreement, could receive up to $200.0 The following is a summary of the assets and liabilities of
million in additional milestone payments in the future. The discontinued operations that were spun off:
Company recorded the upfront payment as Research and
development expense in 2004. Merck will fund the majority of August 19, 2003
the remaining development activities. In June 2004, Merck and A ssets
Lundbeck extended their agreement for the exclusive C ash and cash equivalents $ 247.4
development and commercialization of gaboxadol to Japan. Other current assets 2,728.4
In 2003, the Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Property, plant and equipment, net 816.3
MSD (Japan) Co., Ltd., launched tender offers to acquire the Goodwill 3,310.2
remaining 49% of the common shares of Banyu Other intangibles, net 2,351.9
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Banyu) that it did not already own for Other assets 138.4
an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion. $ 9,592.6
Substantially all shares were acquired in 2003 and on
L iabilities
March 30, 2004, Merck completed its acquisition of Banyu. Full
C urrent liabilities $ 2,176.2
ownership of Banyu strengthens Merck’s position in Japan, the
Long-term debt 1,362.3
world’s second largest pharmaceutical market.
Deferred income taxes 1,195.0
The Company’s acquisitions of the Banyu shares were
$ 4,733.5
accounted for under the purchase method. Pro forma
information is not provided as the impact of the transactions N et Assets Transferred $ 4,859.1
does not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated
6
results of operations. The aggregate purchase price was
Financial Instruments
allocated based upon the fair values of the portion of assets
Foreign Currency Risk Management
and liabilities acquired. The allocation of the aggregate
While the U.S. dollar is the functional currency of the
purchase price resulted in the reversal of $1.0 billion of
Company’s foreign subsidiaries, a significant portion of the
minority interest liability and recognition of $332.0 million in
Company’s revenues are denominated in foreign currencies.
other intangibles, $240.5 million in goodwill, $153.0 million in
Merck relies on sustained cash flows generated from foreign
deferred income tax liabilities and $34.5 million in other net
sources to support its long-term commitment to U.S. dollar-
assets, principally property, plant and equipment. Other
based research and development. To the extent the dollar
intangibles included $301.1 million of in-line product rights
value of cash flows is diminished as a result of a strengthening
having a 10-year weighted average useful life and
dollar, the Company’s ability to fund research and other dollar-
$30.9 million representing a 20-year life tradename. In
based strategic initiatives at a consistent level may be
connection with the transactions, the Company also incurred a
impaired. The Company has established revenue hedging and
charge of $101.8 million for acquired research, recorded as
balance sheet risk management programs to protect against
Research and development expense, associated with products
volatility of future foreign currency cash flows and changes in
in development for which, at the acquisition date, technological
fair value caused by volatility in foreign exchange rates.
feasibility had not been established and no alternative future
The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce
use existed.
the potential for longer-term unfavorable changes in foreign
On August 19, 2003, Merck completed the spin-off of
exchange to decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash
Medco Health. The income of Medco Health is presented
flows derived from foreign currency denominated sales,
separately as discontinued operations. Prior to the spin-off,
primarily the euro and Japanese yen. To achieve this
Merck received a $2.0 billion dividend from Medco Health and
objective, the Company will partially hedge anticipated third-
Merck paid $564.7 million in settlement of the net
party sales that are expected to occur over its planning cycle,
intercompany payable to Medco Health. In addition, at the date
typically no more than three years into the future. The
of the spin-off, $247.4 million of cash and cash equivalents
Company will layer in hedges over time, increasing the portion
were included in the net assets of Medco Health that were
of sales hedged as it gets closer to the expected date of the
spun off. The 2003 statement of cash flows has been restated
transaction, such that it is probable that the hedged transaction
to separately disclose the operating and investing portions of
will occur. The portion of sales hedged is based on
the cash flows attributable to discontinued operations. These
assessments of cost-benefit profiles that consider natural
amounts had previously been reported on a combined basis.
offsetting exposures, revenue and exchange rate volatilities
Summarized financial information for discontinued
and correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The
operations is as follows:
hedged anticipated sales are a specified component of a
portfolio of similarly denominated foreign currency-based sales
Year Ended December 31 2003*
transactions, each of which responds to the hedged risk in the
T otal net revenues $ 20,328.7
same manner. Merck manages its anticipated transaction
Income before taxes 369.6
exposure principally with purchased local currency put options,
Taxes on income 128.3
which provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation,
Income, net of taxes 241.3
to sell foreign currencies in the future at a predetermined price.
If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the
* Includes operations up through August 19, 2003. hedged anticipated sales, total changes in
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 46the options’ cash flows fully offset the decline in the expected The fair values of forward exchange contracts are reported
future U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency in the following four balance sheet line items: Accounts receiv-
sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the options’ able (current portion of gain position), Other assets (non-
value reduces to zero, but the Company benefits from the current portion of gain position), Accrued and other current
increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash liabilities (current portion of loss position), or Deferred income
flows. taxes and noncurrent liabilities (non-current portion of loss
The designated hedge relationship is based on total position).
changes in the options’ cash flows. Accordingly, the entire fair
value change in the options is deferred in Accumulated other Interest Rate Risk Management
comprehensive income (AOCI) and reclassified into Sales The Company may use interest rate swap contracts on certain
when the hedged anticipated revenue is recognized. The investing and borrowing transactions to manage its net expo-
hedge relationship is perfectly effective and therefore no hedge sure to interest rate changes and to reduce its overall cost of
ineffectiveness is recorded. The fair values of currency options borrowing. The Company does not use leveraged swaps and,
are reported in Accounts receivable or Other assets. in general, does not leverage any of its investment activities
The primary objective of the balance sheet risk that would put principal capital at risk.
management program is to protect the U.S. dollar value of At December 31, 2005, the Company was a party to three
foreign currency denominated net monetary assets from the pay-floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap contracts desig-
effects of volatility in foreign exchange that might occur prior to nated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate notes maturing in
their conversion to U.S. dollars. Merck principally utilizes 2006, 2007 and 2013, respectively. The notional amounts of
forward exchange contracts, which enable the Company to buy these swaps, which match the amount of the hedged fixed-rate
and sell foreign currencies in the future at fixed exchange rates notes, were $500 million, $350 million and $500 million,
and economically offset the consequences of changes in respectively. The swaps effectively convert the fixed-rate
foreign exchange on the amount of U.S. dollar cash flows obligations to floating-rate instruments. The fair value changes
derived from the net assets. Merck routinely enters into in the notes are fully offset in interest expense by the fair value
contracts to fully offset the effects of exchange on exposures changes in the swap contracts. The fair values of these
denominated in developed country currencies, primarily the contracts are reported in Accounts receivable, Other assets,
euro and Japanese yen. For exposures in developing country Accrued and other current liabilities, or Deferred income taxes
currencies, the Company will enter into forward contracts on a and noncurrent liabilities.
more limited basis, and only when it is deemed economical to
do so based on a cost-benefit analysis that considers the Fair Value of Financial Instruments
magnitude of the exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate Summarized below are the carrying values and fair values of
and the cost of the hedging instrument. The Company will also the Company’s financial instruments at December 31, 2005
minimize the effect of exchange on monetary assets and and 2004. Fair values were estimated based on market prices,
liabilities by managing operating activities and net asset where available, or dealer quotes.
positions at the local level.
Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and 2005 2004
liabilities are remeasured at spot rates in effect on the balance Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
sheet date with the effects of changes in spot rates reported in Value Value Value Value
Other (income) expense, net. The forward contracts are not A ssets
designated as hedges and are marked to market through C ash and cash
Other (income) expense, net. Accordingly, fair value changes equivalents $ 9,585.3 $ 9,585.3 $ 2,878.8 $ 2,878.8
in the forward contracts help mitigate the changes in the value Short-term
of the remeasured assets and liabilities attributable to changes investments 6,052.3 6,052.3 4,211.1 4,211.1
in foreign currency exchange rates, except to the extent of the Long-term
spot-forward differences. These differences are not significant investments 1,107.9 1,107.9 6,727.1 6,727.1
due to the short-term nature of the contracts, which typically Purchased currency
have average maturities at inception of less than one year. options 145.4 145.4 34.0 34.0
The Company periodically uses forward contracts to hedge Forward exchange
the changes in fair value of certain foreign currency contracts 13.7 13.7 13.4 13.4
denominated available-for-sale securities attributable to Interest rate swaps 13.5 13.5 59.1 59.1
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in L iabilities
the fair value of the hedged securities due to fluctuations in L oans payable and
spot rates are offset in Other (income) expense, net, by the fair current portion of
value changes in the forward contracts attributable to spot rate long-term debt $ 2,972.0 $ 2,974.4 $ 2,181.2 $ 2,201.5
fluctuations. Hedge ineffectiveness was not material during Long-term debt 5,125.6 5,171.4 4,691.5 4,820.9
2005, 2004 and 2003. Changes in the contracts’ fair value due Written currency
to spot-forward differences are excluded from the designated options — — 3.8 3.8
hedge relationship and recognized in Other (income) expense, Forward exchange
net. These amounts were not significant for the years ended contracts and
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. There were none currency swap 26.0 26.0 75.5 75.5
outstanding at December 31, 2005.
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 47In connection with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 Concentrations of Credit Risk
(AJCA) the Company repatriated $15.9 billion during 2005 (see As part of its ongoing control procedures, the Company moni-
Note 17). As of December 31, 2005, $5.2 billion of the AJCA tors concentrations of credit risk associated with corporate
repatriation was invested in fully collateralized overnight issuers of securities and financial institutions with which it
repurchase agreements and are included in Short-term conducts business. Credit risk is minimal as credit exposure
investments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. limits are established to avoid a concentration with any single
A summary of the December 31 carrying values and fair issuer or institution. Four U.S. customers represented, in
values of the Company’s investments and gross unrealized aggregate, approximately one-third of the Company’s accounts
gains and losses on the Company’s available-for-sale- receivable at December 31, 2005. The Company monitors the
investments recorded, net of tax, in AOCI is as follows: creditworthiness of its customers to which it grants credit terms
in the normal course of business. Bad debts have been
2005 minimal. The Company does not normally require collateral or
Carrying Fair Gross Unrealized other security to support credit sales.
Value Value Gains Losses
A vailable-for-sale 7
Inventories
Repurchase
Inventories at December 31 consisted of:
agreements $ 5,214.2 $ 5,214.2 $ — $ —
Corporate notes and
2005 2004
bonds 755.7 755.7 0.1 —
F inished goods $ 400.0 $ 376.8
Commercial paper 654.7 654.7 — —
Raw materials and work in process 1,929.8 2,166.8
Municipal securities 288.3 288.3 0.5 (1.3 )
Supplies 82.1 94.7
U.S. Government and
agency securities 51.9 51.9 — (0.1 ) T otal (approximates current cost) 2,411.9 2,638.3
Other debt securities 45.0 45.0 10.1 (0.3 ) Reduction to LIFO cost — (100.9 )
Equity securities 150.4 150.4 60.0 (4.9 ) $ 2,411.9 $ 2,537.4
T otal Available-for-sale $ 7,160.2 $ 7,160.2 $ 70.7 $ (6.6 ) R ecognized as:
Held-to-maturity Inventories $ 1,658.1 $ 1,898.7
securities $ — $ — $ — $ — Other assets 753.8 638.7
Inventories valued under the LIFO method comprised
2004 approximately 62% and 57% of inventories at December 31,
Carrying Fair Gross Unrealized 2005 and 2004, respectively. Amounts recognized as Other
Value Value Gains Losses assets are comprised entirely of raw materials and work in
A vailable-for-sale process inventories, which include inventories produced in
Corporate notes and preparation for product launches, principally vaccines, and
bonds $ 5,096.9 $ 5,096.9 $ 13.3 $ (22.9 ) inventories for other products, principally vaccines and
U.S. Government Arcoxia, not expected to be sold within one year.
and agency
securities 2,880.7 2,880.7 0.5 (14.8 ) 8
Other Intangibles
Commercial paper 2,209.5 2,209.5 — —
Other intangibles at December 31 consisted of:
Municipal securities 138.4 138.4 1.2 (0.4 )
Foreign government
2005 2004
bonds 132.6 132.6 0.4 (0.4 )
P atents and product rights $ 1,656.3 $ 1,656.3
Other debt securities 65.9 65.9 5.3 —
Other 180.4 177.0
Equity securities 404.2 404.2 35.1 (0.7 )
T otal acquired cost $ 1,836.7 $ 1,833.3
T otal Available-for-sale $ 10,928.2 $ 10,928.2 $ 55.8 $ (39.2 )
Held-to-maturity P atents and product rights $ 1,191.8 $ 1,042.5
securities $ 10.0 $ 10.0 $ — $ — Other 126.2 111.6
Available-for-sale debt securities maturing within one year
T otal accumulated amortization $ 1,318.0 $ 1,154.1
totaled $6.1 billion at December 31, 2005. Of the remaining Aggregate amortization expense, substantially all of which
debt securities, $668.7 million mature within five years. is recorded in Materials and production expense, was $163.9
million in 2005, $192.0 million in 2004, and $184.6 million in
2003. The estimated aggregate amortization expense for each
of the next five years is as follows: 2006, $142.5 million; 2007,
$136.6 million; 2008, $85.6 million; 2009, $35.9 million and
$33.7 million in 2010.
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 48Partnership returns which are recorded in Equity income from
9
affiliates. Such returns include a priority return provided for in
Joint Ventures and Other Equity Method Affiliates
the Partnership Agreement, variable returns based, in part,
In 2000, the Company and Schering-Plough Corporation
upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a
(Schering-Plough) entered into agreements to create separate
preferential return representing Merck’s share of undistributed
equally-owned partnerships to develop and market in the
AZLP GAAP earnings. These returns aggregated
United States new prescription medicines in the cholesterol-
$833.5 million, $646.5 million and $391.5 million in 2005, 2004
management and respiratory therapeutic areas. In 2001, the
and 2003, respectively. The 2003 results reflect a lower
cholesterol-management partnership agreements were
preferential return, primarily resulting from the impact of
expanded to include all the countries of the world, excluding
generic competition for Prilosec. The AstraZeneca merger
Japan. In 2002, ezetimibe, the first in a new class of
triggers a partial redemption of Merck’s limited partnership
cholesterol-lowering agents, was launched in the United States
interest in 2008. Upon this redemption, AZLP will distribute to
as Zetia (marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States). As
KBI an amount based primarily on a multiple of Merck’s
reported by the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership, global
average annual variable returns derived from sales of the
sales of Zetia totaled $1.4 billion in 2005, $1.1 billion in 2004
former Astra USA, Inc. products for the three years prior to the
and $469.4 million in 2003. In July 2004, a combination
redemption (the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value).
product containing the active ingredients of both Zetia and
In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring, for a payment of
Zocor , was approved in the United States as Vytorin
$443.0 million, which was deferred, Astra purchased an option
(marketed as Inegy outside of the United States). Vytorin has
(the Asset Option) to buy Merck’s interest in the KBI products,
been approved in 47 countries outside the United States.
excluding the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec.
Global sales of Vytorin were $1.0 billion in 2005 and
The Asset Option is exercisable in 2010 at an exercise price
$132.4 million in 2004. The results from the Company’s
equal to the net present value as of March 31, 2008 of
interest in the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership are recorded
projected future pretax revenue to be received by the
in Equity income from affiliates and were income of
Company from the KBI products (the Appraised Value). Merck
$570.4 million in 2005, $132.0 million in 2004 and a loss of
also has the right to require Astra to purchase such interest in
$92.5 million in 2003.
2008 at the Appraised Value. In addition, the Company
In 1982, Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB
granted Astra an option to buy Merck’s common stock interest
(Astra) to develop and market Astra’s products under a royalty-
in KBI, exercisable two years after Astra’s purchase of Merck’s
bearing license. In 1993, the Company’s total sales of Astra
interest in the KBI products. The exercise of this option by
products reached a level that triggered the first step in the
Astra is also provided for in the year 2017 or if combined
establishment of a joint venture business carried on by Astra
annual sales of the two products fall below a minimum amount
Merck Inc. (AMI), in which Merck and Astra each owned a 50%
provided, in each case, only so long as either the Merck option
share. This joint venture, formed in 1994, developed and
in 2008 or AstraZeneca’s option in 2010 has been exercised.
marketed most of Astra’s new prescription medicines in the
The exercise price is based on the net present value of
United States including Prilosec, the first of a class of
estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec as
medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the
determined at the time of exercise.
production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining.
The 1999 AstraZeneca merger constituted a Trigger Event
In 1998, Merck and Astra completed the restructuring of the
under the KBI restructuring agreements. As a result of the
ownership and operations of the joint venture whereby the
merger, in exchange for Merck’s relinquishment of rights to
Company acquired Astra’s interest in AMI, renamed KBI Inc.
future Astra products with no existing or pending U.S. patents
(KBI), and contributed KBI’s operating assets to a new U.S.
at the time of the merger, Astra paid $967.4 million (the
limited partnership, Astra Pharmaceuticals L.P. (the
Advance Payment), which is subject to a true-up calculation in
Partnership), in exchange for a 1% limited partner interest.
2008 that may require repayment of all or a portion of this
Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary,
amount. The True-Up Amount is directly dependent on the fair
Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for a 99%
market value in 2008 of the Astra product rights retained by the
general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed
Company. Accordingly, recognition of this contingent income
AstraZeneca LP (AZLP) upon Astra’s 1999 merger with
has been deferred until the realizable amount, if any, is
Zeneca Group Plc (the AstraZeneca merger), became the
determinable, which is not anticipated prior to 2008.
exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI retained
Under the provisions of the KBI restructuring agreements,
rights.
because a Trigger Event has occurred, the sum of the Limited
While maintaining a 1% limited partner interest in AZLP,
Partner Share of Agreed Value, the Appraised Value and the
Merck has consent and protective rights intended to preserve
True-Up Amount is guaranteed to be a minimum of $4.7 billion.
its business and economic interests, including restrictions on
Distribution of the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value and
the power of the general partner to make certain distributions
payment of the True-Up Amount will occur in 2008.
or dispositions. Furthermore, in limited events of default,
AstraZeneca’s purchase of Merck’s interest in the KBI products
additional rights will be granted to the Company, including
is contingent upon the exercise of either Merck’s option in
powers to direct the actions of, or remove and replace, the
2008 or AstraZeneca’s option in 2010 and, therefore, payment
Partnership’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer.
of the Appraised Value may or may not occur.
Merck earns ongoing revenue based on sales of current and
future KBI products and such revenue was $1.7 billion,
$1.5 billion and $1.9 billion in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively, primarily relating to sales of Nexium and Prilosec.
In addition, Merck earns certain
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 49In 1997, Merck and Rhône-Poulenc S.A. (now Sanofi- million and $345.9 million, respectively, of long-dated notes that
Aventis S.A.) combined their animal health and poultry are subject to repayment at the option of the holders on an
genetics businesses to form Merial Limited (Merial), a fully annual basis and $500.0 million of notes with annual interest rate
integrated animal health company, which is a stand-alone joint resets and a final maturity in 2011. On an annual basis, these
venture, equally owned by each party. Merial provides a notes will either be repurchased from the holders at the option of
comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to the remarketing agent and remarketed, or redeemed by the
enhance the health, well-being and performance of a wide Company. Loans payable at December 31, 2005 and 2004, also
range of animal species. Merial sales were $2.0 billion for included $510.1 million of fixed-rate notes due in 2006, and
2005, $1.8 billion for 2004 and $1.7 billion for 2003. $1.0 billion of fixed rate notes due in 2005, respectively. The
In 1994, Merck and Pasteur Mérieux Connaught (now weighted average interest rate for all of these borrowings was
Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) established an equally-owned joint 4.3% and 3.9% at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
venture to market vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the Long-term debt at December 31 consisted of:
development of combination vaccines for distribution in
Europe. Joint venture vaccine sales were $865.1 million for 2005 2004
2005, $807.0 million for 2004 and $669.0 million for 2003. 6 .0% Astra note due 2008 $ 1,380.0 $ 1,380.0
In 1989, Merck formed a joint venture with Johnson & 4.8% notes due 2015 992.0 —
Johnson to develop and market a broad range of nonprescrip- 4.4% notes due 2013 509.8 527.2
tion medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50% owned venture 6.4% debentures due 2028 499.2 499.2
was expanded into Europe in 1993, and into Canada in 1996. 6.0% debentures due 2028 496.8 496.7
In March 2004, Merck sold its 50% equity stake in its European 2.5% notes due 2007 343.0 345.9
joint venture to Johnson & Johnson for $244.0 million and Variable-rate borrowing due 2009 300.0 300.0
recorded a $176.8 million gain as Other (income) expense, net 6.3% debentures due 2026 247.6 247.5
(see Note 16). Merck will continue to benefit through royalties 5.3% notes due 2006 — 526.8
on certain products and also regained the rights to potential Other 357.2 368.2
future products that switch from prescription to over-the- $ 5,125.6 $ 4,691.5
counter status in Europe. Sales of product marketed by the
joint venture, including sales of the European joint venture up The Company was a party to interest rate swap contracts
through March 2004, were $253.3 million for 2005, which effectively convert the 4.4%, 5.3% and 2.5% fixed-rate
$315.3 million for 2004 and $445.8 million for 2003. notes to floating-rate instruments. (See Note 6.)
Investments in affiliates accounted for using the equity Other (as presented in the table above) at December 31, 2005
method, including the above joint ventures, totaled $3.0 billion and 2004 consisted primarily of $328.6 million of borrowings at
at December 31, 2005 and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2004. variable rates averaging 3.8% and 2.0%, respectively. Of these
These amounts are reported in Other assets. Dividends and borrowings, $158.7 million are subject to repayment at the option
distributions received from these affiliates were $1.1 billion in of the holders beginning in 2011 and $106.0 million are subject to
2005, $587.0 million in 2004 and $553.4 million in 2003. repayment at the option of the holders beginning in 2010. In both
Summarized information for those affiliates is as follows: years, Other also included foreign borrowings at varying rates up
to 13.0%.
Years Ended December 31 2005 2004 2003 The aggregate maturities of long-term debt for each of the
S ales $ 11,804.6 $ 9,821.1 $ 9,067.2 next five years are as follows: 2006, $522.0 million 2007,
Materials and production costs 4,627.4 4,140.9 3,946.1 $351.7 million; 2008, $1.4 billion; 2009, $306.5 million; 2010,
Other expense, net 3,918.0 3,691.4 3,745.6 $5.4 million.
Income before taxes 3,259.2 1,988.8 1,375.5 Rental expense under the Company’s operating leases, net of
D ecember 31 2005 2004
sublease income, was $203.8 million in 2005. The minimum
C urrent assets $ 6,389.0 $ 5,906.0 aggregate rental commitments under noncancellable leases are
Noncurrent assets 1,430.5 1,447.5 as follows: 2006, $79.8 million; 2007, $55.9 million; 2008,
Current liabilities 3,420.0 3,401.4 $38.4 million; 2009, $26.0 million; 2010, $19.9 million and
Noncurrent liabilities 160.4 433.1 thereafter, $46.3 million. The Company has no significant capital
leases.
10
Loans Payable, Long-Term Debt and Other 11
Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities
Commitments
The Company is involved in various claims and legal
Loans payable at December 31, 2005 and 2004 included proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business,
$1.6 billion and $299.6 million, respectively, of commercial including product liability, intellectual property and commercial
paper borrowings. Commercial paper borrowings at December litigation, as well as additional matters such as antitrust actions.
31, 2005, include $1.6 billion issued by a foreign subsidiary The Company records accruals for contingencies when it is
under a $3.0 billion commercial paper borrowing facility probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be
established in October 2005 to provide funding for a portion of reasonably estimated. These accruals are adjusted periodically
the Company’s repatriation in connection with the AJCA (see as assessments change or additional information
Note 17). Loans payable at December 31, 2005 and 2004 also
included $337.5
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 50becomes available. For product liability claims, a portion of the Judge Fallon has indicated that he intends to try a series of
overall accrual is actuarially determined and considers such cases during the period November 2005 through 2006, in the
factors as past experience, number of claims reported and following categories: (i) heart attack with short term use; (ii) heart
estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Individually attack with long term use; (iii) stroke; and (iv) cardiovascular
significant contingent losses are accrued when probable and injury involving a prescription written after April 2002 when the
reasonably estimable. Legal defense costs expected to be labeling for Vioxx was revised to include the results of the VIGOR
incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued trial.
when probable and reasonably estimable. In November and December 2005, the case brought by Evelyn
The Company’s decision to obtain insurance coverage is Irvin Plunkett, on behalf of her late husband Richard Irvin, Jr.,
dependent on market conditions, including cost and who died from an apparent heart attack, was tried in Houston,
availability, existing at the time such decisions are made. As a Texas. Plaintiff alleged that Mr. Irvin took Vioxx for approximately
result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has one month and, thus, the action fell within the category of heart
become less available while the cost has increased attack with short term use. After deliberating for two and one-half
significantly. The Company has evaluated its risks and has days, the court found that the jury was deadlocked and declared
determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance a mistrial. Federal court rules require a unanimous verdict. The
outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available retrial of the case commenced on February 6, 2006 in New
and as such, has no insurance for certain product liabilities Orleans, Louisiana. On February 17, the jury returned a verdict in
effective August 1, 2004, including liability for products first favor of Merck on all counts.
sold after that date. The Company will continue to evaluate its The next scheduled MDL trial is Diaz vs. Merck, a case in
insurance needs and the costs, availability and benefits of which plaintiffs claim a heart attack with long term use, which is
product liability insurance in the future. scheduled for May. In addition to the Diaz case and the Garza
case discussed below, other Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits are
Vioxx Litigation
currently scheduled for trial in 2006.
Product Liability Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, on August 19, 2005, in a trial in state
As previously disclosed, federal and state product liability
court in Texas, the jury in Ernst vs. Merck reached a verdict in
lawsuits involving individual claims, as well as putative class
favor of the plaintiff and purported to award her a total of
actions, have been filed against the Company with respect to
$253 million in compensatory and punitive damages. Under
Vioxx. As of December 31, 2005, the Company has been
Texas law, the maximum amount that could be awarded to the
served or is aware that it has been named as a defendant in
plaintiff is capped at approximately $26 million. The Company
approximately 9,650 lawsuits, which include approximately
intends to appeal this verdict after the completion of post-trial
19,100 plaintiff groups, alleging personal injuries resulting from
proceedings in the trial court. The Company believes that it has
the use of Vioxx. Of these lawsuits, approximately 4,350
strong points to raise on appeal and is hopeful that the appeals
lawsuits representing approximately 12,075 plaintiff groups are
process will correct the verdict. Since the Company believes that
or are slated to be in the federal MDL (discussed below) and
the potential for an unfavorable outcome is not probable, it has
approximately 4,200 lawsuits representing approximately
not established a reserve with respect to the verdict.
4,200 plaintiff groups are included in a coordinated proceeding
On November 3, 2005, in the case of Frederick and Mary
in New Jersey Superior Court before Judge Carol E. Higbee.
Jackson Humeston vs. Merck & Co., Inc., Superior Court of New
Certain of these lawsuits include allegations regarding
Jersey, Law Division, Atlantic County, a jury returned a verdict in
gastrointestinal bleeding, cardiovascular events, thrombotic
favor of Merck on all counts. The case was the second Vioxx
events or kidney damage. The Company has also been named
personal injury case to go to trial. Mr. Humeston, a 60-year old
as a defendant in approximately 190 putative class actions
United States Postal employee from Idaho, alleged that he
alleging personal injuries or seeking (i) medical monitoring as a
suffered a heart attack in September 2001 as a result of taking
result of the putative class members’ use of Vioxx, (ii)
Vioxx. He sought compensatory and punitive damages. The jury
disgorgement of certain profits under common law unjust
found, by an 8 to 1 vote, that Merck did not fail to provide an
enrichment theories, and/or (iii) various remedies under state
adequate warning to prescribing physicians of an association
consumer fraud and fair business practice statutes, including
between Vioxx and an increased risk of serious cardiovascular
recovering the cost of Vioxx purchased by individuals and
events prior to Mr. Humeston’s heart attack. The jury also
third-party payors such as union health plans (all of the actions
unanimously found that Merck did not violate the New Jersey
discussed in this paragraph are collectively referred to as the
Consumer Fraud Act in marketing the drug to prescribing
“Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits”). The actions filed in the
physicians.
state courts of California, Texas, New Jersey, and
The trial of Garza vs. Heart Clinic, Evans, Posada and Merck
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, respectively, have been
& Co., Inc., began on January 24, 2006, in the 229 th Judicial
transferred to a single judge in each state for coordinated
District Court of Starr County, Texas. The Company believes the
proceedings. In addition, on February 16, 2005, the Judicial
evidence in this case will show that Vioxx did not cause the heart
Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (the “JPML”) transferred all
attack of Leonel Garza, Sr. Mr. Garza, 71 , died of a heart attack
Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits pending in federal courts
on April 21, 2001, following 23 years of cardiovascular disease
nationwide into one Multidistrict Litigation (“MDL”) for
and a prior heart attack. Approximately one
coordinated pre-trial proceedings. The MDL has been
transferred to the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Louisiana before District Judge Eldon E. Fallon.
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 51Consolidated and Amended Class Action Complaint superseding
month before his death, the Company maintains that
prior complaints in the various cases (the “Complaint”). Plaintiffs
Mr. Garza was given a one-week supply of Vioxx 25 mg
request certification of a class of purchasers of Company stock
samples for pain.
between May 21,1999 and October 29, 2004. The Complaint
Merck has entered into a tolling agreement (the “Tolling
alleges that the defendants made false and misleading
Agreement”) with the MDL Plaintiffs’ Steering Committee that
statements regarding Vioxx in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20
establishes a procedure to halt the running of the statute of
(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and seeks
limitations (tolling) as to certain categories of claims allegedly
unspecified compensatory damages and the costs of suit,
arising from the use of Vioxx by non-New Jersey citizens. The
including attorneys’ fees. The Complaint also asserts a claim
Tolling Agreement applies to individuals who have not filed
under Section 20A of the Securities and Exchange Act against
lawsuits and may or may not eventually file lawsuits and only
certain defendants relating to their sales of Merck stock. In
to those claimants who seek to toll claims alleging injuries
addition, the Complaint includes allegations under Sections 11,
resulting from a thrombotic cardiovascular event that results in
12 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 that certain defendants
a myocardial infarction or ischemic stroke. The Tolling
made incomplete and misleading statements in a registration
Agreement provides counsel additional time to evaluate
statement and certain prospectuses filed in connection with the
potential claims. The Tolling Agreement requires any tolled
Merck Stock Investment Plan, a dividend reinvestment plan.
claims to be filed in federal court. As of December 31, 2005,
Defendants have filed a motion to dismiss the Complaint, which is
approximately 3,800 claimants had entered into Tolling
pending.
Agreements.
As previously disclosed, on August 15, 2005, a complaint was
Other Lawsuits filed in Oregon state court by the State of Oregon through the
As previously disclosed, on July 29, 2005, a New Jersey state Oregon state treasurer on behalf of the Oregon Public Employee
trial court certified a nationwide class of third-party payors Retirement Fund against the Company and certain current and
(such as unions and health insurance plans) that paid in whole former officers and directors. The complaint, which was brought
or in part for the Vioxx used by their plan members or insureds. under Oregon securities law, alleges that plaintiff has suffered
The named plaintiff in that case seeks recovery of certain damages in connection with its purchases of Merck common
Vioxx purchase costs (plus penalties) based on allegations that stock at artificially inflated prices due to the Company’s alleged
the purported class members paid more for Vioxx than they violations of law related to disclosures about Vioxx. The
would have had they known of the product’s alleged risks. Company removed this lawsuit to the U.S. District Court for the
Merck believes that the class was improperly certified. The trial District of Oregon, however, plaintiff moved to remand the case to
court’s ruling is procedural only; it does not address the merits state court, which motion was granted.
of plaintiffs’ allegations, which the Company intends to defend As previously disclosed, a number of shareholder derivative
vigorously. The New Jersey state Superior Court, Appellate actions have been filed in federal court and in New Jersey
Division, has accepted Merck’s appeal of the class certification Superior Court naming the Company as a nominal defendant and
order on an expedited basis. certain members of the Board (past and present), together with
As previously reported, the Company has also been named certain executive officers, as defendants. The complaints arise
as a defendant in separate lawsuits brought by the Attorneys out of substantially the same factual allegations that are made in
General of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. The Attorney the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits. The derivative suits, which are
General of Alaska has also recently filed a lawsuit. These purportedly brought to assert rights of the Company, assert
actions allege that the Company misrepresented the safety of claims against the Board members and officers for breach of
Vioxx and seek (i) recovery of the cost of Vioxx purchased or fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment,
reimbursed by the state and its agencies; (ii) reimbursement of abuse of control and gross mismanagement. All of the actions
all sums paid by the state and its agencies for medical services discussed in this paragraph are collectively referred to as the “
for the treatment of persons injured by Vioxx; (iii) damages Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits.” The JPML has transferred the Vioxx
under various common law theories; and/or (iv) remedies Derivative Lawsuits pending in federal court to the Shareholder
under various state statutory theories, including state MDL. Judge Chesler has consolidated the Vioxx Derivative
consumer fraud and/or fair business practices or Medicaid Lawsuits for all purposes. On June 20, 2005, the federal
fraud statutes, including civil penalties. derivative plaintiffs filed a Verified Consolidated Shareholders’
Derivative Complaint superseding prior complaints in the various
Shareholder Lawsuits
cases. Defendants have filed a motion to dismiss this complaint,
As previously disclosed, in addition to the Vioxx Product
which is pending. In addition, the Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits
Liability Lawsuits, the Company, along with various current and
pending in New Jersey Superior Court were consolidated and
former officers and directors of the Company, are defendants
transferred to Judge Higbee in Atlantic County, and on April 29,
in a number of putative class actions and individual lawsuits
2005, state plaintiffs filed a superseding Verified Consolidated
filed in (or removed to) federal court by shareholders under the
Amended Shareholder Derivative Complaint. On January 19,
federal securities laws (the “ Vioxx Securities Lawsuits”), aII of
2006, these two shareholder derivative cases were dismissed
which have been transferred by the JPML, along with related
without prejudice. The cases were dismissed when the Court
lawsuits discussed below, to the United States District Court
granted defendants’ motion to stay the cases. The Court’s order
for the District of New Jersey before District Judge Stanley R.
permits plaintiffs to re-file their complaints once the consolidated
Chesler for inclusion in a nationwide MDL for coordinated
federal shareholder derivative case has been resolved.
pretrial proceedings (the “Shareholder MDL”). Judge Chesler
has consolidated the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits for all
purposes. On June 9, 2005, plaintiffs in the Vioxx Securities
Lawsuits filed a Fourth
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 52As previously disclosed, on October 29, 2004, two insurers about the availability of some or all of this insurance
individual shareholders made a demand on the Board to coverage and there are likely to be additional disputes. At this
take legal action against Mr. Raymond Gilmartin, former time, the Company believes that its insurance coverage with
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and other respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits will not be adequate to cover its
individuals for allegedly causing damage to the Company defense costs and any losses.
with respect to the allegedly improper marketing of Vioxx. As previously disclosed, the Company’s upper-level excess
In response to that demand letter, the Board of Directors insurers (which provide excess insurance potentially applicable to
determined at its November 23, 2004 meeting that the all of the Vioxx Lawsuits) have commenced an arbitration
Board would take the shareholders’ request under seeking, among other things, to cancel those policies, to void all
consideration and it remains under consideration. of their obligations under those policies and to raise other
In addition, as previously disclosed, a number of coverage issues with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits. A second
putative class actions have been filed against the arbitration against one of the Company’s upper-level excess
Company and certain current and former officers and insurers has also been commenced. Merck intends to contest
directors of the Company in federal court (the “Vioxx vigorously the insurers’ claims and will attempt to enforce its
ERISA Lawsuits” and, together with the Vioxx Securities rights under applicable insurance policies. The amounts actually
Lawsuits and the Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits, the “Vioxx recovered under the policies discussed in this section may be
Shareholder Lawsuits”) on behalf of certain of the less than the amounts specified in the preceding paragraph.
Company’s current and former employees who are
participants in certain of the Company’s retirement plans Investigations
asserting claims under the Employee Retirement Income As previously disclosed, in November 2004, the Company was
Security Act (“ERISA”). The lawsuits make similar advised by the staff of the SEC that it was commencing an
allegations to the allegations contained in the Vioxx informal inquiry concerning Vioxx. On January 28, 2005, the
Securities Lawsuits and claim that the defendants Company announced that it received notice that the SEC issued
breached their duties as plan fiduciaries. a formal notice of investigation. Also, the Company received a
The JPML has transferred all Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits to subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”)
the Shareholder MDL. Judge Chesler has consolidated the requesting information related to the Company’s research,
Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits for all purposes. A consolidated and marketing and selling activities with respect to Vioxx in a federal
amended complaint was filed in the Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits health care investigation under criminal statutes. There are also
on August 2, 2005. Defendants have filed a motion to ongoing investigations by certain Congressional committees. As
dismiss this complaint, which is pending. previously disclosed, the Company’s U.K. subsidiary has been
notified by the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory
International Lawsuits Agency in the United Kingdom (the “MHRA”) of an investigation
As previously disclosed, in addition to the lawsuits by the MHRA of compliance by the Company with European
discussed above, the Company has been named as a Union (“EU”) adverse experience reporting requirements in
defendant in litigation relating to Vioxx in various countries connection with Vioxx. In addition, as previously disclosed,
(collectively, the “Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits”) in Europe, investigations are being conducted by local authorities in certain
Canada, Brazil, Australia, Turkey, and Israel. cities in Europe in order to determine whether any criminal
charges should be brought concerning Vioxx. The Company is
Additional Lawsuits cooperating with these governmental entities in their respective
Based on media reports and other sources, the Company investigations (the “Vioxx Investigations”). The Company cannot
anticipates that additional Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, predict the outcome of these inquiries; however, they could result
Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits and Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits in potential civil and/or criminal dispositions.
(collectively, the “Vioxx Lawsuits”) will be filed against it As previously disclosed, the Company has received a Civil
and/or certain of its current and former officers and Investigative Demand from a group of Attorneys General from 31
directors in the future. states and the District of Columbia who are investigating whether
the Company violated state consumer protection laws when
Insurance marketing Vioxx. The Company is cooperating with the Attorneys
As previously disclosed, the Company has product liability General in responding to the Civil Investigative Demand.
insurance for claims brought in the Vioxx Product Liability
Lawsuits with stated upper limits of approximately Reserves
$630 million after deductibles and co-insurance. This The Company currently anticipates that a number of Vioxx
insurance provides coverage for legal defense costs and Product Liability Lawsuits will be tried in 2006. The Company
potential damage amounts that have been or will be cannot predict the timing of any trials with respect to the Vioxx
incurred in connection with the Vioxx Product Liability Shareholder Lawsuits. The Company believes that it has
Lawsuits. The Company believes that this insurance meritorious defenses to the Vioxx Lawsuits and will vigorously
coverage extends to additional Vioxx Product Liability defend against them. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting
Lawsuits that may be filed in the future. The Company has the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many
Directors and Officers insurance coverage applicable to claimants and the claimants seek indeterminate damages.
the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits and Vioxx Derivative
Lawsuits with stated upper limits of approximately
$190 million. The Company has fiduciary and other
insurance for the Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits with stated upper
limits of approximately $275 million. Additional insurance
coverage for these claims may also be available under
upper-level excess policies that provide coverage for avariety of risks. There are disputes with certain
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 53the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these and also expanded the number of manufacturers to include some
matters, and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the which, like the Company, had not been defendants in any prior
possible loss or range of loss with respect to the Vioxx pending case. In May 2003, the court granted the Company’s
Lawsuits. The Company has not established any reserves for motion to dismiss the consolidated class action and dismissed
any potential liability relating to the Vioxx Lawsuits or the Vioxx the Company from the class action case. Subsequent to the
Investigations (collectively the “ Vioxx Litigation”). Company’s dismissal, the plaintiffs filed an amended
Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection consolidated class action complaint, which did not name the
with a loss contingency are accrued when probable and Company as a defendant. The Company and many other
reasonably estimable. As of December 31, 2004, the Company pharmaceutical manufacturers are defendants in similar
had established a reserve of $675 million solely for its future complaints pending in federal and state court brought individually
legal defense costs related to the Vioxx Litigation. During by a number of counties in the State of New York. The Company
2005, the Company spent $285 million in the aggregate in and the other defendants are awaiting the final ruling on their
legal defense costs worldwide related to (i) the Vioxx Product motion to dismiss in the Suffolk County case, which was the first
Liability Lawsuits, (ii) the Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits, (iii) the of the New York county cases to be filed. In addition, as of
Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the Vioxx Investigations December 31, 2005, the Company was a defendant in state
(collectively, the “ Vioxx Litigation”). In the fourth quarter, the cases brought by the Attorneys General of Kentucky, Illinois,
Company recorded a charge of $295 million to increase the Alabama, Wisconsin, Mississippi, and Arizona, all of which are
reserve solely for its future legal defense costs related to the being vigorously defended. The Company has also received a
Vioxx Litigation to $685 million at December 31, 2005. This letter inquiry from the Attorney General of Idaho.
reserve is based on certain assumptions and is the best As previously disclosed, the Company has been named as a
estimate of the amount that the Company believes, at this defendant in antitrust cases in federal court in Minnesota and in
time, it can reasonably estimate will be spent through 2007. state court in California, each alleging an unlawful conspiracy
Some of the significant factors considered in the establishment among different sets of pharmaceutical manufacturers to protect
and ongoing review of the reserve for the Vioxx legal defense high prices in the United States by impeding importation into the
costs were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the United States of lower-priced Pharmaceuticals from Canada. The
Company up to that time; the development of the Company’s court dismissed the federal claims in the Minnesota case with
legal defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of the prejudice and the plaintiffs have filed a Notice of Appeal. The
Vioxx Litigation; the number of cases being brought against the state claims in that action were dismissed without prejudice.
Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the As previously disclosed, a suit in federal court in Alabama by
anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial two providers of health services to needy patients alleges that 15
activities and trials in the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits. pharmaceutical companies overcharged the plaintiffs and a class
Events such as scheduled trials, that are expected to occur of those similarly situated, for Pharmaceuticals purchased by the
throughout 2006 and into 2007, and the inherent inability to plaintiffs under the program established by Section 340B of the
predict the ultimate outcomes of such trials, limit the Public Health Service Act. The Company and the other
Company’s ability to reasonably estimate its legal costs defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on numerous
beyond the end of 2007. The Company will continue to monitor grounds which was recently denied by the court.
its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the As previously disclosed, in January 2003, the DOJ notified the
associated reserves. Unfavorable outcomes in the Vioxx federal court in New Orleans, Louisiana, that it was not going to
Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the intervene at that time in a pending Federal False Claims Act case
Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of that was filed under seal in December 1999 against the
operations. Company. The court issued an order unsealing the complaint,
which was filed by a physician in Louisiana, and ordered that the
Commercial Litigation
complaint be served. The complaint, which alleged that the
Beginning in 1993, the Company was named in a number of
Company’s discounting of Pepcid in certain Louisiana hospitals
antitrust suits, certain of which were certified as class actions,
led to increases in costs to Medicaid, was dismissed. An
instituted by most of the nation’s retail pharmacies and
amended complaint was filed under seal and the case has been
consumers in several states. The Company settled the federal
administratively closed by the Court until the seal is lifted. The
class action, which represented the single largest group of
State of Louisiana has filed its own amended complaint,
claims and has settled substantially all of the remaining cases
incorporating the allegations contained in the sealed amended
on satisfactory terms. The few remaining cases have been
complaint. The allegations contained in the sealed amended
inactive for several years. The Company has not engaged in
complaint are unknown.
any conspiracy and no admission of wrongdoing was made or
In April 2005, the Company was named in a qui tam lawsuit
included in any settlement agreements.
under the Nevada False Claims Act. The suit, in which the
As previously disclosed, the Company was joined in
Nevada Attorney General has intervened, alleges that the
ongoing litigation alleging manipulation by pharmaceutical
Company inappropriately offered nominal pricing and other
manufacturers of Average Wholesale Prices (“AWP”), which
marketing and pricing inducements to certain customers and also
are sometimes used in calculations that determine public and
failed to comply with its obligations under the Medicaid Best Price
private sector reimbursement levels. In 2002, the JPML
scheme related to such arrangements. The Company is
ordered the transfer and consolidation of all pending federal
vigorously defending against this lawsuit.
AWP cases to federal court in Boston, Massachusetts.
Plaintiffs filed one consolidated class action complaint, which
aggregated the claims previously filed in various federal district
court actions
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 54their Tienam product within Italy prior to the expiry of the SPC.
Governmental Proceedings
On November 16, 2005, the Italian Administrative court denied
As previously disclosed, the Company has received a
the Company’s appeal of the ICA’s order. Proceedings before the
subpoena from the DOJ in connection with its investigation of
ICA are ongoing.
the Company’s marketing and selling activities, including
nominal pricing programs and samples. The Company has
Vaccine Litigation
also reported that it has received a Civil Investigative Demand
As previously disclosed, the Company is a party in claims brought
(“CID”) from the Attorney General of Texas regarding the
under the Consumer Protection Act of 1987 in the United
Company’s marketing and selling activities relating to Texas.
Kingdom, which allege that certain children suffer from a variety
As previously disclosed, the Company received another CID
of conditions as a result of being vaccinated with various bivalent
from the Attorney General of Texas asking for additional
vaccines for measles and rubella and/or trivalent vaccines for
information regarding the Company’s marketing and selling
measles, mumps and rubella, including the Company’s M-M-R II.
activities related to Texas, including with respect to certain of
The conditions include autism, with or without inflammatory bowel
its nominal pricing programs and samples. In April 2004, the
disease, epilepsy, encephalitis, encephalopathy, Guiltain-Barré
Company received a subpoena from the office of the Inspector
syndrome and transverse myelitis. There are now 26 claimants
General for the District of Columbia in connection with an
proceeding or, to the Company’s knowledge, intending to
investigation of the Company’s interactions with physicians in
proceed against the Company. The Company will vigorously
the District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia. In
defend against these lawsuits.
November 2004, the Company received a letter request from
As previously disclosed, the Company is also a party to
the DOJ in connection with its investigation of the Company’s
individual and class action product liability lawsuits and claims in
pricing of Pepcid. In September 2005, the Company received a
the United States involving pediatric vaccines (e.g., hepatitis B
subpoena from the Illinois Attorney General. The subpoena
vaccine) that contained thimerosal, a preservative used in
seeks information related to repackaging of prescription drugs.
vaccines. Merck has not distributed thimerosal-containing
As previously disclosed, the Company has received a letter
pediatric vaccines in the United States since the fall of 2001. As
from the DOJ advising it of the existence of a qui tam
of December 31, 2005, there were approximately 275 active
complaint alleging that the Company violated certain rules
thimerosal related lawsuits with approximately 775 plaintiffs.
related to its calculations of best price and other federal pricing
Other defendants include other vaccine manufacturers who
benchmark calculations, certain of which may affect the
produced pediatric vaccines containing thimerosal as well as
Company’s Medicaid rebate obligation.
manufacturers of thimerosal. In these actions, the plaintiffs allege,
The Company is cooperating with all of these
among other things, that they have suffered neurological injuries
investigations. The Company cannot predict the outcome of
as a result of exposure to thimerosal from pediatric vaccines. Two
these investigations; however, it is possible that unfavorable
state court cases and two Federal District Court cases were
outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the
scheduled for trial in 2005. All of these cases have been
Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of
dismissed. One case set for trial in 2006 was also dismissed.
operations. In addition, from time to time, other federal, state or
Certain of the dismissals have been appealed. The Company will
foreign regulators or authorities may seek information about
vigorously defend against these lawsuits; however, it is possible
practices in the pharmaceutical industry or the Company’s
that unfavorable outcomes could have a material adverse effect
business practices in inquiries other than the investigations
on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of
discussed in this section. It is not feasible to predict the
operations.
outcome of any such inquiries.
The Company has been successful in having cases of this
On February 23, 2004, the Italian Antitrust Authorities
type either dismissed or stayed on the ground that the action is
adopted a measure commencing a formal investigation of
prohibited under the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act (the
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Italia) S.p.A. (“MSD Italy”) and the
“Vaccine Act”). The Vaccine Act prohibits any person from filing
Company under Article 14 of the Italian Competition Law and
or maintaining a civil action (in state or federal court) seeking
Article 82 EC to ascertain whether the Company and MSD Italy
damages against a vaccine manufacturer for vaccine-related
committed an abuse of a dominant position by virtue of the
injuries unless a petition is first filed in the United States Court of
Company’s refusal to grant to ACS Dobfar S.p.A. (“Dobfar”),
Federal Claims (hereinafter the “Vaccine Court”). Under the
an Italian company, a voluntary license, pursuant to domestic
Vaccine Act, before filing a civil action against a vaccine
legislation passed in 2002, to permit Dobfar to manufacture
manufacturer, the petitioner must either (a) pursue his or her
Tienam (imipenem and cilastatin) in Italy for sale outside Italy,
petition to conclusion in Vaccine Court and then timely file an
in countries where patent protection under the applicable
election to proceed with a civil action in lieu of accepting the
domestic rules has expired or never existed. The Company
Vaccine Court’s adjudication of the petition or (b) timely exercise
has a Supplementary Protection Certificate (“SPC”) which
a right to withdraw the petition prior to Vaccine Court adjudication
provides the Company certain rights with respect to the
in accordance with certain statutorily prescribed time periods. The
manufacture and sale of Tienam in Italy which expires in
Company is aware that there are numerous cases pending in
January 2006. A hearing before the Italian Antitrust Authorities
Vaccine Court involving allegations that thimerosal-containing
was held on May 2, 2005. On June 17, 2005, the Italian
vaccines and/or the M-M-R II vaccine cause autism spectrum
Antitrust Authority (“ICA”) issued an order imposing interim
disorders. All of the cases referred to in the preceding paragraph
measures requiring the Company to grant a license to
as having been dismissed have been brought by plaintiffs
manufacture Tienam in Italy. Pursuant to the ICA’s order, the
license granted to Dobfar will be limited to the right to only
manufacture and build supply stock of Tienam and will not
allow Dobfar to export Tienam outside of Italy or to sell
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 55who claim to have made a timely withdrawal of their Vaccine regulatory authority that its data for weekly alendronate may be
Court petition. The Company is not a party to the Vaccine referenced by companies seeking approval of generic weekly
Court proceedings because the petitions are brought against alendronate products. The Company has filed for leave to appeal
the Department of Health and Human Services. a judgment of a Swedish Administration Court affirming a grant
by the Swedish regulatory authority of approval of generic weekly
Patent Litigation alendronate products which referenced the Company’s data on
From time to time, generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical weekly alendronate for their approval. The Company has filed
products file Abbreviated New Drug Applications (“ANDAs”) similar cases in other countries.
with the FDA seeking to market generic forms of the As previously announced by the Company, on July 20, 2004,
Company’s products prior to the expiration of relevant patents the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office rendered
owned by the Company. Generic pharmaceutical an oral decision to revoke the Company’s patent in Europe that
manufacturers have submitted ANDAs to the FDA seeking to covers the once-weekly administration of alendronate. On
market in the United States a generic form of Fosamax, August 19, 2004, the written opinion was issued confirming the
Prilosec, Propecia, Trusopt and Cosopt prior to the expiration oral decision revoking the Company’s patent. On September 16,
of the Company’s (and AstraZeneca’s in the case of Prilosec 2004, the Company filed an appeal of this decision. A decision on
and Nexium) patents concerning these products. The generic this appeal is expected in 2006. The Company is defending the
companies’ ANDAs generally include allegations of non- alendronate weekly product in other major European markets
infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of the patents. based on other patents.
Generic manufacturers have received FDA approval to market On October 5, 2004, in an action in Australia challenging the
a generic form of Prilosec. The Company has filed patent validity of the Company’s Australian patent for the once-weekly
infringement suits in federal court against companies filing administration of alendronate, the patent was found to be invalid.
ANDAs for generic alendronate ( Fosamax), finasteride The Company has appealed the decision.
( Proscar/Propecia), dorzolamide (Trusopt) and In addition, as previously disclosed, in Japan a proceeding
dorzolamide/timolol ( Cosopt) and AstraZeneca and the has been filed challenging the validity of the Company’s
Company have filed patent infringement suits in federal court Japanese patent for the once-weekly administration of
against companies filing ANDAs for generic omeprazole and alendronate.
esomeprazole. Similar patent challenges exist in certain On January 18, 2006, the Company sued Hi-Tech Pharmacal
foreign jurisdictions. The Company intends to vigorously Co., Inc. (“Hi-Tech”) of Amityville, New York for patent
defend its patents, which it believes are valid, against infringement in response to Hi-Tech’s application to the FDA
infringement by generic companies attempting to market seeking approval of a generic version of Merck’s ophthalmic
products prior to the expiration dates of such patents. As with drugs Trusopt and Cosopt, which are used for treating elevated
any litigation, there can be no assurance of the outcomes, intraocular pressure in people with ocular hypertension or
which, if adverse, could result in significantly shortened periods glaucoma. In the lawsuit, Merck sued to enforce a patent
of exclusivity for these products. covering an active ingredient dorzolamide, which is present in
As previously disclosed, on January 28, 2005, the U.S. both Trusopt and Cosopt. Merck has elected not to enforce two
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, D.C. U.S. patents listed with the FDA which cover the combination of
found the Company’s patent claims for once-weekly dorzolamide and timolol, the two active ingredients in Cosopt.
administration of Fosamax to be invalid. The Company This lawsuit will automatically stay FDA approval of Hi-Tech’s
exhausted all options to appeal this decision in 2005. Based on ANDAs for 30 months or until an adverse court decision,
the Court of Appeals’ decision, Fosamax will lose its market whichever may occur earlier. The patent covering dorzolamide
exclusivity in the United States in February 2008 and the provides exclusivity for Trusopt and Cosopt until October 2008
Company expects a significant decline in U.S. Fosamax sales [including six months of pediatric exclusivity). After such time, the
after that time. Company expects sales of these products to decline.
In May 2005, the Federal Court of Canada Trial Division In the case of omeprazole, the trial court in the United States
issued a decision refusing to bar the approval of generic alen- rendered an opinion in October 2002 upholding the validity of the
dronate on the ground that Merck’s patent for weekly alen- Company’s and AstraZeneca’s patents covering the stabilized
dronate was likely invalid. This decision cannot be appealed formulation of omeprazole and ruling that one defendant’s
and generic alendronate was launched in Canada in omeprazole product did not infringe those patents. The other
June 2005. In July 2005, Merck was sued in the Federal Court three defendants’ products were found to infringe the for-mulation
of Canada by Apotex seeking damages for lost sales of patents. In December 2003, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
generic weekly alendronate due to the patent proceeding. Federal Circuit affirmed the decision of the trial court. With
In January 2003, the High Court of Justice for England and respect to the Company’s patent infringement claims against
Wales held that patents of the Company protecting the certain other generic manufacturers’ omeprazole products, trial is
alendronate daily and weekly products were invalid in the scheduled for March 2006.
United Kingdom. On November 6, 2003, the Court of Appeals The Company and AstraZeneca received notice in
of England and Wales affirmed the ruling by the High Court of October 2005 that Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited (“Ranbaxy”) has
Justice for England and Wales. filed an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium. The ANDA contains
European countries permit companies seeking approval of Paragraph IV challenges to patents on Nexium. On
a generic product to reference data of the innovative product in November 21, 2005, the Company and AstraZeneca sued
certain circumstances under data exclusivity regulations. The Ranbaxy in the United States District Court in New Jersey.
High Court of Justice has affirmed the decision of the UK Accordingly, FDA
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 56certain plaintiffs’ counsel filed the settlement agreement with the
approval of Ranbaxy’s ANDA is stayed for 30 months until
federal district court in New York, where cases commenced by a
April 2008 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever
number of plaintiffs, including participants in a number of
may occur earlier.
pharmaceutical benefit plans for which Medco Health is the
In the case of finasteride, an ANDA has been filed seeking
pharmacy benefit manager, as well as trustees of such plans,
approval of a generic version of Propecia and alleging
have been consolidated. Medco Health and the Company agreed
invalidity of the Company’s patents. The Company filed a
to the proposed settlement in order to avoid the significant cost
patent infringement lawsuit in the District Court of Delaware in
and distraction of prolonged litigation. The proposed class
September 2004. A trial is scheduled for June 2006.
settlement has been agreed to by plaintiffs in five of the cases
In Europe, the Company is aware of various companies
filed against Medco Health and the Company. Under the
seeking registration for generic losartan (the active ingredient
proposed settlement, the Company and Medco Health have
for Cozaar). The Company has patent rights to losartan via
agreed to pay a total of $42.5 million, and Medco Health has
license from E.I. duPont de Nemours and Company (duPont).
agreed to modify certain business practices or to continue certain
The Company and duPont have filed patent infringement
specified business practices for a period of five years. The
proceedings against various companies in Portugal.
financial compensation is intended to benefit members of the
settlement class, which includes ERISA plans for which Medco
Other Litigation
Health administered a pharmacy benefit at any time since
On July 27, 2005, Merck was served with a further shareholder
December 17, 1994. The district court held hearings to hear
derivative suit filed in the New Jersey Superior Court for
objections to the fairness of the proposed settlement and
Hunterdon County against the Company and certain current
approved the settlement in 2004, but has not yet determined the
and former officers and directors. This lawsuit seeks to recover
number of class member plans that have properly elected not to
or cancel compensation awarded to the Company’s executive
participate in the settlement. The settlement becomes final only if
officers in 2004, and asserts claims for breach of fiduciary
and when all appeals have been resolved. Certain class member
duty, waste and unjust enrichment.
plans have indicated that they will not participate in the
In November 2005, an individual shareholder delivered a
settlement. Cases initiated by three such plans and two
letter to the Board alleging that the Company had sustained
individuals remain pending in the Southern District of New York.
damages through the Company’s adoption of its Change in
Plaintiffs in these cases have asserted claims based on ERISA
Control Separation Benefits Plan (the “CIC Plan”) in
as well as other federal and state laws that are the same as or
November 2004. The shareholder made a demand on the
similar to the claims that had been asserted by settling class
Board to take legal action against the Board’s current or former
members in the Gruer Cases. The Company and Medco Health
members for allegedly causing damage to the Company with
are named as defendants in these cases.
respect to the adoption of the CIC Plan. In response to that
Three notices of appeal were filed and the appellate court
demand letter, the independent members of the Board
heard oral argument in May 2005. On December 8, 2005, the
determined at the November 22, 2005 Board meeting that the
appellate court issued a decision vacating the district court’s
Board would take the shareholder’s request under
judgment and remanding the cases to the district court to allow
consideration and it remains under consideration.
the district court to resolve certain jurisdictional issues. The
As previously disclosed, on July 6, 2004, the United States
district court has scheduled a hearing for February 24, 2006 to
District Court for the District of New Jersey granted a motion
address such issues.
by the Company, Medco Health Solutions, Inc. (“Medco
After the spin-off of Medco Health, Medco Health assumed
Health”) and certain officers and directors to dismiss a
substantially all of the liability exposure for the matters discussed
purported class action complaint involving claims related to the
in the foregoing two paragraphs. These cases are being
Company’s revenue recognition practice for retail
defended by Medco Health.
co-payments paid by individuals to whom Medco Health
There are various other legal proceedings, principally product
provides pharmaceutical benefits as well as other allegations.
liability and intellectual property suits involving the Company,
The complaint was dismissed with prejudice. On August 20,
which are pending. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome
2004, the same court granted the Company’s motion to
of such proceedings or the proceedings discussed in this Note, in
dismiss with prejudice a related shareholder derivative action.
the opinion of the Company, all such proceedings are either
Plaintiffs in both actions appealed the decisions. On
adequately covered by insurance or, if not so covered, should not
December 15, 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third
ultimately result in any liability that would have a material adverse
Circuit upheld the District Court’s decision dismissing the class
effect on the financial position, liquidity or results of operations of
action complaint. In a separate decision issued the same day,
the Company, other than proceedings for which a separate
the Court of Appeals upheld most of the District Court’s
assessment is provided in this Note.
decision dismissing the shareholder derivative suit, and sent
the issue of whether the Company’s Board of Directors
Environmental Matters
properly refused the shareholder demand relating to the
The Company is a party to a number of proceedings brought
Company’s treatment of retail co-payments back to the District
under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Court for reconsideration under a different legal standard.
Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund.
As previously disclosed, prior to the spin-off of Medco
When a legitimate claim for contribution is asserted, a liability is
Health, the Company and Medco Health agreed to settle, on a
initially accrued based upon the estimated transaction costs to
class action basis, a series of lawsuits asserting violations of
ERISA (the “Gruer Cases”). The Company, Medco Health and
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 57manage the site. Accruals are adjusted as feasibility studies December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These liabilities are
and related cost assessments of remedial techniques are undiscounted, do not consider potential recoveries from insurers
completed, and as the extent to which other potentially or other parties and will be paid out over the periods of
responsible parties (PRPs) who may be jointly and severally remediation for the applicable sites, which are expected to occur
liable can be expected to contribute is determined. primarily over the next 15 years. Although it is not possible to
The Company is also remediating environmental predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the
contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that
its sites and takes an active role in identifying and providing for any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in
these costs. A worldwide survey was initially performed to excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $88.0 million in
assess all sites for potential contamination resulting from past the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these
industrial activities. Where assessment indicated that physical expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the
investigation was warranted, such investigation was Company’s financial position, results of operations, liquidity or
performed, providing a better evaluation of the need for capital resources for any year.
remedial action. Where such need was identified, remedial
12
action was then initiated. Estimates of the extent of
Preferred Stock of Subsidiary Companies
contamination at each site were initially made at the pre-
In December 2004, the Company redeemed variable-rate
investigation stage and liabilities for the potential cost of
preferred units of a subsidiary at $1.5 billion of par value plus
remediation were accrued at that time. As more definitive
accrued dividends. Because these preferred securities were held
information became available during the course of
at the subsidiary level, they were previously included in Minority
investigations and/or remedial efforts at each site, estimates
interests in the consolidated financial statements for 2003.
were refined and accruals were adjusted accordingly. These
In connection with the 1998 restructuring of AMI (see Note 9),
estimates and related accruals continue to be refined annually.
the Company assumed a $2.4 billion par value preferred stock
As previously disclosed, in December 2003, the Virginia
obligation with a dividend rate of 5% per annum, which is carried
Department of Environmental Quality (“VADEQ”) issued a
by KBI and included in Minority interests. While a small portion of
Notice of Violation of the Company’s Elkton, Virginia, facility for
the preferred stock carried by KBI is convertible into KBI common
air permit limit exceedances reported by the facility as a result
shares, none of the preferred securities are convertible into the
of performance testing of a process train. In 2005, the
Company’s common shares and, therefore, they are not included
Company settled this matter with VADEQ by agreeing (i) to
as common shares issuable for purposes of computing Earnings
make $3.1 million in capital improvements at the site, (ii) to pay
per common share assuming dilution (see Note 18).
VADEQ a $200,000 fine, and (iii) to perform a Supplemental
Environmental Project for $300,000. 13
Stockholders’ Equity
On December 21, 2005, the Company settled claims
Other paid-in capital increased by $30.2 million in 2005,
brought by the New Jersey Department of Environmental
decreased by $86.8 million in 2004, and increased by
Protection for alleged damages to natural resources at four
$12.9 million in 2003. The changes primarily reflect the impact of
New Jersey Merck remediation sites. In the settlement, the
shares issued upon exercise of stock options and related income
Company agreed to pay $2.38 million, donate 10 acres of land
tax benefits, as well as the issuance of restricted shares.
adjacent to the Rahway River and fund a $30,000 restoration
A summary of treasury stock transactions (shares in millions)
project in the Passaic River watershed for ground-water
is as follows:
contamination found at the Company’s sites.
In management’s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental
matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been
accrued and totaled $100.4 million and $127.5 million at
2005 2004 2003
Shares Cost Shares Cost Shares Cost
B alance, Jan. 1 767.6 $ 26,191.8 754.5 $ 25,617.5 731.2 $ 24,109.1
Purchases 33.2 1,015.3 24.9 974.6 39.0 2,034.1
Issuances (1) (6.5 ) (222.7 ) (11.8 ) (400.3 ) (15.7 ) (525.7 )
B alance, Dec. 31 794.3 $ 26,984.4 767.6 $ 26,191.8 754.5 $ 25,617.5
( 1) Issued primarily under stock option plans.
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 58At December 31, 2005 and 2004, 10 million shares of number of outstanding options increased by 12.6 million and the
preferred stock, without par value, were authorized; none were average exercise price decreased by approximately $3.22. In
issued. addition, certain stock options granted to Medco Health
employees in 2003 and 2002 were converted to Medco Health
14
options with terms and amounts that maintained the option
Stock-Based Compensation Plans
holders’ positions.
The Company has stock-based compensation plans under
Summarized information relative to the Company’s stock
which employees, non-employee directors and employees of
option plans (options in thousands) is as follows:
certain of the Company’s equity method investees may be
granted options to purchase shares of Company common
Number of Average
stock at the fair market value at the time of the grant. These
Options Price( 1)
plans were approved by the Company’s shareholders. Option
O utstanding at December 31, 2002 218,109.3 $ 58.80
grants beginning in 2002 generally vest ratably over three
Granted 32,595.7 52.74
years, while grants prior to 2002 generally vest after five years.
Exercised (15,482.2 ) 25.07
The options expire ten years from the date of grant, subject to
Forfeited or converted (2) (11,970.7 ) 63.18
terms applicable to such awards.
Medco Health spin-off adjustment 12,626.2 (3.22 )
In 2004, the Company made certain changes to its stock-
O utstanding at December 31, 2003 235,878.3 56.80
based compensation plans and began granting performance
Granted 31,377.9 45.58
share units (PSUs) and restricted stock units (RSUs), in
Exercised (11,668.0 ) 20.60
addition to stock options, to certain management level
Forfeited (10,824.1 ) 59.78
employees. The financial value of individual stock-based
O utstanding at December 31, 2004 244,764.1 56.96
incentive grants under this approach was designed to be
Granted 29,870.2 31.67
equivalent to the prior approach, only the mix of stock-based
Exercised (6,379.4 ) 21.40
compensation awards changed. Both PSU and RSU payouts
Forfeited (18,166.9 ) 61.43
will be in shares of Company stock after the end of a three-
year period, subject to terms applicable to such awards. O utstanding at December 31, 2005 250,088.0 $ 54.52
Additionally, PSU payouts will be contingent on the Company’s
(1) Weighted average exercise price.
performance against a pre-set objective or set of objectives. (2) Includes 4.8 million options that were converted to Medco Health options.
The Company granted .5 million PSUs in both 2005 and 2004,
The number of options and average price of options
with weighted-average grant date fair values of $31.96 and
exercisable at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were
$48.23, respectively. The Company granted 2.5 million RSUs
165.0 million options at $56.71, 129.1 million options at $55.83
in both 2005 and 2004 with weighted-average grant date fair
and 101.4 million options at $47.47, respectively. At
values of $31.17 and $41.09 in 2005 and 2004, respectively.
December 31, 2005 and 2004, 82.3 million shares and 99.9
Forfeitures and vestings were not significant in either period.
million shares, respectively, were available for future grants under
In 2003, in connection with the Medco Health spin-off, the
the terms of the Company’s stock-based compensation plans.
number and exercise prices of outstanding options were
Summarized information about stock options outstanding and
proportionately adjusted to maintain the option holders’
exercisable at December 31, 2005 (options in thousands) is as
positions before and after the spin-off. As a result of the
follows:
adjustment, the
Exercise Outstanding Exercisable
Price Number of Average Average Number Average
Range of Options Life( 1) Price (2) of Options Price( 2)
U nder $25 2,069.3 2.66 $ 12.29 2,069.3 $ 12.29
$25 to 40 43,407.0 6.99 31.29 11,919.9 30.88
$40 to 50 74,048.0 5.97 48.32 46,967.8 48.07
$50 to 65 79,078.9 4.39 60.14 76,509.0 60.16
$65 to 80 50,666.0 4.19 75.91 26,788.9 76.09
Over $80 818.8 3.68 86.03 763.3 86.10
250,088.0 165,018.2
( 1) Weighted average contractual life remaining in years.
(2) Weighted average exercise price.
15 retirees and similar benefits to their dependents, through its other
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans postretirement benefit plans. The Company uses a December 31
The Company has defined benefit pension plans covering measurement date for substantially all of its pension plans and for
eligible employees in the United States and in certain of its its other postretirement benefit plans.
international subsidiaries. Pension benefits in the United In connection with the Company’s restructuring actions (see
States are based on a formula that considers final average pay Note 4), Merck recorded termination charges in 2005, 2004 and
and years of credited service. In addition, the Company 2003 of $32.0 million, $18.4 million and $37.9 million,
provides medical, dental and life insurance benefits, principally respectively, on its pension plans and $6.5 million, $3.1 million
to its eligible U.S.
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 59and $8.1 million, respectively, on its other postretirement The cost of health care and life insurance benefits for active
benefit plans related to expanded eligibility for certain employees was $324.6 million in 2005, $295.3 million in 2004
employees exiting the Company. and $273.0 million in 2003.
Also, in connection with these restructuring activities, the Summarized information about the changes in plan assets and
Company recorded curtailment losses of $9.1 million in 2005 benefit obligation is as follows:
and settlement losses of $28.3 million in 2003 on its pension
plans as well as curtailment losses of $0.7 million and Other
$11.7 million on its other postretirement benefit plans in 2005 Postretirement
Pension Benefits Benefits
and 2003, respectively.
2005 2004 2005 2004
The Company changed participant contributions and the
F air value of plan assets
service recognized for eligibility for its other postretirement
at January 1 $ 5,480.9 $ 4,282.7 $ 1,165.3 $ 949.5
benefit plans. These amendments generated curtailment gains
Actual return on plan
of $12.3 million in 2004 and $10.2 million in 2003.
assets 391.6 718.8 101.9 150.7
In addition, the Company recorded a settlement gain of
Company contributions 497.7 761.5 46.3 94.4
$4.2 million in 2005 and a settlement loss of $23.0 million in
Benefits paid from plan
2004 on certain of its domestic pension plans resulting from
assets (306.2 ) (296.1 ) (36.1 ) (29.3 )
employees electing to receive their pension benefits as lump
Other 6.6 14.0 — —
sum payments.
F air value of plan assets
In 2004, the Company recognized the federal subsidy under
at December 31 $ 6,070.6 $ 5,480.9 $ 1,277.4 $ 1,165.3
the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act), which reduced the benefit B enefit obligation at
obligation of certain of its other postretirement benefit plans by January 1 $ 5,879.5 $ 5,071.9 $ 1,892.4 $ 1,840.4
$169.0 million. While the Company is recognizing the subsidy Subsidy under the Act — — — (169.0 )
in accordance with current accounting requirements, it will Service cost 338.8 307.7 87.9 86.0
continue to evaluate the Act and regulations that follow to Interest cost 310.6 286.0 106.0 105.7
determine the optimal approach to incorporating the impact of Actuarial losses (gains) 286.3 511.2 (29.3 ) 152.0
the Act. Benefits paid (329.1 ) (327.1 ) (88.5 ) (65.2 )
The net cost for the Company’s pension plans consisted of Plan amendments 18.2 4.6 (159.1 ) (60.7 )
the following components: Curtailments (12.2 ) — 0.7 —
Termination benefits 32.0 18.4 6.5 3.1
Years Ended December 31 2005 2004 2003 Other (0.6 ) 6.8 — —
S ervice cost $ 338.8 $ 307.7 $ 263.4 B enefit obligation at
Interest cost 310.6 286.0 260.6 December 31 $ 6,523.5 $ 5,879.5 $ 1,816.6 $ 1,892.3
Expected return on plan assets (400.7 ) (367.7 ) (341.2 )
Net amortization 156.1 130.0 115.9 The fair value of U.S. pension plan assets included in the
Termination benefits 32.0 18.4 37.9 preceding table was $3.8 billion in 2005 and $3.5 billion in 2004.
Curtailments 9.1 — — The pension benefit obligation of U.S. plans included in this table
Settlements (4.2 ) 23.0 28.3 was $4.1 billion in 2005 and $3.7 billion in 2004.
N et pension cost $ 441.7 $ 397.4 $ 364.9
A reconciliation of the plans’ funded status to the net asset
(liability) recognized at December 31 is as follows:
The net pension cost attributable to U.S. plans included in
the above table was $295.3 million in 2005, $283.0 million in Other
Postretirement
2004 and $264.8 million in 2003.
Pension Benefits Benefits
The net cost of postretirement benefits other than pensions
2005 2004 2005 2004
consisted of the following components:
P lan assets less than
benefit obligation $ (452.9 ) $ (398.6 ) $ (539.2 ) $ (727.0 )
Years Ended December 31 2005 2004 2003
Unrecognized net loss 2,300.3 2,200.2 682.7 755.1
S ervice cost $ 87.9 $ 86.0 $ 68.3
Unrecognized plan
Interest cost 106.0 105.7 90.4
changes 85.4 99.2 (338.9 ) (201.3 )
Expected return on plan assets (103.0 ) (89.4 ) (62.0 )
N et asset (liability) $ 1,932.8 $ 1,900.8 $ (195.4 ) $ (173.2 )
Net amortization 22.0 31.0 28.0
R ecognized as:
Curtailments 0.7 (12.3 ) 1.5
Other assets $ 2,347.4 $ 2,281.3 $ — $ —
Termination benefits 6.5 3.1 8.1
Accrued and other
N et postretirement benefit cost $ 120.1 $ 124.1 $ 134.3
current liabilities (8.0 ) (15.8 ) (24.9 ) (24.9 )
Deferred income taxes
and noncurrent
liabilities (439.3 ) (387.7 ) (170.5 ) (148.3 )
Accumulated other
comprehensive loss 32.7 23.0 — —
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 60The weighted average asset allocations of the investment At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the accumulated benefit
portfolio for the pension and other postretirement benefit plans obligation was $5.0 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively, for all
at December 31 are as follows: pension plans and $3.1 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, for
U.S. pension plans. The Company had a minimum pension
Other liability of $34.5 million and $24.6 million at December 31, 2005
Postretirement and 2004, respectively, representing the extent to which the
Pension Benefits Benefits
accumulated benefit obligation exceeded plan assets for certain
2005 2004 2005 2004
U .S. equities 39 % 41 % 54 % 55 %
of the Company’s pension plans.
For pension plans with benefit obligations in excess of plan
International equities 33 30 29 27
assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004, the fair value of plan
Fixed-income investments 19 21 15 16
assets was $695.3 million and $1.1 billion, respectively, and the
Real estate and other
benefit obligation was $1.5 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively.
investments 3 6 — 1
For those plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of
Cash and cash equivalents 6 2 2 1
plan assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004, the fair value of
100 % 100 % 100 % 100 %
plan assets was $144.8 million and $106.0 million, respectively,
and the accumulated benefit obligation was $456.5 million and
The target investment portfolios for the Company’s pension
$393.9 million, respectively.
plans are determined by country based on the nature of the
Unrecognized net loss amounts reflect experience differentials
liabilities and considering the demographic composition of the
primarily relating to differences between expected and actual
plan participants (average age, years of service and active
returns on plan assets as well as the effects of changes in
versus retiree status) and in accordance with local regulations.
actuarial assumptions. Unrecognized net loss amounts in excess
The weighted average target allocation was 38% in U.S.
of certain thresholds are amortized into net pension and other
equities, 33% in international equities, 25% in fixed-income
postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining service
investments, 3% in real estate and other investments, and 1%
life of employees. Amortization of unrecognized net losses for the
in cash and cash equivalents. Other investments include
Company’s U.S. plans at December 31, 2005 is expected to
insurance contracts for certain international pension plans.
increase net pension and other postretirement benefit cost by
The target investment portfolio for the Company’s other
approximately $126.0 million annually from 2006 through 2010.
postretirement benefit plans is allocated 45% to 60% in U.S.
The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a
equities, 20% to 30% in international equities, 15% to 20% in
regular basis. The weighted average assumptions used in
fixed-income investments, and up to 8% in cash and other
determining pension plan information are as follows:
investments. The portfolio’s asset allocation is consistent with
the long-term nature of the plans’ benefit obligation, and is well
December 31 2005 2004 2003
diversified among the asset classes in which the portfolio
N et cost
invests.
D iscount rate 5.40 % 5.65 % 5 .90 %
Contributions to the pension plans and other postretirement
Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.65 7.70 7 .70
benefit plans during 2006 are expected to be $365.0 million
and $92.6 million, respectively. Salary growth rate 4.1 4.1 4.1
Expected benefit payments are as follows: B enefit obligation
D iscount rate 5.15 % 5.40 % 5 .65 %
Other Salary growth rate 4.2 4.1 4.1
Pension Postretirement
Benefits Benefits Assumptions used in determining U.S. pension plan and other
2 006 $ 229.6 $ 78.6 postretirement benefit plan information are as follows:
2007 247.4 84.9
2008 266.5 91.1 December 31 2005 2004 2003
2009 286.0 98.0 N et cost
2010 303.9 105.0
D iscount rate 6.00 %* 6.25 % 6 .50 %
2011-2015 1,985.1 646.3
Expected rate of return on plan assets 8.75 8.75 8 .75
Salary growth rate 4.5 4.5 4.5
Expected benefit payments are based on the same
B enefit obligation
assumptions used to measure the benefit obligations and
include estimated future employee service. Expected receipts D iscount rate 5.75 % 6.00 %* 6 .25 %
of the subsidy under the Act, which are not reflected in the Salary growth rate 4.5 4.5 4.5
expected other postretirement benefit payments included in the * 5.75% used for other postretirement benefit plans.
preceding table, are as follows: 2007, $6.3 million; 2008,
$7.0 million; 2009, $7.6 million; 2010, $8.3 million; 2011 -2015,
$53.9 million.
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 61The expected rate of return for both the pension and other Other, net in 2004 primarily reflects a $176.8 million gain from
postretirement benefit plans represents the average rate of the sale of the Company’s 50-percent equity stake in its
return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits European joint venture with Johnson & Johnson, as well as
included in the benefit obligation are to be paid and is realized gains on the Company’s investment portfolio. Other, net
determined on a country basis. In developing the expected rate in 2003 primarily reflects an $84.0 million gain on the sale of
of return within each country, the long-term historical returns Aggrastat product rights in the United States and realized gains
data is considered as well as actual returns on the plan assets on the Company’s investment portfolios relating to the favorable
and other capital markets experience. Using this reference interest rate environment.
information, the long-term return expectations for each asset Interest paid was $354.1 million in 2005, $284.6 million in
category and a weighted average expected return for each 2004 and $359.4 million in 2003.
country’s target portfolio is developed, according to the
allocation among those investment categories. The expected 17
Taxes on Income
portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active
management as appropriate. For 2006, the Company’s A reconciliation between the Company’s effective tax rate and
expected rate of return of 8.75% will remain unchanged from the U.S. statutory rate is as follows:
2005 for its U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit
plans.
2005 Tax Rate
The health care cost trend rate assumptions for other post-
Amount 2005 2004 2003
retirement benefit plans are as follows:
U.S. statutory rate applied to
income from continuing
December 31 2005 2004
operations before taxes $ 2,577.4 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 %
H ealth care cost trend rate assumed for next
Differential arising from:
year 9.0 % 10.0 %
Foreign earnings (945.1 ) (12.8 ) (10.0 ) (10.2 )
Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed
Tax exemption for Puerto
to decline 5.0 % 5.0 %
Rico operations (98.0 ) (1.3 ) (1.6) (0.9)
Year that the rate reached the ultimate trend
State taxes 188.6 2.5 1.3 1.7
rate 2013 2013
AJCA 766.5 10.4 — —
Other 243.2 3.3 2.4 1.6
A one percentage point change in the health care cost trend
rate would have had the following effects: $ 2,732.6 37.1 % 27.1 % 27.2 %
Other includes the tax effect of minority interests, contingency
One Percentage Point
Increase Decrease reserves, research credits, export incentives and miscellaneous
E ffect on total service and interest cost items.
components $ 37.7 $ (29.8 ) Domestic companies contributed approximately 35% in 2005,
Effect on benefit obligation 298.0 (240.3 ) 30% in 2004 and 34% in 2003 to consolidated income from
continuing operations before taxes.
Taxes on income from continuing operations consisted of:
16
Other (Income) Expense, Net
Years Ended December 31 2005 2004 2003
C urrent provision
Years Ended December 31 2005 2004 2003
I nterest income $ (480.9 ) $ (300.1 ) $ (308.7 )
Federal $ 1,688.1 $ 1,420.0 $ 1,464.2
Foreign 739.6 530.9 611.3
Interest expense 385.5 293.7 350.9
State 295.9 161.3 254.8
Exchange gains (16.1 ) (18.4 ) (28.4 )
Minority interests 121.8 154.2 168.7 2,723.6 2,112.2 2,330.3
Other, net (120.5 ) (473.4 ) (385.7 ) D eferred provision
$ (110.2 ) $ (344.0 ) $ (203.2 ) Federal 97.0 95.6 21.3
Foreign (134.0 ) (32.3 ) 96.5
Minority interests include third parties’ share of exchange State 46.0 (14.4 ) 13.9
gains and losses arising from translation of the financial 9.0 48.9 131.7
statements into U.S. dollars. The reduced minority interest in $ 2,732.6 $ 2,161.1 $ 2,462.0
2005 is attributable to the redemption of subsidiary variable-
rate preferred units (see Note 12).
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 62Deferred income taxes at December 31 consisted of: taxes that would be payable upon the distributions of such
earnings and it is not practicable to determine the amount of the
2005 2004 related unrecognized deferred income lax liability. In addition, the
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Company has subsidiaries operating in Puerto Rico and
O ther intangibles $ 36.0 $ 158.2 $ 60.7 $ 286.1 Singapore under tax incentive grants that expire in 2015 and
Inventory related 628.1 266.9 749.7 473.0 2026, respectively.
Accelerated The Company’s federal income tax returns have been audited
depreciation — 1,539.1 — 1,479.7 through 1992. As previously disclosed, the Internal Revenue
Advance payment 338.6 — 338.6 — Service (IRS) has substantially completed its examination of the
Equity investments 104.5 676.1 189.3 548.7 Company’s tax returns for the years 1993 to 1996 and on
Pensions and OPEB 151.3 789.9 168.6 811.9 April 28, 2004, in connection with its examination, the IRS issued
Compensation related 151.9 — 182.5 — a preliminary notice of deficiency with respect to a partnership
Vioxx legal defense transaction entered into in 1993. On December 13, 2005, the
cost reserve 241.1 — 205.2 — Company received a final notice of deficiency with respect to the
Net operating losses 314.9 — 212.3 — transaction with regard to the 1993 tax return. Specifically, the
Other 1,208.9 426.3 1,144.4 314.2 IRS disallowed certain royalty and other expenses claimed as
S ubtotal 3,175.3 3,856.5 3,251.3 3,913.6 deductions on the 1993 tax return. The preliminary notice
Valuation allowance (17.6 ) — — — proposed disallowing similar type expenses on the 1994-1996 tax
T otal deferred taxes $ 3,157.7 $ 3,856.5 $ 3,251.3 $ 3,913.6 returns. The Company anticipates receiving a similar preliminary
N et deferred tax notice of deficiency for 1997-1999. If the IRS ultimately prevails in
liabilities $ 698.8 $ 662.3 its positions, the Company’s income tax due for 1993 would
R ecognized as:
increase by approximately $60 million plus interest of
approximately $60 million and penalties of approximately
Prepaid expenses
$12 million. For the years 1994-1999, the tax would increase by
and taxes $ (662.2 ) $ (652.6 )
approximately $910 million plus interest of approximately
Other assets (68.5 ) (10.5 )
$520 million. The IRS will likely make similar claims for years
Income taxes
subsequent to 1999 with respect to this transaction. The potential
payable 159.7 156.2
disallowance for these later years, computed on a similar basis to
Deferred income
the 1993-1999 disallowances, would be approximately $540
taxes and
million plus interest of approximately $60 million. The IRS has
noncurrent
proposed penalties on the Company with respect to all periods
liabilities 1,269.8 1,169.2
that were the subject of the preliminary notice of adjustment and
The Company has net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards the Company anticipates the IRS would seek to impose penalties
in a number of jurisdictions. The most significant of which is on all other periods.
the United Kingdom with NOL carryforwards of $633 million In October 2005, the IRS issued summonses to several
which have no expiration date. A valuation allowance has been current and former executives of the Company in connection with
established against certain Canadian NOL carryforwards this matter. The IRS began interviewing these individuals in
resulting from a legal entity reorganization. December 2005.
Income taxes paid in 2005, 2004 and 2003 were The Company vigorously disagrees with the proposed
$1.7 billion, $1.9 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively. Stock adjustments and intends to aggressively contest this matter
option exercises did not have a significant impact on taxes through applicable IRS and judicial procedures, as appropriate.
paid in 2005. Stock option exercises reduced income taxes Although the final resolution of the proposed adjustments is
paid in 2004 and 2003 by $121.7 million and $167.8 million, uncertain and involves unsettled areas of the law, based on
respectively. currently available information, the Company has provided for the
As previously disclosed, in October 2004, the AJCA was best estimate of the probable tax liability for this matter. While the
signed into law. The AJCA creates temporary incentives for resolution of the issue may result in tax liabilities which are
U.S. multinationals to repatriate accumulated income earned significantly higher or lower than the reserves established for this
outside the United States as of December 31, 2002. In matter, management currently believes that the resolution will not
accordance with the AJCA, the Company repatriated have a material effect on the Company’s financial position or
$15.9 billion during 2005. The Company recorded an income liquidity. However, an unfavorable resolution could have a
tax charge of $766.5 million in Taxes on Income in 2005 material effect on the Company’s results of operations or cash
related to this repatriation, $185 million of which was paid in flows in the quarter in which an adjustment is recorded or the tax
2005 and $582 million of which will be paid in the first quarter is due or paid.
of 2006. This charge was partially offset by a $100 million In January 2006, the IRS issued a summons requesting
benefit associated with a decision to implement certain tax certain information in connection with a minority interest equity
planning strategies. financing transaction entered into in 1995. Merck intends to
The Company has not changed its intention to indefinitely cooperate with the terms of the summons.
reinvest accumulated earnings earned subsequent to
December 31, 2002. At December 31, 2005, foreign earnings
of $8.3 billion have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary
companies for reinvestment. No provision will be made for
income
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 6318 The components of Accumulated other comprehensive
Earnings per Share
income (loss) as follows:
The weighted average common shares used in the
computations of basic earnings per common share and December 31 2005 2004
earnings per common share assuming dilution (shares in N et unrealized gain (loss) on derivatives $ 15.6 $ (65.7 )
millions) are as follows: Net unrealized gain on investments 59.5 9.2
Minimum pension liability (22.5 ) (15.5 )
Years Ended December 31 2005 2004 2003 Cumulative translation adjustment relating to
A verage common shares equity investees (0.3) 26.1
outstanding 2,197.0 2,219.0 2,236.7
$ 52.3 $ (45.9 )
Common shares issuable (1) 3.4 7.4 16.4
A verage common shares At December 31, 2005, $6.0 million of the net unrealized gain
outstanding assuming dilution 2,200.4 2,226.4 2,253.1 on derivatives is associated with options maturing in the next
( 1) Issuable primarily under stock-based compensation plans.
12 months, which hedge anticipated foreign currency
denominated sales over that same period.
In 2005, 2004 and 2003, 242.4 million, 233.1 million and
203.4 million common shares issuable under the Company’s 20
Segment Reporting
stock-based compensation plans were excluded from the
The Company’s operations are principally managed on a
computation of earnings per common share assuming dilution
products basis. The Merck Pharmaceutical segment includes
because the effect would have been antidilutive.
products marketed either directly or through joint ventures. These
19 products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, sold by
Comprehensive Income
prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Merck sells
The components of Other comprehensive income (loss) are
these human health products primarily to drug wholesalers and
as follows.
retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health
care providers such as health maintenance organizations and
After
other institutions.
Pretax (1) Tax Tax
Y ear Ended December 31, 2005
All Other includes other non-reportable human and animal
health segments. Revenues and profits for these segments are
N et unrealized gain on derivatives $ 93.6 $ (38.3 ) $ 55.3
as follows:
Net loss realization 44.0 (18.0 ) 26.0
D erivatives 137.6 (56.3 ) 81.3 Merck
N et unrealized gain on Pharm- All
aceutical Other Total
investments (23.5 ) 1.6 (21.9 )
Y ear Ended December 31, 2005
Net loss realization 71.1 1.1 72.2
I nvestments 47.6 2.7 50.3
S egment revenues $ 20,678.8 $ 1,146.0 $ 21,824.8
Segment profits 13,157.9 1,122.5 14,280.4
M inimum pension liability (11.9 ) 4.9 (7.0 )
Included in segment profits:
C umulative translation adjustment
Equity income from affiliates 1,006.5 399.0 1,405.5
relating to equity investees (40.6 ) 14.2 (26.4 )
Depreciation and
$ 132.7 $ (34.5 ) $ 98.2 amortization (148.8 ) (4.2) (153.0 )
Y ear Ended December 31, 2004 Y ear Ended December 31, 2004
N et unrealized loss on derivatives $ (117.8 ) $ 48.2 $ (69.6 ) S egment revenues $ 21,591.0 $ 1,123.7 $ 22,714.7
Net loss realization 64.2 (26.3 ) 37.9 Segment profits 13,560.3 1,131.3 14,691.6
D erivatives (53.6 ) 21.9 (31.7 ) I ncluded in segment profits:
N et unrealized gain on Equity income from affiliates 512.8 307.7 820.5
investments (38.4 ) (9.6 ) (48.0 ) Depreciation and amortization (151.8 ) (4.3) (156.1 )
Net income realization (89.7 ) 36.8 (52.9 ) Y ear Ended December 31, 2003
I nvestments (128.1 ) 27.2 (100.9 ) S egment revenues $ 21,128.3 $ 1,128.6 $ 22,256.9
M inimum pension liability (7.2 ) 2.3 (4.9 ) Segment profits 13,504.8 1,078.3 14,583.1
C umulative translation adjustment Included in segment profits:
relating to equity investees 40.2 (14.1 ) 26.1 Equity income from affiliates 304.0 245.8 549.8
$ (148.7 ) $ 37.3 $ (111.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (143.5 ) (4.0) (147.5 )
Y ear Ended December 31, 2003
N et unrealized loss on derivatives $ (87.6 ) $ 35.9 $ (51.7 )
Net loss realization 51.5 (21.1 ) 30.4
D erivatives (36.1 ) 14.8 (21.3 )
N et unrealized gain on
investments 105.0 (33.8 ) 71.2
Net income realization (114.3 ) (3.2 ) (117.5 )
I nvestments (9.3 ) (37.0 ) (46.3 )
M inimum pension liability 424.5 (192.6 ) 231.9
$ 379.1 $ (214.8 ) $ 164.3
( 1) Net of applicable minority interest.Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 64Segment profits are comprised of segment revenues less Consolidated revenues by geographic area where derived are
certain elements of materials and production costs and as follows:
operating expenses, including components of equity income
(loss) from affiliates and depreciation and amortization Years Ended December 31 2005 2004 2003
expenses. For internal management reporting presented to the U nited States $ 12,766.6 $ 13,472.0 $ 13,321.1
chief operating decision maker, the Company does not allocate Europe, Middle East and Africa 5,203.5 5,440.8 5,341.3
the vast majority of indirect production costs, research and Japan 1,637.9 1,668.2 1,600.9
development expenses and general and administrative Other 2,403.9 2,357.6 2,222.6
expenses, as well as the cost of financing these activities. $ 22,011.9 $ 22,938.6 $ 22,485.9
Separate divisions maintain responsibility for monitoring and
managing these costs, including depreciation related to fixed A reconciliation of total segment profits to consolidated
assets utilized by these divisions and, therefore, they are not Income from continuing operations before taxes is as follows:
included in segment profits.
A reconciliation of total segment revenues to consolidated Years Ended December 31 2005 2004 2003
Sales is as follows: S egment profits $ 14,280.4 $ 14,691.6 $ 14,583.1
Other profits 175.3 24.6 156.6
Years Ended December 31 2005 2004 2003 Adjustments 615.3 481.3 453.5
S egment revenues $ 21,824.8 $ 22,714.7 $ 22,256.9 Unallocated:
Other revenues 187.1 223.9 229.0 Interest income 480.9 300.1 308.7
$ 22,011.9 $ 22,938.6 $ 22,485.9 Interest expense (385.5 ) (293.7 ) (350.9 )
Equity income (loss) from
Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous affiliates 311.6 187.7 (75.6 )
corporate revenues, sales related to divested products or Depreciation and
businesses and other supply sales. amortization (1,555.1 ) (1,294.6 ) (1,166.7 )
Sales (1) of the Company’s products were as follows: Research and development (3,848.0 ) (4,010.2 ) (3,279.9 )
Other expenses, net (2,711.0 ) (2,112.3 ) (1,577.2 )
Years Ended December 31 2005 2004 2003 $ 7,363.9 $ 7,974.5 $ 9,051.6
Z ocor $ 4,381.7 $ 5,196.5 $ 5,011.4
Fosamax 3,191.2 3,159.7 2,676.6 Other profits are primarily comprised of miscellaneous
Cozaar/Hyzaar 3,037.2 2,823.7 2,486.0 corporate profits as well as operating profits related to divested
Singulair 2,975.6 2,622.0 2,009.4 products or businesses and other supply sales. Adjustments
Proscar 741.4 733.1 605.5 represent the elimination of the effect of double counting certain
Primaxin 739.6 640.6 628.9 items of income and expense. Equity income (loss) from affiliates
Vasotec/Vaseretic 623.1 719.2 763.7 includes taxes paid at the joint venture level and a portion of
Cosopt/Trusopt 617.2 558.8 484.4 equity income that is not reported in segment profits. Other
Cancidas 570.0 430.0 275.7 expenses, net, include expenses from corporate and
Maxalt 348.4 309.9 324.2 manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income
Propecia 291.9 270.2 239.0 (expense), net.
Vioxx — 1,489.3 2,548.8 Property, plant and equipment, net by geographic area where
Vaccines/Biologicals 1,103.3 1,036.1 1,056.1 located is as follows:
Other 3,391.3 2,949.5 3,376.2
$ 22,011.9 $ 22,938.6 $ 22,485.9 December 31 2005 2004 2003
U nited States $ 10,460.8 $ 10,712.9 $ 10,383.3
(1) Presented net of discounts and returns . Europe, Middle East and Africa 1,963.7 2,012.8 1,846.3
Other primarily includes sales of other human Japan 585.1 605.8 599.1
pharmaceuticals, pharmaceutical and animal health supply Other 1,388.6 1,382.2 1,340.3
sales to the Company’s joint ventures and revenue from the $ 14,398.2 $ 14,713.7 $ 14,169.0
Company’s relationship with AZLP, primarily relating to sales
of Nexium and Prilosec. Revenue from AZLP was $1.7 billion, The Company does not disaggregate assets on a products
$1.5 billion and $1.9 billion in 2005, 2004 and 2003, and services basis for internal management reporting and,
respectively. therefore, such information is not presented.
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 65Management’s Report
Management’s Responsibility For Financial Statements is included in the Company’s Form 10-K filing. In addition, in
Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the Company’s May 2005, the Company submitted to the New York Stock
financial statements rests with management. The financial Exchange (NYSF) a certificate of the CEO certifying that he was
statements report on management’s stewardship of Company not aware of any violation by the Company of NYSE Corporate
assets. These statements are prepared in conformity with Governance Listing Standards.
generally accepted accounting principles and, accordingly,
Management’s Report on lnternal Control Over Financial
include amounts that are based on management’s best
Reporting
estimates and judgments. Nonfinancial information included in
the Annual Report has also been prepared by management Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
and is consistent with the financial statements. adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is
To assure that financial information is reliable and assets defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Management conducted
are safeguarded, management maintains an effective system an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
of internal controls and procedures, important elements of reporting based on the framework in Internal Control-Integrated
which include: careful selection, training and development of Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
operating and financial managers; an organization that Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on
provides appropriate division of responsibility; and this evaluation, management concluded that internal control over
communications aimed at assuring that Company policies and financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005 based
procedures are understood throughout the organization. A staff on criteria in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by
of internal auditors regularly monitors the adequacy and COSO. Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of
application of internal controls on a worldwide basis. internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005
To ensure that personnel continue to understand the has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
system of internal controls and procedures, and policies independent registered public accounting firm, and
concerning good and prudent business practices, the PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has issued a report on
Company periodically conducts the Management’s management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the
Stewardship Program for key management and financial Company’s internal control over financial reporting, which is
personnel. This program reinforces the importance and included herein.
understanding of internal controls by reviewing key corporate
policies, procedures and systems. In addition, the Company
has compliance programs, including an ethical business
practices program to reinforce the Company’s long-standing Richard T. Clark Judy C. Lewent
commitment to high ethical standards in the conduct of its Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President
business. and President and Chief Financial Officer
The financial statements and other financial information
included in the Annual Report fairly present, in all material
respects, the Company’s financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows. Our formal certification to the
Securities and Exchange Commission
Audit Committee’s Report
The Audit Committee, comprised of independent directors, met independent auditors their judgments regarding the quality and
with the independent registered public accounting firm (the acceptability of the Company’s accounting principles, the clarity
independent auditors), management and internal auditors to of its disclosures and the degree of aggressiveness or
assure that all were carrying out their respective conservatism of its accounting principles and underlying
responsibilities. The Audit Committee discussed with and estimates. The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed the
received a letter from the independent auditors confirming their audited financial statements with management and
independence. Both the independent auditors and the internal recommended to the Board of Directors that these financial
auditors had full access to the Committee, including regular statements be included in the Company’s Form 10-K filing with
meetings without management present. the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Audit Committee met with the independent auditors to
discuss their fees and the scope and results of their audit work, Peter C.Wendell Rochelle B. Lazarus
including the adequacy of internal controls and the quality of Chairperson Thomas E. Shenk
financial reporting. The Committee also discussed with the Wendell P. Weeks
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 66Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective
To the Stockholders and the internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of
Board of Directors of Merck & Co., Inc.: the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express opinions on management’s
We have completed integrated audits of Merck & Co., Inc.’s
assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
2005 and 2004 consolidated financial statements and of its
control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance
2005, and an audit of its 2003 consolidated financial
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
statements in accordance with the standards of the Public
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained
Consolidated financial statements in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control
and the related consolidated statements of income, of retained over financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment,
earnings, of comprehensive income and of cash flows present testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Merck & internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
Co., Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2005 and consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
December 31, 2004, and the results of their operations and audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
December 31, 2005 in conformity with accounting principles process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
generally accepted in the United States of America. These reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
our audits of these statements in accordance with the (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
whether the financial statements are free of material preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
basis for our opinion. financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
Internal control over financial reporting
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment, included in
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
Over Financial Reporting, that the Company maintained
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
effective internal control over financial reporting as of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
December 31, 2005 based on criteria established in Internal
Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on Florham Park, New Jersey PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company February 24, 2006
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on
criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework
issued by the COSO. The
Compensation and Benefits Committee’s Report
The Compensation and Benefits Committee, comprised of Consistent with the long-term focus inherent in the Company’s
independent directors, approves compensation objectives and R&D-based pharmaceutical business, it is the policy of the
policies for all employees and sets compensation for the Committee to make a high proportion of executive officer
Company’s executive officers. The Committee seeks to ensure compensation dependent on long-term performance and on
that rewards are closely linked to Company, division, team and enhancing stockholder value.
individual performances. The Committee also seeks to ensure
that compensation and benefits are set at levels that enable Lawrence A. Bossidy William G. Bowen
Merck to attract and retain highly qualified employees. The Chairperson Johnnetta B. Cole
Committee views stock ownership as a vehicle to align the William N. Kelley
interests of employees with those of the Company’sstockholders.
Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 67Selected Financial Data (1)
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
($ in millions except per share amounts)
2005 (2) 2004 (3) 2003 (4) 2002 2001 2000
R esults for Year:
Sales $ 22,011.9 $ 22,938.6 $ 22,485.9 $ 21,445.8 $ 21,199.0 $ 20,009.5
Materials and production costs 5,149.6 4,959.8 4,436.9 4,004.9 3,722.6 3,273.0
Marketing and administrative
expenses 7,155.5 7,238.7 6,200.3 5,652.2 5,700.6 5,725.5
Research and development
expenses 3,848.0 4,010.2 3,279.9 2,677.2 2,456.4 2,343.8
Restructuring costs 322.2 107.6 194.6 — — —
Equity income from affiliates (1,717.1 ) (1,008.2 ) (474.2 ) (644.7 ) (685.9 ) (764.9 )
Other (income) expense, net (110.2 ) (344.0 ) (203.2 ) 104.5 57.2 69.8
Income from continuing operations
before taxes 7,363.9 7,974.5 9,051.6 9,651.7 9,948.1 9,362.3
Taxes on income 2,732.6 2,161.1 2,462.0 2,856.9 2,894.9 2,766.7
Income from continuing operations 4,631.3 5,813.4 6,589.6 6,794.8 7,053.2 6,595.6
Income from discontinued
operations, net of taxes — — 241.3 354.7 228.6 226.1
Net income 4,631.3 5,813.4 6,830.9 7,149.5 7,281.8 6,821.7
Basic earnings per common share
Continuing operations $ 2.11 $ 2.62 $ 2.95 $ 3.01 $ 3.08 $ 2.86
Discontinued operations — — .11 .16 .10 .10
Net income $ 2.11 $ 2.62 $ 3.05 (5) $ 3.17 $ 3.18 $ 2.96
Earnings per common share
assuming dilution
Continuing operations $ 2.10 $ 2.61 $ 2.92 $ 2.98 $ 3.04 $ 2.80
Discontinued operations — — .11 .16 .10 .10
Net income $ 2.10 $ 2.61 $ 3.03 $ 3.14 $ 3.14 $ 2.90
Cash dividends declared 3,338.7 3,329.1 3,264.7 3,204.2 3,156.1 2,905.7
Cash dividends paid per common
share $ 1.52 $ 1.49 $ 1.45 $ 1.41 $ 1.37 $ 1.21
Capital expenditures 1,402.7 1,726.1 1,915.9 2,128.1 2,401.8 2,471.0
Depreciation 1,544.2 1,258.7 1,129.6 1,067.5 949.7 803.0
Y ear-End Position:
Working capital $ 7,745.8 $ 1,731.1 $ 1,957.6 $ 2,011.2 $ 1,417.4 $ 3,643.8
Property, plant and equipment
(net) 14,398.2 14,713.7 14,169.0 14,195.6 13,103.4 11,482.1
Total assets 44,845.8 42,572.8 40,587.5 (6) 47,561.2 44,021.2 40,154.9
Long-term debt 5,125.6 4,691.5 5,096.0 4,879.0 4,798.6 3,600.7
Stockholders’ equity 17,916.6 17,288.2 15,576.4 (6) 18,200.5 16,050.1 14,832.4
F inancial Ratios:
Income from continuing operations
as a % of sales 21.0 % 25.3 % 29.3 % 31.7 % 33.3 % 33.0 %
Net income as a % of average total
assets 10.6 % 14.0 % 14.9 % 15.5 % 17.3 % 17.9 %
Y ear-End Statistics:
Average common shares
outstanding (millions) 2,197.0 2,219.0 2,236.7 2,257.5 2,288.3 2,306.9
Average common shares
outstanding assuming dilution
(millions) 2,200.4 2,226.4 2,253.1 2,277.0 2,322.3 2,353.2
Number of stockholders of record 198,200 216,100 233,000 246,300 256,200 265,700
Number of employees 61,500 62,600 63,200 (6) 77,300 78,100 69,300
(1) Prior year amounts have been reclassified to reflect separate line item presentation of Restructuring costs.
(2) Amounts for 2005 include the impact of net tax charge primarily associated with the AJCA repatriation, restructuring actions and additional Vioxx legal defense
costs.
(3) Amounts for 2004 include the impact of the withdrawal of Vioxx and Vioxx legal defense costs.
(4) Amounts for 2003 include the impact of the implementation of a new distribution program for U.S. wholesalers.
(5) Amount does not add as a result of rounding.
(6) Decrease in 2003 primarily reflects the impact of the spin-off of Medco Health.Merck’s report to shareholders 2005 | page 68Exhibit 21
MERCK & CO., INC. SUBSIDIARIES
as of 12/31/05
The following is a list of subsidiaries of the Company, doing business under the name stated.
Country or State
Name of Incorporation
AMRAD Pharmaceuticals Pty. Ltd. Australia
Aton Pharma, Inc. Delaware
Banyu Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd. Japan
Blue Jay Investments C.V. Netherlands
BRC Ltd Bermuda
Charles E. Frosst (U.K.) Limited Great Britain
Chibret A/S Denmark
Chibret Pharmazeutische GmbH Germany
China-MSD HIV/AIDS Public Private Partnership, Inc. China
Chippewa Holdings LLC Delaware
Cloverleaf International Holdings S.A. Luxembourg
CM Delaware LLC Delaware
Comsort, Inc. Delaware
Coophavet S.A.S. 1 France
Coordinated Patient Care Scandinavia AS Norway
Crosswinds B.V. Netherlands
Dieckmann Arzneimittel GmbH Germany
European Insurance Risk Excess Limited Ireland
Farmacox-Companhia Farmaceutica, Lda Portugal
Farmasix-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda Portugal
Financiere MSD S.A.S. France
Fontelabor-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda. Portugal
Fregenal Holdings S.A. Panama
Frosst Iberica, S.A. Spain
Frosst Laboratories, Inc. Delaware
Frosst Portuguesa — Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda. Portugal
Hangzhou MSD Pharmaceutical Company Limited 1 China
Hawk and Falcon L.L.C. Delaware
Infodoc AS 1 Norway
International Indemnity Ltd. Bermuda
Istituto Di Richerche Di Biologia Molecolare S.p.A. Italy
Istituto Gentili S.p.A./Inc. Italy/Delaware
Johnson & Johnson — Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company 1 New Jersey
KBI Inc. Delaware
KBI Sub Inc. Delaware
KBI-E Inc. Delaware
KBI-P Inc. Delaware
Kiinteisto Oy Viistotie 11 Finland
Laboratoires Merck Sharp & Dohme-Chibret SNC France
Laboratorios Abello, S.A. Spain
Laboratorios Biopat, S.A. SpainCountry or State
Name of Incorporation
Laboratorios Chibret, S.A. Spain
Laboratorios Frosst, S.A. Spain
Laboratorios Medichip S.L. Spain
Laboratorios Neurogard, S.A. Spain
Laboratorios Quimico-Farmaceuticos Chibret, Lda. Portugal
Maple Leaf Holdings SRL Barbados
MCM Vaccine Co. 1 Pennsylvania
Medco de Mexico Managed Care S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Medco Holdings S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Medco Servicios de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Merck and Company, Incorporated Delaware
Merck Borinquen Holdings, Inc. Delaware
Merck Capital Resources, Inc. Delaware
Merck Capital Ventures, LLC Delaware
Merck Cardiovascular Health Company Nevada
Merck Enterprises Canada, Ltd. Canada
Merck Finance Co., Inc. Delaware
Merck Foreign Sales Corporation Ltd. Bermuda
Merck Frosst Canada Ltd. Canada
Merck Frosst Company Canada
Merck Frosst Finco LP Canada
Merck Hamilton, Inc. California
Merck Holdings II Corp. Delaware
Merck Holdings, Inc. Delaware
Merck Institute for Vaccinology Delaware
Merck Investment Co., Inc. Delaware
Merck Liability Management Company Delaware
Merck LMC Cash Management (Bermuda) Ltd. Bermuda
Merck LMC Cash Management, Inc. Delaware
Merck Oncology Holdings, Inc. Delaware
Merck Resource Management, Inc. Delaware
Merck Respiratory Health Company Nevada
Merck SH Inc. Delaware
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Argentina) Inc. Delaware
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Asia) Limited Hong Kong
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Australia) Pty. Limited Australia
Merck Sharp & Dohme (China) Limited Hong Kong
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Enterprises) B.V. Netherlands
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Europe) Inc. Delaware
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Holdings) B.V. Netherlands
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Holdings) Limited Great Britain
Merck Sharp & Dohme (I.A.) Corp. Delaware
Merck Sharp & Dohme (International) Limited Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Investments) B.V. Netherlands
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Ireland) Ltd. Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Israel — 1996) Company Ltd. Israel
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Italia) S.p.A. Italy
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Lebanon) S.A.L. Lebanon
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Middle East) Limited Cyprus
Merck Sharp & Dohme (New Zealand) Limited New ZealandCountry or State
Name of Incorporation
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Panama) S.A. Panama
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Philippines) Inc. Philippines
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Puerto Rico) Ltd. Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Singapore) Ltd. Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) A.B. Sweden
Merck Sharp & Dohme Asia Pacific Services Pte Ltd. Singapore
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. Netherlands
Merck Sharp & Dohme Chibret A.G. Switzerland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Comercializadora, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o. Croatia
Merck Sharp & Dohme de Espana, S.A. Spain
Merck Sharp & Dohme de Mexico S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Merck Sharp & Dohme de Venezuela S.R.L. Venezuela
Merck Sharp & Dohme Farmaceutica Ltda. Brazil
Merck Sharp & Dohme Finance Europe Limited Great Britain
Merck Sharp & Dohme GmbH Austria
Merck Sharp & Dohme Holdings de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Merck Sharp & Dohme IDEA, Inc. Switzerland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Industria Quimica e Veterinaria Limitada Brazil
Merck Sharp & Dohme inovativna zdravila d.o.o. Slovenia
Merck Sharp & Dohme International Services B.V. Netherlands
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health) Ltd Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ísland hf Iceland
Merck Sharp & Dohme L.L.C. Russian Federation
Merck Sharp & Dohme Limited Great Britain
Merck Sharp & Dohme Luxembourg (Holdings) S.a.r.l. Luxembourg
Merck Sharp & Dohme Manufacturing Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme O.U. Estonia
Merck Sharp & Dohme of Pakistan Limited Pakistan
Merck Sharp & Dohme Peru SRL Peru
Merck Sharp & Dohme Quimica de Puerto Rico, Inc. Delaware
Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Ltd. Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Merck Sharp & Dohme S.A. Morocco
Merck Sharp & Dohme SAS France
Merck Sharp & Dohme SIA Latvia
Merck Sharp & Dohme Tunisie Sarl Tunisia
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Limitada Portugal
Merck Sharp Dohme Ilaclari Limited Sirketi Turkey
Merck Technology (U.S.) Company, Inc. Nevada
Merck Ventures, Inc. Delaware
Merial (IA) LLP 1 Puerto Rico
Merial (Thailand) Ltd 1 Thailand
Merial Animal Health Co. Ltd. 1 China
Merial Animal Health Ltd 1 Great Britain
Merial Argentina SA 1 Argentina
Merial Asia PTE, Ltd. 1 Singapore
Merial Australia PTY LTD 1 Australia
Merial B.V. 1 Netherlands
Merial Belgium 1 BelgiumCountry or State
Name of Incorporation
Merial Colombia S.A. 1 Colombia
Merial Distribution SAS 1 France
Merial GmbH 1 Germany
Merial Hong Kong Limited 1 Hong Kong
Merial Inc. 1 Delaware
Merial International Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 1 China
Merial Italia SpA 1 Italy
Merial Japan, Limited 1 Japan
Merial Korea Ltd 1 Korea
Merial Laboratorios SA 1 Spain
Merial Limited/LLC 1 Great Britain/Delaware
Merial Nanjing Animal Health Co. Ltd. 1 China
Merial New Zealand Limited 1 New Zealand
Merial Norden A/S 1 Denmark
Merial Philippines, Inc. 1 Philippines
Merial Portuguesa — Saude Animal LDA 1 Portugal
Merial SA 1 Uruguay
Merial SAS 1 France
Merial Saude Animal LTDA 1 Brazil
Merial Taiwan Co., Ltd. 1 Taiwan
Merial Venezuela , C.A. 1 Venezuela
ML Holdings (Canada) Inc. Canada
MSD (Nippon Holdings) BV Netherlands
MSD (Norge) A/S Norway
MSD (Proprietary) Limited South Africa
MSD (Thailand) Ltd. Thailand
MSD Australia Pty Ltd Australia
MSD Australia Superannuation Pty Ltd. Australia
MSD Brazil (Investments) B.V. Netherlands
MSD Chibropharm GmbH Germany
MSD Finance B.V. Netherlands
MSD Finance Mexico, LLC Delaware
MSD International Holdings, Inc. Delaware
MSD Ireland (Holdings) S.A. Luxembourg
MSD Ireland (Investments) Ltd. Bermuda
MSD Korea Ltd. Korea
MSD Lakemedel (Scandinavia) Aktiebolog Sweden
MSD Latin America Services Ltd. Bermuda
MSD Latin America Services S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
MSD Limited Great Britain
MSD Magyarország Kft Hungary
MSD Mexico (Investments) B.V. Netherlands
MSD Overseas Manufacturing Co. Bermuda
MSD Overseas Manufacturing Co. (Ireland) Ireland
MSD Pharmaceuticals Private Limited India
MSD Polska Sp.z.o.o. Poland
MSD Sharp & Dohme GmbH Germany
MSD Somerset Ltd. Bermuda
MSD Stamford Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore
MSD Technology Singapore Pte. Ltd. SingaporeCountry or State
Name of Incorporation
MSD Technology, L.P. Delaware
MSD Unterstutzungskasse GmbH Germany
MSD Ventures Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore
MSD Warwick (Manufacturing) Ltd. Bermuda
MSD-Essex GmbH Switzerland
MSDJ Holdings (Canada) Inc. Canada
MSD-SP Ltd. Great Britain
MSP Distribution Services (C) LLC 1 Nevada
MSP Distribution Services (R) LLC 1 Nevada
MSP Marketing Services (C) LLC 1 Nevada
MSP Marketing Services (R) LLC 1 Nevada
MSP Singapore Company, LLC 1 Delaware
MSP Technology (U.S.) Company, LLC 1 Delaware
Neopharmed S.p.A. Italy
P.T. Merck Sharp & Dohme Indonesia Indonesia
Pasteur Vaccins S.A. 1 France
Readington Investments, Inc. New Jersey
Rosetta Inpharmatics LLC Delaware
Ruskin Limited Bermuda
Sanofi Pasteur MSD A/S Denmark
Sanofi Pasteur MSD AG Switzerland
Sanofi Pasteur MSD Gestion S.A. 1 France
Sanofi Pasteur MSD GmbH Austria
Sanofi Pasteur MSD GmbH Germany
Sanofi Pasteur MSD Ltd. Great Britain
Sanofi Pasteur MSD Ltd. Ireland
Sanofi Pasteur MSD N.V./S.A. Belgium
Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.A. Spain
Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.p.A. Italy
Sanofi Pasteur MSD SNC 1 France
Seneca I LLC Delaware
Sharp & Dohme, S.A. Spain
STELLARx, Inc. Nevada
Suomen MSD Oy Finland
TELERx Marketing Inc. Pennsylvania
The MSD Foundation Limited Great Britain
Thomas Morson & Son Limited Great Britain
Tradewinds Manufacturing SRL Barbados
Transrow Manufacturing Ltd. 1 Bermuda
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme Lithuania
Variopharm Arzneimittel GmbH Germany
____________
1 own less than 100%EXHIBIT 24.1
POWER OF ATTORNEY
Each of the undersigned does hereby appoint CELIA A. COLBERT and KENNETH C. FRAZIER and each of them, severally, his/her true
and lawful attorney or attorneys to execute on behalf of the undersigned (whether on behalf of the Company, or as an officer or director thereof,
or by attesting the seal of the Company, or otherwise) the Form 10-K Annual Report of Merck & Co., Inc. for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2005 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including amendments thereto and all exhibits and other documents in
connection therewith.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument has been duly executed as of the 28 th day of February 2006.
MERCK & CO., Inc.
By /s/ Richard T. Clark
Richard T. Clark
(Chief Executive Officer and President)
/s/ Richard T. Clark Chief Executive Officer and President
R ichard T. Clark ( Principal Executive Officer; Director)
/s/ Judy C. Lewent Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
J udy C. Lewent ( Principal Financial Officer)
/s/ Richard C. Henriques, Jr. Vice President, Controller
R ichard C. Henriques, Jr. ( Principal Accounting Officer)
DIRECTORS
/s/ Lawrence A. Bossidy /s/ Thomas E. Shenk
L awrence A. Bossidy T homas E. Shenk
/s/ William G. Bowen
W illiam G. Bowen A nne M. Tatlock
/s/ Johnnetta B. Cole /s/ Samuel O. Thier
J ohnnetta B. Cole S amuel O. Thier
/s/ Wendell P. Weeks
W illiam B. Harrison, Jr. W endell P. Weeks
/s/ William N. Kelley /s / Peter C. Wendell
W illiam N. Kelley P eter C. Wendell
/s/ Rochelle B. Lazarus
Rochelle B. LazarusEXHIBIT 24.2
I, Debra A. Bollwage, Senior Assistant Secretary of MERCK & CO., Inc., a Corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the
State of New Jersey, do hereby certify that the following is a true copy of a resolution adopted at a meeting of the Directors of said Corporation
held in New York City, New York, on February 28, 2006, duly called in accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws of said Corporation, and
at which a quorum of Directors was present:
“ Special Resolution No. — 2006
RESOLVED, that the proposed form of Form 10-K Annual Report of the Company for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005
presented to this meeting is hereby approved with such changes as the proper officers of the Company, with the advice of counsel, deem
appropriate; and
RESOLVED, that each officer and director who may be required to execute the aforesaid Form 10-K Annual Report or any
amendments thereto (whether on behalf of the Company or as an officer or director thereof, or by attesting the seal of the Company, or
otherwise) is hereby authorized to execute a power of attorney appointing Celia A. Colbert and Kenneth C. Frazier and each of them,
severally, his/her true and lawful attorney or attorneys to execute in his/her name, place and stead (in any such capacity) such Form 10-K
Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto and any and all exhibits and other documents necessary or incidental in connection
therewith and to file the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, each of said attorneys to have power to act with or without
the others, and to have full power and authority to do and perform in the name and on behalf of each of said officers and directors, or both,
as the case may be, every act whatsoever necessary or advisable to be done in the premises as fully and to all intents and purposes as any
such officer or director might or could do in person.”
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my signature and affixed the seal of the Corporation this 13 th day of
March 2006.
[Corporate Seal] /s/ Debra A. Bollwage
Debra A. Bollwage
Senior Assistant SecretaryExhibit 31.1
CERTIFICATION
I, Richard T. Clark, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Merck & Co., Inc.;
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
4. The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15
(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:
a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed
under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about
the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant’s
most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; and
5. The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):
a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s
internal control over financial reporting.
Date: March 13, 2006
By: /s/ Richard T. Clark
Richard T. Clark
Chief Executive Officer and PresidentExhibit 31.2
CERTIFICATION
I, Judy C. Lewent, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Merck & Co., Inc.;
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
4. The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15
(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:
a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed
under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about
the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant’s
most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; and
5. The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):
a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s
internal control over financial reporting.
Date: March 13, 2006
By: /s/ Judy C. Lewent
Judy C. Lewent
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerExhibit 32.1
Section 1350
Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of Merck & Co., Inc. (the “Company”), hereby certifies that the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 (the “Report”) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
Dated: March 13, 2006 /s/ Richard T. Clark
Name: Richard T. Clark
Title: Chief Executive Officer and PresidentExhibit 32.2
Section 1350
Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of Merck & Co., Inc. (the “Company”), hereby certifies that the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 (the “Report”) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
Dated: March 13, 2006 /s/ Judy C. Lewent
Name: Judy C. Lewent
Title: Executive Vice President & Chief Financial
Officer