Table of ContentsTable of Contents
As filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 27, 2009
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1) Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2008
or
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
For the transition period from ________ to ________
Commission File No. 1-3305
Merck & Co., Inc.
One Merck Drive
Whitehouse Station, N. J. 08889-0100
(908) 423-1000
Incorporated in New Jersey I.R.S. Employer
Identification No. 22-1109110
Securities Registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Name of Each Exchange
Title of Each Class on which Registered
Common Stock New York Stock Exchange
($0.01 par value)
Number of shares of Common Stock ($0.01 par value) outstanding as of January 30, 2009: 2,107,712,364.
Aggregate market value of Common Stock ($0.01 par value) held by non-affiliates on June 30, 2008 based on closing
price on June 30, 2008: $80,729,000,000.
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes (cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1) No (cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Yes (cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) No (cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes (cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1) No (cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. (cid:1)
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a
smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check One):
L arge accelerated filer (cid:1) Accelerated filer (cid:3) Non-accelerated filer (cid:3) Smaller reporting company (cid:3)
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) No (cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)
Documents Incorporated by Reference:
Document Part of Form 10-K
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Part IIIStockholders to be held April 28, 2009, to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days
after the close of the fiscal year covered by this reportTable of Contents
P age
Part I
Item 1. Business 2
Item 1A. Risk Factors 18
Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results 26
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27
Item 2. Properties 27
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27
Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 42
Executive Officers of the Registrant 42
Part II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities 45
Item 6. Selected Financial Data 49
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 50
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 85
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 86
(a) Financial Statements 86
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 89
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 141
(b) Supplementary Data 142
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 143
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 143
Management’s Report 143
Item 9B. Other Information 144
Part III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 144
Item 11. Executive Compensation 145
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters 145
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 145
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 145
Part IV
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 146
Signatures 161
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 162
Independent Auditors’ Consent 163
EX-10.3: DEFERRAL PROGRAM
EX-10.10; SPECIAL SEPARATION PROGRAM FOR "SEPARATED" EMPLOYEES
EX-10.11: SPECIAL SEPARATION PROGRAM FOR "BRIDGED" EMPLOYEES
EX-10.12: SPECIAL SEPARATION PROGRAM FOR "SEPARATED RETIREMENT ELIGIBLE"
EMPLOYEES
EX-10.16: SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT PLAN
EX-10.18: PLAN FOR DEFERRED PAYMENT OF DIRECTORS'S COMPENSATION
EX-12: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
EX-21: SUBSIDIARIES OF MERCK & CO., INC.
EX-24.1: POWER OF ATTORNEY
EX-24.2: CERTIFIED RESOLUTION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EX-31.1: CERTIFICATION
EX-31.2: CERTIFICATION
EX-32.1: CERTIFICAION
EX-32.2: CERTIFICATIONTable of Contents
PART I
I tem 1. Business.
Merck & Co., Inc. (“Merck” or the “Company”) is a global research-driven pharmaceutical company that
discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of innovative products to improve human and animal
health. The Company’s operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of two reportable
segments: the Pharmaceutical segment and the Vaccines and Infectious Diseases segment. The Pharmaceutical
segment includes human health pharmaceutical products marketed either directly by Merck or through joint ventures.
These products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, sold by prescription, for the treatment of human
disorders. Merck sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers,
hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations,
pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. The Vaccines and Infectious Diseases segment includes human
health vaccine and infectious disease products marketed either directly by Merck or, in the case of vaccines, also
through a joint venture. Vaccine products consist of preventative pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily
administered at physician offices. Merck sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers,
physician distributors and government entities. Infectious disease products consist of therapeutic agents for the
treatment of infection sold primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals and government agencies. The
Company’s professional representatives communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of its pharmaceutical and
vaccine products to health care professionals in private practice, group practices and managed care organizations.
For financial information and other information about the Pharmaceutical segment and the Vaccines and
Infectious Diseases segment, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” below.
Overview — During 2008, the Company continued to address business challenges in the midst of an
evolving pharmaceutical industry environment. Revenue declined by 1% in 2008 driven largely by lower sales of
Fosamax (alendronate sodium) for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis. Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D
(alendronate sodium/cholecalciferol) lost market exclusivity for substantially all formulations in the United States in
February 2008 and April 2008, respectively, and as a result the Company is experiencing a significant decline in
sales in the United States within the Fosamax franchise. Also contributing to the decline were lower sales of Zocor
(simvastatin) , the Company’s statin for modifying cholesterol which lost U.S. market exclusivity in 2006. Partially
offsetting these declines were higher sales of Januvia (sitagliptin phosphate) and Janumet (sitagliptin phosphate and
metformin hydrochloride) for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and Isentress (raltegravir), an antiretroviral therapy for
the treatment of HIV infection.
To address the business and industry challenges that Merck faces, the Company remains focused on
innovation and customer value in order to drive the growth of its business and help position Merck for future success.
The Company has made significant progress with re-engineering its operations through research and
development initiatives, the roll-out of a new commercial model and the continuation of Merck’s supply strategy.
These activities should enable the Company to optimize its product portfolio and invest in growth opportunities, such
as emerging markets, Merck BioVentures and business development.
Merck continues its efforts to diversify the Company’s scientific portfolio both through internal programs
and external research collaborations. The Company is focused on developing novel, best-in-class or follow-on
treatments for patients in primary care, specialty care, and hospital settings. Additionally, Merck Research
Laboratories is pursuing a portfolio of treatment modalities that not only includes small molecules and vaccines, but
also biologics, peptides and RNA interference (“RNAi”). Further, Merck is moving to diversify its portfolio by
creating a new division, Merck BioVentures, which leverages a unique technology platform for both follow-on and
novel biologics.
The Company has numerous active clinical programs across the Company’s major research franchises:
bone, respiratory, immunology and endocrine; cardiovascular; diabetes and obesity; infectious diseases;
neuroscience; oncology and vaccines. The Company currently has nine candidates in Phase III clinical development
and
2Table of Contents
anticipates submitting two New Drug Applications (“NDA”) with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”)
with respect to two of the candidates in 2009: MK-0974, telcagepant, an investigational compound for the treatment
of migraines, and MK-7418, rolofylline, an investigational compound for the treatment of acute heart failure. In
addition, the Company anticipates submitting an NDA in 2009 for MK-0653C, ezetimibe combined with
atorvastatin, an investigational medication for the treatment of dyslipidemia being developed by the Merck/Schering-
Plough joint venture. Also, the Company anticipates regulatory action in 2009 on two supplemental filings that have
been submitted to the FDA: one for Gardasil , Merck’s HPV vaccine, for use in males; and one for Isentress , a
first-in-class integrase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV-1 infection, for an expanded indication for use in treatment-
naïve patients.
On the commercial side, the Company is rolling out a more customer-centric selling model that is designed
to provide a competitive advantage, help build trust with customers, and improve patient outcomes. The strategy
employs the use of new marketing technologies to complement a new, more customer-centered approach; and moves
away from the traditional frequency-based sales and marketing approach; it also creates efficiencies by eliminating
redundancies in core functions and across the sales organization.
On the manufacturing side, Merck has made significant progress in the three years since it began re-
engineering to create a lean, flexible, cost-effective capability. The Company continues to address its manufacturing
issues and it is working to build additional capacity in vaccines and biologics, as well as to support Merck’s
expansion into emerging markets. To assist this goal, the Company is shifting investments from developed markets
into emerging markets commensurate with the size and strategic importance of the opportunity.
In October 2008, the Company announced a global restructuring program (the “2008 Restructuring
Program”) to reduce its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. As discussed above, Merck
is rolling out a new, more customer-centric selling model. Additionally, the Company will make greater use of
outside technology resources, centralize common sales and marketing activities, and consolidate and streamline its
operations. Merck’s manufacturing division will further focus its capabilities on core products and outsource non-
core manufacturing. Also, Merck is expanding its access to worldwide external science through a basic research
global operating strategy, which is designed to provide a sustainable pipeline and is focused on translating basic
research productivity into late-stage clinical success. To increase efficiencies, basic research operations will
consolidate work in support of a given therapeutic area into one of four locations. This will provide a more efficient
use of research facilities and result in the closure of three basic research sites located in Tsukuba, Japan; Pomezia,
Italy; and Seattle by the end of 2009. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the Company expects to eliminate
approximately 7,200 positions — 6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies — across all areas of the Company
worldwide by the end of 2011, approximately 1,750 of which the Company eliminated in 2008. About 40% of the
total reductions will occur in the United States. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the Company is
streamlining management layers by reducing its total number of senior and mid-level executives globally by
approximately 25%. The Company, however, continues to hire new employees as the business requires. The 2008
Restructuring Program is expected to be completed by the end of 2011 with the total pretax costs estimated to be
$1.6 billion to $2.0 billion. In 2008, the Company recorded pretax restructuring costs of $921.3 million related to the
2008 Restructuring Program. The Company estimates that two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs will result in
future cash outlays, primarily from employee separation expense. Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax
costs are non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested. Merck
expects the 2008 Restructuring Program to yield cumulative pretax savings of $3.8 billion to $4.2 billion from 2008
to 2013.
During 2008, in connection with certain transactions with AstraZeneca LP (“AZLP”), the Company
recorded an aggregate pretax gain of $2.2 billion which is included in Other (income) expense, net and received net
proceeds from AZLP of $2.6 billion. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.
Earnings per common share (“EPS”) assuming dilution for 2008 were $3.64, including the impact of the
gain on distribution from AZLP of $0.66 per share and restructuring costs of $(0.44) per share. In addition, EPS in
2008 reflects the favorable impact of certain tax items. All of these items are discussed more fully in the notes to the
consolidated financial statements.
3Table of Contents
Product Sales
Sales (1) of the Company’s products were as follows:
( $ in millions) 2008 2007 2006
P harmaceutical:
Singulair $ 4,336.9 $ 4,266.3 $ 3,579.0
Cozaar/Hyzaar 3,557.7 3,350.1 3,163.1
Fosamax 1,552.7 3,049.0 3,134.4
Januvia 1,397.1 667.5 42.9
Cosopt/Trusopt 781.2 786.8 697.1
Zocor 660.1 876.5 2,802.7
Maxalt 529.2 467.3 406.4
Propecia 429.1 405.4 351.8
Arcoxia 377.3 329.1 265.4
Vasotec/Vaseretic 356.7 494.6 547.2
Janumet 351.1 86.4 -
Proscar 323.5 411.0 618.5
Emend 263.8 204.2 130.8
Other pharmaceutical (2) 2,278.9 2,422.9 2,780.5
Vaccine and infectious disease product sales included in the Pharmaceutical segment (3) 2,187.6 1,800.5 1,315.8
P harmaceutical segment revenues 19,382.9 19,617.6 19,835.6
V accines (4) and Infectious Diseases:
Gardasil 1,402.8 1,480.6 234.8
ProQuad/M-M-R II/Varivax 1,268.5 1,347.1 820.1
RotaTeq 664.5 524.7 163.4
Zostavax 312.4 236.0 38.6
Hepatitis vaccines 148.3 279.9 248.5
Other vaccines 354.6 409.9 354.0
Primaxin 760.4 763.5 704.8
Cancidas 596.4 536.9 529.8
Isentress 361.1 41.3 -
Crixivan/Stocrin 275.1 310.2 327.3
Invanz 265.0 190.2 139.2
Other infectious disease 15.5 1.7 -
Vaccine and infectious disease product sales included in the Pharmaceutical segment (3) (2,187.6 ) (1,800.5 ) (1,315.8 )
V accines and Infectious Diseases segment revenues 4,237.0 4,321.5 2,244.7
O ther segment revenues (5) 81.8 162.0 162.1
Total segment revenues 23,701.7 24,101.1 22,242.4
O ther (6) 148.6 96.6 393.6
$ 23,850.3 $ 24,197.7 $ 22,636.0
( 1) Presented net of discounts and returns.
( 2) Other pharmaceutical primarily includes sales of other human pharmaceutical products and revenue from the Company’s relationship with
AZLP primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. Revenue from AZLP was $1.6 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion in 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively. In 2006, other pharmaceutical also reflected certain supply sales, including supply sales associated with the
Company’s arrangement with Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories for the sale of generic simvastatin.
( 3) Sales of vaccine and infectious disease products by non-U.S. subsidiaries are included in the Pharmaceutical segment.
( 4) These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Company’s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur
MSD, the results of which are reflected in Equity income from affiliates. These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur
MSD.
( 5) Includes other non-reportable human and animal health segments.
( 6) Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenue, sales related to divested products or businesses and other supply
sales not included in segment results.
4Table of Contents
The Company’s pharmaceutical products include therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by
prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Among these are Singulair (montelukast sodium), a leukotriene
receptor antagonist for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis; Cozaar
(losartan potassium), Hyzaar (losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide), Vasotec (enalapril maleate) and
Vaseretic (enalapril maleate-hydrochlorothiazide) , the Company’s most significant hypertension and/or heart failure
products; Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D , Merck’s osteoporosis products for the treatment and, in the case of
Fosamax , prevention of osteoporosis; Januvia and Janumet for the treatment of type 2 diabetes; Cosopt
(dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution) and Trusopt (dorzolamide hydrochloride
ophthalmic solution) , Merck’s largest-selling ophthalmological products; Zocor , Merck’s statin for modifying
cholesterol; Maxalt (rizatriptan benzoate) , an acute migraine product; Propecia (finasteride), a product for the
treatment of male pattern hair loss; Arcoxia (etoricoxib) for the treatment of arthritis and pain; Proscar (finasteride),
a urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement; and Emend (aprepitant) for the
prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative nausea and vomiting.
The Company’s vaccine and infectious disease products include Gardasil, a vaccine to help prevent
cervical, vulvar and vaginal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions, and genital warts caused by HPV types 6,
11, 16 and 18; Varivax (Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox; ProQuad (Measles,
Mumps, Rubella and Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a pediatric combination vaccine against measles, mumps,
rubella and varicella; M-M-R II (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine against measles,
mumps and rubella; RotaTeq (Rotavirus Vaccine Live, Oral, Pentavalent), a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus
gastroenteritis in infants and children; Zostavax (Zoster Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes
zoster); Primaxin (imipenem and cilastatin sodium) and Cancidas (caspofungin acetate), anti-bacterial/anti-fungal
products; Isentress , Crixivan (indinavir sulfate) and Stocrin (efavirenz), antiretroviral therapies for the treatment of
HIV infection; and Invanz (ertapenem sodium) for the treatment of infection. For a further discussion of sales of the
Company’s products, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” below.
U.S. Product Approvals — On January 25, 2008, the FDA approved Emend (fosaprepitant dimeglumine)
for Injection, 115 mg, for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. Emend for Injection
provides a new option for day one, as a substitute for Emend (125 mg) taken orally, as part of the recommended
three-day regimen. Prior to the FDA decision, the European Union (“EU”) on January 11, 2008 granted marketing
approval for Emend for Injection, known as Ivemend in the EU, an action that applies to all 27 EU member countries
as well as Norway and Iceland.
On August 5, 2008, Merck announced that the FDA approved an expanded label for Cancidas , which
makes it the first and only echinocandin therapy approved in the United States for the treatment of pediatric patients
aged three months to 17 years with indicated fungal infections.
On September 12, 2008, the FDA approved Gardasil for the prevention of vulvar and vaginal cancers
caused by HPV types 16 and 18. The approval is based on data from a combined analysis of three studies that
demonstrated the efficacy and safety of Gardasil in more than 15,000 patients.
Vioxx U.S. Product Liability Settlement — On September 30, 2004, Merck announced a voluntary
worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx , its arthritis and acute pain medication. The Company’s decision, which was
effective immediately, was based on new three-year data from a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical
trial, APPROVe (Adenomatous Polyp Prevention on Vioxx ).
On November 9, 2007, the Company announced that it had entered into an agreement (the “Settlement
Agreement”) with the law firms that comprise the executive committee of the Plaintiffs’ Steering Committee of the
federal multidistrict Vioxx litigation as well as representatives of plaintiffs’ counsel in the Texas, New Jersey and
California state coordinated proceedings to resolve state and federal myocardial infarction (“MI”) and ischemic
stroke (“IS”) claims filed as of that date in the United States. The Settlement Agreement, which also applies to tolled
claims, was signed by the parties after several meetings with three of the four judges overseeing the coordination of
more than 95% of the current claims in the Vioxx litigation. The Settlement Agreement applies only to U.S. legal
residents and those who allege that their MI or IS occurred in the United States.
5Table of Contents
As of October 30, 2008, the deadline for enrollment in the Settlement Program (as defined below), more
than 48,100 of the approximately 48,325 individuals who were eligible for the Settlement Program and whose claims
were not 1) dismissed, 2) expected to be dismissed in the near future, or 3) tolled claims that appear to have been
abandoned had submitted some or all of the materials required for enrollment in the Settlement Program. This
represents approximately 99.8% of the eligible MI and IS claims previously registered with the Settlement Program.
Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, Merck could exercise a right to walk away from the Settlement
Agreement if the thresholds and other requirements were not met. The Company waived that right as of August 4,
2008. The waiver of that right triggered Merck’s obligation to pay a fixed total of $4.85 billion. Payments will be
made in installments into the settlement funds. The first payment of $500 million was made in August 2008 and an
additional payment of $250 million was made in October 2008. Additional payments will be made on a periodic
basis going forward, when and as needed to fund payments of claims and administrative expenses.
Joint Ventures — The Company has a number of joint ventures relating to its Pharmaceutical and Vaccines
and Infectious Diseases segments.
P harmaceutical
In 2000, the Company and Schering-Plough Corporation (“Schering-Plough”) entered into agreements to
create separate equally-owned partnerships to develop and market in the United States new prescription medicines in
the cholesterol-management and respiratory therapeutic areas. In December 2001, the cholesterol-management
partnership agreements were expanded to include all the countries of the world, excluding Japan. In October 2002,
Zetia ( ezetimibe) (marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States), the first in a new class of cholesterol-lowering
agents, was launched in the United States. In July 2004, Vytorin (marketed as Inegy outside the United States), a
combination product containing the active ingredients of both Zetia and Zocor, was approved in the United States.
As previously disclosed, in January 2008, the Company announced the results of the Effect of Combination
Ezetimibe and High-Dose Simvastatin vs. Simvastatin Alone on the Atherosclerotic Process in Patients with
Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (“ENHANCE”) clinical trial, an imaging trial in 720 patients with
heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very high levels of LDL “bad”
cholesterol and greatly increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease. As previously reported, despite the
fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/80 mg ( Vytorin ) significantly lowered LDL “bad” cholesterol more than
simvastatin 80 mg alone, there was no significant difference between treatment with ezetimibe/simvastatin and
simvastatin alone on the pre-specified primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of carotid artery walls over two
years as measured by ultrasound. There also were no significant differences between treatment with
ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin on the four pre-specified key secondary endpoints: percent of patients
manifesting regression in the average carotid artery intima-media thickness (“CA IMT”); proportion of patients
developing new carotid artery plaques >1.3 mm; changes in the average maximum CA IMT; and changes in the
average CA IMT plus in the average common femoral artery IMT. In ENHANCE, when compared to simvastatin
alone, ezetimibe/simvastatin significantly lowered LDL “bad” cholesterol, as well as triglycerides and C-reactive
protein (“CRP”). Ezetimibe/simvastatin is not indicated for the reduction of CRP. In the ENHANCE study, the
overall safety profile of ezetimibe/simvastatin was generally consistent with the product label. The ENHANCE study
was not designed nor powered to evaluate cardiovascular clinical events. The Improved Reduction in High-Risk
Subjects Presenting with Acute Coronary Syndrome (“IMPROVE-IT”) trial is underway and is designed to provide
cardiovascular outcomes data for ezetimibe/simvastatin in patients with acute coronary syndrome. No incremental
benefit of ezetimibe/simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for
simvastatin has been established. In March 2008, the results of ENHANCE were reported at the annual Scientific
Session of the American College of Cardiology.
On July 21, 2008, efficacy and safety results from the Simvastatin and Ezetimibe in Aortic Stenosis
(“SEAS”) study were announced. SEAS was designed to evaluate whether intensive lipid lowering with Vytorin
10/40 mg would reduce the need for aortic valve replacement and the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality
versus placebo in patients with asymptomatic mild to moderate aortic stenosis who had no indication for statin
therapy. Vytorin failed to meet its primary end point for the reduction of major cardiovascular events. There also was
no significant difference in the key secondary end point of aortic valve events; however, there was a reduction in the
group of patients taking Vytorin compared to placebo in the key secondary end point of ischemic cardiovascular
6Table of Contents
events. Vytorin is not indicated for the treatment of aortic stenosis. No incremental benefit of Vytorin on
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. In the
study, patients in the group who took Vytorin 10/40 mg had a higher incidence of cancer than the group who took
placebo. There was also a nonsignificant increase in deaths from cancer in patients in the group who took Vytorin
versus those who took placebo. Cancer and cancer deaths were distributed across all major organ systems. The
Company believes the cancer finding in SEAS is likely to be an anomaly that, taken in light of all the available data,
does not support an association with Vytorin . In August 2008, the FDA announced that it was investigating the
results from the SEAS trial. In this announcement, the FDA also cited interim data from two large ongoing
cardiovascular trials of Vytorin — the Study of Heart and Renal Protection (“SHARP”) and the IMPROVE-IT
clinical trials — in which there was no increased risk of cancer with the combination of simvastatin plus ezetimibe.
The SHARP trial is expected to be completed in 2010. The IMPROVE-IT trial is scheduled for completion around
2012. The FDA determined that, as of that time, these findings in the SEAS trial plus the interim data from ongoing
trials should not prompt patients to stop taking Vytorin or any other cholesterol lowering drug.
The Company, through Merck/Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals (the “MSP Partnership”), is committed to
working with regulatory agencies to further evaluate the available data and interpretations of those data; however, the
Company does not believe that changes in the clinical use of Vytorin are warranted.
As previously disclosed, the Company and its joint venture partner, Schering-Plough, have received several
letters addressed to both companies from the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, its Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations (“O&I”), and the Ranking Minority Member of the Senate Finance Committee,
collectively seeking a combination of witness interviews, documents and information on a variety of issues related to
the ENHANCE clinical trial, the sale and promotion of Vytorin , as well as sales of stock by corporate officers. In
addition, since August 2008, the companies have received three additional letters from O&I, including one dated
February 19, 2009, seeking certain information and documents related to the SEAS clinical trial. As previously
disclosed, the companies have each received subpoenas from the New York and New Jersey State Attorneys General
Offices and a letter from the Connecticut Attorney General seeking similar information and documents. In addition,
the Company has received five Civil Investigative Demands (“CIDs”) from a multistate group of 35 State Attorneys
General who are jointly investigating whether the companies violated state consumer protection laws when
marketing Vytorin . Finally, in September 2008, the Company received a letter from the Civil Division of the
Department of Justice (“DOJ ”) informing it that the DOJ is investigating whether the companies’ conduct relating to
the promotion of Vytorin caused false claims to be submitted to federal health care programs. The Company is
cooperating with these investigations and working with Schering-Plough to respond to the inquiries. In addition, the
Company has become aware of or been served with approximately 145 civil class action lawsuits alleging common
law and state consumer fraud claims in connection with the MSP Partnership’s sale and promotion of Vytorin and
Zetia . Certain of those lawsuits allege personal injuries and/or seek medical monitoring. These actions, which have
been filed in or transferred to federal court, are coordinated in a multidistrict litigation in the U.S. District Court for
the District Court of New Jersey before District Judge Dennis M. Cavanaugh. The parties are presently engaged in
motions practice and briefing. Also, as previously disclosed, on April 3, 2008, a Merck shareholder filed a putative
class action lawsuit in federal court in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania alleging that Merck and its Chairman,
President and Chief Executive Officer, Richard T. Clark, violated the federal securities laws. On April 22, 2008, a
member of a Company Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ ERISA”) plan filed a putative class action
lawsuit against the Company and certain of its officers and directors alleging they breached their fiduciary duties
under ERISA.
In 1982, the Company entered into an agreement with Astra AB (“Astra”) to develop and market Astra
products in the United States. In 1994, the Company and Astra formed an equally owned joint venture that developed
and marketed most of Astra’s new prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec ( omeprazole), the
first in a class of medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of
the stomach lining.
In 1998, the Company and Astra restructured the joint venture whereby the Company acquired Astra’s
interest in the joint venture, renamed KBI Inc. (“KBI”), and contributed KBI’s operating assets to a new U.S. limited
partnership named Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (the “Partnership”), in exchange for a 1% limited partner interest.
Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for a
7Table of Contents
99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP (“AZLP”) upon Astra’s 1999 merger with
Zeneca Group Plc (the “AstraZeneca merger”), became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI
retained rights.
The Company earns certain Partnership returns as well as ongoing revenue based on sales of current and
future KBI products. The Partnership returns include a priority return provided for in the Partnership Agreement,
variable returns based, in part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a preferential return
representing the Company’s share of undistributed Partnership GAAP earnings. The AstraZeneca merger triggered a
partial redemption in March 2008 of Merck’s interest in certain AZLP product rights. Upon this redemption, Merck
received $4.3 billion from AZLP. This amount was based primarily on a multiple of Merck’s average annual variable
returns derived from sales of the former Astra USA, Inc. products for the three years prior to the redemption (the
“Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value”). Merck recorded a $1.5 billion pretax gain on the partial redemption in
2008. The partial redemption of Merck’s interest in the product rights did not result in a change in Merck’s 1%
limited partner interest. As described in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” below, after certain
adjustments, the Company recorded an aggregate pretax gain of $2.2 billion.
In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring, Astra purchased an option (the “Asset Option”) for a payment of
$443.0 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to buy Merck’s interest in the KBI products, excluding the
gastrointestinal medicines Nexium (esomeprazole) and Prilosec (the “Non-PPI Products”). The Asset Option is
exercisable in the first half of 2010 at an exercise price equal to the net present value as of March 31, 2008 of
projected future pretax revenue to be received by the Company from the Non-PPI Products (the “Appraised Value”).
Merck also had the right to require Astra to purchase such interest in 2008 at the Appraised Value. In February 2008,
the Company advised AZLP that it would not exercise the Asset Option, thus the $443.0 million remains deferred. In
addition, in 1998, the Company granted Astra an option (the “Shares Option”) to buy Merck’s common stock interest
in KBI and, therefore, Merck’s interest in Nexium and Prilosec , exercisable two years after Astra’s exercise of the
Asset Option. Astra can also exercise the Shares Option in 2017 or if combined annual sales of the two products fall
below a minimum amount provided, in each case, only so long as AstraZeneca’s Asset Option has been exercised in
2010. The exercise price for the Shares Option is based on the net present value of estimated future net sales of
Nexium and Prilosec as determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain true-up mechanisms.
In 1989, the Company formed a joint venture with Johnson & Johnson to develop and market a broad range
of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50% owned joint venture also includes Canada. Significant
joint venture products are Pepcid AC (famotidine), an over-the-counter form of the Company’s ulcer medication
Pepcid (famotidine), as well as Pepcid Complete, an over-the-counter product which combines the Company’s ulcer
medication with antacids (calcium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide).
V accines
In 1994, the Company and Pasteur Mérieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to
market human vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in
the then existing EU and the European Free Trade Association. The Company and Sanofi Pasteur contributed, among
other things, their European vaccine businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as Pasteur Mérieux
MSD, S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD, S.N.C.). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or through
affiliates or branches in Belgium, Italy, Germany, Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the Netherlands,
Switzerland and the United Kingdom, and through distributors in the rest of its territory.
O ther
In 1997, the Company and Rhône-Poulenc S.A. (now Sanofi-Aventis S.A.) combined their respective
animal health businesses to form Merial Limited (“Merial”), a fully integrated animal health company, which is a
stand-alone joint venture, 50% owned by each party. Merial provides a comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and
vaccines to enhance the health, well-being and performance of a wide range of animal species.
Competition — The markets in which the Company conducts its business are highly competitive and often
highly regulated. Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing
and access.
8Table of Contents
Such competition involves an intensive search for technological innovations and the ability to market these
innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well prepared
to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources to meet competition include quality
control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information
service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through joint ventures and licenses and has been
refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. To enhance its product
portfolio, the Company also continues to pursue external alliances. However, the introduction of new products and
processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product replacements, even for products protected by
patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat diseases typically increases over time and has
resulted in slowing the growth in sales of certain of the Company’s products.
Legislation enacted in all states in the United States, particularly in the area of human pharmaceutical
products, allows, encourages or, in a few instances, in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing
physician, mandates the use of “generic” products (those containing the same active chemical as an innovator’s
product) rather than “brand-name” products. Governmental and other pressures toward the dispensing of generic
products have significantly reduced the sales of certain of the Company’s products no longer protected by patents,
such as Zocor, which lost market exclusivity in the U.S. in 2006 and the Company experienced a significant decline
in Zocor sales thereafter. Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D lost marketing exclusivity in the United States in 2008. As a
result of these events, the Company is experiencing significant declines in Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D U.S. sales.
Also, Trusopt and Cosopt lost market exclusivity in the United States in October 2008 and as a result the Company is
experiencing a significant decline in sales of these products.
Distribution — The Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers
and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance
organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to
physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company’s professional representatives
communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the Company’s pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health
care professionals in private practice, group practices and managed care organizations.
Raw Materials — Raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from multiple sources, are
purchased worldwide and are normally available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the Company’s
Pharmaceutical and Vaccines and Infectious Diseases segments.
Government Regulation and Investigation — The pharmaceutical industry is subject to global regulation by
regional, country, state and local agencies. Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which
administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing
of prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and money
necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. In 1997, the Food and Drug
Administration Modernization Act (the “FDA Modernization Act”) was passed and was the culmination of a
comprehensive legislative reform effort designed to streamline regulatory procedures within the FDA and to improve
the regulation of drugs, medical devices and food. The legislation was principally designed to ensure the timely
availability of safe and effective drugs and biologics by expediting the premarket review process for new products. A
key provision of the legislation is the re-authorization of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act of 1992, which permits
the continued collection of user fees from prescription drug manufacturers to augment FDA resources earmarked for
the review of human drug applications. This helps provide the resources necessary to ensure the prompt approval of
safe and effective new drugs.
In the United States, the government expanded health care access by enacting the Medicare Prescription
Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, which was signed into law in December 2003. Prescription drug
coverage began on January 1, 2006. This legislation supports the Company’s goal of improving access to medicines
by expanding insurance coverage, while preserving market-based incentives for pharmaceutical innovation. At the
same time, the legislation will ensure that prescription drug costs will be controlled by competitive pressures and by
encouraging the appropriate use of medicines. The U.S. Congress has considered, and may consider again, proposals
to increase the government’s role in pharmaceutical pricing in the Medicare program.
9Table of Contents
These proposals may include removing the current legal prohibition against the Secretary of the Health and Human
Services intervening in price negotiations between Medicare drug benefit program plans and pharmaceutical
companies. They may also include mandating the payment of rebates for some or all of the pharmaceutical utilization
in Medicare drug benefit plans. In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain
conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries.
For many years, the pharmaceutical industry has been under federal and state oversight with the approval
process for new drugs, drug safety, advertising and promotion, drug purchasing and reimbursement programs and
formularies variously under review. The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations,
including the introduction of new drugs to the market, in this regulatory environment. One type of federal initiative to
contain federal health care spending is the prospective or “capitated” payment system, first implemented to reduce
the rate of growth in Medicare reimbursement to hospitals. Such a system establishes in advance a flat rate for
reimbursement for health care for those patients for whom the payor is fiscally responsible. This type of payment
system and other cost containment systems are now widely used by public and private payors and have caused
hospitals, health maintenance organizations and other customers of the Company to be more cost-conscious in their
treatment decisions, including decisions regarding the medicines to be made available to their patients. The Company
continues to work with private and federal employers to slow increases in health care costs. Further, the Company’s
efforts to demonstrate that its medicines can help save costs in other areas have encouraged the use of the Company’s
medicines and have helped offset the effects of increasing cost pressures.
Also, federal and state governments have pursued methods to directly reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines
for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines
reimbursed by Medicaid, to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service
entities and “disproportionate share” hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria), and to provide minimum discounts
of 24% off of a defined “non-federal average manufacturer price” for purchases by certain components of the federal
government such as the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense.
Initiatives in some states seek rebates beyond the minimum required by Medicaid legislation, in some cases
for patients beyond those who are eligible for Medicaid. Under the Federal Vaccines for Children entitlement
program, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) funds and purchases recommended pediatric
vaccines at a public sector price for the immunization of Medicaid-eligible, uninsured, Native American and certain
underinsured children. The Company was awarded a CDC contract in 2008 for the supply of pediatric vaccines for
the Vaccines for Children program. As of January 1, 2006, patients previously eligible for Medicaid who are also
Medicare beneficiaries (65 years and older or disabled) left the state-administered Medicaid system to be covered by
the new Medicare prescription drug benefit.
Outside the United States, the Company encounters similar regulatory and legislative issues in most of the
countries where it does business. There, too, the primary thrust of governmental inquiry and action is toward
determining drug safety and effectiveness, often with mechanisms for controlling the prices of or reimbursement for
prescription drugs and the profits of prescription drug companies. The EU has adopted directives concerning the
classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products for
human use. The Company’s policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives;
consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Company’s business.
In addition, certain countries within the EU, recognizing the economic importance of the research-based
pharmaceutical industry and the value of innovative medicines to society, are working with industry representatives
to improve the competitive climate through a variety of means including market deregulation.
In January 2008, the European Commission (“EC”) launched a sector inquiry in the pharmaceutical markets
under the rules of EU competition law. As part of its inquiry, the Company’s offices in Germany were inspected by
the authorities in January 2008. The Preliminary Report of the EC was issued on November 28, 2008, in which the
EC stated that it had confirmed its original hypothesis that competition in the pharmaceutical sector may be restricted
or distorted, as indicated by a decline in innovation measured by the number of novel medicines reaching the market,
and by alleged instances of delayed market entry of generic medicines. The public consultation period with respect to
the Preliminary Report expired on January 31, 2009, and the EC has issued further inquiries in respect of the subject
of the investigation. The EC has not alleged that the Company or any of its subsidiaries have
10Table of Contents
engaged in any unlawful practices. The final report is planned for later in 2009. The Company is cooperating with the
EC in this sector inquiry.
The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies and is, therefore, subject to
potential administrative actions. Such actions may include seizures of products and other civil and criminal sanctions.
Under certain circumstances, the Company on its own may deem it advisable to initiate product recalls. The
Company believes that it should be able to compete effectively within this environment.
The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The
legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an
increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the Company’s
business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of U.S. states requiring security breach notification.
Patents, Trademarks and Licenses — Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material
importance in the Company’s marketing of human health products in the United States and in most major foreign
markets. Patents may cover products per se , pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates useful in
the manufacture of products or the uses of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in
accordance with the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from
country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage.
The FDA Modernization Act includes a Pediatric Exclusivity Provision that may provide an additional six
months of market exclusivity in the United States for indications of new or currently marketed drugs if certain agreed
upon pediatric studies are completed by the applicant. These exclusivity provisions were re-authorized by the
Prescription Drug User Fee Act passed in September 2007. Current U.S. patent law provides additional patent term
under Patent Term Restoration for periods when the patented product was under regulatory review before the FDA.
Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the Company normally provide market exclusivity.
The Company has the following key U.S. patent protection (including Patent Term Restoration and Pediatric
Exclusivity) for major marketed products:
P roduct Y ear of Expiration (in U.S.)
Cancidas 2015
Comvax 2020
Cozaar 2010
Crixivan 2012 (compound)/2018 (formulation)
Emend 2015
Gardasil 2026
Hyzaar 2010
Invanz 2016 (compound)/2017 (composition)
Isentress 2023
Januvia/Janumet 2022 (compound)/2026 (salt)
Maxalt 2012 (compound)/2014 (other)
Primaxin 2009
Propecia 2013
Recombivax 2020
RotaTeq 2019 (with pending Patent Term Restoration)
Singulair 2012
Zetia/Vytorin 2017 (ezetimibe – component in both products)
Zolinza 2015
Zostavax 2016
11Table of Contents
A basic patent is also in effect for Sustiva /Stocrin. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, under an exclusive
license from the Company, sells Sustiva in the United States, Canada and certain European countries. The Company
markets Stocrin in other countries throughout the world.
While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a loss of market exclusivity for the covered
pharmaceutical product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from: (i) later-granted patents on processes
and intermediates related to the most economical method of manufacture of the active ingredient of such product;
(ii) patents relating to the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel compositions and formulations; and
(iv) in the United States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may be available under relevant law. The
effect of product patent expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many other factors such as the
nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics
of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product and the requirements of new drug provisions of
the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other countries.
Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States and other countries through all relevant
laws, including laws increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in patent life have been partially offset
by a general increase in the number of incentives for and use of generic products. Additionally, improvements in
intellectual property laws are sought in the United States and other countries through reform of patent and other
relevant laws and implementation of international treaties.
For further information with respect to the Company’s patents, see “Patent Litigation” and “Risk Factors”
below.
Worldwide, all of the Company’s important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the
aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other
countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely.
Royalties received during 2008 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to
$209.3 million. The Company also paid royalties amounting to $1.318 billion in 2008 under patent and know-how
licenses it holds.
R esearch and Development
The Company’s business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing
products through a strong research and development program. Approximately 11,000 people are employed in the
Company’s research activities. Research and development expenses were $4.8 billion in 2008, $4.9 billion in 2007
and $4.8 billion in 2006. The Company maintains its ongoing commitment to research over a broad range of
therapeutic areas and clinical development in support of new products.
The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology
and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. Merck’s research and
development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the
Company’s research and development resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific opportunity and
commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to
discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately on novel, innovative targets with the potential to
have a major impact on human health, on developing best-in-class approaches, and on delivering maximum value of
the Company’s new medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. Another important
component of Merck’s science-based diversification is based on expanding the Company’s portfolio of modalities to
include not only small molecules and vaccines, but also biologics, peptides and RNAi. Further, Merck is moving to
diversify its portfolio by creating a new division, Merck BioVentures, which leverages a unique platform for both
follow-on and novel biologics. The Company will continue to pursue appropriate external licensing opportunities.
During 2008, the Company began implementing a new model for its basic research global operating
strategy. The new model will align franchise and function through clear roles and responsibilities, align resources
12Table of Contents
with disease area priorities and balance capacity across discovery phases and allow the Company to act upon those
programs with the highest probability of success. Additionally, the strategy is designed to expand the Company’s
access to worldwide external science and incorporate external research as a key component of the Company’s early
discovery pipeline in order to translate basic research productivity into late-stage clinical success.
In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the
United States and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical
compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug or vaccine may be
marketed in the United States, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the NDA for a
drug or the Biologics License Application (“BLA”) for a vaccine submitted to the FDA for the required approval.
Once the Company’s scientists discover a new small molecule compound that they believe has promise to
treat a medical condition, the Company commences preclinical testing with that compound. Preclinical testing
includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology and toxicology.
Pending acceptable preclinical data, the Company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established
regulatory requirements. The clinical testing begins with Phase I studies, which are designed to assess safety,
tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. If favorable,
additional, larger Phase II studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population,
define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compound’s
usefulness. If data from the Phase II trials are satisfactory, the Company commences large-scale Phase III trials to
confirm the compound’s efficacy and safety. Upon completion of those trials, if satisfactory, the Company submits
regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved
for marketing. There can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the
regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed.
Vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. Preclinical testing focuses on the
vaccine’s safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). Pre-marketing vaccine clinical
trials are typically done in three phases. Initial Phase I clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate
the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. Phase II studies are dose-ranging studies and
may enroll hundreds of subjects. Finally, Phase III trials typically enroll thousands of individuals and provide the
necessary data on effectiveness and safety. If successful, the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate
regulatory agencies. Also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility undergoes a pre-approval inspection
during which production of the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail.
In the United States, the FDA review process begins once a complete NDA is submitted and received by the
FDA. Pursuant to the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA review period targets for NDAs or supplemental
NDAs is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review. Within 60 days after receipt of
an NDA, the FDA determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. The FDA also
assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. Once the review
timelines are defined, the FDA will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major
amendment has been submitted (either at the Company’s own initiative or the FDA’s request) to the pending
application. If this occurs, the FDA may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by
no more than 180 days. Extensions to the review period are communicated to the Company. The FDA can act on an
application by issuing an approval letter or a complete response letter.
The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA in 2009 for MK-0974, telcagepant, an
investigational oral calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonist, which represents a new mechanism for the
treatment of migraine and has demonstrated efficacy comparable to zolmitriptan, an effective triptan, in the Phase III
clinical program.
The Company also anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA in 2009 for MK-7418, rolofylline, a potential
first-in-class selective adenosine A1 antagonist, which is a Phase III investigational drug being evaluated for the
treatment of acute heart failure.
13Table of Contents
Additionally, the Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA in 2009 for MK-0653C, ezetimibe
combined with atorvastatin, an investigational medication for the treatment of dyslipidemia being developed by the
Merck/Schering-Plough joint venture.
The Company also anticipates regulatory action in 2009 on two supplemental filings that have been
submitted to the FDA: one for Gardasil , Merck’s HPV vaccine, for use in males; and one for Isentress , a
first-in-class integrase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV-1 infection, for an expanded indication for use in treatment-
naïve patients.
In January 2009, the Company received a second complete response letter from FDA regarding the
supplemental BLA (“sBLA”) for the use of Gardasil in women ages 27 though 45. The agency has completed its
review of the response that Merck provided in July 2008 and has recommended that Merck submit additional data
when the 48 month study has been completed. The initial sBLA included data collected through an average of
24 months from enrollment into the study, which is when the number of pre-specified endpoints had been met.
Following a review of the final results of the study, Merck anticipates providing a response to the agency in the
fourth quarter of 2009. The letter does not affect current indications for Gardasil in females ages 9 through 26 nor
does the letter relate to the sBLA that was submitted in December 2008 for the use of Gardasil in males.
In February 2009, data on several Phase III Isentress studies were presented at the 16 th Conference on
Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections in Montreal, Canada. In new subgroup analyses of a Phase III study
(STARTMRK) that compared Isentress to efavirenz (one of the leading antiretrovirals prescribed for previously
untreated (treatment-naïve) HIV-infected patients), Isentress was found to be as effective as efavirenz at suppressing
viral load and provided improvements in immune system function across a broad spectrum of patient subpopulations
through 48 weeks. The use of Isentress in previously untreated HIV-infected patients is an investigational use of the
drug. Both medicines were taken in combination with tenofovir/emtricitabine. In addition, results from two Phase III
studies (SWITCHMRK-1 and -2) evaluating the effect of switching patients whose HIV is controlled on a
lopinavir/ritonavir-based regimen to a regimen containing Isentress tablets showed that Isentress significantly
improved total cholesterol, triglycerides and non-HDL-cholesterol. The study also showed that Isentress did not
demonstrate non-inferior virologic efficacy at maintaining viral load suppression. As a result of the viral load
findings in these trials, Merck discontinued these two studies.
Merck currently has nine products in Phase III development (including MK-0974 and MK-7418 discussed
above):
MK-8669, deforolimus, is a novel mTor (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the
treatment of cancer. The drug candidate is being jointly developed and commercialized with ARIAD
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., under an agreement reached in 2007. A Phase III study (SUCCEED) in patients with
metastatic soft-tissue or bone sarcomas is under way. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the
FDA in 2010.
V503 is a nine-valent HPV vaccine in development to expand protection against cancer-causing HPV types.
The Phase III clinical program is underway and Merck anticipates filing a BLA with the FDA in 2012.
MK-0822, odanacatib, is a highly selective inhibitor of the cathepsin K enzyme, which is being evaluated
for the treatment of osteoporosis. The Phase III program is ongoing. Merck continues to anticipate filing an NDA
with the FDA in 2012.
MK-0524A is a drug candidate that combines extended-release (“ER”) niacin and a novel flushing
inhibitor, laropiprant. MK-0524A has demonstrated the ability to lower LDL-cholesterol “(LDL-C”), raise HDL-
cholesterol (“HDL-C”) and lower triglycerides with significantly less flushing than traditional extended release
niacin alone. High LDL-C, low HDL-C and elevated triglycerides are risk factors associated with heart attacks and
strokes. In April 2008, Merck received a non-approvable action letter from the FDA in response to its NDA for MK-
0524A. At a meeting to the discuss the letter, the FDA stated that additional efficacy and safety data were required
and suggested that the Company wait for the results of the Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence of Vascular
Events (“HPS2-THRIVE”) cardiovascular outcomes study, which is expected to be completed in January 2012.
Merck anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA for MK-0524A in 2012.
14Table of Contents
In July 2008, the Company announced that Tredaptive (also known as MK-0524A) was approved for
marketing in the 27 countries of the EU, Iceland and Norway. Tredaptive is approved for the treatment of
dyslipidemia, particularly in patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia (characterized by elevated levels of LDL-C
and triglycerides and low HDL-C) and in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial and
non-familial). Tredaptive should be used in patients in combination with statins, when the cholesterol lowering
effects of statin monotherapy is inadequate. Tredaptive can be used as monotherapy only in patients in whom statins
are considered inappropriate or not tolerated. The launch of Tredaptive in Europe and other markets has been delayed
due to a manufacturing-related issue. Merck is committed to quickly resolving the issue and to making Tredaptive
available in Europe as soon as possible. In other countries around the world, Merck continues to pursue regulatory
approvals for MK-0524A.
MK-0524B is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to raising HDL-C and lowering
triglycerides from ER niacin combined with laropiprant with the proven benefits of simvastatin in one combination
product. Merck will not seek approval for MK-0524B in the United States until it files its complete response relating
to MK-0524A.
MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein that has shown promise in
lipid management by raising HDL-C and reducing LDL-C without raising blood pressure. A Phase III study was
initiated in 2008 and enrollment in a cardiovascular outcomes study is planned to begin in 2010. The Company
anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2014.
MK-0431C combines Januvia with pioglitazone, another type 2 diabetes therapy. The Company anticipates
filing an NDA with the FDA in 2011.
In October 2008, Merck announced it will not seek regulatory approval for taranabant, an investigational
medicine, to treat obesity and has discontinued its Phase III clinical development program for taranabant for obesity.
Available Phase III data showed that both efficacy and adverse events were dose related, with greater efficacy and
more adverse events in the higher doses. Therefore, after careful consideration, the Company determined that the
overall profile of taranabant did not support further development for obesity.
In December 2008, the Company terminated its collaboration with Dynavax Technologies Corporation
(“Dynavax”) for the development of V270, an investigational hepatitis B vaccine, which was entered into in 2007. In
October 2008, Merck and Dynavax received notification from the FDA regarding the two companies’ response to the
agency’s request for safety information relating to the clinical hold on the two Investigational New Drug (“IND”)
Applications for V270. In issuing the clinical hold in March 2008, the FDA requested a review of clinical and safety
data including all available information about a single case of Wegener’s granulomatosis, an uncommon disease in
which the blood vessels are inflamed, reported in a Phase III clinical trial. Dynavax and Merck had previously
provided a response to the FDA in September 2008. In its October 2008 correspondence, the FDA advised the
companies that the balance of risk versus potential benefit no longer favored continued clinical evaluation of V270 in
healthy adults and children.
The Company’s clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including anemia,
atherosclerosis, cancer, diabetes, heart failure, hypertension, infectious diseases, migraine, neurodegenerative
diseases, psychiatric diseases, osteoporosis, pain, and respiratory disease. The Company supplements its internal
research with an aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations
from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies. The Company completed a number of
transactions in 2008, including research collaborations, preclinical and clinical compounds, and technology
transactions across a broad range of therapeutic categories.
In September 2008, Merck and Japan Tobacco Inc. (“JT”) signed a worldwide licensing agreement to
develop and commercialize JTT-305, an investigational oral osteoanabolic (bone growth stimulating) agent for the
treatment of osteoporosis, a disease which reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone
fractures. JTT-305 is an investigational oral calcium sensing receptor antagonist that is currently being evaluated by
JT in Phase II clinical trials in Japan for its effect on increasing bone density and is in Phase I clinical trials outside of
Japan. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck gained worldwide rights, except for Japan, to develop and
commercialize JTT-305 and certain other related compounds. JT received an upfront payment of $85 million, which
15Table of Contents
the Company recorded as Research and development expense, and is eligible to receive additional cash payments
upon achievement of certain milestones associated with the development and approval of a drug candidate covered
by this agreement. JT will also be eligible to receive royalties from sales of any drug candidates that receive
marketing approval. The license agreement between Merck and JT will remain in effect until expiration of all royalty
and milestone obligations, and may be terminated in the event of an uncured material breach by the other party. The
agreement may also be terminated by Merck without cause before initial commercial sale of JTT-305 by giving six
months prior notice to JT, and thereafter by giving one year prior notice thereof to JT. The license agreement may
also be terminated immediately by Merck if Merck determines due to safety and/or efficacy concerns based on
available scientific evidence to cease development of JTT-305 and/or to withdraw JTT-305 from the market on a
permanent basis.
In February 2009, Merck entered into a definitive agreement with Insmed Inc. (“Insmed”) to purchase
Insmed’s portfolio of follow-on biologic therapeutic candidates and its commercial manufacturing facilities located
in Boulder, Colorado. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck will pay Insmed an aggregate of $130 million in cash
to acquire all rights to the Boulder facilities and Insmed’s pipeline of follow-on biologic candidates. Insmed’s
follow-on biologics portfolio includes two clinical candidates: INS-19, an investigational recombinant granulocyte-
colony stimulating factor (“G-CSF”) that will be evaluated for its ability to prevent infections in patients with cancer
receiving chemotherapy, and INS-20, a pegylated recombinant G-CSF designed to allow for less frequent dosing.
The agreement provides for initial payments of up to $10 million for INS-19 and INS-20. Merck will pay Insmed the
remaining balance upon closing of the transaction, which is expected by the end of the first quarter of 2009, without
any further milestone or royalty obligations.
The chart below reflects the Company’s current research pipeline as of February 15, 2009. Candidates
shown in Phase III include specific products. Candidates shown in Phase I and II include the most advanced
compound with a specific mechanism in a given therapeutic area. Small molecules and biologics are given MK-
number designations and vaccine candidates are given V-number designations. Back-up compounds, regardless of
their phase of development, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line extensions
or formulations for in-line products are not shown. All clinical programs in Merck BioVentures division are included.
Phase I
Alzheimer’s Disease
V950
Anemia
MK-2578
Cancer
MK-0752
MK-1775
MK-2206
MK-4101
MK-4827
MK-5108
MK-8033
V934/V935
Cardiovascular
MK-1597
MK-3614
MK-8984
Phase I
Diabetes
MK-4074
Infectious Disease
MK-3281
Neurologic
MK-5395
Neutropenia
INS-19
INS-20
Psychiatric Disease
MK-0594
MK-8368
MK-8998
Respiratory Disease
MK-5932
Phase II
Atherosclerosis
MK-1903
MK-6213Cancer
MK-0646
Diabetes
MK-0893
MK-0941
MK-8245
Infectious Disease
MK-7009
V419
V710
Insomnia
MK-4305
Neurologic
MK-0249
Osteoporosis
MK-5442 (JTT-305)
Psychiatric Disease
MK-5757
Respiratory Disease
MK-0476C
MK-0633
Sarcopenia
MK-2866
Phase III
Acute Heart Failure
MK-7418
(rolofylline)
Atherosclerosis
MK-0524A
(extended-release
niacin/laropiprant)
MK-0524B
(extended-release
niacin/laropiprant/
simvastatin)
MK-0859
(anacetrapib)
Cancer
MK-8669
(deforolimus;
AP23573)
Diabetes
MK-0431C
HPV
V503
Migraine
MK-0974
(telcagepant)
Osteoporosis
MK-0822
(odanacatib)
16Table of Contents
All product or service marks appearing in type form different from that of the surrounding text are
trademarks or service marks owned by or licensed to Merck, its subsidiaries or affiliates (including Zetia and
Vytorin , trademarks owned by entities of the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership), except as noted. Cozaar and
Hyzaar are registered trademarks of E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, Wilmington, DE and Prilosec and
Nexium are trademarks of the AstraZeneca group. The U.S. trademarks for Vasotec and Vaseretic are owned by
Biovail Laboratories Incorporated.
E mployees
As of December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately 55,200 employees worldwide, with
approximately 28,800 employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Approximately 21% of worldwide
employees of the Company are represented by various collective bargaining groups.
In October 2008, the Company announced a global restructuring program (the “2008 Restructuring
Program”) to reduce its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. As part of the 2008
Restructuring Program, the Company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions — 6,800 active employees
and 400 vacancies — across all areas of the Company worldwide by the end of 2011. About 40% of the total
reductions will occur in the United States. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the Company is streamlining
management layers by reducing its total number of senior and mid-level executives globally by approximately 25%.
Merck will rollout a new, more customer-centric selling model designed to provide Merck with a meaningful
competitive advantage and help physicians, patients and payers improve patient outcomes. The Company also will
make greater use of outside technology resources, centralize common sales and marketing activities, and consolidate
and streamline its operations. Merck’s manufacturing division will further focus its capabilities on core products and
outsource non-core manufacturing. In addition, Merck is expanding its access to worldwide external science through
a basic research global operating strategy, which is designed to provide a sustainable pipeline and is focused on
translating basic research productivity into late-stage clinical success. To increase efficiencies, basic research
operations will consolidate work in support of a given therapeutic area into one of four locations. This will provide a
more efficient use of research facilities and result in the closure of three basic research sites in Tsukuba, Japan;
Pomezia, Italy; and Seattle by the end of 2009.
E nvironmental Matters
The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws
and regulations. In 2008, the Company incurred capital expenditures of approximately $18.7 million for
environmental protection facilities. The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from
past industrial activity at certain of its sites. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were
$34.5 million in 2008, $19.5 million in 2007, $12.6 million in 2006, and are estimated at $47.1 million for the years
2009 through 2013. These amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. The Company has taken
an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and, in management’s opinion, the liabilities for all
environmental matters which are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $89.5 million at
December 31, 2008. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these environmental matters,
or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that
may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $70.0 million in the aggregate. Management also
does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position,
results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year.
G eographic Area Information
The Company’s operations outside the United States are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales
worldwide by subsidiaries outside the United States were 44% of sales in 2008 and 39% of sales in 2007 and 2006.
The Company’s worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and
other governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion
of its operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies
responsive to changing economic and political conditions.
17Table of Contents
In recent years, the Company has been expanding its operations in countries located in Latin America, the
Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific where changes in government policies and economic
conditions are making it possible for the Company to earn fair returns. Business in these developing areas, while
sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time.
Financial information about geographic areas of the Company’s business is discussed in Item 8. “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” below.
A vailable Information
The Company’s Internet website address is www.merck.com. The Company will make available, free of
charge at the “Investor Information” portion of its website, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after
such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The Company’s corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Board of Directors’ six standing
committees are available on the Company’s website at www.merck.com/about/corporategovernance and all such
information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the Company.
I tem 1A. Risk Factors.
You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the following
risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the Company’s securities. The risks below are not the only ones the
Company faces. Additional risks not currently known to the Company or that the Company presently deems
immaterial may also impair its business operations. The Company’s business, financial condition, results of
operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This Form 10-K also contains
forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s results could materially differ from
those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces as
described below and elsewhere. See “Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results” below.
The Company faces significant litigation related to Vioxx.
On September 30, 2004, the Company voluntarily withdrew Vioxx , its arthritis and acute pain medication,
from the market worldwide. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 10,800 product liability lawsuits, involving
approximately 26,800 plaintiff groups, alleging personal injuries resulting from the use of Vioxx, have been filed
against the Company in state and federal courts in the United States. The Company is also a defendant in
approximately 242 purported class actions related to the use of Vioxx. (All of these suits are referred to as the “ Vioxx
Product Liability Lawsuits”.) As discussed above, on November 9, 2007, the Company announced that it had entered
into an agreement (the “Settlement Agreement”) with the law firms that comprise the executive committee of the
Plaintiffs’ Steering Committee of the federal multidistrict Vioxx litigation as well as representatives of plaintiffs’
counsel in the Texas, New Jersey and California state coordinated proceedings to resolve state and federal MI and IS
claims filed as of that date in the United States. The Settlement Agreement, which also applies to tolled claims, was
signed by the parties after several meetings with three of the four judges overseeing the coordination of more than
95% of the current claims in the Vioxx product liability litigation. The Settlement Agreement applies only to
U.S. legal residents and those who allege that their MI or IS occurred in the United States.
As of October 30, 2008, the deadline for enrollment in the Settlement Program, more than 48,100 of the
approximately 48,325 individuals who were eligible for the Settlement Program and whose claims were not
1) dismissed, 2) expected to be dismissed in the near future, or 3) tolled claims that appear to have been abandoned
had submitted some or all of the materials required for enrollment in the Settlement Program. This represents
approximately 99.8% of the eligible MI and IS claims previously registered with the Settlement Program. Under the
terms of the Settlement Agreement, Merck could exercise a right to walk away from the Settlement Agreement if the
thresholds and other requirements were not met. The Company waived that right as of August 4, 2008. The waiver of
that right triggered Merck’s obligation to pay a fixed total of $4.85 billion. Payments will be made in installments
into the settlement funds. The first payment of $500 million was made in August 2008 and an additional payment of
18Table of Contents
$250 million was made in October 2008. Additional payments will be made on a periodic basis going forward, when
and as needed to fund payments of claims and administrative expenses.
Of the plaintiff groups described above, most are currently in the Vioxx Settlement Program. As of
December 31, 2008, 70 plaintiff groups who were otherwise eligible for the Settlement Program have not participated
and their claims remained pending against Merck. In addition, the claims of 1,400 plaintiff groups who are not
eligible for the program remained pending against Merck. A number of the 1,400 plaintiff groups are subject to
motions to dismiss for failure to comply with court-ordered deadlines. Since December 31, 2008, hundreds of these
plaintiff groups have since been dismissed.
Claims of certain individual third-party payors remain pending in the New Jersey court, and counsel
purporting to represent a large number of third-party payors has threatened to file numerous additional such actions.
Discovery is currently ongoing in these cases, and a status conference with the court took place in January 2009 to
discuss scheduling issues, including the selection of early trial pool cases.
There are also pending in various U.S. courts putative class actions purportedly brought on behalf of
individual purchasers or users of Vioxx and claiming either reimbursement of alleged economic loss or an entitlement
to medical monitoring. All of these cases are at early procedural stages, and no class has been certified. In New
Jersey, the trial court dismissed the complaint in the case of Sinclair, a purported statewide medical monitoring class.
The Appellate Division reversed the dismissal, and the issue was appealed to the New Jersey Supreme Court. That
court heard argument on October 22, 2007. On June 4, 2008, the New Jersey Supreme Court reversed the Appellate
Division and dismissed this action.
In addition to the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, various purported class actions and individual lawsuits
have been brought against the Company and several current and former officers and directors of the Company
alleging that the Company made false and misleading statements regarding Vioxx in violation of the federal and state
securities laws (all of these suits are referred to as the “ Vioxx Securities Lawsuits”). On April 12, 2007, Judge
Chesler granted defendants’ motion to dismiss the complaint with prejudice. Plaintiffs appealed Judge Chesler’s
decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. On September 9, 2008, the Third Circuit issued
an opinion reversing Judge Chesler’s order and remanding the case to the District Court. On September 23, 2008,
Merck filed a petition seeking rehearing en banc, which was denied. The case was remanded to the District Court in
October 2008, and Plaintiffs have filed their Consolidated and Fifth Amended Class Action Complaint. In addition,
various putative class actions have been brought against the Company and several current and former employees,
officers, and directors of the Company alleging violations of ERISA. (All of these suits are referred to as the “ Vioxx
ERISA Lawsuits”.) In addition, shareholder derivative suits that were previously filed and dismissed are now on
appeal and several shareholders have filed demands with the Company asserting claims against the Board members
and Company officers. (All of these suits and demands are referred to as the “ Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits” and,
together with the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits and the Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits, the “ Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits”.) The
Company has also been named as a defendant in actions in various countries outside the United States. (All of these
suits are referred to as the “ Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits”.) The Company has also been sued by ten states, five counties
and New York City with respect to the marketing of Vioxx. The Company anticipates that additional lawsuits relating
to Vioxx may be filed against it and/or certain of its current and former officers and directors in the future.
The SEC is conducting a formal investigation of the Company concerning Vioxx. The DOJ has issued a
subpoena requesting information relating to the Company’s research, marketing and selling activities with respect to
Vioxx in a federal health care investigation under criminal statutes. This investigation includes subpoenas for
witnesses to appear before a grand jury. There are also ongoing investigations by local authorities in Europe. The
Company is cooperating with authorities in all of these investigations. (All of these investigations are referred to as
the “ Vioxx Investigations”.) The Company cannot predict the outcome of any of these investigations; however, they
could result in potential civil and/or criminal liability.
Juries have now decided in favor of the Company twelve times and in plaintiffs’ favor five times. One
Merck verdict was set aside by the court and has not been retried. Another Merck verdict was set aside and retried,
leading to one of the five plaintiffs’ verdicts. There have been two unresolved mistrials. With respect to the five
plaintiffs’ verdicts, Merck filed an appeal or sought judicial review in each of those cases. In one of those five, an
19Table of Contents
intermediate appellate court overturned the trial verdict and directed that judgment be entered for Merck, and in
another, an intermediate appellate court overturned the trial verdict, entering judgment for Merck on one claim and
ordering a new trial on the remaining claims. The Vioxx product liability litigation is discussed more fully in Item 3.
“Legal Proceedings” below.
The outcomes of these Vioxx Product Liability trials should not be interpreted to indicate any trend or what
outcome may be likely in future Vioxx trials.
A trial in a representative action in Australia is scheduled to commence on March 30, 2009, in the Federal
Court of Australia. The named plaintiff, who alleges he suffered a MI, seeks to represent others in Australia who
ingested Vioxx and suffered a MI, thrombotic stroke, unstable angina, transient ischemic attack or peripheral vascular
disease. On November 24, 2008, the Company filed a motion for an order that the proceeding no longer continue as a
representative proceeding. During a hearing on December 5, 2008, the court dismissed that motion and, on January 9,
2009, issued its reasons for that decision. On February 17, 2009, the Company’s motion for leave to appeal that
decision was denied and the parties were directed to prepare proposed lists of issues to be tried.
The Company currently anticipates that two U.S. Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits will be tried in 2009.
Except with respect to the product liability trial scheduled to be held in Australia, the Company cannot predict the
timing of any other trials related to the Vioxx Litigation. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the
Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits and Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits (collectively, the “ Vioxx
Lawsuits”) and will vigorously defend against them. The Company’s insurance coverage with respect to the Vioxx
Lawsuits will not be adequate to cover its defense costs and any losses.
During 2008, the Company spent approximately $305 million in the aggregate in legal defense costs
worldwide related to (i) the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, (ii) the Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits, (iii) the Vioxx
Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the Vioxx Investigations (collectively, the “ Vioxx Litigation”). In the fourth quarter of
2008, the Company recorded a charge of $62 million to add to the reserve solely for its future legal defense costs
related to the Vioxx Litigation which was $522 million at December 31, 2007 and $279 million at December 31,
2008. In addition, in 2007, the Company recorded a pretax charge of $4.85 billion equal to the aggregate amount to
be paid to the qualifying claimants in the Settlement Program. During 2008, the Company paid $750 million into the
settlement funds for the Settlement Program. Thus, the Company’s total reserve for the Vioxx Litigation at
December 31, 2008 was $4.379 billion (the “ Vioxx Reserve”). The amount of the Vioxx Reserve allocated to defense
costs is based on certain assumptions, described below under “Legal Proceedings”, and is the best estimate of the
minimum amount that the Company believes will be incurred in connection with the remaining aspects of the Vioxx
Litigation, however, events such as additional trials in the Vioxx Litigation and other events that could arise in the
course of the Vioxx Litigation could affect the ultimate amount of defense costs to be incurred by the Company.
The Company is not currently able to estimate any additional amount of damages that it may be required to
pay in connection with the Vioxx Lawsuits or Vioxx Investigations. These proceedings are still expected to continue
for years and the Company has very little information as to the course the proceedings will take. In view of the
inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the
claimants seek unspecified damages, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time
cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits not included in the
Settlement Program. The Company has not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the Vioxx
Lawsuits not included in the Settlement Program or the Vioxx Investigations.
A series of unfavorable outcomes in the Vioxx Lawsuits or the Vioxx Investigations, resulting in the
payment of substantial damages or fines or resulting in criminal penalties, in excess of the Vioxx Reserve, could have
a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and
prospects.
Certain of the Company’s major products are going to lose patent protection in the near future and,
when that occurs, the Company expects a significant decline in sales of those products.
The Company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing rights for its products for some
period of time. As product patents for several of the Company’s products have recently expired, or are about to
expire, in the United States and in other countries, the Company faces strong competition from lower price generic
20Table of Contents
drugs. Loss of patent protection for one of the Company’s products typically leads to a rapid loss of sales for that
product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. In the case of products that contribute
significantly to the Company’s sales, the loss of patent protection can have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects.
Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D lost marketing exclusivity in the United States in 2008. As a result of these
events, the Company is experiencing significant declines in Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D U.S. sales. Sales of
Fosamax outside the United States have already been adversely affected by the availability of generic alendronate
sodium products in some markets, including the United Kingdom, Canada and Germany. Also, Trusopt and Cosopt
lost market exclusivity in the United States in October 2008 and as a result the Company is experiencing a significant
decline in sales of these products.
The patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for Primaxin expires in September 2009. After such time,
the Company expects a significant decline in U.S. sales of Primaxin . In addition, Cozaar and Hyzaar will each lose
patent protection in the United States in April 2010. The Company expects significant declines in U.S. sales of these
products after that time.
A chart listing the U.S. patent protection for the Company’s major marketed products is set forth above in
Item 1. “Business — Patents, Trademarks and Licenses.”
The Company’s research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially
successful products and the Company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other
ways; in consequence, the Company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that have lost
patent protection.
Like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain competitive, the Company must continue to
launch new products each year. Declines in sales of products such as Zocor and Fosamax after the loss of marketing
exclusivity mean that the Company’s future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new
products which it develops through joint ventures and products which it is able to obtain through license or
acquisition. To accomplish this, the Company commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and
development, both through its own dedicated resources, and through various collaborations with third parties. To
support its research and development efforts the Company must make ongoing, substantial expenditures, without any
assurance that the efforts it is funding will result in a commercially successful product. The Company must also
commit substantial efforts, funds and other resources to recruiting and retaining high quality scientists and other
personnel with pharmaceutical research and development expertise.
For a description of the research and development process, see “Research and Development” above. Each
phase of testing is highly regulated, and during each phase there is a substantial risk that the Company will encounter
serious obstacles or will not achieve its goals, and accordingly the Company may abandon a product in which it has
invested substantial amounts of time and money. Some of the risks encountered in the research and development
process include the following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield disappointing results; clinical trials
of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful side effects; a new drug
may not be approved by the FDA for its intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; or
sales of a new product may be disappointing.
The Company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will
be approved or launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product
candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. The Company
must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for
existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are
lost as profitable products, such as Zocor and Fosamax , lose patent protection or are displaced by competing
products or therapies. Failure to do so in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects.
21Table of Contents
Issues concerning Vytorin and the ENHANCE and SEAS clinical trials have had an adverse effect on
sales of Vytorin and Zetia in the U.S.
The Company and Schering-Plough sell Vytorin and Zetia through their joint venture company, the MSP
Partnership. On January 14, 2008, the MSP Partnership announced the primary endpoint and other results of the
ENHANCE trial. ENHANCE was a surrogate endpoint trial conducted in 720 patients with Heterozygous Familial
Hypercholesterolemia, a rare condition that affects approximately 0.2% of the population. The primary endpoint was
the mean change in the intima-media thickness measured at three sites in the carotid arteries (the right and left
common carotid, internal carotid and carotid bulb) between patients treated with ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/80 mg
versus patients treated with simvastatin 80 mg alone over a two year period. There was no statistically significant
difference between treatment groups on the primary endpoint. There was also no statistically significant difference
between the treatment groups for each of the components of the primary endpoint, including the common carotid
artery.
As previously disclosed, the Company and its joint venture partner, Schering-Plough, have received several
letters addressed to both companies from the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, its Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations (“O&I”), and the Ranking Minority Member of the Senate Finance Committee,
collectively seeking a combination of witness interviews, documents and information on a variety of issues related to
the ENHANCE clinical trial, the sale and promotion of Vytorin , as well as sales of stock by corporate officers. In
addition, since August 2008, the companies have received three additional letters from O&I, including one dated
February 19, 2009, seeking certain information and documents related to the SEAS clinical trial, which is described
in more detail below. The companies have each received subpoenas from the New York and New Jersey State
Attorneys General Offices and a letter from the Connecticut Attorney General seeking similar information and
documents. In addition, the Company has received five Civil Investigative Demands (“CIDs”) from a multistate
group of 35 State Attorneys General who are jointly investigating whether the companies violated state consumer
protection laws when marketing Vytorin . Finally, in September 2008, the Company received a letter from the Civil
Division of the DOJ informing it that the DOJ is investigating whether the companies’ conduct relating to the
promotion of Vytorin caused false claims to be submitted to federal health care programs. The Company is
cooperating with these investigations and working with Schering-Plough to respond to the inquiries. In addition, the
Company has become aware of or been served with approximately 145 civil class action lawsuits alleging common
law and state consumer fraud claims in connection with the MSP Partnership’s sale and promotion of Vytorin and
Zetia . Certain of those lawsuits allege personal injuries and/or seek medical monitoring. Also, as previously
disclosed, on April 3, 2008, a Merck shareholder filed a putative class action lawsuit in federal court in the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania alleging that Merck and its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Richard T.
Clark, violated the federal securities laws. On April 22, 2008, a member of a Merck ERISA plan filed a putative class
action lawsuit against the Company and certain of its officers and directors alleging they breached their fiduciary
duties under ERISA.
In January 2009, the FDA announced that it had completed its review of the final clinical study report of
ENHANCE. The FDA stated that the results from ENHANCE did not change its position that an elevated LDL
cholesterol is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and that lowering LDL cholesterol reduces the risk for
cardiovascular disease. The FDA also stated that, based on current available data, patients should not stop taking
Vytorin or other cholesterol lowering medications and should talk to their doctor if they have any questions about
Vytorin , Zetia , or the ENHANCE trial.
In July 2008, efficacy and safety results from the SEAS study were announced. SEAS was designed to
evaluate whether intensive lipid lowering with Vytorin would reduce the need for aortic valve replacement and the
risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality versus placebo in patients with asymptomatic mild to moderate aortic
stenosis who had no indication for statin therapy. Vytorin failed to meet its primary end point for the reduction of
major cardiovascular events. There also was no significant difference in the key secondary end point of aortic valve
events; however, there was a reduction in the group of patients taking Vytorin compared to placebo in the key
secondary end point of ischemic cardiovascular events. In the study, patients in the group who took Vytorin had a
higher incidence of cancer than the group who took placebo. There was also a nonsignificant increase in deaths from
22Table of Contents
cancer in patients in the group who took Vytorin versus those who took placebo. Cancer and cancer deaths were
distributed across all major organ systems.
In August 2008, the FDA announced that it was investigating the results from the SEAS trial. In this
announcement, the FDA also cited interim data from two large ongoing cardiovascular trials of Vytorin — the Study
of Heart and Renal Protection (“SHARP”) and the IMPROVE-IT clinical trials — in which there was no increased
risk of cancer with the combination of simvastatin plus ezetimibe. The SHARP trial is expected to be completed in
2010. The IMPROVE-IT trial is scheduled for completion around 2012. The FDA determined that, as of that time,
these findings in the SEAS trial plus the interim data from ongoing trials should not prompt patients to stop taking
Vytorin or any other cholesterol lowering drug.
Following the announcements of the ENHANCE and SEAS clinical trial results, sales of Vytorin and Zetia
declined in 2008 in the U.S. These issues concerning the ENHANCE and SEAS clinical trials have had an adverse
effect on the MSP Partnership’s sales of Vytorin and Zetia and could continue to have an adverse effect on such
sales. If sales of such products are materially adversely affected, the Company’s business, cash flow, results of
operations, financial position and prospects could also be materially adversely affected. In addition, unfavorable
outcomes resulting from the government investigations or the litigation concerning the sale and promotion of these
products could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial
position and prospects.
The Company’s products, including products in development, can not be marketed unless the
Company obtains and maintains regulatory approval.
The Company’s activities, including research, preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and
marketing its products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental
authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including the European
Commission. In the United States, the FDA is of particular importance to the Company, as it administers
requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of
prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and money
necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. Regulation outside the United
States also is primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many cases, cost reduction. The FDA and
foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or withhold
registration and marketing approval and to mandate product withdrawals.
Even if the Company is successful in developing new products, it will not be able to market any of those
products unless and until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where it proposes to
market the new products. Once obtained, the Company must maintain approval as long as it plans to market its new
products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. The Company’s failure to obtain approval, significant
delays in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from selling the
new products in that jurisdiction until approval is obtained, if ever. The Company would not be able to realize
revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it does not have approval.
The Company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or
circumvented, its business would be adversely affected.
Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the Company’s marketing
of human health products in the United States and in most major foreign markets. Patents covering products that it
has introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing and sale of its
products. The Company seeks patents covering each of its products in each of the markets where it intends to sell the
products and where meaningful patent protection is available.
Even if the Company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties or government
authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent applications. It is important for
the Company’s business to defend successfully the patent rights that provide market exclusivity for its products. The
Company is often involved in patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or infringement and similar claims
against the Company. The Company aggressively defends its important patents both within and outside the United
States, including by filing claims of infringement against other parties. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings — Patent
23Table of Contents
Litigation” below. In particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products from time to time file Abbreviated
New Drug Applications (“ANDA”) with the FDA seeking to market generic forms of the Company’s products prior
to the expiration of relevant patents owned by the Company. The Company normally responds by vigorously
defending its patent, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. Patent litigation and other challenges
to the Company’s patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the Company of market exclusivity for a
patented product or, in some cases, third party patents may prevent the Company from marketing and selling a
product in a particular geographic area.
As discussed below in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings — Patent Litigation,” the Company has received a notice
from Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Teva”), a generic company, indicating that it had filed an ANDA for montelukast
and that it is challenging the U.S. patent that is listed for Singulair . On April 2, 2007, the Company filed a patent
infringement action against Teva. The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Teva’s ANDA until August 2009
or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. A trial in this matter commenced on
February 23, 2009.
If one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are
likely to decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those products becoming available. The Company’s
results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales unless and until the Company has successfully
launched commercially successful replacement products.
The Company faces intense competition from lower-cost generic products.
In general, the Company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. The patent rights
that protect its products are of varying strengths and durations. In addition, in some countries, patent protection is
significantly weaker than in the United States or the EU. In the United States, political pressure to reduce spending
on prescription drugs has led to legislation which encourages the use of generic products. Although it is the
Company’s policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the Company’s products can arise at any
time, and it may not be able to prevent the emergence of generic competition for its products.
Loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the
Company’s sales of that product. Availability of generic substitutes for the Company’s drugs may adversely affect its
results of operations and cash flow. In addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the United States and other
countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. Any such proposal that is
enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the Company’s sales and, potentially, its business,
cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects.
The Company faces intense competition from new products.
The Company’s products face intense competition from competitors’ products. This competition may
increase as new products enter the market. In such an event, the competitors’ products may be safer or more effective
or more effectively marketed and sold than the Company’s products. Alternatively, in the case of generic
competition, they may be equally safe and effective products which are sold at a substantially lower price than the
Company’s products. As a result, if the Company fails to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material
adverse effect on its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects.
The Company faces pricing pressure with respect to its products.
The Company’s products are subject to increasing price pressures and other restrictions worldwide,
including in the United States. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and
institutional and governmental purchasers and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and
Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the “2003 Act”).
The 2003 Act included a prescription drug benefit for individuals which first went into effect on January 1, 2006.
The increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries could result in further
pricing pressures.
Outside the United States, numerous major markets have pervasive government involvement in funding
healthcare, and in that regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and vaccine products.
24Table of Contents
Consequently, in those markets, the Company is subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with
respect to its products.
The Company expects pricing pressures to increase in the future.
The Company is experiencing difficulties and delays in the manufacturing of certain of its products.
As previously disclosed, the Company has experienced difficulties in manufacturing certain of its vaccines
and other products. The Company is working on these issues, but there can be no assurance of when or if these issues
will be finally resolved.
In addition to the difficulties that the Company is experiencing currently, the Company may experience
difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure of the Company or any of its vendors
or suppliers to comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable regulations and quality
assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product
manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing
facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the Company’s products; and (iii) other
manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to
manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, or physical
limitations that could impact continuous supply. Manufacturing difficulties can result in product shortages, leading to
lost sales.
Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns.
Unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not
scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability,
consumer fraud and/or other claims.
The Company has no product liability insurance for products first sold after August 1, 2004.
As a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost has
increased significantly. The Company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product
liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no insurance for
certain product liabilities effective August 1, 2004, including liability for products first sold after that date.
Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the Company’s business.
All aspects of the Company’s business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing,
pricing, sales, litigation and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. Changes
in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
business.
The recent financial crisis and current uncertainty in global economic conditions could negatively
affect the Company’s operating results.
The current financial crisis and uncertainty in global economic conditions have resulted in substantial
volatility in the credit markets and a low level of liquidity in many financial markets. These conditions may result in
a further slowdown to the global economy that could affect the Company’s business by reducing the prices that drug
wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers may be able or willing
to pay for the Company’s products or by reducing the demand for the Company’s products, which could in turn
negatively impact the Company’s sales and revenue generation and result in a material adverse effect on the
Company’s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects.
Reliance on third party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect the
Company’s business.
The Company depends on third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies and third party service providers, for key aspects of its business including development,
manufacture and commercialization of its products and support for its information technology systems. Failure of
these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to the Company or the development of
factors that materially disrupt the relationships between the Company and these third parties, could have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s business.
25Table of Contents
The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology
and infrastructure.
The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. Any
significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption or corruption of these systems or data breaches could have a material
adverse effect on our business. In addition, the Company currently is proceeding with a multi-year implementation of
an enterprise wide resource planning system, which includes modification to the design, operation and
documentation of its internal controls over financial reporting, and intends to implement the resource planning
system in the U.S. in 2009. Any material problems in the implementation could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s business.
C autionary Factors that May Affect Future Results
(Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995)
This report, including the Annual Report, and other written reports and oral statements made from time to
time by the Company may contain so-called “forward-looking statements,” all of which are based on management’s
current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those
set forth in the statements. One can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as
“expects,” “plans,” “will,” “estimates,” “forecasts,” “projects” and other words of similar meaning. One can also
identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to
address the Company’s growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential,
and development programs. One must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors
could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company’s forward-looking statements. These factors include
inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some
that are not. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. The
Company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. The Company cautions you not to
place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such
factors, they may include the following:
• Significant litigation related to Vioxx .
• Competition from generic products as the Company’s products lose patent protection.
• Increased “brand” competition in therapeutic areas important to the Company’s long-term business performance.
• The difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. The outcome of the lengthy and complex
process of new product development is inherently uncertain. A drug candidate can fail at any stage of the process
and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. New product candidates
may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the
inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the
infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. Furthermore, the sales of new products may prove
to be disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels.
• Pricing pressures, both in the United States and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups,
judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and health care reform,
pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general.
• Changes in government laws and regulations and the enforcement thereof affecting the Company’s business.
• Efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to
product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales.
• Legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax
disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could
preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of existing products.
• Lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the FDA and foreign
regulatory authorities.
26Table of Contents
• Increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the United States and the EU. The
legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an
increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the
Company’s business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of U.S. states requiring security breach
notification.
• Changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings.
• Changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the
Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC, that are adverse to the Company.
• Economic factors over which the Company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and
foreign currency exchange rates.
This list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. See “Risk
Factors” above.
I tem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.
None
I tem 2. Properties.
The Company’s corporate headquarters is located in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey. The Company’s
U.S. commercial operations are headquartered in Upper Gwynedd, Pennsylvania. The Company’s
U.S. pharmaceutical business is conducted through divisional headquarters located in Upper Gwynedd and
Whitehouse Station, New Jersey. The Company’s vaccines business is conducted through divisional headquarters
located in West Point, Pennsylvania. Principal research facilities for human health products are located in Rahway,
New Jersey and West Point. The Company also has production facilities for human health products at seven locations
in the United States and Puerto Rico. Outside the United States, through subsidiaries, the Company owns or has an
interest in manufacturing plants or other properties in Australia, Canada, Japan, Singapore, South Africa, and other
countries in Western Europe, Central and South America, and Asia.
Capital expenditures for 2008 were $1.3 billion compared with $1.0 billion for 2007. In the United States,
these amounted to $946.6 million for 2008 and $788.0 million for 2007. Abroad, such expenditures amounted to
$351.7 million for 2008 and $223.0 million for 2007.
The Company and its subsidiaries own their principal facilities and manufacturing plants under titles which
they consider to be satisfactory. The Company considers that its properties are in good operating condition and that
its machinery and equipment have been well maintained. Plants for the manufacture of products are suitable for their
intended purposes and have capacities and projected capacities adequate for current and projected needs for existing
Company products. Some capacity of the plants is being converted, with any needed modification, to the
requirements of newly introduced and future products.
I tem 3. Legal Proceedings.
The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its
business, including product liability, intellectual property, and commercial litigation, as well as additional matters
such as antitrust actions.
V ioxx Litigation
P roduct Liability Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, individual and putative class actions have been filed against the Company in state
and federal courts alleging personal injury and/or economic loss with respect to the purchase or use of Vioxx . All
such actions filed in federal court are coordinated in a multidistrict litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Louisiana (the “MDL”) before District Judge Eldon E. Fallon. A number of such actions filed in state
court are coordinated in separate coordinated proceedings in state courts in New Jersey, California and Texas,
27Table of Contents
and the counties of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Washoe and Clark Counties, Nevada. As of December 31, 2008,
the Company had been served or was aware that it had been named as a defendant in approximately 10,800 lawsuits,
which include approximately 26,800 plaintiff groups, alleging personal injuries resulting from the use of Vioxx , and
in approximately 242 putative class actions alleging personal injuries and/or economic loss. (All of the actions
discussed in this paragraph and in “Other Lawsuits” below are collectively referred to as the “ Vioxx Product
Liability Lawsuits”.) Of these lawsuits, approximately 8,850 lawsuits representing approximately 22,050 plaintiff
groups are or are slated to be in the federal MDL and approximately 165 lawsuits representing approximately
165 plaintiff groups are included in a coordinated proceeding in New Jersey Superior Court before Judge Carol E.
Higbee.
Of the plaintiff groups described above, most are currently in the Vioxx Settlement Program, described
below. As of December 31, 2008, 70 plaintiff groups who were otherwise eligible for the Settlement Program have
not participated and their claims remained pending against Merck. In addition, the claims of 1,400 plaintiff groups
who are not eligible for the Settlement Program remained pending against Merck. A number of the 1,400 plaintiff
groups are subject to motions to dismiss for failure to comply with court-ordered deadlines. Since December 31,
2008, hundreds of these plaintiff groups have since been dismissed.
In addition to the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits discussed above, the claims of over 27,400 plaintiffs had
been dismissed as of December 31, 2008. Of these, there have been over 4,925 plaintiffs whose claims were
dismissed with prejudice (i.e., they cannot be brought again) either by plaintiffs themselves or by the courts. Over
22,475 additional plaintiffs have had their claims dismissed without prejudice (i.e., subject to the applicable statute of
limitations, they can be brought again). Of these, approximately 13,750 plaintiff groups represent plaintiffs who had
lawsuits pending in the New Jersey Superior Court at the time of the Settlement Agreement described below and who
enrolled in the program established by the Settlement Agreement (the “Settlement Program”), Judge Higbee has
dismissed these cases without prejudice for administrative reasons.
On November 9, 2007, Merck announced that it had entered into an agreement (the “Settlement
Agreement”) with the law firms that comprise the executive committee of the Plaintiffs’ Steering Committee
(“PSC”) of the federal Vioxx MDL as well as representatives of plaintiffs’ counsel in the Texas, New Jersey and
California state coordinated proceedings to resolve state and federal MI and IS claims filed as of that date in the
United States. The Settlement Agreement, which also applies to tolled claims, was signed by the parties after several
meetings with three of the four judges overseeing the coordination of more than 95% of the U.S. Vioxx Product
Liability Lawsuits. The Settlement Agreement applies only to U.S. legal residents and those who allege that their MI
or IS occurred in the United States.
The entire Settlement Agreement, including accompanying exhibits, may be found at www.merck.com . The
Company has included this website address only as an inactive textual reference and does not intend it to be an active
link to its website nor does it incorporate by reference the information contained therein. Under the Settlement
Agreement, Merck will pay a fixed aggregate amount of $4.85 billion into two funds ($4.0 billion for MI claims and
$850 million for IS claims) for qualifying claims that enter into the Settlement Program. Individual claimants will be
examined by administrators of the Settlement Program to determine qualification based on objective, documented
facts provided by claimants, including records sufficient for a scientific evaluation of independent risk factors. The
conditions in the Settlement Agreement also require claimants to pass three gates: an injury gate, a duration gate, and
a proximity gate (each as defined in the Settlement Agreement).
The Settlement Agreement provides that Merck does not admit causation or fault. The Settlement
Agreement provided that Merck’s payment obligations would be triggered only if, among other conditions, (1) law
firms on the federal and state PSCs and firms that have tried cases in the coordinated proceedings elect to
recommend enrollment in the program to 100% of their clients who allege either MI or IS, and (2) by June 30, 2008,
plaintiffs enroll in the Settlement Program at least 85% of each of all currently pending and tolled (i) MI claims,
(ii) IS claims, (iii) eligible MI and IS claims together which involve death, and (iv) eligible MI and IS claims together
which allege more than 12 months of use. Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, Merck could exercise a
right to walk away from the Settlement Agreement if the thresholds and other requirements were not met. The
Company waived that right as of August 4, 2008. The waiver of that right triggered Merck’s obligation to pay a fixed
total of $4.85 billion. Payments will be made in installments into the settlement funds. The first payment of
28Table of Contents
$500 million was made in August 2008 and an additional payment of $250 million was made in October 2008.
Interim payments have been made to certain plaintiffs who alleged that they suffered an MI and the Company
anticipates that interim payments to IS claimants will begin shortly. Additional payments will be made on a periodic
basis going forward, when and as needed to fund payments of claims and administrative expenses.
Merck’s total payment for both funds of $4.85 billion is a fixed amount to be allocated among qualifying
claimants based on their individual evaluation. The distribution of interim payments to qualified claimants began in
August 2008 and will continue on a rolling basis until all claimants who qualify for an interim payment are paid.
Final payments will be made after the examination of all of the eligible claims has been completed.
After the Settlement Agreement was announced on November 9, 2007, judges in the Federal MDL,
California, Texas and New Jersey State Coordinated Proceedings entered a series of orders. The orders:
(1) temporarily stayed their respective litigations; (2) required plaintiffs to register their claims by January 15, 2008;
(3) required plaintiffs with cases pending as of November 9, 2007 to preserve and produce records and serve expert
reports; and (4) required plaintiffs who file thereafter to make similar productions on an accelerated schedule. The
Clark County, Nevada and Washoe County, Nevada coordinated proceedings were also generally stayed.
As of October 30, 2008, the deadline for enrollment in the Settlement Program, more than 48,100 of the
approximately 48,325 individuals who were eligible for the Settlement Program and whose claims were not
1) dismissed, 2) expected to be dismissed in the near future, or 3) tolled claims that appear to have been abandoned
had submitted some or all of the materials required for enrollment in the Settlement Program. This represents
approximately 99.8% of the eligible MI and IS claims previously registered with the Settlement Program.
On April 14, 2008 and June 3, 2008, two groups of various private insurance companies and health plans
filed suit against BrownGreer, the claims administrator for the Settlement Program (the “Claims Administrator”), and
U.S. Bancorp, escrow agent for the Settlement Program (the “AvMed” and “Greater New York Benefit Fund” suits).
The private insurance companies and health plans claim to have paid healthcare costs on behalf of some of the
enrolling claimants and seek to enjoin the Claims Administrator from paying enrolled claimants until their claims for
reimbursement from the enrolled claimants are resolved. Each group sought temporary restraining orders and
preliminary injunctions. Judge Fallon denied these requests. In AvMed, the defendants moved to sever the claims of
the named plaintiffs and, in Greater New York Benefit Fund, to strike the class allegations. Judge Fallon granted
these motions. AvMed appealed both of these decisions. The Fifth Circuit heard argument on AvMed’s appeal on
November 4, 2008. On November 17, 2008, the Court of Appeals affirmed the district court’s ruling that denied the
two motions for preliminary injunctive relief. Greater New York Benefit Fund has served a notice of appeal. On
January 22, 2009, the PSC and counsel for certain private insurers announced that they reached a settlement
agreement. The agreement provides a program for resolution of liens asserted by private insurers against payments
received by certain claimants who have enrolled in the Settlement Program. The agreement can be terminated by the
private insurers if fewer than 90% of eligible claimants participate. The plaintiffs in the AvMed and Greater
New York Benefit Fund lawsuits have agreed to participate in the settlement.
There are two U.S. Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits currently scheduled for trial in 2009. The Company
maintains a list of such trials at its website at www.merck.com , which it will periodically update as appropriate. The
Company has included its website address only as an inactive textual reference and does not intend it to be an active
link to its website nor does it incorporate by reference the information contained therein.
The Company has previously disclosed the outcomes of several Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits that were
tried prior to 2008.
Juries have now decided in favor of the Company twelve times and in plaintiffs’ favor five times. One
Merck verdict was set aside by the court and has not been retried. Another Merck verdict was set aside and retried,
leading to one of the five plaintiffs’ verdicts. There have been two unresolved mistrials. With respect to the five
plaintiffs’ verdicts, Merck filed an appeal or sought judicial review in each of those cases. In one of those five, an
intermediate appellate court overturned the trial verdict and directed that judgment be entered for Merck, and in
another, an intermediate appellate court overturned the trial verdict, entering judgment for Merck on one claim and
ordering a new trial on the remaining claims.
29Table of Contents
All but the following three cases that went to trial are now resolved: McDarby v. Merck, Ernst v. Merck,
and Garza v. Merck.
The first, McDarby, was originally tried along with a second plaintiff, Cona, in April 2006, in Superior
Court of New Jersey, Law Division, Atlantic County. The jury returned a split verdict. The jury determined that
Vioxx did not substantially contribute to the heart attack of Mr. Cona, but did substantially contribute to the heart
attack of Mr. McDarby. The jury also concluded that, in each case, Merck violated New Jersey’s consumer fraud
statute, which allows plaintiffs to receive their expenses for purchasing the drug, trebled, as well as reasonable
attorneys’ fees. The jury awarded $4.5 million in compensatory damages to Mr. McDarby and his wife, who also was
a plaintiff in that case, as well as punitive damages of $9 million. On June 8, 2007, Judge Higbee denied Merck’s
motion for a new trial. On June 15, 2007, Judge Higbee awarded approximately $4 million in the aggregate in
attorneys’ fees and costs. The Company has appealed the judgments in both cases and the Appellate Division held
oral argument on both cases on January 16, 2008. On May 29, 2008, the New Jersey Appellate Division vacated the
consumer fraud awards in both cases on the grounds that the Product Liability Act provides the sole remedy for
personal injury claims. The Appellate Division also vacated the McDarby punitive damage award on the ground of
federal preemption and vacated the attorneys’ fees and costs awarded under the Consumer Fraud Act in both cases.
The Court upheld the McDarby compensatory award. The Company has filed with the Supreme Court of New Jersey
a petition to appeal those parts of the trial court’s rulings that the Appellate Division affirmed. Plaintiffs filed a cross-
petition to appeal those parts of the trial court’s rulings that the Appellate Division reversed. On October 8, 2008, the
Supreme Court of New Jersey granted Merck’s petition for certification of appeal, limited solely to the issue of
whether the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act preempts state law tort claims predicated on the alleged
inadequacy of warnings contained in Vioxx labeling that was approved by the FDA. The court denied the plaintiff’s
cross-petition. On December 4, 2008, the New Jersey Supreme Court granted Merck’s motion to stay the appeal
pending the issuance of a decision from United States Supreme Court in Wyeth v. Levine.
As previously reported, in September 2006, Merck filed a notice of appeal of the August 2005 jury verdict
in favor of the plaintiff in the Texas state court case, Ernst v. Merck. On May 29, 2008, the Texas Court of Appeals
reversed the trial court’s judgment and issued a judgment in favor of Merck. The Court of Appeals found the
evidence to be legally insufficient on the issue of causation. Plaintiffs have filed a motion for rehearing en banc in
the Court of Appeals. Merck filed a response in October 2008. In January 2009, plaintiffs filed a reply in support of
their rehearing motion.
As previously reported, in April 2006, in Garza v. Merck, a jury in state court in Rio Grande City, Texas
returned a verdict in favor of the family of decedent Leonel Garza. The jury awarded a total of $7 million in
compensatory damages to Mr. Garza’s widow and three sons. The jury also purported to award $25 million in
punitive damages even though under Texas law, in this case, potential punitive damages were capped at $750,000.
On May 14, 2008, the San Antonio Court of Appeals reversed the judgment and rendered a judgment in favor of
Merck. On December 10, 2008, the Court of Appeals, on rehearing, vacated its prior ruling and issued a replacement.
In the new ruling, the Court ordered a take-nothing judgment for Merck on the design defect claim, but reversed and
remanded for a new trial as to the strict liability claim because of juror misconduct. On January 26, 2009, Merck filed
a petition for review with the Texas Supreme Court.
Merck voluntarily withdrew Vioxx from the market on September 30, 2004. Most states have statutes of
limitations for product liability claims of no more than three years, which require that claims must be filed within no
more than three years after the plaintiffs learned or could have learned of their potential cause of action. As a result,
some may view September 30, 2007 as a significant deadline for filing Vioxx cases. It is important to note, however,
that the law regarding statutes of limitations can be complex and variable, depending on the facts and applicable law.
Some states have longer statutes of limitations. There are also arguments that the statutes of limitations began
running before September 30, 2004. New Jersey Superior Court Judge Higbee and Federal District Court Judge
Fallon have issued orders in cases from New Jersey and eight other jurisdictions ruling that the statutory period for
making Vioxx personal injury claims has passed. Judge Higbee’s order was issued on October 15, 2007 and Judge
Fallon’s was issued on November 8, 2007.
30Table of Contents
Other Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, on July 29, 2005, a New Jersey state trial court certified a nationwide class of
third-party payors (such as unions and health insurance plans) that paid in whole or in part for the Vioxx used by their
plan members or insureds. The named plaintiff in that case sought recovery of certain Vioxx purchase costs (plus
penalties) based on allegations that the purported class members paid more for Vioxx than they would have had they
known of the product’s alleged risks. On March 31, 2006, the New Jersey Superior Court, Appellate Division,
affirmed the class certification order. On September 6, 2007, the New Jersey Supreme Court reversed the
certification of a nationwide class action of third-party payors, finding that the suit does not meet the requirements
for a class action. Claims of certain individual third-party payors remain pending in the New Jersey court, and
counsel purporting to represent a large number of third-party payors have filed additional such actions. Judge Higbee
lifted the stay in these cases and the cases are currently in the discovery phase. A status conference with the court
took place in January 2009 to discuss scheduling issues in these cases, including the selection of early trial pool
cases.
The New Jersey Superior Court heard argument on plaintiffs’ motion for class certification in Martin-
Kleinman v. Merck, which is a putative consumer class action, on December 5, 2008.
There are also pending in various U.S. courts putative class actions purportedly brought on behalf of
individual purchasers or users of Vioxx and claiming either reimbursement of alleged economic loss or an entitlement
to medical monitoring. The majority of these cases are at early procedural stages. On June 12, 2008, a Missouri state
court certified a class of Missouri plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for out-of-pocket costs relating to Vioxx. The
plaintiffs do not allege any personal injuries from taking Vioxx. The Company filed a petition for interlocutory
review on June 23, 2008, which was granted on July 30, 2008. Briefing is now complete. During the pendency of the
appeal, discovery is proceeding in the lower court. On February 3, 2009, Judge Fallon dismissed the master personal
injury/wrongful death class action master complaint and the medical monitoring class action master complaint in the
MDL.
Plaintiffs also have filed a class action in California state court seeking class certification of California
third-party payors and end-users. The parties are engaged in class certification discovery and briefing. The court
heard oral argument on the class certification issue on February 19, 2009.
The Company has also been named as a defendant in eighteen separate lawsuits brought by Attorneys
General of ten states, five counties, the City of New York, and private citizens (whom have brought qui tam and
taxpayer derivative suits). One of the lawsuits brought by the counties is a class action filed by Santa Clara County,
California on behalf of all similarly situated California counties. These actions allege that the Company
misrepresented the safety of Vioxx and seek (i) recovery of the cost of Vioxx purchased or reimbursed by the state and
its agencies; (ii) reimbursement of all sums paid by the state and its agencies for medical services for the treatment of
persons injured by Vioxx ; (iii) damages under various common law theories; and/or (iv) remedies under various state
statutory theories, including state consumer fraud and/or fair business practices or Medicaid fraud statutes, including
civil penalties.
With the exception of a case filed by the Texas Attorney General (which remains in Texas state court and is
currently scheduled for trial in November 2009), a case filed by the Michigan Attorney General (which was ordered
remanded to state court in January 2009), a case recently filed by the Pennsylvania Attorney General (which has been
removed to federal court but is the subject of a pending motion to remand), and one case which has not been removed
to federal court, the rest of the actions described in the above paragraph have been transferred to the federal MDL
and are in the discovery phase.
S hareholder Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, in addition to the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, the Company and various
current and former officers and directors are defendants in various putative class actions and individual lawsuits
under the federal securities laws and state securities laws (the “ Vioxx Securities Lawsuits”). All of the Vioxx
Securities Lawsuits pending in federal court have been transferred by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
(the “JPML”) to the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey before District Judge Stanley R.
Chesler for inclusion in a nationwide MDL (the “Shareholder MDL”). Judge Chesler has consolidated the Vioxx
31Table of Contents
Securities Lawsuits for all purposes. The putative class action, which requested damages on behalf of purchasers of
Company stock between May 21, 1999 and October 29, 2004, alleged that the defendants made false and misleading
statements regarding Vioxx in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and
sought unspecified compensatory damages and the costs of suit, including attorneys’ fees. The complaint also
asserted claims under Section 20A of the Securities and Exchange Act against certain defendants relating to their
sales of Merck stock and under Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 against certain defendants based
on statements in a registration statement and certain prospectuses filed in connection with the Merck Stock
Investment Plan, a dividend reinvestment plan. On April 12, 2007, Judge Chesler granted defendants’ motion to
dismiss the complaint with prejudice. Plaintiffs appealed Judge Chesler’s decision to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit. On September 9, 2008, the Third Circuit issued an opinion reversing Judge Chesler’s
order and remanding the case to the District Court. On September 23, 2008, Merck filed a petition seeking rehearing
en banc, which was denied. The case was remanded to the District Court in October 2008, and plaintiffs have filed
their Consolidated and Fifth Amended Class Action Complaint. Merck filed a petition for a writ of certiorari with the
United States Supreme Court on January 15, 2009. Merck expects to file a motion to dismiss the Fifth Amended
Class Action Complaint.
In October 2005, a Dutch pension fund filed a complaint in the District of New Jersey alleging violations of
federal securities laws as well as violations of state law against the Company and certain officers. Pursuant to the
Case Management Order governing the Shareholder MDL, the case, which is based on the same allegations as the
Vioxx Securities Lawsuits, was consolidated with the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits. Defendants’ motion to dismiss the
pension fund’s complaint was filed on August 3, 2007. In September 2007, the Dutch pension fund filed an amended
complaint rather than responding to defendants’ motion to dismiss. In addition in 2007, six new complaints were
filed in the District of New Jersey on behalf of various foreign institutional investors also alleging violations of
federal securities laws as well as violations of state law against the Company and certain officers. Defendants are not
required to respond to these complaints until after Judge Chesler resolves any motion to dismiss in the consolidated
securities action.
As previously disclosed, various shareholder derivative actions filed in federal court were transferred to the
Shareholder MDL and consolidated for all purposes by Judge Chesler (the “ Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits”). On May 5,
2006, Judge Chesler granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and denied plaintiffs’ request for leave to amend their
complaint. Plaintiffs appealed, arguing that Judge Chesler erred in denying plaintiffs’ leave to amend their complaint
with materials acquired during discovery. On July 18, 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
reversed the District Court’s decision on the grounds that Judge Chesler should have allowed plaintiffs to make use
of the discovery material to try to establish demand futility, and remanded the case for the District Court’s
consideration of whether, even with the additional materials, plaintiffs’ request to amend their complaint would still
be futile. Plaintiffs filed their brief in support of their request for leave to amend their complaint in November 2007.
The Court denied the motion in June 2008 and closed the case. Plaintiffs have appealed Judge Chesler’s decision to
the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
In addition, as previously disclosed, various putative class actions filed in federal court under the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) against the Company and certain current and former officers and
directors (the “ Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits” and, together with the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits and the Vioxx Derivative
Lawsuits, the “ Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits”) have been transferred to the Shareholder MDL and consolidated for all
purposes. The consolidated complaint asserts claims on behalf of certain of the Company’s current and former
employees who are participants in certain of the Company’s retirement plans for breach of fiduciary duty. The
lawsuits make similar allegations to the allegations contained in the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits. On July 11, 2006,
Judge Chesler granted in part and denied in part defendants’ motion to dismiss the ERISA complaint. In October
2007, plaintiffs moved for certification of a class of individuals who were participants in and beneficiaries of the
Company’s retirement savings plans at any time between October 1, 1998 and September 30, 2004 and whose plan
accounts included investments in the Merck Common Stock Fund and/or Merck common stock. On February 9,
2009, the Court denied the motion for certification of a class as to one count and granted the motion as to the
remaining counts. The Court also limited the class to those individuals who were participants in and beneficiaries of
the Company’s retirement savings plans who suffered a loss due to their investments in Merck stock through the
plans and who did not execute a settlement releasing their claims. On October 6, 2008, defendants filed
32Table of Contents
a motion for judgment on the pleadings seeking dismissal of the complaint. On December 24, 2008, plaintiffs filed a
motion for partial summary judgment against certain individual defendants. Both motions are pending. Discovery is
ongoing in this litigation.
As previously disclosed, on October 29, 2004, two individual shareholders made a demand on the
Company’s Board to take legal action against Mr. Raymond Gilmartin, former Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer and other individuals for allegedly causing damage to the Company with respect to the allegedly
improper marketing of Vioxx . In December 2004, the Special Committee of the Board of Directors retained the
Honorable John S. Martin, Jr. of Debevoise & Plimpton LLP to conduct an independent investigation of, among
other things, the allegations set forth in the demand. Judge Martin’s report was made public in September 2006.
Based on the Special Committee’s recommendation made after careful consideration of the Martin report and the
impact that derivative litigation would have on the Company, the Board rejected the demand. On October 11, 2007,
the shareholders filed a lawsuit in state court in Atlantic County, New Jersey against current and former executives
and directors of the Company alleging that the Board’s rejection of their demand was unreasonable and improper,
and that the defendants breached various duties to the Company in allowing Vioxx to be marketed. The current and
former executive and director defendants filed motions to dismiss the complaint in June 2008. On October 30, 2008,
proceedings in the case were stayed through March 1, 2009. On November 21, 2008, the pending motions to dismiss
were denied without prejudice.
I nternational Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, in addition to the lawsuits discussed above, the Company has been named as a
defendant in litigation relating to Vioxx in various countries (collectively, the “ Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits”) in Europe,
as well as Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Australia, Turkey, and Israel.
On May 30, 2008, the provincial court of Queen’s Bench in Saskatchewan, Canada entered an order
certifying a class of Vioxx users in Canada, except those in Quebec. The class includes individual purchasers who
allege inducement to purchase by unfair marketing practices; individuals who allege Vioxx was not of acceptable
quality, defective or not fit for the purpose of managing pain associated with approved indications; or ingestors who
claim Vioxx caused or exacerbated a cardiovascular or gastrointestinal condition. On June 17, 2008, the Court of
Appeal for Saskatchewan granted the Company leave to appeal the certification order. That appeal was argued before
that court, and the court has reserved decision. On July 28, 2008, the Superior Court in Ontario denied the
Company’s motion to stay class proceedings in Ontario, which had been based on the earlier certification order
entered in Saskatchewan, and decided to certify an overlapping class of Vioxx users in Canada, except those in
Quebec and Saskatchewan, who allege negligence and an entitlement to elect to waive the tort. On November 24,
2008, the Ontario Divisional Court granted the Company’s motion for leave to appeal the Superior Court’s decision
denying the stay of the Ontario class proceedings and denied the Company’s motion to appeal the certification order.
The Company’s appeal was heard by the Ontario Divisional Court in February 2009. On February 13, 2009, the
Divisional Court declined to set aside the order denying the stay. The Company intends to seek leave to appeal from
the Ontario Court of Appeal. Earlier, in November 2006, the Superior court in Quebec authorized the institution of a
class action on behalf of all individuals who, in Quebec, consumed Vioxx and suffered damages arising out of its
ingestion. As of December 31, 2008, the plaintiffs have not instituted an action based upon that authorization.
A trial in a representative action in Australia is scheduled to commence on March 30, 2009, in the Federal
Court of Australia. The named plaintiff, who alleges he suffered an MI, seeks to represent others in Australia who
ingested Vioxx and suffered an MI, thrombotic stroke, unstable angina, transient ischemic attack or peripheral
vascular disease. On November 24, 2008, the Company filed a motion for an order that the proceeding no longer
continue as a representative proceeding. During a hearing on December 5, 2008, the court dismissed that motion and,
on January 9, 2009, issued its reasons for that decision. On February 17, 2009, the Company’s motion for leave to
appeal that decision was denied and the parties were directed to prepare proposed lists of issues to be tried.
33Table of Contents
Additional Lawsuits
Based on media reports and other sources, the Company anticipates that additional Vioxx Product Liability
Lawsuits, Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits and Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits (collectively, the “ Vioxx Lawsuits”) may be filed
against it and/or certain of its current and former officers and directors in the future.
I nsurance
As previously disclosed, the Company has product liability insurance for claims brought in the Vioxx
Product Liability Lawsuits with stated upper limits of approximately $630 million after deductibles and
This insurance provides coverage for legal defense costs and potential damage amounts in connection with the Vioxx
Product Liability Lawsuits. Through an arbitration proceeding and negotiated settlements, the Company received an
aggregate of approximately $590 million in product liability insurance proceeds relating to the Vioxx Product
Liability Lawsuits, plus approximately $45 million in fees and interest payments. The Company has no additional
insurance for the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits. The Company’s insurance coverage with respect to the Vioxx
Lawsuits will not be adequate to cover its defense costs and losses.
The Company has Directors and Officers insurance coverage applicable to the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits
and Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits with stated upper limits of approximately $190 million. The Company has Fiduciary
and other insurance for the Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits with stated upper limits of approximately $275 million. As a
result of the arbitration, additional insurance coverage for these claims should also be available, if needed, under
upper-level excess policies that provide coverage for a variety of risks. There are disputes with the insurers about the
availability of some or all of the Company’s insurance coverage for these claims and there are likely to be additional
disputes. The amounts actually recovered under the policies discussed in this paragraph may be less than the stated
upper limits.
I nvestigations
As previously disclosed, in November 2004, the Company was advised by the staff of the SEC that it was
commencing an informal inquiry concerning Vioxx. On January 28, 2005, the Company announced that it received
notice that the SEC issued a formal notice of investigation. Also, the Company has received subpoenas from the DOJ
requesting information related to the Company’s research, marketing and selling activities with respect to Vioxx in a
federal health care investigation under criminal statutes. This investigation includes subpoenas for witnesses to
appear before a grand jury. In addition, as previously disclosed, investigations are being conducted by local
authorities in certain cities in Europe in order to determine whether any criminal charges should be brought
concerning Vioxx . The Company is cooperating with these governmental entities in their respective investigations
(the “ Vioxx Investigations”). The Company cannot predict the outcome of these inquiries; however, they could result
in potential civil and/or criminal dispositions.
As previously disclosed, on May 20, 2008, the Company reached civil settlements with Attorneys General
from 29 states and the District of Columbia to fully resolve previously disclosed investigations under state consumer
protection laws related to past activities for Vioxx. As part of the civil resolution of these investigations, Merck paid a
total of $58 million to be divided among the 29 states and the District of Columbia. The agreement also includes
compliance measures that supplement policies and procedures previously established by the Company.
In addition, the Company received a subpoena in September 2006 from the State of California Attorney
General seeking documents and information related to the placement of Vioxx on California’s Medi-Cal formulary.
The Company is cooperating with the Attorney General in responding to the subpoena.
R eserves
As discussed above, on November 9, 2007, Merck entered into the Settlement Agreement with the law
firms that comprise the executive committee of the PSC of the federal Vioxx MDL as well as representatives of
plaintiffs’ counsel in the Texas, New Jersey and California state coordinated proceedings to resolve state and federal
MI and IS claims filed as of that date in the United States. The Settlement Agreement, which also applies to tolled
claims, was signed by the parties after several meetings with three of the four judges overseeing the coordination of
more than 95% of the current claims in the Vioxx Litigation. The Settlement Agreement applies only to U.S. legal
residents and those who allege that their MI or IS occurred in the United States. In 2007, as a result of entering into
34Table of Contents
the Settlement Agreement, the Company recorded a pretax charge of $4.85 billion which represents the fixed
aggregate amount to be paid to plaintiffs qualifying for payment under the Settlement Program.
The Company currently anticipates that two U.S. Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits will be tried in 2009.
Except with respect to the product liability trial scheduled to be held in Australia, the Company cannot predict the
timing of any other trials related to the Vioxx Litigation. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the
Vioxx Lawsuits and will vigorously defend against them. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome
of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the claimants seek indeterminate damages, the
Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible
loss or range of loss with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits not included in the Settlement Program. The Company has
not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the Vioxx Lawsuits not included in the Settlement
Program or the Vioxx Investigations. In each of those cases the Company believes it has strong points to raise on
appeal and therefore that unfavorable outcomes in such cases are not probable. Unfavorable outcomes in the Vioxx
Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of
operations.
Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when
probable and reasonably estimable. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had an aggregate reserve of
approximately $5.372 billion (the“ Vioxx Reserve”) for the Settlement Program and the Company’s future legal
defense costs related to the Vioxx Litigation.
During 2008, the Company spent approximately $305 million in the aggregate, in legal defense costs
worldwide related to (i) the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, (ii) the Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits, (iii) the Vioxx
Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the Vioxx Investigations (collectively, the “ Vioxx Litigation”). In the fourth quarter, the
Company recorded a charge of $62 million solely for its future legal defense costs related to the Vioxx Litigation. In
addition, in the fourth quarter the Company paid an additional $250 million into the settlement funds in connection
with the Settlement Program after having paid $500 million into the settlement funds in the third quarter.
Consequently, as of December 31, 2008, the aggregate amount of the Vioxx Reserve was approximately
$4.379 billion. In adding to the Vioxx Reserve solely for its future legal defense costs, the Company considered the
same factors that it considered when it previously established reserves for the Vioxx Litigation. Some of the
significant factors considered in the review of the Vioxx Reserve were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the
Company; the development of the Company’s legal defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of the Vioxx
Litigation, including the Settlement Agreement and the expectation that certain lawsuits will continue to be pending;
the number of cases being brought against the Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most
current information regarding anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial activities and trials in the
Vioxx Litigation. The amount of the Vioxx Reserve as of December 31, 2008, allocated solely to defense costs
represents the Company’s best estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs to be incurred in connection with
the remaining aspects of the Vioxx Litigation; however, events such as additional trials in the Vioxx Litigation and
other events that could arise in the course of the Vioxx Litigation could affect the ultimate amount of defense costs to
be incurred by the Company.
The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated
reserves and may determine to increase the Vioxx Reserve at any time in the future if, based upon the factors set
forth, it believes it would be appropriate to do so.
O ther Product Liability Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company is a defendant in product liability lawsuits in the United States
involving Fosamax (the “ Fosamax Litigation”). As of December 31, 2008, approximately 779 cases, which include
approximately 1,158 plaintiff groups had been filed and were pending against Merck in either federal or state court,
including one case which seeks class action certification, as well as damages and/or medical monitoring. In these
actions, plaintiffs allege, among other things, that they have suffered osteonecrosis of the jaw, generally subsequent
to invasive dental procedures, such as tooth extraction or dental implants and/or delayed healing, in association with
the use of Fosamax . On August 16, 2006, the JPML ordered that the Fosamax product liability cases pending in
federal courts nationwide should be transferred and consolidated into one multidistrict litigation (the “ Fosamax
MDL”) for coordinated pre-trial proceedings. The Fosamax MDL has been transferred to Judge John Keenan in the
35Table of Contents
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. As a result of the JPML order, approximately 645
of the cases are before Judge Keenan. Judge Keenan has issued a Case Management Order (and various amendments
thereto) setting forth a schedule governing the proceedings which focused primarily upon resolving the class action
certification motions in 2007 and completing fact discovery in an initial group of 25 cases by October 1, 2008.
Briefing and argument on plaintiffs’ motions for certification of medical monitoring classes were completed in 2007
and Judge Keenan issued an order denying the motions on January 3, 2008. On January 28, 2008, Judge Keenan
issued a further order dismissing with prejudice all class claims asserted in the first four class action lawsuits filed
against Merck that sought personal injury damages and/or medical monitoring relief on a class wide basis. In October
2008, Judge Keenan issued an order requiring that Daubert motions be filed in May 2009 and scheduling trials in the
first three cases in the MDL for August 2009, October 2009, and January 2010, respectively. A trial is scheduled in
Alabama state court later in 2009.
In addition, in July 2008, an application was made by the Atlantic County Superior Court of New Jersey
requesting that all of the Fosamax cases pending in New Jersey be considered for mass tort designation and
centralized management before one judge in New Jersey. On October 6, 2008, the New Jersey Supreme Court
ordered that all pending and future actions filed in New Jersey arising out of the use of Fosamax and seeking
damages for existing dental and jaw-related injuries, including osteonecrosis of the jaw, but not solely seeking
medical monitoring, be designated as a mass tort for centralized management purposes before Judge Higbee in
Atlantic County Superior Court. As a result of the New Jersey Supreme Court’s order, approximately 100 cases were
coordinated as of December 31, 2008 before Judge Higbee, who is expected to begin setting various case
management deadlines during the first quarter of 2009.
Discovery is ongoing in both the Fosamax MDL litigation as well as in various state court cases. The
Company intends to defend against these lawsuits.
As of December 31, 2007, the Company had a remaining reserve of approximately $27 million solely for its
future legal defense costs for the Fosamax Litigation. During 2008, the Company spent approximately $34 million
and added $40 million to its reserve. Consequently, as of December 31, 2008, the Company had a reserve of
approximately $33 million solely for its future legal defense costs for the Fosamax Litigation. Some of the significant
factors considered in the establishment of the reserve for the Fosamax Litigation legal defense costs were as follows:
the actual costs incurred by the Company thus far; the development of the Company’s legal defense strategy and
structure in light of the creation of the Fosamax MDL; the number of cases being brought against the Company; and
the anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial activities in the Fosamax Litigation. The Company
will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves. Due to the
uncertain nature of litigation, the Company is unable to estimate its costs beyond the completion of the first three
federal trials discussed above. The Company has not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the
Fosamax Litigation. Unfavorable outcomes in the Fosamax Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations.
C ommercial Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company was joined in ongoing litigation alleging manipulation by
pharmaceutical manufacturers of Average Wholesale Prices (“AWP”), which are sometimes used in calculations that
determine public and private sector reimbursement levels. In 2002, the JPML ordered the transfer and consolidation
of all pending federal AWP cases to federal court in Boston, Massachusetts. Plaintiffs filed one consolidated class
action complaint, which aggregated the claims previously filed in various federal district court actions and also
expanded the number of manufacturers to include some which, like the Company, had not been defendants in any
prior pending case. In May 2003, the court granted the Company’s motion to dismiss the consolidated class action
and dismissed the Company from the class action case. Subsequent to the Company’s dismissal, the plaintiffs filed an
amended consolidated class action complaint, which did not name the Company as a defendant. The Company and
many other pharmaceutical manufacturers are defendants in similar complaints pending in federal and state court
brought individually by a number of counties in the State of New York. Fifty of the county cases have been
consolidated in New York state court. The Company was dismissed from the Suffolk County case, which was the
first of the New York county cases to be filed. In addition to the New York county cases, as of December 31, 2008,
the Company was a defendant in state cases brought by the Attorneys General of eleven states,
36Table of Contents
all of which are being defended. In February 2009, the Kansas Attorney General filed suit against Merck and several
other manufacturers. Additionally, the Attorney General of Arizona voluntarily dismissed Merck from its case in
February 2009. The court in the AWP cases pending in Hawaii listed Merck and others to be set for trial in mid-
2010.
G overnmental Proceedings
As previously disclosed, in February 2008, the Company announced that it entered into agreements with the
government to settle federal and state civil cases alleging violations of the Medicaid Rebate Statute, as well as federal
and state False Claims Acts in connection with certain nominal pricing programs and sales and marketing activities
between 1994 and 2001. In connection with these settlements, as previously disclosed, Merck entered into a
Corporate Integrity Agreement (“CIA”) with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector
General (“HHS-OIG”) for a five-year term. The CIA requires, among other things, that Merck maintain its ethics
training program and policies and procedures governing promotional practices and Medicaid price reporting. Further,
as required by the CIA, Merck has retained an Independent Review Organization (“IRO”) to conduct a systems
review of its promotional policies and procedures and to conduct, on a sample basis, transactional reviews of
Merck’s promotional programs and certain Medicaid pricing calculations. Merck is also required to provide regular
reports and certifications to the HHS-OIG regarding its compliance with the CIA. The IRO is currently conducting
the required reviews. Merck is scheduled to submit its first Annual Report to the HHS-OIG in May 2009.
V ytorin/Zetia Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company and its joint venture partner, Schering-Plough, have received several
letters addressed to both companies from the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, its Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations (“O&I”), and the Ranking Minority Member of the Senate Finance Committee,
collectively seeking a combination of witness interviews, documents and information on a variety of issues related to
the ENHANCE clinical trial, the sale and promotion of Vytorin , as well as sales of stock by corporate officers. In
addition, since August 2008, the companies have received three additional letters from O&I, including one dated
February 19, 2009, seeking certain information and documents related to the SEAS clinical trial. As previously
disclosed, the companies have each received subpoenas from the New York and New Jersey State Attorneys General
Offices and a letter from the Connecticut Attorney General seeking similar information and documents. In addition,
the Company has received five Civil Investigative Demands (“CIDs”) from a multistate group of 35 State Attorneys
General who are jointly investigating whether the companies violated state consumer protection laws when
marketing Vytorin . Finally, in September 2008, the Company received a letter from the Civil Division of the DOJ
informing it that the DOJ is investigating whether the companies’ conduct relating to the promotion of Vytorin
caused false claims to be submitted to federal health care programs. The Company is cooperating with these
investigations and working with Schering-Plough to respond to the inquiries. In addition, the Company has become
aware of or been served with approximately 145 civil class action lawsuits alleging common law and state consumer
fraud claims in connection with the MSP Partnership’s sale and promotion of Vytorin and Zetia . Certain of those
lawsuits allege personal injuries and/or seek medical monitoring. These actions, which have been filed in or
transferred to federal court, are coordinated in a multidistrict litigation in the U.S. District Court for the District Court
of New Jersey before District Judge Dennis M. Cavanaugh. The parties are presently engaged in motions practice
and briefing.
Also, as previously disclosed, on April 3, 2008, a Merck shareholder filed a putative class action lawsuit in
federal court in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania alleging that Merck and its Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer, Richard T. Clark, violated the federal securities laws. This suit has since been withdrawn and
re-filed in the District of New Jersey and has been consolidated with another federal securities lawsuit under the
caption In re Merck & Co., Inc. Vytorin Securities Litigation. An amended consolidated complaint was filed on
October 6, 2008 and names as defendants Merck; Merck/Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals, LLC; and certain of the
Company’s officers and directors. Specifically, the complaint alleges that Merck delayed releasing unfavorable
results of a clinical study regarding the efficacy of Vytorin and that Merck made false and misleading statements
about expected earnings, knowing that once the results of the Vytorin study were released, sales of Vytorin would
decline and Merck’s earnings would suffer. On April 22, 2008, a member of a Merck ERISA plan filed a putative
37Table of Contents
class action lawsuit against the Company and certain of its officers and directors alleging they breached their
fiduciary duties under ERISA. Since that time, there have been other similar ERISA lawsuits filed against the
Company in the District of New Jersey, and all of those lawsuits have been consolidated under the caption In re
Merck & Co., Inc. Vytorin ERISA Litigation. An amended consolidated complaint was filed on February 5, 2009,
and names as defendants Merck and various members of Merck’s Board of Directors and members of committees of
Merck’s Board of Directors. Plaintiffs allege that the ERISA plans’ investment in Company stock was imprudent
because the Company’s earnings are dependent on the commercial success of its cholesterol drug Vytorin and that
defendants knew or should have known that the results of a scientific study would cause the medical community to
turn to less expensive drugs for cholesterol management. The Company intends to defend the lawsuits referred to in
this section vigorously. Unfavorable outcomes resulting from the government investigations or the civil litigation
could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations.
In November 2008, the individual shareholder who had previously delivered a letter to the Company’s
Board of Directors demanding that the Board take legal action against the responsible individuals to recover the
amounts paid by the Company in 2007 to resolve certain governmental investigations delivered another letter to the
Board demanding that the Board or a subcommittee thereof commence an investigation into the matters raised by
various civil suits and governmental investigations relating to Vytorin .
V accine Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company is a party to individual and class action product liability lawsuits and
claims in the United States involving pediatric vaccines (e.g., hepatitis B vaccine) that contained thimerosal, a
preservative used in vaccines. Merck has not distributed thimerosal-containing pediatric vaccines in the United States
since the fall of 2001. As of December 31, 2008, there were approximately 230 thimerosal related lawsuits pending
in which the Company is a defendant, although the vast majority of those lawsuits are not currently active. Other
defendants include other vaccine manufacturers who produced pediatric vaccines containing thimerosal as well as
manufacturers of thimerosal. In these actions, the plaintiffs allege, among other things, that they have suffered
neurological injuries as a result of exposure to thimerosal from pediatric vaccines. There are no cases currently
scheduled for trial. The Company will defend against these lawsuits; however, it is possible that unfavorable
outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of
operations.
The Company has been successful in having cases of this type either dismissed or stayed on the ground that
the action is prohibited under the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act (the “Vaccine Act”). The Vaccine Act
prohibits any person from filing or maintaining a civil action (in state or federal court) seeking damages against a
vaccine manufacturer for vaccine-related injuries unless a petition is first filed in the United States Court of Federal
Claims (hereinafter the “Vaccine Court”). Under the Vaccine Act, before filing a civil action against a vaccine
manufacturer, the petitioner must either (a) pursue his or her petition to conclusion in Vaccine Court and then timely
file an election to proceed with a civil action in lieu of accepting the Vaccine Court’s adjudication of the petition or
(b) timely exercise a right to withdraw the petition prior to Vaccine Court adjudication in accordance with certain
statutorily prescribed time periods. The Company is not a party to Vaccine Court proceedings because the petitions
are brought against the United States Department of Health and Human Services.
The Company is aware that there are approximately 5,000 cases pending in the Vaccine Court involving
allegations that thimerosal-containing vaccines and/or the M-M-R II vaccine cause autism spectrum disorders. Not all
of the thimerosal-containing vaccines involved in the Vaccine Court proceeding are Company vaccines. The
Company is the sole source of the M-M-R II vaccine domestically. The Special Masters presiding over the Vaccine
Court proceedings held hearings in three test cases involving the theory that the combination of M-M-R II vaccine
and thimerosal in vaccines causes autism spectrum disorders. On February 12, 2009, the Special Masters issued
decisions in each of those cases, finding that the theory was unsupported by valid scientific evidence and that the
petitioners in the three cases were therefore not entitled to compensation. The Special Masters have held similar
hearings in three different test cases involving the theory that thimerosal in vaccines alone causes autism spectrum
disorders. Decisions have not been issued in this second set of test cases. The Special Masters had previously
indicated that they would hold similar hearings involving the theory that M-M-R II alone causes autism spectrum
disorders, but they have stated that they no longer intend to do so. The Vaccine Court has indicated that it intends to
38Table of Contents
use the evidence presented at these test case hearings to guide the adjudication of the remaining autism spectrum
disorder cases.
P atent Litigation
From time to time, generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical products file ANDA’s with the FDA seeking to
market generic forms of the Company’s products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned by the Company.
Generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have submitted ANDA’s to the FDA seeking to market in the United States a
generic form of Fosamax, Nexium, Singulair , Primaxin and Emend prior to the expiration of the Company’s (and
AstraZeneca’s in the case of Nexium ) patents concerning these products. In addition, an ANDA has been submitted
to the FDA seeking to market in the United States a generic form of Zetia prior to the expiration of Schering-
Plough’s patent concerning that product. The generic companies’ ANDA’s generally include allegations of non-
infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of the patents. The Company has filed patent infringement suits in
federal court against companies filing ANDA’s for generic alendronate ( Fosamax ), montelukast ( Singulair ),
imipenem/cilastatin ( Primaxin ) and AstraZeneca and the Company have filed patent infringement suits in federal
court against companies filing ANDA’s for generic esomeprazole ( Nexium ). Also, the Company and Schering-
Plough have filed a patent infringement suit in federal court against companies filing ANDA’s for generic ezetimibe
( Zetia ). Similar patent challenges exist in certain foreign jurisdictions. The Company intends to vigorously defend
its patents, which it believes are valid, against infringement by generic companies attempting to market products
prior to the expiration dates of such patents. As with any litigation, there can be no assurance of the outcomes, which,
if adverse, could result in significantly shortened periods of exclusivity for these products.
In February 2007, Schering-Plough received a notice from a generic company indicating that it had filed an
ANDA for Zetia and that it is challenging the U.S. patents that are listed for Zetia . Merck and Schering-Plough
market Zetia through a joint venture, MSP Singapore Company LLC. On March 22, 2007, Schering-Plough and MSP
Singapore Company LLC filed a patent infringement suit against Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc., USA and its parent
corporation (“Glenmark”). The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Glenmark’s ANDA until October 2010
or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier.
As previously disclosed, in January 2007, the Company received a letter from Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.
(“Ranbaxy”) stating that it had filed an ANDA seeking approval of a generic version of Merck’s Primaxin
(imipenem/cilastatin). The lawsuit asserted infringement on Merck’s patent which is due to expire on September 15,
2009. In July 2008, Merck and Ranbaxy entered into an agreement pursuant to which Ranbaxy can begin to market
in the United States a generic form of imipenem/cilastatin on September 1, 2009.
As previously disclosed, in February 2007, the Company received a notice from Teva, a generic company,
indicating that it had filed an ANDA for montelukast and that it is challenging the U.S. patent that is listed for
Singulair . On April 2, 2007, the Company filed a patent infringement action against Teva. The lawsuit automatically
stays FDA approval of Teva’s ANDA until August 2009 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may
occur earlier. A trial in this matter commenced on February 23, 2009.
As previously disclosed, in January 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington,
DC found the Company’s patent claims for once-weekly administration of Fosamax to be invalid. The Company
exhausted all options to appeal this decision in 2005. Based on the Court of Appeals’ decision, Fosamax and
Fosamax Plus D lost marketing exclusivity in the United States in 2008. As a result of these events, the Company is
experiencing significant declines in Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D U.S. sales. Similarly, in most major foreign
markets the basic use patent covering alendronate expired in 2008 and generic products are being sold.
In May 2005, the Federal Court of Canada Trial Division issued a decision refusing to bar the approval of
generic alendronate on the grounds that Merck’s patent for weekly alendronate was likely invalid. This decision
cannot be appealed and generic alendronate was launched in Canada in June 2005. In July 2005, Merck was sued in
the Federal Court of Canada by Apotex Corp. (“Apotex”) seeking damages for lost sales of generic weekly
alendronate due to the patent proceeding. In October 2008, the Federal Court of Canada issued a decision awarding
Apotex its lost profits for its generic alendronate product for the period of time that it was held off the market due to
Merck’s lawsuit. The Company has appealed this decision.
39Table of Contents
As previously disclosed, in September 2004, the Company appealed a decision of the Opposition Division
of the European Patent Office (“EPO”) that revoked the Company’s patent in Europe that covers the once-weekly
administration of alendronate. On March 14, 2006, the Board of Appeal of the EPO upheld the decision of the
Opposition Division revoking the patent. On March 28, 2007, the EPO issued another patent in Europe to the
Company that covers the once-weekly administration of alendronate. Under its terms, this new patent is effective
until July 2018. The Company has sued multiple parties in European countries asserting its European patent covering
once-weekly dosing of Fosamax . Oppositions have been filed in the EPO against this patent. A hearing in that
proceeding is scheduled for March 2009.
In addition, as previously disclosed, in Japan after a proceeding was filed challenging the validity of the
Company’s Japanese patent for the once-weekly administration of alendronate, the patent office invalidated the
patent. The decision is under appeal.
In October 2008, the U.S. patent for dorzolamide, covering both Trusopt and Cosopt , expired, after which
the Company experienced a significant decline in U.S. sales of these products. The Company is involved in litigation
proceedings of the corresponding patents in Canada and Great Britain.
The Company and AstraZeneca received notice in October 2005 that Ranbaxy had filed an ANDA for
esomeprazole magnesium. The ANDA contains Paragraph IV challenges to patents on Nexium . In November 2005,
the Company and AstraZeneca sued Ranbaxy in the United States District Court in New Jersey. As previously
disclosed, AstraZeneca, Merck and Ranbaxy have entered into a settlement agreement which provides that Ranbaxy
will not bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States until May 27, 2014. The Company and
AstraZeneca each received a CID from the United States Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) in July 2008
regarding the settlement agreement with Ranbaxy. The Company is cooperating with the FTC in responding to this
CID.
The Company and AstraZeneca received notice in January 2006 that IVAX Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
(“IVAX”), subsequently acquired by Teva, had filed an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium. The ANDA contains
Paragraph IV challenges to patents on Nexium . In March 2006, the Company and AstraZeneca sued Teva in the
United States District Court in New Jersey. In January 2008, the Company and AstraZeneca sued Dr. Reddy’s
Laboratories (“Dr. Reddy’s”) in the District Court in New Jersey based on Dr. Reddy’s filing of an ANDA for
esomeprazole magnesium. A trial has been scheduled for January 2010 with respect to both IVAX’s and Dr. Reddy’s
ANDAs. In addition, the Company and AstraZeneca received notice in December 2008 that Sandoz Inc. (“Sandoz”)
had filed an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium. The ANDA contains Paragraph IV challenges to patents on
Nexium . In January 2009, the Company and AstraZeneca sued Sandoz in the District Court in New Jersey based on
Sandoz’s filing of an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium.
In January 2009, the Company received notice that an ANDA was filed with the FDA for aprepitant which
contained a Paragraph IV challenge to patents on Emend . The Company is evaluating the information provided with
the notice to determine what action should be taken.
In Europe, the Company is aware of various companies seeking registration for generic losartan (the active
ingredient for Cozaar ). The Company has patent rights to losartan via license from E.I. du Pont de Nemours and
Company (“du Pont”). The Company and du Pont have filed patent infringement proceedings against various
companies in Portugal, Spain, Norway and Austria.
O ther Litigation
In February 2008, an individual shareholder delivered a letter to the Company’s Board of Directors
demanding that the Board take legal action against the responsible individuals to recover the amounts paid by the
Company in 2007 to resolve certain governmental investigations.
As previously disclosed, prior to the spin-off of Medco Health Solutions, Inc. (“Medco Health”), the
Company and Medco Health agreed to settle, on a class action basis, a series of lawsuits asserting violations of
ERISA (the “Gruer Cases”). The Company, Medco Health and certain plaintiffs’ counsel filed the settlement
agreement with the federal District Court in New York, where cases commenced by a number of plaintiffs, including
participants in a number of pharmaceutical benefit plans for which Medco Health is the pharmacy benefit manager,
40Table of Contents
as well as trustees of such plans, have been consolidated. Medco Health and the Company agreed to the proposed
settlement in order to avoid the significant cost and distraction of prolonged litigation. The proposed class settlement
has been agreed to by plaintiffs in five of the cases filed against Medco Health and the Company. Under the proposed
settlement, the Company and Medco Health have agreed to pay a total of $42.5 million, and Medco Health has
agreed to modify certain business practices or to continue certain specified business practices for a period of five
years. The financial compensation is intended to benefit members of the settlement class, which includes ERISA
plans for which Medco Health administered a pharmacy benefit at any time since December 17, 1994. The District
Court held hearings to hear objections to the fairness of the proposed settlement and approved the settlement in 2004,
but has not yet determined the number of class member plans that have properly elected not to participate in the
settlement. The settlement becomes final only if and when all appeals have been resolved. Certain class member
plans have indicated that they will not participate in the settlement. Cases initiated by three such plans and two
individuals remain pending in the Southern District of New York. Plaintiffs in these cases have asserted claims based
on ERISA as well as other federal and state laws that are the same as or similar to the claims that had been asserted
by settling class members in the Gruer Cases. The Company and Medco Health are named as defendants in these
cases.
Three notices of appeal were filed and the appellate court heard oral argument in May 2005. In December
2005, the appellate court issued a decision vacating the District Court’s judgment and remanding the cases to the
District Court to allow the District Court to resolve certain jurisdictional issues. A hearing was held to address such
issues in February 2006. The District Court issued a ruling in August 2006 resolving such jurisdictional issues in
favor of the settling plaintiffs. The class members and the other party that had previously appealed the District
Court’s judgment renewed their appeals. In October 2007, the renewed appeals were affirmed in part and vacated in
part by the federal court of appeals. The appeals court remanded the class settlement for further proceedings in the
District Court.
The District Court preliminarily approved the amended settlement in May 2008. However, plaintiffs that
had initially opted out of the settlement class filed objections to the settlement. The District Court ordered briefing on
the objections and heard argument in October 2008. The District Court has not yet issued its ruling on those
objections.
After the spin-off of Medco Health, Medco Health assumed substantially all of the liability exposure for the
matters discussed in the foregoing three paragraphs. These cases are being defended by Medco Health.
There are various other legal proceedings, principally product liability and intellectual property suits
involving the Company, which are pending. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such proceedings or the
proceedings discussed in this Item, in the opinion of the Company, all such proceedings are either adequately
covered by insurance or, if not so covered, should not ultimately result in any liability that would have a material
adverse effect on the financial position, liquidity or results of operations of the Company, other than proceedings for
which a separate assessment is provided in this Item.
E nvironmental Matters
The Company is a party to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents.
These proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste disposal facilities, transporters of waste to the
sites and generators of hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to reimburse the government
for cleanup costs. The Company has been made a party to these proceedings as an alleged generator of waste
disposed of at the sites. In each case, the government alleges that the defendants are jointly and severally liable for
the cleanup costs. Although joint and several liability is alleged, these proceedings are frequently resolved so that the
allocation of cleanup costs among the parties more nearly reflects the relative contributions of the parties to the site
situation. The Company’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. For some sites the potential liability is de
minimis and for others the costs of cleanup have not yet been determined. While it is not feasible to predict the
outcome of many of these proceedings brought by federal or state agencies or private litigants, in the opinion of the
Company, such proceedings should not ultimately result in any liability which would have a material adverse effect
on the financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources of the Company. The
41Table of Contents
Company has taken an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and such amounts do not include any
reduction for anticipated recoveries of cleanup costs from former site owners or operators or other recalcitrant
potentially responsible parties.
As previously disclosed, approximately 2,200 plaintiffs have filed an amended complaint against Merck
and 12 other defendants in United States District Court, Eastern District of California asserting claims under the
Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as well as negligence and nuisance. The suit seeks
damages for personal injury, diminution of property value, medical monitoring and other alleged real and personal
property damage associated with groundwater and soil contamination found at the site of a former Merck subsidiary
in Merced, California. The Company intends to defend itself against these claims.
I tem 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
Not applicable.
E xecutive Officers of the Registrant (ages as of February 1, 2009)
R ICHARD T. CLARK — Age 62
April, 2007 — Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
May, 2005 — Chief Executive Officer and President
June, 2003 — President, Merck Manufacturing Division — responsible for the Company’s manufacturing,
information services and operational excellence organizations worldwide
A DELE D. AMBROSE — Age 52
December, 2007 — Vice President and Chief Communications Officer — responsible for the Global
Communications organization
April, 2005 — On sabbatical
Prior to April 2005, Ms. Ambrose was Executive Vice President, Public Relations & Investor
Communications at AT&T Wireless (wireless services provider from September 2001 to April 2005)
J OHN CANAN — Age 52
January, 2008 — Senior Vice President and Controller — responsible for the Corporate Controller’s Group
September, 2006 — Vice President, Controller — responsible for the Corporate Controller’s Group
June, 2003 — Vice President, Corporate Audit & Assurance Services
C ELIA A. COLBERT — Age 52
January, 2008 — Senior Vice President, Secretary (since September, 1993) and Assistant General Counsel
(since November, 1993) — Responsible for Corporate Secretary function and Corporate Staff Legal
Groups, functional responsibility for Office of Ethics and Compliance.
W ILLIE A. DEESE — Age 53
January, 2008 — Executive Vice President and President, Merck Manufacturing Division (“MMD”) —
responsible for the Company’s global manufacturing, procurement, and distribuion and logistics
functions
May, 2005 — President, MMD — responsible for the Company’s global manufacturing, procurement, and
operational excellence functions
42Table of Contents
January, 2004 — Senior Vice President, Global Procurement
K ENNETH C. FRAZIER — Age 54
August, 2007 — Executive Vice President and President, Global Human Health — responsible for the
Company’s marketing and sales organizations worldwide, including the global pharmaceutical and
vaccine franchises
November, 2006 — Executive Vice President and General Counsel — responsible for legal and public
affairs functions and The Merck Company Foundation (a not-for-profit charitable organization affiliated
with the Company)
December, 1999 — Senior Vice President and General Counsel — responsible for legal and public affairs
functions and The Merck Company Foundation (a not-for-profit charitable organization affiliated with
the Company)
M IRIAN M. GRADDICK-WEIR — Age 54
January, 2008 — Executive Vice President, Human Resources — responsible for the Global Human
Resources organization
September, 2006 — Senior Vice President, Human Resources
Prior to September 2006, Dr. Graddick-Weir was Executive Vice President of Human Resources and
Employee Communications at AT&T (communications services provider), and has held several other
senior Human Resources leadership positions at AT&T for more than 20 years.
P ETER N. KELLOGG — Age 52
August, 2007 — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer — responsible for the Company’s
worldwide financial organization, investor relations, corporate development and licensing, and the
Company’s joint venture relationships
Prior to August, 2007, Mr. Kellogg was Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of
Biogen Idec (biotechnology company) since November 2003, from the merger of Biogen, Inc. and IDEC
Pharmaceuticals Corporation. Mr. Kellogg was formerly Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief
Financial Officer of Biogen, Inc. after serving as Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer
since July 2000
P ETER S. KIM — Age 50
January, 2008 — Executive Vice President and President, Merck Research Laboratories (since January,
2003) — responsible for the Company’s research and development efforts worldwide
B RUCE N. KUHLIK — Age 52
January, 2008 — Executive Vice President and General Counsel — responsible for legal, communications,
and public policy functions and The Merck Company Foundation (a not-for-profit charitable organization
affiliated with the Company)
May, 2005 — Vice President and Associate General Counsel — primary responsibility for the Company’s
Vioxx litigation defense
Prior to May 2005, Mr. Kuhlik was Senior Vice President and General Counsel for the Pharmaceutical
Research and Manufacturers of America since October, 2002
M ARK E. MCDONOUGH — Age 44
February, 2007 — Vice President and Treasurer — responsible for the Company’s treasury function
43Table of Contents
January, 2004 — Assistant Treasurer, Global Capital Markets — responsible for managing the Company’s
investment and financing portfolios and the treasury share repurchase program
M ARGARET G. MCGLYNN — Age 49
August, 2007 — President, Merck Vaccines and Infectious Diseases — global responsibilities for the
vaccines business and infectious diseases franchise including the Company’s Sanofi-Pasteur joint venture
August, 2005 — President, Merck Vaccines — global responsibilities for the vaccines business including
the Company’s Sanofi-Pasteur joint venture
January, 2003 — President, U.S. Human Health — responsible for one of the two prescription drug
divisions (hospital and specialty product franchises) comprising U.S. Human Health (“USHH”), and the
Managed Care Group of USHH
S TEFAN OSCHMANN — Age 51
September, 2006 — President, Europe, Middle East, Africa & Canada — responsible for the Company’s
business operations in Europe, Middle East, Africa and Canada
October, 2005 — Senior Vice President, Worldwide Human Health Marketing
January, 2001 — Managing Director, MSD Germany, a subsidiary of the Company
J . CHRIS SCALET — Age 50
January, 2008 — Executive Vice President, Global Services, and Chief Information Officer (“CIO”) —
responsible for Global Shared Services across the human resources, finance, site services and information
services function; and the enterprise business process redesign initiative
January, 2006 — Senior Vice President, Global Services, and CIO — responsible for Global Shared
Services across the human resources, finance, site services and information services function; and the
enterprise business process redesign initiative
March, 2003 — Senior Vice President, Information Services, and CIO — responsible for all areas of
information technology and services including application development, technical support, voice and data
communications, and computer operations worldwide
A DAM H. SCHECHTER — Age 44
August, 2007 — President, Global Pharmaceuticals — global responsibilities for the Company’s
atherosclerosis/cardiovascular, diabetes/obesity, oncology, specialty/neuroscience, respiratory, bone,
arthritis and analgesia franchises as well as commercial responsibility in the United States for the
Company’s portfolio of prescription medicines
July, 2006 — President, U.S. Human Health — commercial responsibility in the United States for the
Company’s portfolio of prescription medicines
October, 2005 — General Manager, U.S. Human Health — responsible for the Neuro-Psychiatry,
Osteoporosis, Migraine, Respiratory, and New Products franchises
February, 2004 — Vice President/General Manager, Merck/Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals U.S. Joint
Venture
All officers listed above serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. None of these officers was elected
pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between the officer and the Board.
44Table of Contents
PART II
I tem 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities.
The principal market for trading of the Company’s Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange
(“NYSE”) under the symbol MRK. The Common Stock market price information set forth in the table below is based
on historical NYSE market prices.
The following table also sets forth, for the calendar periods indicated, the dividend per share information.
C ash Dividends Paid per Common Share
Y ear 4 th Q 3 rd Q 2 nd Q 1 st Q
2008 $ 1.52 $ 0.38 $ 0.38 $ 0.38 $ 0.38
2007 $ 1.52 $ 0.38 $ 0.38 $ 0.38 $ 0.38
C ommon Stock Market Prices
2 008 4th Q 3 rd Q 2 nd Q 1st Q
High $3 2.46 $3 8.90 $4 2.24 $6 1.18
Low $2 2.82 $3 0.34 $3 4.49 $3 6.82
2007
H igh $6 1.62 $5 3.81 $5 5.14 $4 6.55
Low $5 1.44 $4 8.11 $4 4.52 $4 2.35
As of January 31, 2009, there were approximately 165,169 stockholders of record.
Equity Compensation Plan Information
The following table summarizes information about the options, warrants and rights and other equity
compensation under the Company’s equity plans as of the close of business on December 31, 2008. The table does
not include information about tax qualified plans such as the Merck & Co., Inc. Employee Savings and Security Plan.
Number of
securities
Number of remaining available
securities to be for future issuance
issued upon Weighted-average under equity
exercise of exercise price of compensation plans
outstanding outstanding (excluding
options, warrants options, warrants securities
and rights and rights reflected in column (a))
Plan Category (a) (b) (c)
Equity compensation plans approved by security holders
(1) 247,047,953( 2) $ 51.57 126,830,385
Equity compensation plans not approved by security
holders (3) - - -
Total 247,047,953 $ 51.57 126,830,385
( 1) Includes options to purchase shares of Company Common Stock and other rights under the following stockholder-approved plans: the 1996
Incentive Stock Plan, the 2001 Incentive Stock Plan, the 2004 Incentive Stock Plan, the 2007 Incentive Stock Plan, the 1996 Non-Employee
Directors Stock Option Plan, the 2001 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan and the 2006 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan.
45Table of Contents
( 2) Excludes approximately 6,292,164 shares of restricted stock units and 3,242,796 performance share units (assuming maximum payouts) under
the 2004 and 2007 Incentive Stock Plans. Also excludes 268,723 shares of phantom stock deferred under the Merck & Co., Inc. Deferral
Program. As of December 31, 2006, no additional shares were reserved under the Deferral Program. Beginning January 1, 2007, one-tenth of
1 percent of the outstanding shares of Merck Common Stock on the last business day of the preceding calendar year plus any shares authorized
under the Deferral Program but not issued are reserved for future issuance (2,643,159 as of December 31, 2008). The actual amount of shares
to be issued prospectively equals the amount participants elect to defer from payouts under the Company’s various incentive programs, such as
the Executive Incentive Plan, into phantom stock, increased by the amount of dividends that would be paid on an equivalent number of shares
of Merck Common Stock, divided by the market price of Merck Common Stock.
( 3) The table does not include information for equity compensation plans and options and other warrants and rights assumed by the Company in
connection with mergers and acquisitions and pursuant to which there remain outstanding options or other warrants or rights (collectively,
“Assumed Plans”), which include the following: Medco Containment Services, Inc. 1991 Class C Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan; SIBIA
Neurosciences, Inc. 1996 Equity and Incentive Stock Option Plan; Provantage Health Services, Inc. 1999 Stock Incentive Plan; Rosetta
Inpharmatics, Inc. 1997 and 2000 Employee Stock Option Plans. A total of 603,316 shares of Merck Common Stock may be purchased under
the Assumed Plans, at a weighted average exercise price of $22.59. No further grants may be made under any Assumed Plans.
46Table of Contents
Performance Graph
The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return (stock price appreciation plus
reinvested dividends) on the Company’s Common Stock with the cumulative total return (including reinvested
dividends) of the Dow Jones US Pharmaceutical Index (“DJUSPR”), formerly referred to as the Dow Jones
Pharmaceutical Index — United States Owned Companies, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (“S&P 500 Index”)
for the five years ended December 31, 2008. Amounts below have been rounded to the nearest dollar or percent.
Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return*
Merck & Co., Inc., Dow Jones US Pharmaceutical Index and S&P 500 Index
End of 2 008/2003
Period Value CAGR**
MERCK $ 81 −4 %
DJUSPR 88 −2
S&P 500 90 −2
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
MERCK 100.00 72.36 75.30 107.42 147.54 80.69
DJUSPR 100.00 91.72 90.20 103.18 107.79 88.23
S&P 500 100.00 110.87 116.31 134.66 142.05 89.51
* Assumes that the value of the investment in Company Common Stock and each index was $100 on December 31, 2003 and
that all dividends were reinvested.
** Compound Annual Growth Rate
47Table of Contents
Issuer purchases of equity securities for the three month period ended December 31, 2008 are as follows:
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Total Number of ($ in millions)
Total Shares Purchased Approx. Dollar Value
Number Average as Part of of Shares That May Yet
of Shares Price Paid Publicly Announced Be Purchased Under the
Period Purchased Per Share Plans or Programs (1) Plans or Programs (1)
October 1 –
October 31, 2008 7,241,000 $28.95 7,241,000 $ 2,372.7
November 1 –
November 30, 2008 0 N/A 0 $ 2,372.7
December 1 –
December 31, 2008 0 N/A 0 $ 2,372.7
Total 7,241,000 $28.95 7,241,000 $ 2,372.7
( 1) These share repurchases were made as part of a plan announced in July 2002 to purchase $10 billion in Merck shares.
48Table of Contents
Item 6. Selected Financial Data.
The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7. “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and consolidated financial statements and notes
thereto contained in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report.
M erck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
($ in millions except per share amounts)
2008 (1) 2007 (2) 2006 (3) 2005 (4) 2004 (5)
Results for Year:
Sales $23,850.3 $24,197.7 $22,636.0 $22,011.9 $22,972.8
Materials and production costs 5,582.5 6,140.7 6,001.1 5,149.6 4,965.7
Marketing and administrative expenses 7,377.0 7,556.7 8,165.4 7,155.5 7,238.7
Research and development expenses 4,805.3 4,882.8 4,782.9 3,848.0 4,010.2
Restructuring costs 1,032.5 327.1 142.3 322.2 107.6
Equity income from affiliates (2,560.6 ) (2,976.5) (2,294.4 ) (1,717.1) (1,008.2 )
U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge - 4,850.0 - - -
Other (income) expense, net (2,194.2 ) 46.2 (382.7) (110.2) (344.0)
Income before taxes 9,807.8 3,370.7 6,221.4 7,363.9 8,002.8
Taxes on income 1,999.4 95.3 1,787.6 2,732.6 2,172.7
Net income 7,808.4 3,275.4 4,433.8 4,631.3 5,830.1
Basic earnings per common share $3.66 $1.51 $2.04 $2.11 $2.63
Earnings per common share assuming dilution $3.64 $1.49 $2.03 $2.10 $2.62
Cash dividends declared 3,250.4 3,310.7 3,318.7 3,338.7 3,329.1
Cash dividends paid per common share $1.52 $1.52 $1.52 $1.52 $1.49
Capital expenditures 1,298.3 1,011.0 980.2 1,402.7 1,726.1
Depreciation 1,445.1 1,752.4 2,098.1 1,544.2 1,258.7
Y ear-End Position:
Working capital $4,986.2 $2,787.2 $2,507.5 $7,806.9 $1,688.8
Property, plant and equipment, net 11,999.6 12,346.0 13,194.1 14,398.2 14,713.7
Total assets 47,195.7 48,350.7 44,569.8 44,845.8 42,572.8
Long-term debt 3,943.3 3,915.8 5,551.0 5,125.6 4,691.5
Stockholders’ equity 18,758.3 18,184.7 17,559.7 17,977.7 17,349.3
F inancial Ratios:
Income as a % of sales 32.7 % 13.5% 19.6 % 21.0% 25.4 %
Net income as a % of average total assets 16.3 % 7.0% 9.9% 10.6% 14.0 %
Y ear-End Statistics:
Average common shares outstanding (millions) 2,135.8 2,170.5 2,177.6 2,197.0 2,219.0
Average common shares outstanding assuming
dilution (millions) 2,145.3 2,192.9 2,187.7 2,200.4 2,226.4
Number of stockholders of record 165,700 173,000 184,200 198,200 216,100
Number of employees 55,200 59,800 60,000 61,500 62,600
( 1) Amounts for 2008 include a gain on distribution from AstraZeneca LP, a gain related to the sale of the Company’s remaining worldwide rights to Aggrastat , the
favorable impact of certain tax items, the impact of restructuring actions, additional legal defense costs and an expense for a contribution to the Merck Company
Foundation.
(2) Amounts for 2007 include the impact of the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge, restructuring actions, a civil governmental investigations charge, an insurance
arbitration settlement gain, acquired research expense resulting from an acquisition, additional Vioxx legal defense costs, gains on sales of assets and product
divestitures, as well as a net gain on the settlements of certain patent disputes.
(3) Amounts for 2006 include the impact of restructuring actions, acquired research expenses resulting from acquisitions, additional Vioxx legal defense costs and the
adoption of a new accounting standard requiring the expensing of stock options.
(4) Amounts for 2005 include the impact of the net tax charge primarily associated with the American Jobs Creation Act repatriation, restructuring actions and
additional Vioxx legal defense costs.
(5) Amounts for 2004 include the impact of the withdrawal of Vioxx, Vioxx legal defense costs and restructuring actions.
49Table of Contents
I tem 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
D escription of Merck’s Business
Merck is a global research-driven pharmaceutical company that discovers, develops, manufactures and
markets a broad range of innovative products to improve human and animal health. The Company’s operations are
principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of two reportable segments: the Pharmaceutical segment
and the Vaccines and Infectious Diseases segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health
pharmaceutical products marketed either directly by Merck or through joint ventures. These products consist of
therapeutic and preventive agents, sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Merck sells these
human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies
and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other
institutions. The Vaccines and Infectious Diseases segment includes human health vaccine and infectious disease
products marketed either directly by Merck or, in the case of vaccines, also through a joint venture. Vaccine products
consist of preventative pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. Merck
sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government
entities. Infectious disease products consist of therapeutic agents for the treatment of infection sold primarily to drug
wholesalers and retailers, hospitals and government agencies. The Company’s professional representatives
communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of its pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care
professionals in private practice, group practices and managed care organizations.
O verview
During 2008, the Company continued to address business challenges in the midst of an evolving
pharmaceutical industry environment. Revenue declined by 1% in 2008 driven largely by lower sales of Fosamax for
the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis. Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D lost market exclusivity for substantially
all formulations in the United States in February 2008 and April 2008, respectively, and as a result the Company is
experiencing a significant decline in sales in the United States within the Fosamax franchise. Also contributing to the
decline were lower sales of Zocor, the Company’s statin for modifying cholesterol which lost U.S. market exclusivity
in 2006. Partially offsetting these declines were higher sales of Januvia and Janumet for the treatment of type 2
diabetes and Isentress, an antiretroviral therapy for the treatment of HIV infection.
To address the business and industry challenges that Merck faces, the Company remains focused on
innovation and customer value in order to drive the growth of its business and help position Merck for future success.
The Company has made significant progress with re-engineering its operations through research and
development initiatives, the roll-out of a new commercial model and the continuation of Merck’s supply strategy.
These activities should enable the Company to optimize its product portfolio and invest in growth opportunities, such
as emerging markets, Merck BioVentures and business development.
Merck continues its efforts to diversify the Company’s scientific portfolio both through internal programs
and external research collaborations. The Company is focused on developing novel, best-in-class or follow-on
treatments for patients in primary care, specialty care, and hospital settings. Additionally, Merck Research
Laboratories is pursuing a portfolio of treatment modalities that not only includes small molecules and vaccines, but
also biologics, peptides and RNA interference (“RNAi”). Further, Merck is moving to diversify its portfolio by
creating a new division, Merck BioVentures, which leverages a unique technology platform for both follow-on and
novel biologics.
The Company has numerous active clinical programs across the Company’s major research franchises:
bone, respiratory, immunology and endocrine; cardiovascular; diabetes and obesity; infectious diseases;
neuroscience; oncology and vaccines. The Company currently has nine candidates in Phase III clinical development
and anticipates submitting two New Drug Applications (“NDA”) with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(“FDA”) with respect to two of the candidates in 2009: MK-0974, telcagepant, an investigational compound for the
treatment of migraines, and MK-7418, rolofylline, an investigational compound for the treatment of acute heart
failure. In addition, the Company anticipates submitting an NDA in 2009 for MK-0653C, ezetimibe combined with
50Table of Contents
atorvastatin, an investigational medication for the treatment of dyslipidemia being developed by the Merck/Schering-
Plough joint venture. Also, the Company anticipates regulatory action in 2009 on two supplemental filings that have
been submitted to the FDA: one for Gardasil , Merck’s HPV vaccine, for use in males; and one for Isentress , a
first-in-class integrase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV-1 infection, for an expanded indication for use in treatment-
naïve patients.
On the commercial side, the Company is rolling out a more customer-centric selling model that is designed
to provide a competitive advantage, help build trust with customers, and improve patient outcomes. The strategy
employs the use of new marketing technologies to complement a new, more customer-centered approach; and moves
away from the traditional frequency-based sales and marketing approach; it also creates efficiencies by eliminating
redundancies in core functions and across the sales organization.
On the manufacturing side, Merck has made significant progress in the three years since it began re-
engineering to create a lean, flexible, cost-effective capability. The Company continues to address its manufacturing
issues and it is working to build additional capacity in vaccines and biologics, as well as to support Merck’s
expansion into emerging markets. To assist this goal, the Company is shifting investments from developed markets
into emerging markets commensurate with the size and strategic importance of the opportunity.
In October 2008, the Company announced a global restructuring program (the “2008 Restructuring
Program”) to reduce its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. As discussed above, Merck
is rolling out a new, more customer-centric selling model. Additionally, the Company will make greater use of
outside technology resources, centralize common sales and marketing activities, and consolidate and streamline its
operations. Merck’s manufacturing division will further focus its capabilities on core products and outsource non-
core manufacturing. Also, Merck is expanding its access to worldwide external science through a basic research
global operating strategy, which is designed to provide a sustainable pipeline and is focused on translating basic
research productivity into late-stage clinical success. To increase efficiencies, basic research operations will
consolidate work in support of a given therapeutic area into one of four locations. This will provide a more efficient
use of research facilities and result in the closure of three basic research sites located in Tsukuba, Japan; Pomezia,
Italy; and Seattle by the end of 2009. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the Company expects to eliminate
approximately 7,200 positions — 6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies — across all areas of the Company
worldwide by the end of 2011, approximately 1,750 of which the Company eliminated in 2008. About 40% of the
total reductions will occur in the United States. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the Company is
streamlining management layers by reducing its total number of senior and mid-level executives globally by
approximately 25%. The Company, however, continues to hire new employees as the business requires. The 2008
Restructuring Program is expected to be completed by the end of 2011 with the total pretax costs estimated to be
$1.6 billion to $2.0 billion. In 2008, the Company recorded pretax restructuring costs of $921.3 million related to the
2008 Restructuring Program. The Company estimates that two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs will result in
future cash outlays, primarily from employee separation expense. Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax
costs are non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested. Merck
expects the 2008 Restructuring Program to yield cumulative pretax savings of $3.8 billion to $4.2 billion from 2008
to 2013.
During 2008, in connection with certain transactions with AstraZeneca LP (“AZLP”), the Company
recorded an aggregate pretax gain of $2.2 billion which is included in Other (income) expense, net and received net
proceeds from AZLP of $2.6 billion. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.
Earnings per common share (“EPS”) assuming dilution for 2008 were $3.64, including the impact of the
gain on distribution from AZLP of $0.66 per share and restructuring costs of $(0.44) per share. In addition, EPS in
2008 reflects the favorable impact of certain tax items. All of these items are discussed more fully in the notes to the
consolidated financial statements.
C ompetition and the Health Care Environment
The markets in which the Company conducts its business are highly competitive and often highly regulated.
Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and access.
51Table of Contents
In the United States, the government expanded health care access by enacting the Medicare Prescription
Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, which was signed into law in December 2003. Prescription drug
coverage began on January 1, 2006. This legislation supports the Company’s goal of improving access to medicines
by expanding insurance coverage, while preserving market-based incentives for pharmaceutical innovation. At the
same time, the legislation will ensure that prescription drug costs will be controlled by competitive pressures and by
encouraging the appropriate use of medicines. The U.S. Congress has considered, and may consider again, proposals
to increase the government’s role in pharmaceutical pricing in the Medicare program. These proposals may include
removing the current legal prohibition against the Secretary of the Health and Human Services intervening in price
negotiations between Medicare drug benefit program plans and pharmaceutical companies. They may also include
mandating the payment of rebates for some or all of the pharmaceutical utilization in Medicare drug benefit plans. In
addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines
from other countries.
In addressing cost-containment pressure, the Company has made a continuing effort to demonstrate that its
medicines provide value to patients and those who pay for health care. In addition, pricing flexibility across the
Company’s product portfolio has encouraged growing use of its medicines and mitigated the effects of increasing
cost pressures.
Outside the United States, in difficult environments encumbered by government cost-containment actions,
the Company has worked in partnership with payers to encourage them to allocate scarce resources to optimize
health care outcomes, limiting the potentially detrimental effects of government policies on sales growth and access
to innovative medicines and vaccines, and to support the discovery and development of innovative products to
benefit patients. The Company also is working with governments in many emerging markets in Eastern Europe, Latin
America and Asia to encourage them to increase their investments in health and thereby improve their citizens’
access to medicines. In addition, certain countries within the EU, recognizing the economic importance of the
research-based pharmaceutical industry and the value of innovative medicines to society, are working with industry
representatives to improve the competitive climate through a variety of means including market deregulation.
In order to advance the related policy debate, the EC launched the High Level Pharmaceutical Forum
(“HLPF”) during the period 2005 through 2008. The initiative aimed at improving the prospects of the research-
based pharmaceutical industry in Europe and thus the health prospects of all patients who will benefit from
innovative therapies. Through an active dialogue among all stakeholders in the health care system (from payers to
patients), this initiative was an attempt to tackle key policy issues in Europe: (i) promoting greater pricing flexibility
for medicines; (ii) ensuring that health authorities apply best practices for the evaluation of the relative effectiveness
of medicines; and (iii) improving greater access to information on medicines for patients in Europe. The Company
was actively engaged with the EC and other stakeholders and was broadly in agreement with the recommendations
from the HLPF.
In January 2008, the EC launched a sector inquiry in the pharmaceutical markets under the rules of EU
competition law. As part of this inquiry, the Company’s offices in Germany were inspected by the authorities
beginning in January 2008. The Preliminary Report of the EC was issued on November 28, 2008, in which the EC
stated it had confirmed its original hypothesis that competition in the pharmaceutical sector may be restricted or
distorted, as indicated by a decline in innovation measured by the number of novel medicines reaching the market,
and by alleged instances of delayed market entry of generic medicines. The public consultation period with respect to
the Preliminary Report expired on January 31, 2009, and the EC has issued further inquiries in respect of the subject
of the investigation. The EC has not alleged that the Company or any of its subsidiaries have engaged in any
unlawful practices. The final report is planned for later in 2009. The Company is cooperating with the EC in this
sector inquiry.
The Company is committed to improving access to medicines and enhancing the quality of life for people
around the world. The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnerships in Botswana, a partnership between the
government of Botswana, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and The Merck Company Foundation/Merck & Co.,
Inc., is supporting Botswana’s response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and sustainable approach to HIV
prevention, care, treatment and support.
52Table of Contents
To further catalyze access to HIV medicines in developing countries, under price reduction guidelines that
the Company announced in 2001, Merck makes no profit on the sale of its current HIV/AIDS medicines in the
world’s poorest countries and those hardest hit by the pandemic, and offers its HIV/AIDS medicines at significantly
reduced prices to medium-income countries. In February 2007, Merck announced that it had again reduced the price
of Stocrin in the least developed countries of the world and those hardest hit by the pandemic. By the end of 2008,
approximately 725,000 people living with HIV and AIDS in 125 developing countries and territories were estimated
to be on treatment with antiretroviral regimens containing Crixivan, Stocrin or Atripla. Through these and other
actions, Merck is working independently and with partners in the public and private sectors alike to focus on the most
critical barriers to access to medicines in the developing world: the need for sustainable financing, increased
international assistance and additional investments in education, training and health infrastructure and capacity in
developing countries.
In October 2008, Merck announced that RotaTeq has been awarded pre-qualification status by the World
Health Organization (“WHO”). WHO pre-qualification allows for expanded access to RotaTeq and provides a greater
opportunity to help protect millions of infants from rotavirus gastroenteritis. Because RotaTeq is pre-qualified by the
WHO, the vaccine is eligible for procurement by the Pan American Health Organization, UNICEF and other United
Nations’ agencies for use in national vaccination programs. RotaTeq is the only ready-to-use oral liquid rotavirus
vaccine to receive WHO pre-qualification. Merck has committed to providing RotaTeq to the Global Alliance for
Vaccines and Immunization-eligible countries at prices at which it does not profit.
The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The
legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an
increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the Company’s
business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of U.S. states requiring security breach notification.
Although no one can predict the outcome of these and other legislative, regulatory and advocacy initiatives,
the Company is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces.
The Company anticipates that the worldwide trend toward cost-containment will continue, resulting in
ongoing pressures on health care budgets. As the Company continues to successfully launch new products, contribute
to health care debates and monitor reforms, its new products, policies and strategies should enable it to maintain a
strong position in the changing economic environment.
A cquisitions
In September 2007, Merck completed the acquisition of NovaCardia, Inc. (“NovaCardia”) for
$366.4 million which was paid through the issuance of Merck common stock. NovaCardia is a clinical-stage
pharmaceutical company focused on cardiovascular disease. This acquisition added rolofylline (MK-7418),
NovaCardia’s investigational Phase III compound for acute heart failure, to Merck’s pipeline. In connection with the
acquisition, the Company recorded a charge of $325.1 million for acquired research associated with rolofylline as at
the acquisition date, technological feasibility had not been established and no alternative future use existed. The
charge was not deductible for tax purposes. The ongoing activity with respect to the future development of
rolofylline continues and the costs have not been and are not expected to be material to the Company’s research and
development expenses.
In December 2006, Merck completed the acquisition of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. (“Sirna”) for approximately
$1.1 billion. Sirna is a biotechnology company that is developing a new class of medicines based on RNAi
technology, which could significantly alter the treatment of disease. In connection with the acquisition, the Company
recorded a charge of $466.2 million for acquired research associated with Sirna’s compounds currently under
development, which related to the development of treatments for both the hepatitis B and hepatitis C viruses, which
were in preclinical development, as well as licensing agreements held by Sirna. The charge was not deductible for tax
purposes. The ongoing activity with respect to each of these compounds under development continues and the costs
have not been and are not expected to be material to the Company’s research and development expenses. The
acquisition of Sirna has increased Merck’s ability to use RNAi technology to turn off a targeted gene in a human cell,
potentially rendering inoperative a gene responsible for triggering a specific disease.
53Table of Contents
In June 2006, Merck acquired GlycoFi, Inc. (“GlycoFi”) a privately-held biotechnology company in the
field of yeast glycoengineering, which is the addition of specific carbohydrate modifications to the proteins in yeast,
and optimization of biologic drug molecules, for $373 million in cash ($400 million purchase price net of $25 million
of shares already owned and net transaction costs). The Company recorded a $296.3 million charge for acquired
research in connection with the acquisition which was not deductible for tax purposes. In May 2006, Merck acquired
Abmaxis, Inc. (“Abmaxis”) a privately-held biopharmaceutical company dedicated to the discovery and optimization
of monoclonal antibody products for human therapeutics and diagnostics, for $80 million in cash. Substantially all of
the purchase price was allocated to an intangible asset relating to Abmaxis’ technology platform. While each of the
acquisitions has independent scientific merits, the combination of the GlycoFi and Abmaxis platforms is potentially
synergistic, giving Merck the ability to operate across the entire spectrum of therapeutic antibody discovery,
development and commercialization.
See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these acquisitions.
O perating Results
S ales
Worldwide sales totaled $23.9 billion for 2008, a decline of 1% compared with 2007, primarily attributable
to a 4% volume decrease, partially offset by a 3% favorable effect from foreign exchange. The revenue decline over
2007 largely reflects lower sales of Fosamax for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis. Fosamax and
Fosamax Plus D lost market exclusivity for substantially all formulations in the United States in February 2008 and
April 2008, respectively. Also contributing to the decline were lower sales of Zocor, the Company’s statin for
modifying cholesterol which lost U.S. market exclusivity in 2006, lower sales of Vasotec/Vaseretic for the treatment
of hypertension and/or heart failure which lost patent protection in certain foreign markets and lower sales of certain
vaccines, including hepatitis and Haemophilus influenzae type b (“HIB”) vaccines. Partially offsetting these declines
were higher sales of Januvia and Janumet for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, Isentress, an antiretroviral therapy for
the treatment of HIV infection, Cozaar/Hyzaar for the treatment of hypertension, RotaTeq , a vaccine to help protect
against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, and Singulair , a medicine indicated for the chronic treatment
of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis.
Domestic sales declined 9% compared with 2007, while foreign sales rose 10%. Foreign sales represented
44% of total sales in 2008. The domestic sales decline was largely driven by lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax
Plus D, vaccines and Singulair , partially offset by higher sales of Januvia, Janumet and Isentress . Foreign sales
growth reflects the strong performance of Januvia, Janumet, Singulair, Cozaar/Hyzaar and Isentress, partially offset
by lower sales of Vasotec/Vaseretic and Zocor .
Worldwide sales for 2007 increased 7% in total compared with 2006 reflecting a 4% volume increase, a 2%
favorable effect from foreign exchange and a less than 1% favorable effect from price changes. Sales growth was
primarily driven by growth of the Company’s vaccines, including Gardasil, a vaccine to help prevent cervical, vulvar
and vaginal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions, and genital warts caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18,
Varivax , a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox, RotaTeq and Zostavax , a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes
zoster). Also contributing to sales growth during this period was strong performance of Singulair , higher sales of
Januvia and sales of Janumet , as well as increased sales of Cozaar/Hyzaar . Sales growth was partially offset by
lower sales of Zocor and Proscar , a urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement.
Merck’s U.S. market exclusivity for Proscar expired in June 2006. Also offsetting sales growth in 2007 were lower
revenues from the Company’s relationship with AZLP and lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D. Foreign
sales represented 39% of total sales for 2007.
54Table of Contents
Sales (1) of the Company’s products were as follows:
( $ in millions) 2008 2007 2006
Pharmaceutical:
Singulair $ 4,336.9 $ 4,266.3 $ 3,579.0
Cozaar/Hyzaar 3,557.7 3,350.1 3,163.1
Fosamax 1,552.7 3,049.0 3,134.4
Januvia 1,397.1 667.5 42.9
Cosopt/Trusopt 781.2 786.8 697.1
Zocor 660.1 876.5 2,802.7
Maxalt 529.2 467.3 406.4
Propecia 429.1 405.4 351.8
Arcoxia 377.3 329.1 265.4
Vasotec/Vaseretic 356.7 494.6 547.2
Janumet 351.1 86.4 -
Proscar 323.5 411.0 618.5
Emend 263.8 204.2 130.8
Other pharmaceutical (2) 2,278.9 2,422.9 2,780.5
Vaccine and infectious disease product sales included in the Pharmaceutical segment (3) 2,187.6 1,800.5 1,315.8
P harmaceutical segment revenues 19,382.9 19,617.6 19,835.6
V accines (4) and Infectious Diseases:
Gardasil 1,402.8 1,480.6 234.8
ProQuad/M-M-R II/Varivax 1,268.5 1,347.1 820.1
RotaTeq 664.5 524.7 163.4
Zostavax 312.4 236.0 38.6
Hepatitis vaccines 148.3 279.9 248.5
Other vaccines 354.6 409.9 354.0
Primaxin 760.4 763.5 704.8
Cancidas 596.4 536.9 529.8
Isentress 361.1 41.3 -
Crixivan/Stocrin 275.1 310.2 327.3
Invanz 265.0 190.2 139.2
Other infectious disease 15.5 1.7 -
Vaccine and infectious disease product sales included in the Pharmaceutical segment (3) (2,187.6 ) (1,800.5 ) (1,315.8 )
V accines and Infectious Diseases segment revenues 4,237.0 4,321.5 2,244.7
O ther segment revenues (5) 81.8 162.0 162.1
Total segment revenues 23,701.7 24,101.1 22,242.4
O ther (6) 148.6 96.6 393.6
$ 23,850.3 $ 24,197.7 $ 22,636.0
( 1) Presented net of discounts and returns.
( 2) Other pharmaceutical primarily includes sales of other human pharmaceutical products and revenue from the Company’s relationship with
AZLP primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. Revenue from AZLP was $1.6 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion in 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively. In 2006, other pharmaceutical also reflects certain supply sales, including supply sales associated with the
Company’s arrangement with Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories for the sale of generic simvastatin.
( 3) Sales of vaccine and infectious disease products by non-U.S. subsidiaries are included in the Pharmaceutical segment.
( 4) These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Company’s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur
MSD, the results of which are reflected in Equity income from affiliates. These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur
MSD.
( 5) Includes other non-reportable human and animal health segments.
( 6) Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, sales related to divested products or businesses and other supply
sales not included in segment results.
55Table of Contents
The Company’s pharmaceutical products include therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by
prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Among these are Singulair , a leukotriene receptor antagonist for
the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis; Cozaar, Hyzaar, Vasotec and
Vaseretic , the Company’s most significant hypertension and/or heart failure products; Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D
(marketed as Fosavance throughout the European Union (“EU”) and as Fosamac in Japan), for the treatment and, in
the case of Fosamax , prevention of osteoporosis; Januvia and Janumet, for the treatment of type 2 diabetes; Cosopt
and Trusopt, Merck’s largest-selling ophthalmological products; Zocor, Merck’s statin for modifying cholesterol;
Maxalt, an acute migraine product; Propecia , a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss; Arcoxia, for the
treatment of arthritis and pain; Proscar , a urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate
enlargement; and Emend, for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative nausea and vomiting.
The Company’s vaccine and infectious disease products include Gardasil , a vaccine to help prevent
cervical, vulvar and vaginal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions, and genital warts caused by HPV types 6,
11, 16 and 18; Varivax , a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox; ProQuad, a pediatric combination vaccine against
measles, mumps, rubella and varicella; M-M-R II, a vaccine against measles, mumps and rubella; RotaTeq, a vaccine
to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children; Zostavax, a vaccine to help prevent shingles
(herpes zoster); Primaxin and Cancidas , anti-bacterial/anti-fungal products; Isentress, Crixivan and Stocrin,
antiretroviral therapies for the treatment of HIV infection ; and Invanz for the treatment of infection.
P harmaceutical Segment Revenues
Sales of the Pharmaceutical segment declined 1% in 2008 primarily due to declines in Fosamax, Zocor and
Vasotec/Vaseretic, partially offset by growth in Januvia, Janumet and Cozaar/Hyzaar. Sales of the Pharmaceutical
segment declined 1% in 2007 primarily due to lower sales of Zocor and Proscar post patent expiration, partially
offset by increases in Singulair, Cozaar/Hyzaar, Januvia and sales of Janumet.
Worldwide sales of Singulair grew 2% reaching $4.3 billion in 2008 and rose 19% to $4.3 billion in 2007,
reflecting the continued demand for asthma and seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis medications. Sales
performance in 2008 benefited from higher sales outside the United States, including volume growth in Europe and
Japan and the positive effect of foreign exchange. Sales in the United States declined reflecting the impact of the
switch of a competing allergic rhinitis product to over-the-counter status in the United States in early 2008, the
timing and public reaction to the FDA early communication regarding a very limited number of post-marketing
adverse event reports which created uncertainty in the marketplace, and smaller spring and fall allergy seasons.
Singulair continues to be the number one prescribed product in the U.S. respiratory market.
Global sales of Cozaar , and its companion agent Hyzaar (a combination of Cozaar and
hydrochlorothiazide), increased 6% to $3.6 billion in 2008 and grew 6% to $3.4 billion in 2007. The increase in 2008
was driven by strong performance of Hyzaar in Japan (marketed as Preminent ), as well as by the positive effect of
foreign exchange. Cozaar and Hyzaar are among the leading medicines in the angiotensin receptor blocker class.
Cozaar and Hyzaar will each lose patent protection in the United States in April 2010. The Company expects
significant declines in U.S. sales of these products after that time.
Worldwide sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D declined 49% in 2008 to $1.6 billion and decreased 3%
in 2007 to $3.0 billion. Since substantially all formulations of these medicines have lost U.S. market exclusivity, the
Company is experiencing significant declines in sales in the United States within the Fosamax franchise and the
Company expects such declines to continue.
Global sales of Januvia , Merck’s dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (“DPP-4”) inhibitor, were $1.4 billion in 2008,
$667.5 million in 2007 and $42.9 million in 2006. Januvia was approved by the FDA in October 2006 and by the EC
in March 2007. Januvia continues to be the second leading branded oral anti-diabetic agent in terms of new
prescription share in the United States. DPP-4 inhibitors represent a class of prescription medications that improve
blood sugar control in patients with type 2 diabetes by enhancing a natural body system called the incretin system,
which helps to regulate glucose by affecting the beta cells and alpha cells in the pancreas.
In November 2008, new data presented at the 61st Annual Scientific Meeting of the Gerontological Society
of America showed Januvia significantly reduced blood sugar levels in elderly patients with type 2 diabetes and was
not associated with hypoglycemia (low blood sugar). In this study of 206 patients aged 65 to 96 years, there
56Table of Contents
were no reports of hypoglycemia in either the Januvia or the placebo groups. Advanced age contributes to the risk of
hypoglycemia.
Worldwide sales of Janumet , Merck’s oral antihyperglycemic agent that combines sitagliptin (Merck’s
DPP-4 inhibitor, Januvia) with metformin in a single tablet to target all three key defects of type 2 diabetes, were
$351.1 million in 2008 compared with $86.4 million in 2007. Janumet , launched in the United States in April 2007,
was approved, as an adjunct to diet and exercise, to improve blood sugar control in adult patients with type 2 diabetes
who are not adequately controlled on metformin or sitagliptin alone, or in patients already being treated with the
combination of sitagliptin and metformin. In February 2008, Merck received FDA approval to market Janumet as an
initial treatment for type 2 diabetes when treatment with both sitagliptin and metformin is appropriate. In July 2008,
Janumet was approved for marketing in the EU, Iceland and Norway.
Other products experiencing growth in 2008 include Maxalt to treat acute migraine pain, Emend for the
prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative nausea and vomiting, Arcoxia for the treatment of arthritis
and pain, and Propecia for male pattern hair loss.
Worldwide sales of Zocor declined 25% in 2008 and 69% in 2007. Zocor lost U.S. market exclusivity in
June 2006 and has also lost market exclusivity in many international markets.
In February 2006, the Company entered into an agreement with Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories (“Dr. Reddy’s”)
that authorized the sale of generic simvastatin. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company was reimbursed on a
cost-plus basis by Dr. Reddy’s for supplying finished goods and received a share of the net profits recorded by
Dr. Reddy’s. In 2006, Merck recorded $208.9 million of revenue associated with the Dr. Reddy’s arrangement for
simvastatin.
Proscar lost market exclusivity in the United States in June 2006. Merck’s sales of Proscar declined 21%
in 2008 and 34% in 2007. The basic patent for Proscar also covers Propecia , however, Propecia is protected by
additional patents which expire in October 2013.
The patent that provided U.S. market exclusivity for Cosopt and Trusopt expired in October 2008 and, as a
result, the Company is experiencing significant declines in U.S. sales of these products.
The patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for Primaxin expires in September 2009. After such time,
the Company expects a significant decline in U.S. sales of this product.
During 2008, the Company divested its remaining ownership of Aggrastat in foreign markets to Iroko
Pharmaceuticals.
Also during 2008, the Company and AZLP entered into an agreement with Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.
(“Ranbaxy”) to settle patent litigation with respect to esomeprazole ( Nexium ) which provides that Ranbaxy will not
bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States until May 27, 2014. The Company faces other
challenges with respect to outstanding patent infringement matters for esomeprazole (see Note 10 to the consolidated
financial statements).
In February 2009, the Company formally notified the European Medicines Agency of its decision to
withdraw the application for Marketing Authorization for vorinostat, a histone deacetylase inhibitor, for treatment of
patients with advanced stage, refratory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (“CTCL”). Vorinostat, which is marketed as
Zolinza in the United States, was granted orphan drug designation by the EC for the treatment of CTCL in 2004.
V accines and Infectious Diseases Segment Revenues
Sales of the Vaccines and Infectious Diseases segment were $4.2 billion in 2008, $4.3 billion in 2007 and
$2.2 billion in 2006. The decline in 2008 was primarily due to lower sales of Gardasil , hepatitis vaccines, other viral
vaccines, which include Varivax, M-M-R II and ProQuad, HIB vaccines and lower sales of Primaxin . These declines
were partially offset by growth in Isentress, RotaTeq and Zostavax . The increase in 2007 was primarily driven by the
strong performance of Gardasil , as well as by Varivax, RotaTeq and Zostava x.
The following discussion of vaccine and infectious disease products includes total vaccine and infectious
disease product sales, the majority of which are included in the Vaccines and Infectious Diseases segment and the
remainder, representing sales of these products by non-U.S. subsidiaries, are included in the Pharmaceutical
57Table of Contents
segment. These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through Sanofi Pasteur
MSD (“SPMSD”), the Company’s joint venture with Sanofi Pasteur, the results of which are reflected in Equity
income from affiliates (see “Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information” below). Supply sales to SPMSD,
however, are reflected in Vaccines and Infectious Diseases segment revenues.
Worldwide sales of the Company’s cervical cancer vaccine Gardasil , as recorded by Merck, were
$1.4 billion in 2008, $1.5 billion in 2007 and $234.8 million in 2006. Gardasil was approved by the FDA in June
2006 and is the world’s top-selling HPV vaccine and only HPV vaccine available for use in the United States. In
September 2008, the FDA approved Gardasil for the prevention of vulvar and vaginal cancers caused by HPV types
16 and 18. Gardasil currently is indicated for girls and women 9 through 26 years of age for the prevention of
cervical, vulvar and vaginal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions, and genital warts caused by HPV types 6,
11, 16 and 18. Sales performance in 2008 reflects lower sales domestically, partially offset by growth outside the
United States. Sales growth outside the United States was aided by the adoption of school-based programs in all
Canadian provinces. The decline in the United States was affected by two factors. First, because of strong launch
uptake, a significant portion of the 11 to 18 year old eligible population has already been vaccinated. As a result,
despite continued strong vaccination rates in this population, the number of total vaccinations has declined. Secondly,
the number of total vaccinations in the 19 to 26 year old age group has declined as compared with 2007. Sales in
2007 include initial purchases by many states through the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”)
Vaccines for Children program. The Company is a party to certain third party license agreements with respect to
Gardasil (including a cross-license and settlement agreement with GlaxoSmithKline). As a result of these
agreements, the Company pays royalties on worldwide Gardasil sales of approximately 24% to 26% in the
aggregate, which are included in Materials and production costs.
In January 2009, the FDA issued a second complete response letter regarding the supplemental biologics
license application (“sBLA”) for the use of Gardasil in women ages 27 though 45. The agency completed its review
of the response that Merck provided in July 2008 to the FDA’s first complete response letter issued in June 2008 and
has recommended that Merck submit additional data when the 48 month study has been completed. The initial sBLA
included data collected through an average of 24 months from enrollment into the study, which is when the number
of pre-specified endpoints had been met. Following a review of the final results of the study, Merck anticipates
providing a response to the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2009. The letter does not affect current indications for
Gardasil in females ages 9 through 26 nor does the letter relate to the sBLA that was submitted in December 2008
for the use of Gardasil in males.
In November 2008, data presented at the European Research Organization on Genital Infection and
Neoplasia International Multidisciplinary Conference showed that Gardasil prevented 90% of external genital lesions
caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18 in a pivotal Phase III study in men aged 16 to 26. These are the only data
evaluating efficacy of any HPV vaccine in preventing disease in males. The initial planned analysis of this study, an
analysis of male study participants aged 16 to 26 who had not been infected with at least one of the four HPV types
before the start of the study through one month after receiving their third dose of the vaccine or placebo, has been
completed. This analysis was predetermined in the study protocol to be conducted after at least 32 cases of external
genital lesions were observed. The study is ongoing, and additional data will be submitted to global regulatory
agencies once available. Merck submitted an sBLA for Gardasil in December 2008 which has been accepted by the
FDA for the use of Gardasil in boys and men ages 9 to 26 for the prevention of external genital lesions caused by
HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18. Other regulatory submissions around the world will occur as planned.
RotaTeq achieved worldwide sales as recorded by Merck of $664.5 million in 2008, $524.7 million in 2007
and $163.4 million in 2006. The increases in 2008 and 2007 were primarily driven by the continued uptake in the
United States and successful launches around the world. The FDA approved RotaTeq in February 2006. Sales in
2008 included purchases of $54 million in 2008 and $78 million in 2007 to support the CDC stockpile. The
Company anticipates that domestic sales in 2009 will be impacted by the recent launch of a competing product.
As previously disclosed, the Company has resolved an issue related to the bulk manufacturing process for
the Company’s varicella zoster virus (“VZV”)-containing vaccines. The Company is manufacturing bulk varicella
and is producing doses of Varivax and Zostavax . The Company has received regulatory approvals in the United
States and certain other markets to increase its manufacturing capacity for VZV-containing vaccines. The Company
is working to ensure adequate market supply and continued sufficient inventory of Varivax and to clear back orders
58Table of Contents
and build stable supply and inventory for Zostavax. ProQuad , one of the VZV-containing vaccines, is currently not
available for ordering; however, orders have been transitioned, as appropriate, to M-M-R II and Varivax . Total sales
as recorded by Merck for ProQuad were $9.5 million in 2008, $264.4 million in 2007 and $234.8 million in 2006.
Merck anticipates that ProQuad will not return to the U.S. market in 2009.
Merck’s sales of Varivax were $924.6 million in 2008, $854.9 million in 2007 and $327.9 million in 2006.
Varivax is the only vaccine available in the United States to help protect against chickenpox due to the unavailability
of ProQuad . In 2007, Varivax benefited from the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices June 2006 second
dose recommendation. Merck’s sales of M-M-R II were $334.4 million in 2008, $227.8 million in 2007 and
$257.3 million in 2006. Sales of Varivax and M-M-R II were affected by the unavailability of ProQuad . Combined
sales of ProQuad, M-M-R II and Varivax declined in 2008 compared with 2007.
Sales of Zostavax recorded by Merck were $312.4 million in 2008, $236.0 million in 2007 and
$38.6 million in 2006. Sales in 2008 and 2007 were impacted by bulk vaccine supply issues that caused delays in the
fulfillment of customer orders. The Company cleared the majority of backorders in December 2008. The Company
expects to clear backorders that remained at the end of the year in the first quarter of 2009 and to return to normal
shipping times in mid-2009. Once the backorders are resolved, the Company expects to have adequate supply to meet
anticipated customer demand for the remainder of 2009. The Company currently anticipates launching Zostavax
outside the United States after 2009. Zostavax was approved by the FDA as well as by regulatory authorities in
Australia and the EU in May 2006. The vaccine is the first and only medical option for the prevention of shingles.
The Company has been working to resolve manufacturing issues related to its HIB-containing vaccines,
PedvaxHIB and Comvax since December 2007. The Company has resolved the original issue related to equipment
sterilization, but has identified other unrelated manufacturing process changes that will require a regulatory filing.
Merck anticipates that PedvaxHIB and Comvax will return to the U.S. market in mid-to-late 2009. Timing of product
availability outside the United States is dependent upon local regulatory requirements.
The pediatric formulation of Vaqta, a vaccine against hepatitis A, became available again in December of
2008 and the Company anticipates the adult formulation may be available in the second half of 2009. Outside of the
United States, the supply of Vaqta is limited and availability will vary by region. In addition, doses of the adult and
dialysis formulations of the Company’s hepatitis B vaccine, Recombivax HB , will be depleted during the first quarter
of 2009 after which time they will be unavailable in the United States for the remainder of the year. The
pediatric/adolescent formulation of Recombivax HB is expected to experience intermittent backorders in the
United States throughout 2009. Merck expects supplies of the pediatric/adolescent formulation of Recombivax HB to
be limited throughout 2009 and the Company does not expect to return to full supply of the pediatric/adolescent
formulation of Recombivax HB until some time in 2010.
Sales of Isentress were $361.1 million in 2008 and $41.3 million in 2007. In October 2007, the FDA
granted Isentress accelerated approval for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of
HIV-1 infection in treatment-experienced adult patients who have evidence of viral replication and HIV-1 strains
resistant to multiple antiretroviral agents. Isentress is the first medicine to be approved in the class of antiretroviral
drugs called integrase inhibitors. Isentress works by inhibiting the insertion of HIV DNA into human DNA by the
integrase enzyme. Inhibiting integrase from performing this essential function limits the ability of the virus to
replicate and infect new cells. In January 2009, the FDA granted traditional approval to Isentress following review of
the 48 week data from the BENCHMRK 1 & 2 clinical trials.
Merck is also conducting Phase III clinical trials of Isentress in the treatment-naïve (previously untreated)
HIV population. In December 2008, Merck announced that the FDA had accepted the supplemental New Drug
Application (“sNDA”) filing for Isentress tablets for standard review. The Company is seeking U.S. marketing
approval of Isentress in combination with other HIV medicines for treatment in adult patients who are previously
untreated (naïve) for HIV. Merck expects FDA action in July 2009.
In February 2009, data on several Phase III Isentress studies were presented at the 16th Conference on
Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections in Montreal, Canada. In new subgroup analyses of a Phase III study
(STARTMRK) that compared Isentress to efavirenz (one of the leading antiretrovirals prescribed for previously
untreated (treatment-naïve) HIV-infected patients), Isentress was found to be as effective as efavirenz at
59Table of Contents
suppressing viral load and provided improvements in immune system function across a broad spectrum of patient
subpopulations through 48 weeks. The use of Isentress in previously untreated HIV-infected patients is an
investigational use of the drug. Both medicines were taken in combination with tenofovir/emtricitabine. In addition,
results from two Phase III studies (SWITCHMRK-1 and -2) evaluating the effect of switching patients whose HIV is
controlled on a lopinavir/ritonavir-based regimen to a regimen containing Isentress tablets showed that Isentress
significantly improved total cholesterol, triglycerides and non-HDL-cholesterol. The study also showed that Isentress
did not demonstrate non-inferior virologic efficacy at maintaining viral load suppression. As a result of the viral load
findings in these trials, Merck discontinued these two studies.
Other Vaccines and Infectious Diseases segment products experiencing growth in 2008 include Invanz for
the treatment of infection and Cancidas, an anti-fungal product.
In 2008, the FDA approved an expanded label for Cancidas , which makes it the first and only
echinocandin therapy approved in the United States for the treatment of pediatric patients aged three months to
17 years with indicated fungal infections.
C osts, Expenses and Other
( $ in millions) 2008 C hange 2007 C hange 2006
Materials and production $ 5,582.5 −9% $ 6,140.7 2 % $ 6,001.1
Marketing and administrative 7,377.0 −2% 7,556.7 −7 % 8,165.4
Research and development 4,805.3 −2% 4,882.8 2 % 4,782.9
Restructuring costs 1,032.5 * 327.1 * 142.3
Equity income from affiliates (2,560.6) −14% (2,976.5 ) 30% (2,294.4 )
U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge - * 4,850.0 - -
Other (income) expense, net (2,194.2) * 46.2 * (382.7 )
$ 14,042.5 −33% $ 20,827.0 27% $ 16,414.6
* 100% or greater.
M aterials and Production
In 2008, materials and production costs declined 9% compared with a 1% decline in sales primarily
reflecting lower restructuring costs. Included in materials and production costs in 2008 were $123.2 million of
restructuring costs related to both the 2008 and 2005 Restructuring Programs comprised of $88.7 million of
accelerated depreciation associated with the planned sale or closure of certain of the Company’s manufacturing
facilities and $34.5 million of other costs, primarily asset write-offs. This compares with restructuring costs of
$483.1 million in 2007 representing $460.6 million of accelerated depreciation and $22.5 million of asset
impairments. (See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.)
In 2007, materials and production costs increased primarily due to an increase in sales. This increase was
partially offset by lower costs related to the 2005 Restructuring Program which were $483.1 million in 2007
compared with $736.4 million in 2006.
Gross margin was 76.6% in 2008 compared with 74.6% in 2007 and 73.5% in 2006. The restructuring
charges noted above had an unfavorable impact of 0.5 percentage points in 2008, 2.0 percentage points in 2007 and
3.3 percentage points in 2006. Gross margin in 2008 reflects changes in product mix, including the decline in
Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D sales as a result of the loss of U.S. market exclusivity in 2008, and manufacturing
efficiencies. Gross margin in 2007 reflects a slight unfavorable impact from changes in product mix and the positive
impact of manufacturing efficiencies. Gross margin in 2006 reflects the unfavorable impact of changes in product
mix, including the decline in Zocor sales as a result of the loss of U.S. market exclusivity in June 2006.
M arketing and Administrative
Marketing and administrative expenses declined 2% in 2008 and 7% in 2007. Marketing and administrative
expenses in 2008, 2007 and 2006 included $62 million, $280 million and $673 million, respectively, of
60Table of Contents
additional reserves solely for future Vioxx legal defense costs. Expenses in 2008 and 2006 also reflect $40 million
and $48 million, respectively, of additional reserves solely for future legal defense costs for Fosamax litigation. In
addition, marketing and administrative expenses for 2007 included a $455 million gain from an insurance arbitration
award related to Vioxx product liability litigation coverage. (See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for
more information on Vioxx -related and Fosamax -related matters). In addition to lower expenses for future legal
defense costs, the decline in marketing and administrative expenses in 2008 and 2007 also reflect the Company’s
efforts to reduce its cost base. The Company has incurred separation costs associated with sales force reductions that
are reflected in Restructuring costs as discussed below.
R esearch and Development
Research and development expenses declined 2% in 2008 compared with 2007. Expenses in 2008 reflect
$128.4 million of costs related to the closure or sale of research facilities in connection with the 2008 Restructuring
Program, substantially all of which represent accelerated depreciation. Expenses in 2007 reflect $325.1 million of
acquired research expense related to the NovaCardia acquisition. Research and development expenses in 2008
compared with 2007 reflect an increase in development spending in support of the continued advancement of the
research pipeline.
Research and development expenses increased 2% in 2007 compared with 2006 reflecting significant
growth in the number of compounds entering clinical trials from internal projects as well as integration of late stage
acquisitions. Research and development expenses in 2007 included $325.1 million of acquired research expense
related to the NovaCardia acquisition compared with acquired research expense of $762.5 million in 2006 related to
the acquisitions of Sirna and GlycoFi. In addition, research and development expenses for 2006 reflected accelerated
depreciation costs of $56.5 million related to the closure of research facilities in connection with the 2005
Restructuring Program.
During 2008, the Company continued the advancement of drug candidates through the pipeline. The
Company’s research pipeline chart is included in Item 1. “Business — Research and Development” above.
On January 25, 2008, the FDA approved Emend (fosaprepitant dimeglumine) for Injection, 115 mg, for the
prevention of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. Emend for Injection provides a new option for day one, as
a substitute for Emend (125 mg) taken orally, as part of the recommended three-day regimen. Prior to the FDA
decision, the EU on January 11, 2008 granted marketing approval for Emend for Injection, known as Ivemend in the
EU, an action that applies to all 27 EU member countries as well as Norway and Iceland.
The Company currently has nine drug candidates in Phase III development and anticipates making NDA
filings with respect to two of the candidates in 2009 as noted below. Additionally, the Company anticipates filing an
NDA with the FDA in 2009 for MK-0653C, an investigational medication combining ezetimibe with atorvastatin for
the treatment of dyslipidemia being developed by the Merck/Schering-Plough joint venture.
The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in 2009 for MK-7418, rolofylline, a
potential first-in-class selective adenosine A1 antagonist, which is an investigational drug being evaluated for the
treatment of acute heart failure. In March 2008, the results of a Phase III pilot dose-ranging study of patients
hospitalized with acute heart failure syndrome and renal impairment treated with rolofylline were presented at the
annual Scientific Session of the American College of Cardiology. Rolofylline administered with intravenous (“IV”)
loop diuretics was associated with improved dyspnea (shortness of breath) and preserved renal function compared to
treatment with placebo and IV diuretics. In addition, in a post-hoc analysis, treatment with rolofylline was associated
with a trend towards reduced 60-day mortality or hospital re-admission for cardiovascular or renal causes.
Rolofylline increases renal blood flow and urine production by blocking adenosine-mediated vasoconstriction of the
afferent arterioles of the kidneys and inhibiting salt and water reabsorption by the kidney. In this small pilot study,
the rates of adverse events seen across treatment groups were similar. The confirmatory Phase III studies with
rolofylline 30 mg are underway.
The Company also continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in 2009 for MK-0974, telcagepant,
an investigational oral calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor (“CGRP”) antagonist, which represents a new
mechanism for the treatment of migraine. In September 2008, Merck announced that in a Phase III clinical trial
telcagepant significantly relieved moderate-to-severe migraine attacks, including migraine pain and migraine-
61Table of Contents
associated symptoms, compared to placebo. The data were presented in London, England at the European
Headache/Migraine Trust International Congress. The reported findings are from a worldwide, multicenter,
randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial in adult patients with acute migraine. Also in June 2008, Merck
presented data at the American Headache Society annual meeting from a Phase III clinical trial which showed
telcagepant significantly improved relief of migraine pain and migraine-associated symptoms two hours after dosing
compared to placebo. In addition, the efficacy results for telcagepant 300 mg were similar to the highest
recommended dose of zolmitriptan, an approved migraine therapy, with a lower incidence of adverse events
associated with telcagepant in this study. This trial is part of an ongoing Phase III program evaluating telcagepant.
There were no reports of serious adverse events in the telcagepant or zolmitriptan treatment arms. Telcagepant is an
antagonist of the receptor for CGRP, a potent neuropeptide thought to play a central role in the underlying
pathophysiology of migraine.
MK-8669, deforolimus, is a novel mTor (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the
treatment of cancer. The drug candidate is being jointly developed and commercialized with ARIAD
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., under an agreement reached in 2007. A Phase III study (SUCCEED) in patients with
metastatic soft-tissue or bone sarcomas is underway. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the
FDA in 2010.
MK-0431C combines Januvia (sitagliptin) with pioglitazone, another type 2 diabetes therapy. The
Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA in 2011.
V503 is a nine-valent HPV vaccine in development to expand protection against cancer-causing HPV types.
The Phase III clinical program is underway and Merck anticipates filing a biologics license application (“BLA”) with
the FDA in 2012.
MK-0822, odanacatib, is a highly selective inhibitor of the cathepsin K enzyme, which is being evaluated
for the treatment of osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is a disease which reduces bone density and strength and results in an
increased risk of bone fractures. The cathepsin K enzyme is believed to play a central role in osteoclastic bone
resorption, particularly in the degradation of the protein component of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel
approach to the treatment of osteoporosis that differs from those of currently approved treatments. In September
2008, two-year data from a Phase IIB study of odanacatib were reported at the 30th Annual Meeting of the American
Society for Bone and Mineral Research which demonstrated dose-dependent increases in bone mineral density
(“BMD”) at the total hip, lumbar spine and femoral neck fracture sites and decreased indices of bone resorption
compared to placebo in postmenopausal women with low BMD. The multi-center, double-blind, randomized,
placebo-controlled study evaluated doses of 3, 10, 25 or 50 mg of odanacatib administered orally, once-weekly and
without regard to the timing of meals or the patient’s physical position in postmenopausal women with low BMD for
24 months. The number of patients experiencing a drug-related adverse experience was similar between the 50 mg
odanacatib group and placebo. The effect of odanacatib 50 mg on vertebral, hip and non-vertebral fractures is
currently being evaluated in a large, global Phase III study. Merck continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the
FDA in 2012.
MK-0524A is a drug candidate that combines extended-release (“ER”) niacin and a novel flushing
inhibitor, laropiprant. MK-0524A has demonstrated the ability to lower LDL-cholesterol (“LDL-C” or “bad”
cholesterol), raise HDL-cholesterol (“HDL-C” or “good” cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with significantly less
flushing than traditional extended release niacin alone. High LDL-C, low HDL-C and elevated triglycerides are risk
factors associated with heart attacks and strokes. In April 2008, Merck received a non-approvable action letter from
the FDA in response to its NDA for MK-0524A. At a meeting to the discuss the letter, the FDA stated that additional
efficacy and safety data were required and suggested that the Company wait for the results of the Treatment of HDL
to Reduce the Incidence of Vascular Events (“HPS2-THRIVE”) cardiovascular outcomes study, which is expected to
be completed in January 2012. Merck anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA for MK-0524A in 2012. In July 2008,
the Company announced that Tredaptive (also known as MK-0524A) was approved for marketing in the 27 countries
of the EU, Iceland and Norway. Tredaptive is approved for the treatment of dyslipidemia, particularly in patients
with combined mixed dyslipidemia (characterized by elevated levels of LDL-C and triglycerides and low HDL-C)
and in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial and non-familial). Tredaptive should be
used in patients in combination with statins, when the cholesterol lowering
62Table of Contents
effects of statin monotherapy is inadequate. Tredaptive can be used as monotherapy only in patients in whom statins
are considered inappropriate or not tolerated. The launch of Tredaptive in Europe and other markets has been delayed
due to a manufacturing-related issue. Merck is committed to quickly resolving the issue and to making Tredaptive
available in Europe as soon as possible. In other countries around the world, Merck continues to pursue regulatory
approvals for MK-0524A.
MK-0524B is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to raising HDL-C and lowering
triglycerides from ER niacin combined with laropiprant with the proven benefits of simvastatin in one combination
product. Merck will not seek approval for MK-0524B in the United States until it files its complete response relating
to MK-0524A.
MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein that has shown promise in
lipid management by raising HDL-C and reducing LDL-C without raising blood pressure. A Phase III study was
initiated in 2008 and enrollment in a cardiovascular outcomes study is planned to begin in 2010. The Company
anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2014.
In December 2008, the Company terminated its collaboration with Dynavax Technologies Corporation
(“Dynavax”) for the development of V270, an investigational hepatitis B vaccine, which was entered into in 2007. In
October 2008, Merck and Dynavax received notification from the FDA regarding the two companies’ response to the
agency’s request for safety information relating to the clinical hold on the two Investigational New Drug (“IND”)
Applications for V270. In issuing the clinical hold in March 2008, the FDA requested a review of clinical and safety
data including all available information about a single case of Wegener’s granulomatosis, an uncommon disease in
which the blood vessels are inflamed, reported in a Phase III clinical trial. Dynavax and Merck had previously
provided a response to the FDA in September 2008. In its October 2008 correspondence, the FDA advised the
companies that the balance of risk versus potential benefit no longer favored continued clinical evaluation of V270 in
healthy adults and children.
In October 2008, Merck announced it will not seek regulatory approval for taranabant, an investigational
medicine, to treat obesity and has discontinued its Phase III clinical development program for taranabant for obesity.
Available Phase III data showed that both efficacy and adverse events were dose related, with greater efficacy and
more adverse events in the higher doses. Therefore, after careful consideration, the Company determined that the
overall profile of taranabant did not support further development for obesity.
Merck continues to remain focused on augmenting its internal efforts by capitalizing on growth
opportunities that will drive both near- and long-term growth. During 2008, the Company completed transactions
across a broad range of therapeutic categories, as well as early-stage technology transactions. Merck is actively
monitoring the landscape for growth opportunities that meet the Company’s strategic criteria. Highlights from these
activities include:
In February 2009, Merck entered into a definitive agreement with Insmed Inc. (“Insmed”) to purchase
Insmed’s portfolio of follow-on biologic therapeutic candidates and its commercial manufacturing facilities located
in Boulder, Colorado. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck will pay Insmed an aggregate of $130 million in cash
to acquire all rights to the Boulder facilities and Insmed’s pipeline of follow-on biologic candidates. Insmed’s
follow-on biologics portfolio includes two clinical candidates: INS-19, an investigational recombinant granulocyte-
colony stimulating factor (“G-CSF”) that will be evaluated for its ability to prevent infections in patients with cancer
receiving chemotherapy, and INS-20, a pegylated recombinant G-CSF designed to allow for less frequent dosing.
The agreement provides for initial payments of up to $10 million for INS-19 and INS-20. Merck will pay Insmed the
remaining balance upon closing of the transaction, which is expected by the end of the first quarter of 2009, without
any further milestone or royalty obligations.
In September 2008, Merck and Japan Tobacco Inc. (“JT”) signed a worldwide licensing agreement to
develop and commercialize JTT-305, an investigational oral osteoanabolic (bone growth stimulating) agent for the
treatment of osteoporosis. JTT-305 is an investigational oral calcium sensing receptor antagonist that is currently
being evaluated by JT in Phase II clinical trials in Japan for its effect on increasing bone density and is in Phase I
clinical trials outside of Japan. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck gained worldwide rights, except for Japan,
63Table of Contents
to develop and commercialize JTT-305 and certain other related compounds. JT received an upfront payment of
$85 million, which the Company recorded as Research and development expense, and is eligible to receive additional
cash payments upon achievement of certain milestones associated with the development and approval of a drug
candidate covered by the agreement. JT will also be eligible to receive royalties from sales of any drug candidates
that receive marketing approval.
The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology
and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. Merck’s research and
development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the
Company’s research and development resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific opportunity and
commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to
discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately on novel, innovative targets with the potential to
have a major impact on human health, on developing best-in-class approaches, and on delivering maximum value of
its new medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. Another important component of
Merck’s science-based diversification is based on expanding the Company’s portfolio of modalities to include not
only small molecules and vaccines, but also biologics, peptides and RNAi. Further, Merck is moving to diversify its
portfolio by creating a new division, Merck BioVentures, which leverages a unique platform for both follow-on and
novel biologics. The Company will continue to pursue appropriate external licensing opportunities.
During 2008, the Company began implementing a new model for its basic research global operating
strategy. The new model will align franchise and function through clear roles and responsibilities, align resources
with disease area priorities and balance capacity across discovery phases and allow the Company to act upon those
programs with the highest probability of success. Additionally, the strategy is designed to expand the Company’s
access to worldwide external science and incorporate external research as a key component of the Company’s early
discovery pipeline in order to translate basic research productivity into late-stage clinical success.
The Company’s clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including anemia,
atherosclerosis, cancer, diabetes, heart failure, hypertension, infectious diseases, migraine, neurodegenerative
diseases, psychiatric diseases, osteoporosis, pain, and respiratory disease. The Company supplements its internal
research with an aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations
from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies. A chart reflecting the Company’s current
research pipeline as of February 15, 2009 is set forth in Item 1. “Business — Research and Development” above.
S hare-Based Compensation
The Company recognizes share-based compensation expense pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards
Board (“FASB”) Statement No. 123R, Share-Based Payment (“FAS 123R”), which requires all share-based
payments to employees be expensed over the requisite service period based on the grant-date fair value of the
awards. Total pretax share-based compensation expense was $348.0 million in 2008, $330.2 million in 2007 and
$312.5 million in 2006. At December 31, 2008, there was $444.1 million of total pretax unrecognized compensation
expense related to nonvested stock option, restricted stock unit and performance share unit awards which will be
recognized over a weighted average period of 2.0 years. For segment reporting, share-based compensation costs are
unallocated expenses.
R estructuring Costs
Restructuring costs were $1.0 billion, $327.1 million and $142.3 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Of the restructuring costs recorded in 2008, $735.5 million related to the 2008 Restructuring Program
and the remainder were associated with the 2005 Restructuring Program. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, Merck incurred
separation costs of $957.3 million (of which $684.9 million related to the 2008 Restructuring Program),
$251.4 million and $113.7 million, respectively, associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as headcount
reductions that were probable and could be reasonably estimated. The Company eliminated 5,800 positions in 2008
(of which 1,750 related to the 2008 Restructuring Program), 2,400 positions in 2007 and 3,700 positions in 2006.
These position eliminations are comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of contractors and
vacant positions. Also included in restructuring costs are curtailment, settlement and termination charges on the
64Table of Contents
Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans and shutdown costs. For segment reporting, restructuring
costs are unallocated expenses.
E quity Income from Affiliates
Equity income from affiliates reflects the performance of the Company’s joint ventures and partnerships. In
2008, the decline in equity income from affiliates reflects decreased equity income from the Merck/Schering-Plough
partnership and lower partnership returns from AZLP, partially offset by higher equity income from Merial Limited
(“Merial”) and SPMSD. The decrease in equity income from the Merck/Schering-Plough joint venture is the result of
lower revenues of Vytorin and Zetia following the announcements of the ENHANCE and SEAS clinical trial results.
In addition, as a result of the termination of the respiratory joint venture, the Company was obligated to Schering-
Plough Corporation (“Schering-Plough”) in the amount of $105 million as specified in the joint venture agreements.
This resulted in a charge of $43 million in the second quarter of 2008 which was included in equity income from
affiliates. The remaining amount is being amortized over the remaining patent life of Zetia through 2016. The lower
partnership returns from AZLP are primarily attributable to the first quarter 2008 partial redemption of Merck’s
interest in certain AZLP product rights, which resulted in a reduction of the priority return and the variable returns
which were based, in part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products. The higher equity income from
Merial primarily reflects higher sales of biological products. The increase in equity income from SPMSD is largely
attributable to higher sales of Gardasil in joint venture territories outside of the United States. In 2007 and 2006, the
increase in equity income from affiliates primarily reflects the successful performance of Vytorin and Zetia through
the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership. See “Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information” below.
U .S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement Charge
On November 9, 2007, Merck entered into an agreement (the “Settlement Agreement”) with the law firms
that comprise the executive committee of the Plaintiffs’ Steering Committee of the federal multidistrict Vioxx
litigation as well as representatives of plaintiffs’ counsel in state coordinated proceedings to resolve state and federal
myocardial infarction (“MI”) and ischemic stroke (“IS”) claims already filed against the Company in the United
States. Under the Settlement Agreement , the Company will pay an aggregate fixed amount of $4.85 billion into two
funds for qualifying claims consisting of $4.0 billion for qualifying MI claims and $850 million for qualifying IS
claims that enter into the resolution process (“Settlement Program”), of which $750 million was paid into such funds
in 2008. As a consequence of the Settlement Agreement, the Company recorded a pretax charge of $4.85 billion in
2007. (See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements).
O ther (Income) Expense, Net
The change in Other (income) expense, net during 2008 was primarily due to an aggregate gain in 2008
from AZLP of $2.2 billion (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements), the impact of a $671 million charge
in 2007 related to the resolution of certain civil governmental investigations, and a 2008 gain of $249 million related
to the sale of the Company’s remaining worldwide rights to Aggrastat , partially offset by a $300 million expense in
2008 for a contribution to the Merck Company Foundation, an increase in exchange losses of $202 million, higher
recognized losses of $153 million, net, in the Company’s investment portfolio and a $58 million charge related to the
resolution of an investigation into whether the Company violated consumer protection laws with respect to the sales
and marketing of Vioxx (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements). The fluctuation in exchange losses
(gains) in 2008 from 2007 is primarily due to the higher cost of foreign currency contracts due to lower U.S. interest
rates and unfavorable impacts of period-to-period changes in foreign currency exchange rates on net long or net short
foreign currency positions, considering both net monetary assets and related foreign currency contracts. The change
in Other (income) expense, net during 2007 as compared with 2006 primarily reflects a $671 million charge in 2007
related to the resolution of certain civil governmental investigations partially offset by
65Table of Contents
the favorable impact of gains on sales of assets and product divestitures, as well as a net gain on the settlements of
certain patent disputes.
S egment Profits
( $ in millions) 2008 2007 2006
Pharmaceutical segment profits $ 12,400.4 $ 13,430.6 $ 12,476.5
Vaccines and infectious diseases segment profits 2,798.9 2,625.0 1,253.1
Other segment profits 419.3 452.7 380.7
Other (5,810.8 ) (13,137.6 ) (7,888.9 )
I ncome before income taxes $ 9,807.8 $ 3,370.7 $ 6,221.4
Segment profits are comprised of segment revenues less certain elements of materials and production costs
and operating expenses, including components of equity income (loss) from affiliates and depreciation and
amortization expenses. For internal management reporting presented to the chief operating decision maker, the
Company does not allocate the vast majority of indirect production costs, research and development expenses and
general and administrative expenses, as well as the cost of financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain
responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by
these divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment profits. Also excluded from the determination of
segment profits are the gain on distribution from AZLP, the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge, taxes paid at
the joint venture level and a portion of equity income. Additionally, segment profits do not reflect other expenses
from corporate and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income (expense). These unallocated items
are reflected in “Other” in the above table. Also included in other are miscellaneous corporate profits, operating
profits related to divested products or businesses, other supply sales and adjustments to eliminate the effect of double
counting certain items of income and expense.
Pharmaceutical segment profits decreased 8% in 2008 largely driven by lower sales of Fosamax and
Fosamax Plus D, Zocor and decreased equity income from the Merck/Schering-Plough joint venture and from
AZLP. Pharmaceutical segment profits increased 8% in 2007 reflecting higher equity income, primarily driven by the
strong performance of the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership, partially offset by the loss of U.S. market exclusivity
for Zocor and Proscar .
Vaccine and Infectious Diseases segment profits increased 7% in 2008 primarily driven by the continued
successful rollout of Isentress and the strong performance of RotaTeq , as well as higher equity income from
SPMSD. Vaccine and Infectious Diseases segment profits more than doubled in 2007 as compared with 2006 driven
by the launch of three new vaccines in the latter part of 2006 and the successful performance of Varivax .
T axes on Income
The Company’s effective income tax rate was 20.4% in 2008, 2.8% in 2007 and 28.7% in 2006. The 2008
effective tax rate reflects a net favorable impact as compared with the statutory rate of approximately 3 percentage
points, which includes favorable impacts relating to tax settlements that resulted in a reduction of the Company’s
liability for unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $200 million, the realization of foreign tax credits and the
favorable tax impact of foreign exchange rate changes during the fourth quarter, particularly the strengthening of the
Japanese yen against the US dollar, partially offset by an unfavorable impact resulting from the AZLP gain being
fully taxable in the United States at a combined federal and state tax rate of approximately 36.3%. In the first quarter
of 2008, the Company decided to distribute certain prior years’ foreign earnings to the United States which will result
in a utilization of foreign tax credits. These foreign tax credits arose as a result of tax payments made outside of the
United States in prior years that became realizable in the first quarter based on a change in the Company’s decision to
distribute these foreign earnings. The 2007 effective tax rate reflects the reduction of domestic pretax income
primarily resulting from the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge and the related change in mix of domestic and
foreign pretax income.
66Table of Contents
Net Income and Earnings per Share
( $ in millions except per share amounts) 2008 C hange 2007 C hange 2006
Net income $ 7,808.4 * $ 3,275.4 −26% $ 4,433.8
As a % of sales 32.7 % 13.5 % 19.6 %
As a % of average total assets 16.3 % 7.0% 9.9%
Earnings per common share assuming dilution $ 3.64 * $ 1.49 −27% $ 2.03
* 100% or greater.
N et Income and Earnings per Common Share
Net income was $7.8 billion in 2008 compared with $3.3 billion in 2007 and $4.4 billion in 2006. Earnings
per common share assuming dilution were $3.64 in 2008 compared with $1.49 in 2007 and $2.03 in 2006. The
increases in net income and earnings per share in 2008 as compared with 2007 are primarily attributable to the gain
on distribution from AZLP in 2008 and the impacts in 2007 of the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement and civil
governmental investigations charges. In addition, the increases reflect the positive impact of certain tax items, lower
acquired research costs and lower expenses for legal defense costs, partially offset by higher restructuring costs and
lower equity earnings in 2008, as well as the recognition in 2007 of an insurance arbitration gain. The declines in net
income and earnings per share in 2007 as compared with 2006 reflect the impact of the U.S. Vioxx Settlement
Agreement charge and civil governmental investigations charge in 2007, partially offset by lower expenses for legal
defense costs, a gain from an insurance arbitration award related to Vioxx product liability litigation coverage, lower
acquired research costs and the favorable impact of gains on sales of assets and product divestitures, as well as a net
gain on the settlements of certain patent disputes. Net income and EPS in 2007 as compared with 2006 also reflect
revenue growth of vaccines, Singulair and Januvia , as well as higher equity income from affiliates. Net income as a
percentage of sales was 32.7% in 2008, 13.5% in 2007 and 19.6% in 2006. The changes in the percentage of sales
ratio reflect the same factors discussed above. Net income as a percentage of average total assets was 16.3% in 2008,
7.0% in 2007 and 9.9% in 2006.
S elected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information
To expand its research base and realize synergies from combining capabilities, opportunities and assets, in
previous years the Company formed a number of joint ventures. (See Note 8 to the consolidated financial
statements.)
M erck/Schering-Plough Partnership
In 2000, the Company and Schering-Plough (collectively, the “Partners”) entered into agreements to create
separate equally-owned partnerships to develop and market in the United States new prescription medicines in the
cholesterol-management and respiratory therapeutic areas. These agreements generally provide for equal sharing of
development costs and for co-promotion of approved products by each company. In 2001, the cholesterol-
management partnership agreements were expanded to include all the countries of the world, excluding Japan. In
2002, ezetimibe, the first in a new class of cholesterol-lowering agents, was launched in the United States as Zetia
(marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States). In 2004, a combination product containing the active ingredients of
both Zetia and Zocor was approved in the United States as Vytorin (marketed as Inegy outside the United States).
Vytorin is the only combination tablet cholesterol treatment to provide LDL cholesterol lowering through the dual
inhibition of cholesterol production and absorption.
The cholesterol agreements provide for the sharing of operating income generated by the Merck/Schering-
Plough cholesterol partnership (the “MSP Partnership”) based upon percentages that vary by product, sales level and
country. In the U.S. market, the Partners share profits on Zetia and Vytorin sales equally, with the exception of the
first $300 million of annual Zetia sales, on which Schering-Plough receives a greater share of profits. Operating
income includes expenses that the Partners have contractually agreed to share, such as a portion of manufacturing
costs, specifically identified promotion costs (including direct-to-consumer advertising and direct and identifiable
out-of-pocket promotion) and other agreed upon costs for specific services such as on-going clinical research, market
support, market research, market expansion, as well as a specialty sales force and physician education programs.
Expenses incurred in support of the MSP Partnership but not shared between the
67Table of Contents
Partners, such as marketing and administrative expenses (including certain sales force costs), as well as certain
manufacturing costs, are not included in Equity income from affiliates. However, these costs are reflected in the
overall results of the Company. Certain research and development expenses are generally shared equally by the
Partners, after adjusting for earned milestones.
Sales of joint venture products were as follows:
( $ in millions) 2008 2007 2006
Vytorin $ 2,360.0 $ 2,779.1 $1 ,955.3
Zetia 2,201.1 2,407.1 1,928.8
$ 4,561.1 $ 5,186.2 $3 ,884.1
Global sales of Vytorin declined 15% in 2008 and grew 42% in 2007. Global sales of Zetia decreased 9% in
2008 and increased 25% in 2007. Following the announcements of the ENHANCE and SEAS clinical trial results
(which are discussed below), sales of Vytorin and Zetia declined in 2008.
As previously disclosed, in January 2008, the Company announced the results of the Effect of Combination
Ezetimibe and High-Dose Simvastatin vs. Simvastatin Alone on the Atherosclerotic Process in Patients with
Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (“ENHANCE”) clinical trial, an imaging trial in 720 patients with
heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very high levels of LDL “bad”
cholesterol and greatly increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease. As previously reported, despite the
fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/80 mg ( Vytorin ) significantly lowered LDL “bad” cholesterol more than
simvastatin 80 mg alone, there was no significant difference between treatment with ezetimibe/simvastatin and
simvastatin alone on the pre-specified primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of carotid artery walls over two
years as measured by ultrasound. There also were no significant differences between treatment with
ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin on the four pre-specified key secondary endpoints: percent of patients
manifesting regression in the average carotid artery intima-media thickness (“CA IMT”); proportion of patients
developing new carotid artery plaques >1.3 mm; changes in the average maximum CA IMT; and changes in the
average CA IMT plus in the average common femoral artery IMT. In ENHANCE, when compared to simvastatin
alone, ezetimibe/simvastatin significantly lowered LDL “bad” cholesterol, as well as triglycerides and C-reactive
protein (“CRP”). Ezetimibe/simvastatin is not indicated for the reduction of CRP. In the ENHANCE study, the
overall safety profile of ezetimibe/simvastatin was generally consistent with the product label. The ENHANCE study
was not designed nor powered to evaluate cardiovascular clinical events. The Improved Reduction in High-Risk
Subjects Presenting with Acute Coronary Syndrome (“IMPROVE-IT”) trial is underway and is designed to provide
cardiovascular outcomes data for ezetimibe/simvastatin in patients with acute coronary syndrome. No incremental
benefit of ezetimibe/simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for
simvastatin has been established. In March 2008, the results of ENHANCE were reported at the annual Scientific
Session of the American College of Cardiology.
On July 21, 2008, efficacy and safety results from the Simvastatin and Ezetimibe in Aortic Stenosis
(“SEAS”) study were announced. SEAS was designed to evaluate whether intensive lipid lowering with Vytorin
10/40 mg would reduce the need for aortic valve replacement and the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality
versus placebo in patients with asymptomatic mild to moderate aortic stenosis who had no indication for statin
therapy. Vytorin failed to meet its primary end point for the reduction of major cardiovascular events. There also was
no significant difference in the key secondary end point of aortic valve events; however, there was a reduction in the
group of patients taking Vytorin compared to placebo in the key secondary end point of ischemic cardiovascular
events. Vytorin is not indicated for the treatment of aortic stenosis. No incremental benefit of Vytorin on
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. In the
study, patients in the group who took Vytorin 10/40 mg had a higher incidence of cancer than the group who took
placebo. There was also a nonsignificant increase in deaths from cancer in patients in the group who took Vytorin
versus those who took placebo. Cancer and cancer deaths were distributed across all major organ systems. The
Company believes the cancer finding in SEAS is likely to be an anomaly that, taken in light of all the available data,
does not support an association with Vytorin . In August 2008, the FDA announced that it was investigating the
results from the SEAS trial. In this announcement, the FDA also cited interim data from two large ongoing
68Table of Contents
cardiovascular trials of Vytorin — the Study of Heart and Renal Protection (“SHARP”) and the IMPROVE-IT
clinical trials — in which there was no increased risk of cancer with the combination of simvastatin plus ezetimibe.
The SHARP trial is expected to be completed in 2010. The IMPROVE-IT trial is scheduled for completion around
2012. The FDA determined that, as of that time, these findings in the SEAS trial plus the interim data from ongoing
trials should not prompt patients to stop taking Vytorin or any other cholesterol lowering drug.
The Company, through the MSP Partnership, is committed to working with regulatory agencies to further
evaluate the available data and interpretations of those data; however, the Company does not believe that changes in
the clinical use of Vytorin are warranted.
See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information with respect to litigation involving the
Partners and the MSP Partnership related to the sale and promotion of Zetia and Vytorin.
The respiratory therapeutic agreements provided for the joint development and marketing in the
United States by the Partners of a once-daily, fixed-combination tablet containing the active ingredients montelukast
sodium and loratadine. Montelukast sodium, a leukotriene receptor antagonist, is sold by Merck as Singulair and
loratadine, an antihistamine, is sold by Schering-Plough as Claritin, both of which are indicated for the relief of
symptoms of allergic rhinitis. During 2008, the Partners received a not-approvable letter from the FDA for the
proposed fixed combination of loratadine/montelukast and subsequently announced the withdrawal of the NDA for
the combination tablet. The companies also terminated the respiratory joint venture. This action had no impact on the
business of the cholesterol joint venture. As a result of the termination of the respiratory joint venture, the Company
was obligated to Schering-Plough in the amount of $105 million as specified in the joint venture agreements. This
resulted in a charge of $43 million during the second quarter of 2008 which was included in Equity income from
affiliates. The remaining amount is being amortized over the remaining patent life of Zetia through 2016.
The results from the Company’s interest in the MSP Partnership are recorded in Equity income from
affiliates. Merck recognized equity income of $1.5 billion in 2008, $1.8 billion in 2007 and $1.2 billion in 2006.
The financial statements of the MSP Partnership are included in Item 15. (a) (2) “Financial Statement
Schedules” below.
A straZeneca LP
In 1982, Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB (“Astra”) to develop and market Astra’s products
under a royalty-bearing license. In 1993, the Company’s total sales of Astra products reached a level that triggered
the first step in the establishment of a joint venture business carried on by Astra Merck Inc. (“AMI”), in which Merck
and Astra each owned a 50% share. This joint venture, formed in 1994, developed and marketed most of Astra’s new
prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec , the first of a class of medications known as proton
pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining.
In 1998, Merck and Astra completed the restructuring of the ownership and operations of the joint venture
whereby the Company acquired Astra’s interest in AMI, renamed KBI Inc. (“KBI”), and contributed KBI’s operating
assets to a new U.S. limited partnership, Astra Pharmaceuticals L.P. (the “Partnership”), in exchange for a 1%
limited partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the
Partnership in exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP (“AZLP”)
upon Astra’s 1999 merger with Zeneca Group Plc (the “AstraZeneca merger”), became the exclusive distributor of
the products for which KBI retained rights.
While maintaining a 1% limited partner interest in AZLP, Merck has consent and protective rights intended
to preserve its business and economic interests, including restrictions on the power of the general partner to make
certain distributions or dispositions. Furthermore, in limited events of default, additional rights will be granted to the
Company, including powers to direct the actions of, or remove and replace, the Partnership’s chief executive officer
and chief financial officer. Merck earns ongoing revenue based on sales of current and future KBI products and such
revenue was $1.6 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, primarily relating to
sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec . In addition, Merck earns certain Partnership returns, which are recorded in
Equity income from affiliates. Such returns include a priority return provided for in the Partnership
69Table of Contents
Agreement, variable returns based, in part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a preferential
return representing Merck’s share of undistributed AZLP GAAP earnings. These returns aggregated $598.4 million,
$820.1 million and $783.7 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The AstraZeneca merger triggered a partial
redemption in March 2008 of Merck’s interest in certain AZLP product rights. Upon this redemption, Merck received
$4.3 billion from AZLP. This amount was based primarily on a multiple of Merck’s average annual variable returns
derived from sales of the former Astra USA, Inc. products for the three years prior to the redemption (the “Limited
Partner Share of Agreed Value”). Merck recorded a $1.5 billion pretax gain on the partial redemption in 2008. The
partial redemption of Merck’s interest in the product rights did not result in a change in Merck’s 1% limited partner
interest.
In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring, Astra purchased an option (the “Asset Option”) for a payment of
$443.0 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to buy Merck’s interest in the KBI products, excluding the
gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec (the “Non-PPI Products”). The Asset Option is exercisable in the first
half of 2010 at an exercise price equal to the net present value as of March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax
revenue to be received by the Company from the Non-PPI Products (the “Appraised Value”). Merck also had the
right to require Astra to purchase such interest in 2008 at the Appraised Value. In February 2008, the Company
advised AZLP that it would not exercise the Asset Option, thus the $443.0 million remains deferred. In addition, in
1998, the Company granted Astra an option (the “Shares Option”) to buy Merck’s common stock interest in KBI and,
therefore, Merck’s interest in Nexium and Prilosec , exercisable two years after Astra’s exercise of the Asset Option.
Astra can also exercise the Shares Option in 2017 or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a
minimum amount provided, in each case, only so long as AstraZeneca’s Asset Option has been exercised in 2010.
The exercise price for the Shares Option is based on the net present value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and
Prilosec as determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain true-up mechanisms.
The AstraZeneca merger constituted a Trigger Event under the KBI restructuring agreements. As a result of
the merger, in exchange for Merck’s relinquishment of rights to future Astra products with no existing or pending
U.S. patents at the time of the merger, Astra paid $967.4 million (the “Advance Payment”). The Advance Payment
was deferred as it remained subject to a true-up calculation (the “True-Up Amount”) that was directly dependent on
the fair market value in March 2008 of the Astra product rights retained by the Company. The calculated
True-Up Amount of $243.7 million was returned to AZLP in March 2008 and Merck recognized a pretax gain of
$723.7 million related to the residual Advance Payment balance.
Under the provisions of the KBI restructuring agreements, because a Trigger Event has occurred, the sum of
the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value, the Appraised Value and the True-Up Amount was guaranteed to be a
minimum of $4.7 billion. Distribution of the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value less payment of the
True-Up Amount resulted in cash receipts to Merck of $4.0 billion and an aggregate pretax gain of $2.2 billion which
is included in Other (income) expense, net. AstraZeneca’s purchase of Merck’s interest in the Non-PPI Products is
contingent upon the exercise of the Asset Option by AstraZeneca in 2010 and, therefore, payment of the Appraised
Value may or may not occur. Also, in March 2008, the $1.38 billion outstanding loan from Astra plus interest
through the redemption date was settled. As a result of these transactions, the Company received net proceeds from
AZLP of $2.6 billion.
M erial Limited
In 1997, Merck and Rhône-Poulenc S.A. (now Sanofi-Aventis S.A.) combined their animal health
businesses to form Merial Limited (“Merial”), a fully integrated animal health company, which is a stand-alone joint
venture, 50% owned by each party. Merial provides a comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to
enhance the health, well-being and performance of a wide range of animal species.
70Table of Contents
Sales of joint venture products were as follows:
( $ in millions) 2008 2007 2006
Fipronil products $ 1,053.0 $ 1,033.3 $ 886.9
Biological products 789.7 674.9 600.7
Avermectin products 511.8 478.4 468.7
Other products 288.2 262.2 238.4
$ 2,642.7 $ 2,448.8 $2 ,194.7
S anofi Pasteur MSD
In 1994, Merck and Pasteur Merieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) established a 50% owned joint
venture to market vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution
in Europe.
In 2006, Merck launched three new vaccines that have been approved for use in the EU and are being or
will be marketed by SPMSD in certain Western European countries: Gardasil to help prevent cervical, vulvar and
vaginal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions, and genital warts caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18; RotaTeq
to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children; and Zostavax to help prevent shingles (herpes
zoster) in individuals 60 years of age or older.
Sales of joint venture products were as follows:
( $ in millions) 2008 2007 2006
Gardasil $ 865.3 $ 476.0 $ 7.5
Viral vaccines 105.1 86.8 100.1
Hepatitis vaccines 72.6 72.9 70.9
Other vaccines 841.8 802.3 735.4
$ 1,884.8 $ 1,438.0 $ 913.9
J ohnson & Johnson°Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company
In 1989, Merck formed a joint venture with Johnson & Johnson to develop and market a broad range of
nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50% owned joint venture was subsequently expanded into
Canada. Significant joint venture products are Pepcid AC , an over-the-counter form of the Company’s ulcer
medication Pepcid , as well as Pepcid Complete , an over-the-counter product which combines the Company’s ulcer
medication with antacids.
Sales of joint venture products were as follows:
( $ in millions) 2008 2007 2006
Gastrointestinal products $ 210.7 $ 218.5 $ 250.9
Other products 1.4 1.2 1.7
$ 212.1 $ 219.7 $ 252.6
C apital Expenditures
Capital expenditures were $1.3 billion in 2008, $1.0 billion in 2007 and $980.2 million in 2006.
Expenditures in the United States were $946.6 million in 2008, $788.0 million in 2007 and $714.7 million in 2006.
Expenditures during 2008 included $650.3 million for production facilities, $177.1 million for research and
development facilities, $18.7 million for environmental projects, and $452.2 million for administrative, safety and
general site projects, of which approximately 35% represents capital investments related to a multi-year initiative to
standardize the Company’s information systems. Capital expenditures for 2009 are estimated to be $1.6 billion.
71Table of Contents
Depreciation expense was $1.4 billion in 2008, $1.8 billion in 2007 and $2.1 billion in 2006, of which
$1.0 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, applied to locations in the United States. Total depreciation
expense in 2008, 2007 and 2006 included accelerated depreciation of $216.7 million, $460.6 million and
$763.8 million, respectively, associated with the 2008 and 2005 Restructuring Programs (see Note 3 to the
consolidated financial statements).
A nalysis of Liquidity and Capital Resources
Merck’s strong financial profile enables the Company to fully fund research and development, focus on
external alliances, support in-line products and maximize upcoming launches while providing significant cash returns
to shareholders.
S elected Data
( $ in millions) 2008 2007 2006
Working capital $ 4,986.2 $ 2,787.2 $ 2,507.5
Total debt to total liabilities and equity 13.2 % 11.9 % 15.3 %
Cash provided by operations to total debt 1.1:1 1.2:1 1.0:1
Cash provided by operating activities, which was $6.6 billion in 2008, $7.0 billion in 2007 and $6.8 billion
in 2006, continues to be the Company’s primary source of funds to finance capital expenditures, treasury stock
purchases and dividends paid to stockholders. Cash provided by operating activities in 2008 reflects $2.1 billion
received in connection with a partial redemption of the Company’s partnership interest in AZLP discussed above,
representing a distribution of the Company’s accumulated earnings on its investment in AZLP since inception. Cash
provided by operating activities in 2008 was also impacted by a $675 million payment made in connection with the
previously disclosed resolution of investigations of civil claims by federal and state authorities relating to certain past
marketing and selling activities and $750 million of payments into the Vioxx settlement funds. Cash provided by
operating activities for 2007 reflects the payment made under a previously disclosed settlement with the Internal
Revenue Service (“IRS”).
Cash used by investing activities in 2008 was $1.8 billion compared with $2.8 billion in 2007. The lower
use of cash by investing activities primarily reflects a distribution from AZLP in 2008 representing a return of the
Company’s investment in AZLP and a $1.1 billion payment in 2007 in connection with the December 2006
acquisition of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc., partially offset by higher net purchases of securities and other investments,
higher capital expenditures and an increase in restricted assets. Cash used in financing activities was $5.5 billion in
2008 compared with $4.9 billion in 2007 reflecting higher purchases of treasury stock, lower proceeds from the
exercise stock options and higher payments on debt in connection with the settlement of a note due to Astra, partially
offset by a net increase in short-term borrowings.
At December 31, 2008, the total of worldwide cash and investments was $12.0 billion, including
$5.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, and $6.5 billion of long-term investments. In
addition, the Company has $6.3 billion of cash and investments restricted under certain collateral arrangements as
discussed below.
Working capital levels are more than adequate to meet the operating requirements of the Company. The
increase in working capital was primarily attributable to net cash receipts from AZLP as discussed above in
“Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information.” The ratios of total debt to total liabilities and equity and cash
provided by operations to total debt reflect the strength of the Company’s operating cash flows and the ability of the
Company to cover its contractual obligations.
In August 2008, the Company executed a $4.1 billion letter of credit agreement with a financial institution,
which satisfied certain conditions set forth in the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement (see Note 10 to the consolidated
financial statements). The Company pledged collateral to the financial institution of approximately $5.1 billion
pursuant to the terms of the letter of credit agreement. Although the amount of assets pledged as collateral is set by
the letter of credit agreement and such assets are held in custody by a third party, the assets are
72Table of Contents
managed by the Company. The Company considers the assets pledged under the letter of credit agreement to be
restricted. As a result, $2.1 billion and $1.4 billion of cash and investments, respectively, were classified as restricted
current assets and $1.6 billion of investments were classified as restricted non-current assets. The letter of credit
amount and required collateral balances will decline as payments (after the first $750 million) under the Settlement
Agreement are made. As of December 31, 2008, $3.8 billion was recorded within Deferred income taxes and other
current assets and $1.3 billion was classified as Other assets.
Additionally, during 2008, the Company paid $750 million into the Vioxx settlement funds pursuant to the
Settlement Agreement.
As previously disclosed, the IRS has completed its examination of the Company’s tax returns for the years
1993 to 2001. As a result of the examination, the Company made an aggregate payment of $2.79 billion in February
2007. This payment was offset by (i) a tax refund of $165 million received in 2007 for amounts previously paid for
these matters and (ii) a federal tax benefit of approximately $360 million related to interest included in the payment,
resulting in a net cash cost to the Company of approximately $2.3 billion in 2007. The impact for years subsequent to
2001 for items reviewed as part of the examination was included in the payment although those years remain open in
all other respects. The closing of the IRS examination did not have a material impact on the Company’s results of
operations in 2007 as these amounts had been previously accrued for.
As previously disclosed, in October 2006, the CRA issued the Company a notice of reassessment
containing adjustments related to certain intercompany pricing matters. In February 2009, Merck and the CRA
negotiated a settlement agreement in regard to these matters. The settlement calls for Merck to pay additional tax of
approximately $300 million (U.S. dollars) and interest of approximately $360 million (U.S. dollars) with no
additional amounts or penalties due on this assessment. In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (“FIN 48”) , the settlement will be
accounted for in the first quarter of 2009. The Company had previously established reserves for these matters. A
significant portion of the taxes paid is expected to be creditable for U.S. tax purposes. The resolution of these matters
will not have a material effect on the Company’s financial position or liquidity, other than with respect to the
associated collateral as discussed below.
In addition, in July 2007 and November 2008, the CRA proposed additional adjustments for 1999 and 2000,
respectively, relating to other intercompany pricing matters. The adjustments would increase Canadian tax due by
approximately $260 million (U.S. dollars) plus $240 million (U.S. dollars) of interest. It is possible that the CRA will
propose similar adjustments for later years. The Company disagrees with the positions taken by the CRA and
believes they are without merit. The Company intends to contest the assessments through the CRA appeals process
and the courts if necessary. Management believes that resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on
the Company’s financial position or liquidity.
In connection with the appeals process, during 2007, the Company pledged collateral to two financial
institutions, one of which provided a guarantee to the CRA and the other to the Quebec Ministry of Revenue
representing a portion of the tax and interest assessed. The collateral is included in Deferred income taxes and other
current assets and Other Assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and totaled approximately $1.2 billion and
$1.4 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The guarantees will be reduced and the related collateral
released following payments to the CRA and Quebec Ministry of Revenue, causing the restricted amounts to be
reclassified to cash and investments as appropriate on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The IRS is examining the Company’s 2002 to 2005 federal income tax returns. In addition, various state
and foreign tax examinations are in progress. Tax years that remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions
include Germany from 1999, Italy from 2000 and Japan from 2002.
73Table of Contents
The Company’s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2008 are as follows:
P ayments Due by Period
( $ in millions) Total 2009 20 10 - 2011 2 0 12 -2013 T hereafter
Purchase obligations $ 1,243.6 $ 557.7 $ 365.1 $ 246.5 $ 74.3
Loans payable and current portion of long-term
debt 2,297.1 2,297.1 - - -
Long-term debt 3,943.3 - 553.6 541.1 2,848.6
U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement (1) 4,100.0 4,100.0 - - -
Unrecognized tax benefits (2) 1,203.8 1,203.8 - - -
Operating leases 376.2 103.0 139.3 77.7 56.2
$ 13,164.0 $ 8,261.6 $ 1,058.0 $ 865.3 $ 2,979.1
( 1) Timing of payments under the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement may vary depending on the timing of the claims assessment process.
( 2) As of December 31, 2008, the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, interest and penalties of
$5.35 billion, including $1.20 billion reflected as a current liability, largely reflecting amounts related to the settlement with the Canadian
Revenue Agency as discussed above. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows of liabilities for
unrecognized tax benefits beyond one year, a reasonable estimate of the period of cash settlement for years beyond 2009 can not be made.
Purchase obligations consist primarily of goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding and
include obligations for minimum inventory contracts, research and development and advertising. Amounts reflected
for research and development obligations do not include contingent milestone payments. Loans payable and current
portion of long-term debt also reflects $322.2 million of long-dated notes that are subject to repayment at the option
of the holders on an annual basis. Required funding obligations for 2009 relating to the Company’s pension and other
postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material. However, the Company currently anticipates
contributing $600.0 million and $60.0 million, respectively, to its pension plans and other postretirement benefit
plans during 2009.
In December 2008, the Company’s existing shelf registration filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) expired. The Company intends to file a new shelf registration in 2009.
In April 2008, the Company extended the maturity date of its $1.5 billion, 5-year revolving credit facility
from April 2012 to April 2013. The facility provides backup liquidity for the Company’s commercial paper
borrowing facility and is for general corporate purposes. The Company has not drawn funding from this facility.
The Company’s long-term credit ratings assigned by Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s are
Aa3 with a stable outlook and AA- with a stable outlook, respectively. These ratings continue to allow access to the
capital markets and flexibility in obtaining funds on competitive terms. The Company continues to maintain a
conservative financial profile. Total cash and investments of $12.0 billion exceed the sum of loans payable and long-
term debt of $6.2 billion. The Company places its cash and investments in instruments that meet high credit quality
standards, as specified in its investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure
to any one issuer. Despite this strong financial profile, certain contingent events, if realized, which are discussed in
Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s liquidity
and capital resources. The Company does not participate in any off-balance sheet arrangements involving
unconsolidated subsidiaries that provide financing or potentially expose the Company to unrecorded financial
obligations.
In July 2002, the Board of Directors approved purchases over time of up to $10.0 billion of Merck shares.
Total treasury stock purchased under this program in 2008 was $2.7 billion. As of December 31, 2008, $2.4 billion
remains under the 2002 stock repurchase authorization approved by the Merck Board of Directors.
74Table of Contents
Financial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures
F oreign Currency Risk Management
While the U.S. dollar is the functional currency of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries, a significant portion
of the Company’s revenues are denominated in foreign currencies. Merck relies on sustained cash flows generated
from foreign sources to support its long-term commitment to U.S. dollar-based research and development. To the
extent the dollar value of cash flows is diminished as a result of a strengthening dollar, the Company’s ability to fund
research and other dollar-based strategic initiatives at a consistent level may be impaired. The Company has
established revenue hedging and balance sheet risk management programs to protect against volatility of future
foreign currency cash flows and changes in fair value caused by volatility in foreign exchange rates.
The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the potential for longer-term unfavorable
changes in foreign exchange to decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash flows derived from foreign currency
denominated sales, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. To achieve this objective, the Company will partially hedge
anticipated third-party sales that are expected to occur over its planning cycle, typically no more than three years into
the future. The Company will layer in hedges over time, increasing the portion of sales hedged as it gets closer to the
expected date of the transaction, such that it is probable the hedged transaction will occur. The portion of sales
hedged is based on assessments of cost-benefit profiles that consider natural offsetting exposures, revenue and
exchange rate volatilities and correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The hedged anticipated sales are a
specified component of a portfolio of similarly denominated foreign currency-based sales transactions, each of which
responds to the hedged risk in the same manner. Merck manages its anticipated transaction exposure principally with
purchased local currency put options, which provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation, to sell foreign
currencies in the future at a predetermined price. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged
anticipated sales, total changes in the options’ cash flows offset the decline in the expected future U.S. dollar cash
flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the options’ value reduces to
zero, but the Company benefits from the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows. While a
weaker U.S. dollar would result in a net benefit, the market value of the Company’s hedges would have declined by
$194.7 million and $69.5 million, respectively, from a uniform 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar at December 31,
2008 and 2007. The market value was determined using a foreign exchange option pricing model and holding all
factors except exchange rates constant. Because Merck principally uses purchased local currency put options, a
uniform weakening of the U.S. dollar will yield the largest overall potential loss in the market value of these options.
The sensitivity measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not
affect other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company believes
that a 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near-term changes in Merck’s major foreign currency exposures
relative to the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows.
The primary objective of the balance sheet risk management program is to protect the U.S. dollar value of
foreign currency denominated net monetary assets from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange that might occur
prior to their conversion to U.S. dollars. Merck principally utilizes forward exchange contracts, which enable the
Company to buy and sell foreign currencies in the future at fixed exchange rates and economically offset the
consequences of changes in foreign exchange on the amount of U.S. dollar cash flows derived from the net assets.
Merck routinely enters into contracts to offset the effects of exchange on exposures denominated in developed
country currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. For exposures in developing country currencies, the
Company will enter into forward contracts to partially offset the effects of exchange on exposures when it is deemed
economical to do so based on a cost-benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the exposure, the volatility of
the exchange rate and the cost of the hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the effect of exchange on
monetary assets and liabilities by managing operating activities and net asset positions at the local level. The
Company uses forward contracts to hedge the changes in fair value of certain foreign currency denominated
available-for-sale securities attributable to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis to
changes in the value of the U.S. dollar on foreign currency denominated derivatives, investments and monetary assets
and liabilities indicated that if the U.S. dollar uniformly weakened by 10% against all currency exposures of the
Company at December 31, 2008 and 2007, Income before taxes would have declined by $15.8 million and
75Table of Contents
$24.6 million, respectively. Because Merck is in a net short position relative to its major foreign currencies after
consideration of forward contracts, a uniform weakening of the U.S. dollar will yield the largest overall potential net
loss in earnings due to exchange. This measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the
U.S. dollar would not affect other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the
Company believes that a 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near-term changes in Merck’s major foreign
currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities
in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
I nterest Rate Risk Management
In addition to the revenue hedging and balance sheet risk management programs, the Company may use
interest rate swap contracts on certain investing and borrowing transactions to manage its net exposure to interest rate
changes and to reduce its overall cost of borrowing. The Company does not use leveraged swaps and, in general,
does not leverage any of its investment activities that would put principal capital at risk. At December 31, 2008, the
Company was a party to two pay-floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap contracts maturing in 2011 with notional
amounts of $125 million each designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate notes in which the notional amounts
match the amount of the hedged fixed-rate notes. The swaps effectively convert the fixed-rate obligations to floating-
rate instruments. In 2008, the Company terminated four interest rate swap contracts with notional amounts of
$250 million each, and terminated one interest rate swap contract with a notional amount of $500 million. These
swaps had effectively converted its $1.0 billion, 4.75% fixed-rate notes due 2015 and its $500 million, 4.375% fixed-
rate notes due 2013 to variable rate debt. As a result of the swap terminations, the Company received $128.3 million
in cash, excluding accrued interest which was not material. The corresponding gains related to the basis adjustment
of the debt associated with the terminated swap contracts were deferred and are being amortized as a reduction of
interest expense over the remaining term of the notes. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating
activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The Company’s investment portfolio includes cash equivalents and short-term investments, the market
values of which are not significantly impacted by changes in interest rates. The market value of the Company’s
medium- to long-term fixed-rate investments is modestly impacted by changes in U.S. interest rates. Changes in
medium- to long-term U.S. interest rates have a more significant impact on the market value of the Company’s fixed-
rate borrowings, which generally have longer maturities. A sensitivity analysis to measure potential changes in the
market value of the Company’s investments, debt and related swap contracts from a change in interest rates indicated
that a one percentage point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2008 and 2007 would have positively impacted
the net aggregate market value of these instruments by $98.9 million and $62.1 million, respectively. A one
percentage point decrease at December 31, 2008 and 2007 would have negatively impacted the net aggregate market
value by $156.3 million and $114.6 million, respectively. The fair value of the Company’s debt was determined
using pricing models reflecting one percentage point shifts in the appropriate yield curves. The fair values of the
Company’s investments were determined using a combination of pricing and duration models.
C ritical Accounting Policies and Other Matters
The Company’s consolidated financial statements include certain amounts that are based on management’s
best estimates and judgments. Estimates are used in determining such items as provisions for sales discounts and
returns, depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of inventories produced in preparation for product launches,
amounts recorded for contingencies, environmental liabilities and other reserves, pension and other postretirement
benefit plan assumptions, share-based compensation assumptions, amounts recorded in connection with acquisitions,
restructuring costs, impairments of long-lived assets and investments, and taxes on income. Because of the
uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Application of the following
accounting policies result in accounting estimates having the potential for the most significant impact on the financial
statements.
R evenue Recognition
Revenues from sales of products are recognized at the time of delivery and when title and risk of loss passes
to the customer. Recognition of revenue also requires reasonable assurance of collection of sales proceeds and
completion of all performance obligations. Domestically, sales discounts are issued to customers as direct
76Table of Contents
discounts at the point-of-sale or indirectly through an intermediary wholesaler, known as chargebacks, or indirectly
in the form of rebates. Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of return under certain conditions.
Revenues are recorded net of provisions for sales discounts and returns, which are established at the time of sale.
The provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts covers chargebacks and rebates. Chargebacks are
discounts that occur when a contracted customer purchases directly through an intermediary wholesaler. The
contracted customer generally purchases product at its contracted price plus a mark-up from the wholesaler. The
wholesaler, in turn, charges the Company back for the difference between the price initially paid by the wholesaler
and the contract price paid to the wholesaler by the customer. The provision for chargebacks is based on expected
sell-through levels by the Company’s wholesale customers to contracted customers, as well as estimated wholesaler
inventory levels. Rebates are amounts owed based upon definitive contractual agreements or legal requirements with
private sector and public sector (Medicaid and Medicare Part D) benefit providers, after the final dispensing of the
product by a pharmacy to a benefit plan participant. The provision is based on expected payments, which are driven
by patient usage and contract performance by the benefit provider customers.
The Company assumes a first-in, first-out movement of inventory within the supply chain for purposes of
estimating its aggregate indirect customer discount accrual. In addition, the Company uses historical customer
segment mix, adjusted for other known events, in order to estimate the expected provision. Amounts accrued for
aggregate indirect customer discounts are evaluated on a quarterly basis through comparison of information provided
by the wholesalers and other customers to the amounts accrued. Adjustments are recorded when trends or significant
events indicate that a change in the estimated provision is appropriate.
The Company continually monitors its provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts. There were no
material adjustments to estimates associated with the aggregate indirect customer discount provision in 2008, 2007 or
2006.
Summarized information about changes in the aggregate indirect customer discount accrual is as follows:
( $ in millions) 2008 2007
Balance, January 1 $ 699.4 $ 757.1
Current provision 2,037.5 2,109.7
Adjustments to prior years (13.7) (14.1)
Payments (2,106.9) (2,153.3)
B alance, December 31 $ 616.3 $ 699.4
Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct reduction to accounts receivable and accruals for rebates
as current liabilities. The accrued balances relative to these provisions included in Accounts receivable and Accrued
and other current liabilities were $55.6 million and $560.7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008, and
$82.5 million and $616.9 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007.
The Company maintains a returns policy that allows its customers to return product within a specified
period prior to and subsequent to the expiration date (generally, six months before and twelve months after product
expiration). The estimate of the provision for returns is based upon historical experience with actual returns.
Additionally, the Company considers factors such as levels of inventory in the distribution channel, product dating
and expiration period, whether products have been discontinued, entrance in the market of additional generic
competition, changes in formularies or launch of over-the-counter products, among others. The product returns
provision, as well as actual returns, were less than 1.0% of net sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006.
Through its distribution program with U.S. wholesalers, the Company encourages wholesalers to align
purchases with underlying demand and maintain inventories below specified levels. The terms of the program allow
the wholesalers to earn fees upon providing visibility into their inventory levels as well as by achieving certain
performance parameters, such as, inventory management, customer service levels, reducing shortage claims and
reducing product returns. Information provided through the wholesaler distribution program includes items such as
sales trends, inventory on-hand, on-order quantity and product returns.
77Table of Contents
Wholesalers generally provide only the above mentioned data to the Company, as there is no regulatory
requirement to report lot level information to manufacturers, which is the level of information needed to determine
the remaining shelf life and original sale date of inventory. Given current wholesaler inventory levels, which are
generally less than a month, the Company believes that collection of order lot information across all wholesale
customers would have limited use in estimating sales discounts and returns.
I nventories Produced in Preparation for Product Launches
The Company capitalizes inventories produced in preparation for product launches sufficient to support
initial market demand. Typically, capitalization of such inventory does not begin until the related product candidates
are in Phase III clinical trials and are considered to have a high probability of regulatory approval. The Company
monitors the status of each respective product within the regulatory approval process; however, the Company
generally does not disclose specific timing for regulatory approval. If the Company is aware of any specific risks or
contingencies other than the normal regulatory approval process or if there are any specific issues identified during
the research process relating to safety, efficacy, manufacturing, marketing or labeling, the related inventory would
generally not be capitalized. Expiry dates of the inventory are impacted by the stage of completion. The Company
manages the levels of inventory at each stage to optimize the shelf life of the inventory in relation to anticipated
market demand in order to avoid product expiry issues. For inventories that are capitalized, anticipated future sales
and shelf lives support the realization of the inventory value as the inventory shelf life is sufficient to meet initial
product launch requirements. Inventories produced in preparation for product launches capitalized at December 31,
2008 and 2007 were not significant.
C ontingencies and Environmental Liabilities
The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its
business, including product liability, intellectual property and commercial litigation, as well as additional matters
such as antitrust actions. (See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.) The Company records accruals for
contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.
These accruals are adjusted periodically as assessments change or additional information becomes available. For
product liability claims, a portion of the overall accrual is actuarially determined and considers such factors as past
experience, number of claims reported and estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Individually significant
contingent losses are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable.
Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when
probable and reasonably estimable. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had an aggregate reserve of
approximately $5.372 billion (the “ Vioxx Reserve”) for the Settlement Program and the Company’s future legal
defense costs worldwide related to (i) the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, (ii) the Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits,
(iii) the Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the Vioxx Investigations (collectively, the “ Vioxx Litigation”) (see Note 10
to the consolidated financial statements). During 2008, the Company spent approximately $305 million in the
aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide related to the Vioxx Litigation. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the
Company recorded a charge of $62 million solely for its future legal defense costs related to the Vioxx Litigation. In
addition, in the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company paid an additional $250 million into the settlement funds in
connection with the Settlement Program after having paid $500 million into the settlement funds in the third quarter
of 2008. Consequently, as of December 31, 2008, the aggregate amount of the Vioxx Reserve was approximately
$4.379 billion. In adding to the Vioxx Reserve solely for its future legal defense costs, the Company considered the
same factors that it considered when it previously established reserves for the Vioxx Litigation. Some of the
significant factors considered in the review of the Vioxx Reserve were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the
Company; the development of the Company’s legal defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of the Vioxx
Litigation, including the Settlement Agreement and the expectation that certain lawsuits will continue to be pending;
the number of cases being brought against the Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most
current information regarding anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial activities and trials in the
Vioxx Ligation. The amount of the Vioxx Reserve as of December 31, 2008 allocated solely to defense costs
represents the Company’s best estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs to be incurred in connection with
the remaining aspects of the Vioxx Litigation; however, events such as additional trials in the Vioxx Litigation and
other events that could arise in the course of the Vioxx Litigation could affect the ultimate amount of defense
78Table of Contents
costs to be incurred by the Company. The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the
adequacy of the associated reserves and may determine to increase the Vioxx Reserve at any time in the future if,
based upon the factors set forth, it believes it would be appropriate to do so.
The Company currently anticipates that two U.S. Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits will be tried in 2009.
Except with respect to a product liability trial scheduled to be held in Australia, the Company cannot predict the
timing of any other trials related to the Vioxx Litigation. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the
Vioxx Lawsuits and will vigorously defend against them. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome
of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the claimants seek indeterminate damages, the
Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible
loss or range of loss with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits not included in the Settlement Program. The Company has
not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the Vioxx Lawsuits not included in the Settlement
Program or the Vioxx Investigations. In each of those cases the Company believes it has strong points to raise on
appeal and therefore that unfavorable outcomes in such cases are not probable. Unfavorable outcomes in the Vioxx
Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of
operations.
As of December 31, 2007, the Company had a remaining reserve of approximately $27 million solely for its
future legal defense costs for the Fosamax Litigation. During 2008, the Company spent approximately $34 million
and added $40 million to its reserve. Consequently, as of December 31, 2008, the Company had a reserve of
approximately $33 million solely for its future legal defense costs for the Fosamax Litigation. Some of the significant
factors considered in the establishment of the reserve for the Fosamax Litigation legal defense costs were as follows:
the actual costs incurred by the Company thus far; the development of the Company’s legal defense strategy and
structure in light of the creation of the Fosamax multidistrict litigation; the number of cases being brought against the
Company; and the anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial activities in the Fosamax Litigation.
The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves.
Due to the uncertain nature of litigation, the Company is unable to estimate its costs beyond the completion of the
first three federal trials discussed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. The Company has not
established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the Fosamax Litigation. Unfavorable outcomes in the
Fosamax Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of
operations.
The Company is a party to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents.
When a legitimate claim for contribution is asserted, a liability is initially accrued based upon the estimated
transaction costs to manage the site. Accruals are adjusted as site investigations, feasibility studies and related cost
assessments of remedial techniques are completed, and as the extent to which other potentially responsible parties
who may be jointly and severally liable can be expected to contribute is determined.
The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at
certain of its sites and takes an active role in identifying and providing for these costs. A worldwide survey was
initially performed to assess all sites for potential contamination resulting from past industrial activities. Where
assessment indicated that physical investigation was warranted, such investigation was performed, providing a better
evaluation of the need for remedial action. Where such need was identified, remedial action was then initiated.
Estimates of the extent of contamination at each site were initially made at the pre-investigation stage and liabilities
for the potential cost of remediation were accrued at that time. As more definitive information became available
during the course of investigations and/or remedial efforts at each site, estimates were refined and accruals were
adjusted accordingly. These estimates and related accruals continue to be refined annually.
The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws
and regulations. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $34.5 million in 2008, and are
estimated at $47.1 million for the years 2009 through 2013. In management’s opinion, the liabilities for all
environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $89.5 million and
$109.6 million at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not
consider potential recoveries from other parties and will be paid out over the periods of remediation for the
79Table of Contents
applicable sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next 15 years. Although it is not possible to predict
with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that
any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed
$70.0 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should result in a material
adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year.
S hare-Based Compensation
The Company recognizes compensation cost in accordance with FAS 123R, which requires all share-based
payments to employees, including grants of stock options, to be expensed over the requisite service period based on
the grant date fair value of the awards. The Company determines the fair value of certain share-based awards using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model which uses both historical and current market data to estimate the fair value.
This method incorporates various assumptions such as the risk-free interest rate, expected volatility, expected
dividend yield and expected life of the options.
P ensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans
Net pension and other postretirement benefit cost totaled $376.6 million in 2008, $489.3 million in 2007
and $563.7 million in 2006. The decrease of $112.7 million in 2008 is primarily due to the lower amortization of
actuarial net losses and higher expected return on plan assets which were partially offset by an increase in
termination benefits attributable to the Company’s restructuring actions. Pension and other postretirement benefit
plan information for financial reporting purposes is calculated using actuarial assumptions including a discount rate
for plan benefit obligations and an expected rate of return on plan assets.
The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. For both the pension and other
postretirement benefit plans, the discount rate is evaluated on measurement dates and modified to reflect the
prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality fixed-income debt instruments that would provide the future cash
flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligation as they come due. At December 31, 2008, the
discount rates for the Company’s U.S. pension plans and U.S. other postretirement benefit plans ranged from 6.0% to
6.40% compared with a range of 5.75% to 6.50% at December 31, 2007.
The expected rate of return for both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans represents the
average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits included in the benefit obligation are to
be paid. In developing the expected rate of return, the Company considers long-term compound annualized returns of
historical market data as well as actual returns on the Company’s plan assets. Using this reference information, the
Company develops forward-looking return expectations for each asset category and a weighted average expected
long-term rate of return for a target portfolio allocated across these investment categories. The expected portfolio
performance reflects the contribution of active management as appropriate. As a result of this analysis, for 2009, the
Company’s expected rate of return of 8.75% remained unchanged from 2008 for its U.S. pension and other
postretirement benefit plans.
The target investment portfolio of the Company’s U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans is
allocated 45% to 60% in U.S. equities, 20% to 30% in international equities, 15% to 25% in fixed-income
investments, and up to 8% in cash and other investments. The portfolio’s equity weighting is consistent with the
long-term nature of the plans’ benefit obligation. The expected annual standard deviation of returns of the target
portfolio, which approximates 13%, reflects both the equity allocation and the diversification benefits among the
asset classes in which the portfolio invests. The actual return on plan assets for pension and other postretirement
benefit plans reflects the allocation to global equity markets which delivered significant negative returns during 2008.
Actuarial assumptions are based upon management’s best estimates and judgment. A reasonably possible
change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would
have an estimated $35.2 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on its U.S. net pension and postretirement benefit
cost. A reasonably possible change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the expected rate of return assumption, with
other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $13.0 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on its
U.S. net pension and postretirement benefit cost. The Company does not expect to have a minimum pension funding
80Table of Contents
requirement under the Internal Revenue Code during 2009. The preceding hypothetical changes in the discount rate
and expected rate of return assumptions would not impact the Company’s funding requirements.
Net loss amounts, which reflect experience differentials primarily relating to differences between expected
and actual returns on plan assets as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recorded as a
component of Accumulated other comprehensive income. Expected returns for pension plans are based on a
calculated market-related value of assets. Under this methodology, asset gains/losses resulting from actual returns
that differ from the Company’s expected returns are recognized in the market-related value of assets ratably over a
five-year period. Also, net loss amounts in Accumulated other comprehensive income in excess of certain thresholds
are amortized into net pension and other postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining service life of
employees. Amortization of net losses for the Company’s U.S. plans at December 31, 2008 is expected to increase
net pension and other postretirement benefit cost by approximately $130 million annually from 2009 through 2013.
A cquisitions
The Company accounts for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting in accordance
with FAS 141, Business Combinations , which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at
the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values
of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the Company determines the acquired company is a development
stage company which has not commenced its planned principal operations, the acquisition will be accounted for as an
acquisition of assets rather than as a business combination and, therefore, goodwill would not be recorded. The fair
value of intangible assets, including acquired research, is based on significant judgments made by management, and
accordingly, for significant items, the Company typically obtains assistance from third party valuation specialists.
Amounts are allocated to acquired research and expensed at the date of acquisition if technological feasibility has not
been established and no alternative future use exists. For projects which can be used immediately in the research
process that have alternative future uses, the Company capitalizes these intangible assets and amortizes them over an
appropriate useful life. The valuations and useful life assumptions are based on information available near the
acquisition date and are based on expectations and assumptions that are deemed reasonable by management. The
judgments made in determining estimated fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as
asset lives, can materially impact the Company’s results of operations.
For intangible assets, including acquired research, the Company typically uses the income approach, which
estimates fair value based on each project’s projected cash flows. Future cash flows are predominately based on a net
income forecast of each project, consistent with historical pricing, margins and expense levels of similar products.
Revenues are estimated based on relevant market size and growth factors, expected industry trends, individual
project life cycles, and the life of each research project’s underlying patent, if any. Expected revenues are then
adjusted for the probability of technical and marketing success and the resulting cash flows are discounted at a risk-
adjusted discount rate.
On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 141R, Business Combinations
(“FAS 141R”), which changes the way assets and liabilities are recognized in purchase accounting on a prospective
basis. See Recently Issued Accounting Standards below.
R estructuring Costs
The Company has recorded restructuring costs in connection with its global restructuring programs
designed to reduce the Company’s cost structure, increase efficiency and enhance competitiveness. As a result, the
Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its future plans, including future termination benefits and
other exit costs to be incurred when the restructuring actions take place. In connection with these actions,
management also assesses the recoverability of long-lived assets employed in the business. In certain instances, asset
lives have been shortened based on changes in the expected useful lives of the affected assets. Severance and other
related costs are reflected within Restructuring costs. Asset-related charges are reflected within Materials and
production costs and Research and development expenses depending upon the nature of the asset.
81Table of Contents
Impairments of Long-Lived Assets
The Company assesses changes in economic conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated future
cash flows in evaluating the value of the Company’s property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible
assets.
The Company periodically evaluates whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying
values of its long-lived assets to be held and used are recoverable in accordance with FASB Statement No. 144,
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets . If such circumstances are determined to exist, an
estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows of these assets, or appropriate asset groupings, is compared to the
carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If the asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is
measured based on the difference between the asset’s fair value and its carrying value. If quoted market prices are not
available, the Company will estimate fair value using a discounted value of estimated future cash flows approach.
The Company tests its goodwill for impairment at least annually in accordance with FASB Statement
No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, using a fair value based test. Goodwill represents the excess of
acquisition costs over the fair value of net assets of businesses purchased and is assigned to reporting units within the
Company’s segments. Other acquired intangibles are recorded at cost. When events or circumstances warrant a
review, the Company will assess recoverability from future operations of other intangibles using undiscounted cash
flows derived from the lowest appropriate asset groupings, generally the subsidiary level. Impairments are
recognized in operating results to the extent that carrying values exceed fair value, which is determined based on the
net present value of estimated cash flows.
I mpairments of Investments
The Company reviews its investments for impairments based on the determination of whether the decline in
market value of the investment below the carrying value is other than temporary. The Company considers available
evidence in evaluating potential impairments of its investments, including the duration and extent to which fair value
is less than cost and the Company’s ability and intent to hold the investments.
F air Value Measurements
On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 157, Fair Value Measurements
(“FAS 157”) which clarifies the definition of fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and
expands the disclosures on fair value measurements. FAS 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires an
entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair
value. FAS 157 describes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value (see Note 5 to the consolidated
financial statements). At December 31, 2008, the Company’s Level 3 assets of $96.6 million primarily include
mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, as well as certain corporate notes and bonds for which there was a
decrease in the observability of market pricing for these investments. On January 1, 2008, the Company had
$1,273.1 million invested in a short-term fixed income fund (the “Fund”). Due to market liquidity conditions, cash
redemptions from the Fund were restricted. As a result of this restriction on cash redemptions, the Company did not
consider the Fund to be traded in an active market with observable pricing on January 1, 2008 and these amounts
were categorized as Level 3. On January 7, 2008, the Company elected to be redeemed-in-kind from the Fund and
received its share of the underlying securities of the Fund. As a result, $1,099.7 million of the underlying securities
were transferred out of Level 3 as it was determined these securities had observable markets. As of December 31,
2008, $96.6 million of the investment securities associated with the redemption-in-kind remained classified in
Level 3 (approximately 0.9% of the Company’s investment securities) as the securities contained at least one
significant input which was unobservable (all of which were pledged under certain collateral arrangements (see
Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements)). These securities account for the entire balance of the Company’s
Level 3 assets at December 31, 2008. These securities were valued primarily using pricing models for which
management understands the methodologies. These models incorporate transaction details such as contractual terms,
maturity, timing and amount of future cash inflows, as well as assumptions about liquidity and credit valuation
adjustments of marketplace participants at December 31, 2008.
82Table of Contents
Taxes on Income
The Company’s effective tax rate is based on pretax income, statutory tax rates and tax planning
opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. An estimated effective tax rate
for a year is applied to the Company’s quarterly operating results. In the event that there is a significant unusual or
one-time item recognized, or expected to be recognized, in the Company’s quarterly operating results, the tax
attributable to that item would be separately calculated and recorded at the same time as the unusual or one-time
item. The Company considers the resolution of prior year tax matters to be such items. Significant judgment is
required in determining the Company’s tax provision and in evaluating its tax positions. The recognition and
measurement of a tax position is based on management’s best judgment given the facts, circumstances and
information available at the reporting date. In accordance with FIN 48, the Company evaluates tax positions to
determine whether the benefits of tax positions are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit based on the
technical merits of the tax position. For tax positions that are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the
Company recognizes the largest amount of the benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate
settlement in the financial statements. For tax positions that are not more likely than not of being sustained upon
audit, the Company does not recognize any portion of the benefit in the financial statements. If the more likely than
not threshold is not met in the period for which a tax position is taken, the Company may subsequently recognize the
benefit of that tax position if the tax matter is effectively settled, the statute of limitations expires, or if the more
likely than not threshold is met in a subsequent period. (See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.)
Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items are reflected
in the financial statements. Timing differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally
represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the tax return in future years for which the Company
has already recorded the tax benefit in the financial statements. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its
deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the
deduction or credit. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial statements for
which payment has been deferred or expense for which the Company has already taken a deduction on the tax return,
but has not yet recognized as expense in the financial statements. At December 31, 2008, foreign earnings of
$22.0 billion have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary companies for reinvestment, therefore no provision has
been made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings.
R ecently Issued Accounting Standards
In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS 141R which expands the scope of acquisition accounting to all
transactions under which control of a business is obtained. This standard requires an acquirer to recognize the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date fair values with limited exceptions. Additionally, FAS 141R
requires that contingent consideration as well as contingent assets and liabilities be recorded at fair value on the
acquisition date, that acquired in-process research and development be capitalized and recorded as intangible assets
at the acquisition date, and also requires transaction costs and costs to restructure the acquired company be expensed.
FAS 141R is effective, on a prospective basis, January 1, 2009 and future transactions will be accounted for under
this standard.
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated
Financial Statements — an amendment of ARB No. 51 (“FAS 160”) which provides guidance for the accounting,
reporting and disclosure of noncontrolling interests and requires, among other things, that noncontrolling interests be
recorded as equity in the consolidated financial statements. FAS 160 is effective, on a prospective basis, January 1,
2009 with the exception of the presentation and disclosure requirements of FAS 160 which must be applied
retrospectively. The adoption of this standard will result in the reclassification of $2.4 billion of Minority Interests
(now referred to as noncontrolling interests) to a separate component of Stockholders’ Equity on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet. Additionally, net income attributable to noncontrolling interests will be shown separately from parent
net income in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
In December 2007, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”)
on Issue No. 07-1, Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements (“EITF 07-1”). EITF 07-1, which is effective
January 1, 2009, is applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented for all collaborative arrangements existing as
of the effective date. EITF 07-1 defines collaborative arrangements and establishes reporting requirements for
83Table of Contents
transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement and between participants in the arrangement and
third parties. The effect of adoption of EITF 07-1 is not expected to be material to the Company’s financial position
or results of operations.
In March 2008, the FASB issued Statement No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities (“FAS 161”), which is effective January 1, 2009. FAS 161 requires enhanced disclosures about
derivative instruments and hedging activities to allow for a better understanding of their effects on an entity’s
financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. Among other things, FAS 161 requires disclosure of the
fair values of derivative instruments and associated gains and losses in a tabular format. Since FAS 161 requires only
additional disclosures about the Company’s derivatives and hedging activities, the adoption of FAS 161 will not
affect the Company’s financial position or results of operations.
In June 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position EITF 03-6-1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in
Share-Based Payment Transactions are Participating Securities (“FSP EITF 03-6-1”), which is effective January 1,
2009. FSP EITF 03-6-1 clarifies that share-based payment awards that entitle holders to receive nonforfeitable
dividends before they vest will be considered participating securities and therefore included in the basic earnings per
share calculation. The effect of adoption of FSP EITF 03-6-1 is not expected to be material to the Company’s results
of operations.
In November 2008, the FASB issued EITF 08-6, Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations
(“EITF 08-6”). EITF 08-6 clarifies the accounting for certain transactions and impairment considerations involving
equity method investments. EITF 08-6 is effective January 1, 2009, and will be applied on a prospective basis to
future transactions.
In November 2008, the FASB issued EITF 08-7, Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets
EITF 08-7 clarifies that a defensive intangible asset should be accounted for as a separate unit of accounting and
should be assigned a useful life that reflects the entity’s consumption of the expected benefits related to the asset.
EITF 08-7 is effective January 1, 2009, and will be applied on a prospective basis to future transactions.
In December 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position FAS 132(R)-1, Employers’ Disclosures about
Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets (“FSP FAS 132(R)-1”), which is effective December 31, 2009. FSP FAS 132(R)-
1 amends FASB Statement No. 132R, Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions and other Postretirement Benefits, to
provide guidance on an employer’s disclosures about plan assets of a defined pension or other postretirement plan.
FSP FAS 132(R)-1 requires disclosures about plan assets including how investment allocation decisions are made,
the major categories of plan assets, the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of plan assets,
the effect of fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) on changes in plan assets for
the period, and significant concentrations of risk within plan assets. Since FSP FAS 132(R)-1 requires only
additional disclosures about the Company’s pension and other postretirement plan assets, the adoption of FSP
FAS 132(R)-1 will not affect the Company’s financial position or results of operations.
C autionary Factors That May Affect Future Results
This report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company may
contain so-called “forward-looking statements,” all of which are based on management’s current expectations and are
subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements.
One can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as “expects,” “plans,” “will,”
“estimates,” “forecasts,” “projects” and other words of similar meaning. One can also identify them by the fact that
they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to address the Company’s growth
strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential and development programs.
One must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to
differ materially from the Company’s forward-looking statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and
a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. No forward-
looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially.
84Table of Contents
The Company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. One should
carefully evaluate such statements in light of factors, including risk factors, described in the Company’s filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, especially on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. In Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of
this annual report on Form 10-K the Company discusses in more detail various important risk factors that could cause
actual results to differ from expected or historic results. The Company notes these factors for investors as permitted
by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. One should understand that it is not possible to predict or
identify all such factors. Consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all
potential risks or uncertainties.
I tem 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.
The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under “Financial
Instruments Market Risk Disclosures” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations.”
85Table of Contents
I tem 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
(a) Financial Statements
The consolidated balance sheet of Merck & Co., Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
and the related consolidated statements of income, of retained earnings, of comprehensive income and of cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
and the report dated February 26, 2009 of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting
firm, are as follows:
C onsolidated Statement of Income
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years Ended December 31
($ in millions except per share amounts)
2008 2007 2006
S ales $23,850.3 $24,197.7 $22,636.0
C osts, Expenses and Other
Materials and production 5,582.5 6,140.7 6,001.1
Marketing and administrative 7,377.0 7,556.7 8,165.4
Research and development 4,805.3 4,882.8 4,782.9
Restructuring costs 1,032.5 327.1 142.3
Equity income from affiliates (2,560.6) (2,976.5) (2,294.4 )
U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge - 4,850.0 -
Other (income) expense, net (2,194.2) 46.2 (382.7 )
14,042.5 20,827.0 16,414.6
I ncome Before Taxes 9,807.8 3,370.7 6,221.4
Taxes on Income 1,999.4 95.3 1,787.6
N et Income $7,808.4 $3,275.4 $4,433.8
Basic Earnings per Common Share $3.66 $1.51 $2.04
Earnings per Common Share Assuming Dilution $3.64 $1.49 $2.03
C onsolidated Statement of Retained Earnings
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years Ended December 31
($ in millions)
2008 2007 2006
B alance, January 1 $ 39,140.8 $ 39,095.1 $ 37,980.0
C umulative Effect of Adoption of FIN 48 - 81.0 -
Net Income 7,808.4 3,275.4 4,433.8
Dividends Declared on Common Stock (3,250.4) (3,310.7) (3,318.7 )
B alance, December 31 $ 43,698.8 $ 39,140.8 $ 39,095.1
C onsolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years Ended December 31
($ in millions)
2008 2007 2006
N et Income $ 7,808.4 $ 3,275.4 $ 4,433.8
O ther Comprehensive (Loss) Income
Net unrealized gain (loss) on derivatives, net of tax and net income realization 151.6 (4.4) (50.9 )
Net unrealized (loss) gain on investments, net of tax and net income realization (80.5) 58.0 26.1
Benefit plan net (loss) gain and prior service cost (credit), net of tax and amortization (1,761.7) 240.3 -
Minimum pension liability, net of tax - - 22.5
Cumulative translation adjustment relating to equity investees, net of tax (37.2) 44.3 18.9
(1,727.8) 338.2 16.6
Comprehensive Income $ 6,080.6 $ 3,613.6 $ 4,450.4
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
86Table of Contents
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
December 31
($ in millions)
2008 2007
A ssets
Current Assets
Cash and cash equivalents $ 4,368.3 $ 5,336.1
Short-term investments 1,118.1 2,894.7
Accounts receivable (including non-trade receivables of $871.2 in 2008 and $906.0 in 2007) 3,778.9 3,636.2
Inventories (excludes inventories of $395.0 in 2008 and $345.2 in 2007 classified in Other assets —
see Note 6) 2,283.3 1,881.0
Deferred income taxes and other current assets 7,756.3 1,297.4
T otal current assets 19,304.9 15,045.4
I nvestments 6,491.3 7,159.2
P roperty, Plant and Equipment (at cost)
Land 386.1 405.8
Buildings 9,767.4 10,048.0
Machinery, equipment and office furnishings 13,103.7 13,553.7
Construction in progress 871.0 795.6
24,128.2 24,803.1
Less allowance for depreciation 12,128.6 12,457.1
11,999.6 12,346.0
G oodwill 1,438.7 1,454.8
O ther Intangibles, Net 525.4 713.2
O ther Assets 7,435.8 11,632.1
$ 47,195.7 $4 8,350.7
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
Current Liabilities
Loans payable and current portion of long-term debt $ 2,297.1 $ 1,823.6
Trade accounts payable 617.6 624.5
Accrued and other current liabilities 9,174.1 8,534.9
Income taxes payable 1,426.4 444.1
Dividends payable 803.5 831.1
T otal current liabilities 14,318.7 12,258.2
L ong-Term Debt 3,943.3 3,915.8
D eferred Income Taxes and Noncurrent Liabilities 7,766.6 11,585.3
M inority Interests 2,408.8 2,406.7
S tockholders’ Equity
Common stock, one cent par value
Authorized — 5,400,000,000 shares
Issued — 2,983,508,675 shares — 2008 and 2007 29.8 29.8
Other paid-in capital 8,319.1 8,014.9
Retained earnings 43,698.8 39,140.8
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (2,553.9 ) (826.1 )
49,493.8 46,359.4
Less treasury stock, at cost
875,818,333 shares — 2008
811,005,791 shares — 2007 30,735.5 28,174.7
T otal stockholders’ equity 18,758.3 18,184.7
$ 47,195.7 $4 8,350.7
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated financial statement.
87Table of Contents
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years Ended December 31
($ in millions)
2008 2007 2006
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net income $ 7,808.4 $ 3,275.4 $ 4,433.8
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating
activities:
Gain on distribution from AstraZeneca LP (2,222.7) - -
Equity income from affiliates (2,560.6) (2,976.5 ) (2,294.4 )
Dividends and distributions from equity affiliates 4,289.6 2,485.6 1,931.9
U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge - 4,850.0 -
Depreciation and amortization 1,631.2 1,988.2 2,268.4
Deferred income taxes 530.1 (1,781.9 ) (530.2 )
Share-based compensation 348.0 330.2 312.5
Acquired research - 325.1 762.5
Taxes paid for Internal Revenue Service settlement - (2,788.1 ) -
Other 731.7 (64.7 ) 18.1
Net changes in assets and liabilities:
Accounts receivable (889.4) (290.7) (709.3 )
Inventories (452.1) (40.7 ) 226.5
Trade accounts payable - 117.7 16.4
Accrued and other current liabilities (1,710.9) 451.1 461.6
Income taxes payable (465.3) 987.2 (138.2 )
Noncurrent liabilities (108.0) 26.2 (125.6 )
Other (358.3) 105.1 131.2
N et Cash Provided by Operating Activities 6,571.7 6,999.2 6,765.2
C ash Flows from Investing Activities
Capital expenditures (1,298.3) (1,011.0 ) (980.2 )
Purchases of securities and other investments (11,967.3) (10,132.7) (19,591.3 )
Proceeds from sales of securities and other investments 11,065.8 10,860.2 16,143.8
Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired - (1,135.9 ) (404.9 )
Distribution from AstraZeneca LP 1,899.3 - -
Increase in restricted assets (1,629.7) (1,401.1 ) (48.1 )
Other 95.8 10.5 (3.0 )
N et Cash Used by Investing Activities (1,834.4) (2,810.0 ) (4,883.7 )
C ash Flows from Financing Activities
Net change in short-term borrowings 1,859.9 11.4 (1,522.8 )
Proceeds from issuance of debt - - 755.1
Payments on debt (1,392.0) (1,195.3 ) (506.2 )
Purchases of treasury stock (2,725.0) (1,429.7 ) (1,002.3 )
Dividends paid to stockholders (3,278.5) (3,307.3 ) (3,322.6 )
Proceeds from exercise of stock options 102.3 898.6 369.9
Other (89.2) 156.2 (375.3 )
N et Cash Used by Financing Activities (5,522.5) (4,866.1 ) (5,604.2 )
E ffect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents (182.6) 98.3 52.1
N et Decrease in Cash and Cash Equivalents (967.8) (578.6) (3,670.6 )
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year 5,336.1 5,914.7 9,585.3
C ash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year $ 4,368.3 $ 5,336.1 $ 5,914.7
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated financial statement.
88Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Merck & Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
($ in millions except per share amounts)
1 . Nature of Operations
Merck is a global research-driven pharmaceutical company that discovers, develops, manufactures and
markets a broad range of innovative products to improve human and animal health. The Company’s operations are
principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of two reportable segments: the Pharmaceutical segment
and the Vaccines and Infectious Diseases segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health
pharmaceutical products marketed either directly by Merck or through joint ventures. These products consist of
therapeutic and preventive agents, sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Merck sells these
human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies
and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other
institutions. The Vaccines and Infectious Diseases segment includes human health vaccine and infectious disease
products marketed either directly by Merck or, in the case of vaccines, also through a joint venture. Vaccine products
consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. Merck
sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government
entities. Infectious disease products consist of therapeutic agents for the treatment of infection sold primarily to drug
wholesalers and retailers, hospitals and government agencies. The Company’s professional representatives
communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of its pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care
professionals in private practice, group practices and managed care organizations.
2 . Summary of Accounting Policies
Principles of Consolidation — The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and all of its subsidiaries in which a controlling interest is maintained. Intercompany balances and transactions are
eliminated. Controlling interest is determined by majority ownership interest and the absence of substantive third-
party participating rights or, in the case of variable interest entities, by majority exposure to expected losses, residual
returns or both. For those consolidated subsidiaries where Merck ownership is less than 100%, the outside
stockholders’ interests are shown as Minority interests. Investments in affiliates over which the Company has
significant influence but not a controlling interest, such as interests in entities owned equally by the Company and a
third party that are under shared control, are carried on the equity basis.
Foreign Currency Translation — The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the Company’s foreign
subsidiaries.
Cash Equivalents — Cash equivalents are comprised of certain highly liquid investments with original
maturities of less than three months.
Inventories — Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. The cost of substantially all domestic
inventories is determined using the last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) method for both book and tax purposes. The cost of all
other inventories is determined using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method. Inventories consist of currently
marketed products and certain products awaiting regulatory approval. In evaluating the recoverability of inventories
produced in preparation for product launches, the Company considers the probability that revenue will be obtained
from the future sale of the related inventory together with the status of the product within the regulatory approval
process.
Investments — Investments in marketable debt and equity securities classified as available-for-sale are
reported at fair value. On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)
Statement No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (“FAS 157”), which clarifies the definition of fair value, establishes a
framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures on fair value measurements. FAS 157 defines fair
value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the
principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
on the measurement date. FAS 157 also establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires an entity to maximize the
use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
89Table of Contents
Fair value of the Company’s investments is determined using quoted market prices in active markets for identical
assets or liabilities or quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities or other inputs that are observable or can be
corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. For declines in fair
value that are considered other-than-temporary, impairment losses are charged to Other (income) expense, net.
Declines in fair value that are considered temporary, to the extent not hedged, are reported net of tax in Accumulated
other comprehensive income (“AOCI”). The Company considers available evidence in evaluating potential
impairment of its investments, including the duration and extent to which fair value is less than cost and the
Company’s ability and intent to hold the investment. Realized gains and losses are included in Other (income)
expense, net.
Revenue Recognition — Revenues from sales of products are recognized at the time of delivery and when
title and risk of loss passes to the customer. Recognition of revenue also requires reasonable assurance of collection
of sales proceeds and completion of all performance obligations. Domestically, sales discounts are issued to
customers as direct discounts at the point-of-sale or indirectly through an intermediary wholesaler, known as
chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of return
under certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for sales discounts and returns, which are
established at the time of sale. Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct reduction to accounts receivable and
accruals for rebates are recorded as current liabilities. The accrued balances relative to these provisions included in
Accounts receivable and Accrued and other current liabilities were $55.6 million and $560.7 million, respectively, at
December 31, 2008 and $82.5 million and $616.9 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007.
The Company recognizes revenue from the sales of vaccines to the Federal government for placement into
stockpiles related to the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) Interpretation , Commission Guidance Regarding Accounting for Sales of Vaccines and BioTerror
Countermeasures to the Federal Government for Placement into the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile or the Strategic
National Stockpile.
Depreciation — Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful lives of the assets, principally using the
straight-line method. For tax purposes, accelerated methods are used. The estimated useful lives primarily range from
10 to 50 years for Buildings, and from 3 to 15 years for Machinery, equipment and office furnishings.
Software Capitalization — The Company capitalizes certain costs incurred in connection with obtaining or
developing internal-use software including external direct costs of material and services, and payroll costs for
employees directly involved with the software development in accordance with Statement of Position
98-1, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use . Capitalized software
costs are included in Property, plant and equipment and amortized beginning when the asset is substantially ready for
use. Capitalized software costs associated with the Company’s multi-year implementation of an enterprise-wide
resource planning system are being amortized over 7 to 10 years. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had
approximately $330 million and $200 million, respectively, of remaining unamortized capitalized software costs
associated with this initiative. All other capitalized software costs are being amortized over periods ranging from 3 to
5 years. Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage and post-implementation stage, as well as maintenance
and training costs, are expensed as incurred.
Acquisitions — The Company accounts for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting in
accordance with FASB Statement No. 141, Business Combinations , which requires that the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase
price over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the Company determines the
acquired company is a development stage company which has not commenced its planned principal operations, the
acquisition will be accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than as a business combination and, therefore,
goodwill would not be recorded. In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement
No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method , the Company allocates amounts to acquired
research which are expensed at the date of acquisition if technological feasibility has not been established and no
alternative future use exists. For projects which can be used immediately in the research process that have alternative
future uses, the Company capitalizes these intangible assets and amortizes them over an appropriate useful life. The
operating results of the acquired business are reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial
90Table of Contents
statements and results of operations as of the date of acquisition. On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted FASB
Statement No. 141R, Business Combinations , which changes the way assets and liabilities are recognized in
purchase accounting on a prospective basis. See Recently Issued Accounting Standards below.
Goodwill and Other Intangibles — Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition costs over the fair value of
net assets of businesses purchased. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units within the Company’s segments and
evaluated for impairment on at least an annual basis, using a fair value based test. Other acquired intangibles are
recorded at cost and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives ranging from 3 to 20 years
(see Note 7). When events or circumstances warrant a review, the Company will assess recoverability from future
operations of other intangibles using undiscounted cash flows derived from the lowest appropriate asset groupings,
generally the subsidiary level. Impairments are recognized in operating results to the extent that carrying value
exceeds fair value, which is determined based on the net present value of estimated future cash flows.
Research and Development — Research and development is expensed as incurred. Upfront and milestone
payments due to third parties in connection with research and development collaborations prior to regulatory
approval are expensed as incurred. Payments due to third parties upon or subsequent to regulatory approval are
capitalized and amortized over the shorter of the remaining license or product patent life. On January 1, 2008, the
Company adopted Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 07-3, Accounting for Advance Payments for
Goods or Services Received for Use in Future Research and Development Activities, which requires that
nonrefundable advance payments for goods and services that will be used in future research and development
activities be expensed when the activity has been performed or when the goods have been received rather than when
the payment is made. See Recently Issued Accounting Standards below.
Share-Based Compensation — The Company expenses all share-based payments to employees, including
grants of stock options, over the requisite service period based on the grant-date fair value of the awards.
Restructuring Costs — The Company records restructuring activities, including costs for one-time
termination benefits, in accordance with FASB Statement No. 146 , Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or
Disposal Activities. Employee termination benefits covered by existing benefit arrangements are recorded in
accordance with FASB Statement No. 112, Employers’ Accounting for Postemployment Benefits — an amendment of
FASB Statement No. 5 and 43 and FASB Statement No. 88, Employers’ Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments
of Defined Benefit Pension Plans for Termination Benefits . Employee termination costs are recorded when actions
are probable and estimable. Asset impairment costs are recorded in accordance with FASB Statement No. 144,
Accounting for the Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.
Contingencies and Legal Defense Costs — The Company records accruals for contingencies and legal
defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency when it is probable that a liability has
been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated in accordance with FASB Statement No. 5, Accounting
for Contingencies .
Taxes on Income — Deferred taxes are recognized for the future tax effects of temporary differences
between financial and income tax reporting based on enacted tax laws and rates. The Company evaluates tax
positions to determine whether the benefits of tax positions are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit
based on the technical merits of the tax position. For tax positions that are more likely than not of being sustained
upon audit, the Company recognizes the largest amount of the benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized
upon ultimate settlement in the financial statements. For tax positions that are not more likely than not of being
sustained upon audit, the Company does not recognize any portion of the benefit in the financial statements.
Use of Estimates — The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) and, accordingly, include certain amounts that are based
on management’s best estimates and judgments. Estimates are used in determining such items as provisions for sales
discounts and returns, depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of inventories produced in preparation for
product launches, amounts recorded for contingencies, environmental liabilities and other reserves, pension and other
postretirement benefit plan assumptions, share-based compensation assumptions, amounts recorded in connection
with acquisitions, restructuring costs, impairments of long-lived assets and investments, and
91Table of Contents
taxes on income. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these
estimates.
Reclassifications — Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform with the
current year presentation.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards — In 2008, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 157, Fair
Value Measurements (“FAS 157”), Statement No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities — including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (“FAS 159”), Statement No. 162, The Hierarchy
of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“FAS 162”), EITF Issue No. 07-3, Accounting for Advance Payments
for Goods or Services Received for Use in Future Research and Development Activities (“EITF 07-3”) and FASB
Staff Position FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8, Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial
Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities (“FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8”).
On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FAS 157, which clarifies the definition of fair value, establishes
a framework for measuring fair value, and expands the disclosures on fair value measurements. In February 2008, the
FASB issued Staff Position 157-2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 (“FSP 157-2”), that deferred the
effective date of FAS 157 for one year for nonfinancial assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a non-recurring
basis. The effect of adoption of FAS 157 for financial assets and liabilities recognized at fair value on a recurring
basis did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position and results of operations (see Note 5). The
effect of adoption of FSP 157-2 on the Company’s financial position and results of operations is not expected to be
material. In October 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position 157-3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset
When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active (“FSP 157-3”), which clarifies the application of FAS 157 in a market
that is not active. FSP 157-3 was effective upon issuance and the effect of adoption on the Company’s financial
position and results of operations was not material.
On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FAS 159, which permits companies to make an irrevocable
election to measure certain financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on items
for which the fair value option has been elected are reported in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. The
Company did not elect the fair value option under FAS 159 for any of its financial assets or liabilities upon adoption
or in any subsequent period.
In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company adopted FAS 162, which identifies the sources of accounting
principles and the framework for selecting the principles used (order of authority) in the preparation of financial
statements that are presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting standards in the United States. The
effect of adoption of FAS 162 on the Company’s financial statements was not material.
On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted EITF 07-03, which is being applied prospectively for new
contracts. EITF 07-3 addresses nonrefundable advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered
for future research and development activities. EITF 07-3 requires that these payments be deferred and capitalized
and recognized as an expense as the related goods are delivered or the related services are performed. The effect of
adoption of EITF 07-3 on the Company’s financial position and results of operations was not material.
On December 31, 2008, the Company adopted FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 which amends FASB
Statement No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities, to
require additional disclosures about transfers of financial assets. FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 also amends FASB
Interpretation No. 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities , to include additional disclosures about a public
entity’s involvement with variable interest entities. The effect of adoption of FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 had no
impact on the Company’s disclosures.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards — The FASB recently issued Statement No. 141R, Business
Combinations (“FAS 141R”), Statement No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements —
an amendment of ARB No. 51 (“FAS 160”) , Statement No. 161 , Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities (“FAS 161”) , Staff Position EITF 03-6-1 , Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-
Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities (“FSP EITF 03-6-1”), Staff Position FAS 132(R)-1,
Employers’ Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets (“FSP FAS 132(R)-1”), and ratified the consensus
reached by the EITF on Issue No. 07-1, Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements (“EITF 07-1”), Issue No. 08-6,
92Table of Contents
Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations (“EITF 08-6”) and Issue No. 08-7, Accounting for Defensive
Intangible Assets (“EITF 08-7”).
FAS 141R expands the scope of acquisition accounting to all transactions under which control of a business
is obtained. This standard requires an acquirer to recognize the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the
acquisition date fair values with limited exceptions. Additionally, FAS 141R requires that contingent consideration as
well as contingent assets and liabilities be recorded at fair value on the acquisition date, that acquired in-process
research and development be capitalized and recorded as intangible assets at the acquisition date, and also requires
transaction costs and costs to restructure the acquired company be expensed. FAS 141R is effective, on a prospective
basis, January 1, 2009 and future transactions will be accounted for under this standard.
FAS 160 provides guidance for the accounting, reporting and disclosure of noncontrolling interests and
requires, among other things, that noncontrolling interests be recorded as equity in the consolidated financial
statements. FAS 160 is effective, on a prospective basis, January 1, 2009 with the exception of the presentation and
disclosure requirements of FAS 160 which must be applied retrospectively. The adoption of this standard will result
in the reclassification of $2.4 billion of Minority Interests (now referred to as noncontrolling interests) to a separate
component of Stockholders’ Equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Additionally, net income attributable to
noncontrolling interests will be shown separately from parent net income in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
FAS 161, which is effective January 1, 2009, requires enhanced disclosures about derivative instruments
and hedging activities to allow for a better understanding of their effects on an entity’s financial position, financial
performance, and cash flows. Among other things, FAS 161 requires disclosure of the fair values of derivative
instruments and associated gains and losses in a tabular format. Since FAS 161 requires only additional disclosures
about the Company’s derivatives and hedging activities, the adoption of FAS 161 will not affect the Company’s
financial position or results of operations.
FSP EITF 03-6-1, which is effective January 1, 2009, clarifies that share-based payment awards that entitle
holders to receive nonforfeitable dividends before they vest will be considered participating securities and therefore
included in the basic earnings per share calculation. The effect of adoption of FSP EITF 03-6-1 is not expected to be
material to the Company’s results of operations.
FSP FAS 132(R)-1, which is effective December 31, 2009, amends FASB Statement No. 132R, Employers’
Disclosures about Pensions and other Postretirement Benefits , to provide guidance on an employer’s disclosures
about plan assets of a defined pension or other postretirement plan. FSP FAS 132(R)-1 requires disclosures about
plan assets including how investment allocation decisions are made, the major categories of plan assets, the inputs
and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of plan assets, the effect of fair value measurements using
significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) on changes in plan assets for the period, and significant concentrations of
risk within plan assets. Since FSP FAS 132(R)-1 requires only additional disclosures about the Company’s pension
and other postretirement plan assets, the adoption of FSP FAS 132(R)-1 will not affect the Company’s financial
position or results of operations.
EITF 07-1, which is effective January 1, 2009, is applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented for
all collaborative arrangements existing as of the effective date. EITF 07-1 defines collaborative arrangements and
establishes reporting requirements for transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement and between
participants in the arrangement and third parties. The effect of adoption of EITF 07-1 is not expected to be material
to the Company’s financial position or results of operations.
EITF 08-6, which is effective January 1, 2009, clarifies the accounting for certain transactions and
impairment considerations involving equity method investments and will be applied on a prospective basis to future
transactions.
EITF 08-7, which is effective January 1, 2009, clarifies that a defensive intangible asset should be
accounted for as a separate unit of accounting and should be assigned a useful life that reflects the entity’s
consumption of the expected benefits related to the asset. EITF 08-7 will be applied on a prospective basis to future
transactions.
93Table of Contents
3. Restructuring
2 008 Global Restructuring Program
In October 2008, the Company announced a global restructuring program (the “2008 Restructuring
Program”) to reduce its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. As part of the 2008
Restructuring Program, the Company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions — 6,800 active employees
and 400 vacancies — across all areas of the Company worldwide by the end of 2011. During 2008, the Company
eliminated approximately 1,750 positions in connection with this program, comprised of employee separations and
the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. About 40% of the total reductions will occur in the United States.
As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the Company is streamlining management layers by reducing its total
number of senior and mid-level executives globally by approximately 25%. The Company, however, continues to
hire new employees as the business requires. Merck is rolling out a new, more customer-centric selling model
designed to provide Merck with a meaningful competitive advantage and help physicians, patients and payers
improve patient outcomes. The Company also will make greater use of outside technology resources, centralize
common sales and marketing activities, and consolidate and streamline its operations. Merck’s manufacturing
division will further focus its capabilities on core products and outsource non-core manufacturing. Also, Merck is
expanding its access to worldwide external science through a basic research global operating strategy, which is
designed to provide a sustainable pipeline and is focused on translating basic research productivity into late-stage
clinical success. To increase efficiencies, basic research operations will consolidate work in support of a given
therapeutic area into one of four locations. This will provide a more efficient use of research facilities and result in
the closure of three basic research sites located in Tsukuba, Japan; Pomezia, Italy; and Seattle by the end of 2009.
Separation costs are accounted for under FAS 112 and FAS 146. In connection with the 2008 Restructuring
Program, separation costs under the Company’s existing severance programs worldwide were accounted for under
FAS 112 and recorded in the third quarter of 2008 to the extent such costs were probable and estimable. The
Company commenced accruing costs related to one-time termination benefits offered to employees under the 2008
Restructuring Program in the fourth quarter of 2008 as that is when the necessary criteria under FAS 146 were met.
The Company recorded pretax restructuring costs of $921.3 million related to the 2008 Restructuring Program in
2008. The 2008 Restructuring Program is expected to be completed by the end of 2011 with the total pretax costs
estimated to be $1.6 billion to $2.0 billion. The Company estimates that two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs
will result in future cash outlays, primarily from employee separation expense. Approximately one-third of the
cumulative pretax costs are non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or
divested.
2 005 Global Restructuring Program
In November 2005, the Company announced a global restructuring program (the “2005 Restructuring
Program”) designed to reduce the Company’s cost structure, increase efficiency and enhance competitiveness. As
part of the 2005 Restructuring Program, Merck has sold or closed five manufacturing sites and two preclinical sites
and since inception eliminated 11,250 positions company-wide comprised of employee separations and the
elimination of contractors and vacant positions. The Company has also sold or closed certain other facilities and sold
related assets in connection with the 2005 Restructuring Program. Since inception through December 31, 2008, the
Company has recorded total pretax accumulated costs of $2.5 billion associated with the 2005 Restructuring
Program, which is substantially complete.
For segment reporting, restructuring charges are unallocated expenses.
94Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the charges related to restructuring activities by type of cost:
S eparation A ccelerated
Year Ended December 31, 2008 Costs Depreciation Other Total
2008 Restructuring Program
Materials and production $ - $ 33.7 $ 25.0 $ 58.7
Research and development - 127.1 - 127.1
Restructuring costs 684.9 - 50.6 735.5
684.9 160.8 75.6 921.3
2 005 Restructuring Program
Materials and production - 55.0 9.5 64.5
Research and development - 0.9 0.4 1.3
Restructuring costs 272.4 - 24.6 297.0
272.4 55.9 34.5 362.8
$ 957.3 $ 216.7 $ 110.1 $ 1,284.1
Year Ended December 31, 2007
M aterials and production $ - $ 460.6 $ 22.5 $ 483.1
Research and development - - (0.1 ) (0.1 )
Restructuring costs 251.4 - 75.7 327.1
$ 251.4 $ 460.6 $ 98.1 $ 810.1
Year Ended December 31, 2006
M aterials and production $ - $ 707.3 $ 29.1 $ 736.4
Research and development - 56.5 0.3 56.8
Restructuring costs 113.7 - 28.6 142.3
$ 113.7 $ 763.8 $ 58.0 $ 935.5
Separation costs are associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as those headcount reductions
which were probable and could be reasonably estimated. Approximately 5,800 positions, 2,400 positions and 3,700
positions were eliminated in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Of the positions eliminated in 2008 approximately
1,750 related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and 4,050 related to the 2005 Restructuring Program. These position
eliminations are comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions.
Accelerated depreciation costs primarily relate to manufacturing and research facilities to be sold or closed
as part of the programs. All of the sites have and will continue to operate up through the respective closure dates, and
since future cash flows were sufficient to recover the respective book values, Merck was required to accelerate
depreciation of the site assets rather than write them off immediately. The site assets include manufacturing and
research facilities and equipment.
Other activity in 2008, 2007 and 2006 includes $29.4 million, $39.4 million and $25.0 million, respectively,
associated with certain fixed assets that were no longer to be used in the business as a result of these restructuring
actions and were therefore written off. Additionally, other activity includes $68.4 million, $18.9 million and
$34.2 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, related to curtailment, settlement and termination charges on the
Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans (see Note 13). Other activity also includes shut-down
costs, and in 2008 and 2006, pretax gains of $61.5 million and $40.7 million, respectively, resulting from the sales of
facilities and related assets in connection with restructuring activities.
95Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the charges and spending relating to restructuring activities:
S eparation A ccelerated
Costs Depreciation Other Total
2008 Restructuring Program
Restructuring reserves as of January 1, 2008 $ - $ - $ - $ -
Expense 684.9 160.8 75.6 921.3
(Payments) receipts, net (77.2 ) - (37.3) (114.5 )
Non-cash activity - (160.8 ) (38.3) (199.1 )
R estructuring reserves as of December 31, 2008 (1) $ 607.7 $ - $ - $ 607.7
2005 Restructuring Program
Restructuring reserves as of January 1, 2007 $ 177.7 $ - $ - $ 177.7
Expense 251.4 460.6 98.1 810.1
(Payments) receipts, net (197.6) - (59.9) (257.5 )
Non-cash activity - (460.6 ) (38.2) (498.8 )
R estructuring reserves as of December 31, 2007 $ 231.5 $ - $ - $ 231.5
E xpense $ 272.4 $ 55.9 $ 34.5 $ 362.8
(Payments) receipts, net (389.1) - (23.2) (2) (412.3 )
Non-cash activity - (55.9 ) (11.3) (67.2 )
R estructuring reserves as of December 31, 2008 (1) $ 114.8 $ - $ - $ 114.8
( 1) The cash outlays associated with the restructuring reserve for the 2008 Restructuring Program are expected to be completed by the end of 2011.
The cash outlays associated with the remaining restructuring reserve for the 2005 Restructuring Program are expected to be largely completed
by the end of 2009.
( 2) Includes proceeds from the sales of facilities in connection with the 2005 Restructuring Program.
4 . Research Collaborations, Acquisitions and License Agreements
Merck continues its strategy of establishing strong external alliances to complement its substantial internal
research capabilities, including research collaborations, acquisitions, licensing pre-clinical and clinical compounds
and technology transfers to drive both near- and long-term growth.
In February 2009, Merck entered into a definitive agreement with Insmed Inc. (“Insmed”) to purchase
Insmed’s portfolio of follow-on biologic therapeutic candidates and its commercial manufacturing facilities located
in Boulder, Colorado. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck will pay Insmed an aggregate of $130 million in cash
to acquire all rights to the Boulder facilities and Insmed’s pipeline of follow-on biologic candidates. Insmed’s
follow-on biologics portfolio includes two clinical candidates: INS-19, an investigational recombinant granulocyte-
colony stimulating factor (“G-CSF”) that will be evaluated for its ability to prevent infections in patients with cancer
receiving chemotherapy and INS-20, a pegylated recombinant G-CSF designed to allow for less frequent dosing. The
agreement provides for initial payments of up to $10 million for INS-19 and INS-20. Merck will pay Insmed the
remaining balance upon closing of the transaction, which is expected by the end of the first quarter of 2009, without
any further milestone or royalty obligations.
In September 2008, Merck and Japan Tobacco Inc. (“JT”) signed a worldwide licensing agreement to
develop and commercialize JTT-305, an investigational oral osteoanabolic (bone growth stimulating) agent for the
treatment of osteoporosis, a disease which reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone
fractures. JTT-305 is an investigational oral calcium sensing receptor antagonist that is currently being evaluated by
JT in Phase II clinical trials in Japan for its effect on increasing bone density and is in Phase I clinical trials outside of
Japan. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck gained worldwide rights, except for Japan, to develop and
commercialize JTT-305 and certain other related compounds. JT received an upfront payment of $85 million, which
the Company recorded as Research and development expense, and is eligible to receive additional cash payments
96Table of Contents
upon achievement of certain milestones associated with the development and approval of a drug candidate covered
by this agreement. JT will also be eligible to receive royalties from sales of any drug candidates that receive
marketing approval. The license agreement between Merck and JT will remain in effect until expiration of all royalty
and milestone obligations, and may be terminated in the event of an uncured material breach by the other party. The
agreement may also be terminated by Merck without cause before initial commercial sale of JTT-305 by giving six
months prior notice to JT, and thereafter by giving one year prior notice thereof to JT. The license agreement may
also be terminated immediately by Merck if Merck determines due to safety and/or efficacy concerns based on
available scientific evidence to cease development of JTT-305 and/or to withdraw JTT-305 from the market on a
permanent basis.
In September 2008, the Company terminated its collaboration with FoxHollow Technologies, Inc.
(“FoxHollow”) for atherosclerotic plaque analysis. The collaboration was entered into in 2005 and expanded in 2006
whereby Merck acquired an equity interest in FoxHollow.
In December 2008, the Company terminated its collaboration with Dynavax Technologies Corporation for
the development of V270, an investigational hepatitis B vaccine, which was entered into in 2007.
In September 2007, Merck completed the acquisition of NovaCardia, Inc. (“NovaCardia”), a privately held
clinical-stage pharmaceutical company focused on cardiovascular disease. This acquisition added rolofylline (MK-
7418), NovaCardia’s investigational Phase III compound for acute heart failure, to Merck’s pipeline. Merck acquired
all of the outstanding equity of NovaCardia for a total purchase price of $366.4 million (including $16.4 million of
cash and investments on hand at closing), which was paid through the issuance of 7.3 million shares of Merck
common stock to the former NovaCardia shareholders based on Merck’s average closing stock price for the five days
prior to closing of the acquisition. In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded a charge of
$325.1 million for acquired research associated with rolofylline as at the acquisition date, technological feasibility
had not been established and no alternative future use existed. The charge, which is not deductible for tax purposes,
was recorded in Research and development expense and was determined based upon the present value of expected
future cash flows resulting from this technology adjusted for the probability of its technical and marketing success
utilizing an income approach reflecting an appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate of 22.0%. The ongoing activity
with respect to the future development of rolofylline continues and the costs have not been and are not expected to be
material to the Company’s research and development expenses. The remaining purchase price was allocated to cash
and investments of $16.4 million, a deferred tax asset relating to a net operating loss carryforward of $23.9 million
and other net assets of $1.0 million. Because NovaCardia was a development stage company that had not
commenced its planned principal operations, the transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than
as a business combination and, therefore, goodwill was not recorded. NovaCardia’s results of operations have been
included in the Company’s consolidated financial results since the acquisition date.
Also in 2007, Merck and GTx, Inc. (“GTx”) entered into an agreement providing for a research and
development and global strategic collaboration for selective androgen receptor modulators (“SARMs”), a new class
of drugs with the potential to treat age-related muscle loss (sarcopenia) as well as other musculoskeletal conditions.
Also in 2007, Merck and ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“ARIAD”) entered into a global collaboration to jointly
develop and commercialize deforolimus (MK-8669), ARIAD’s novel mTOR inhibitor, for use in cancer. These
collaborations generally continue in effect until the expiration of all royalty and milestone payment obligations.
These collaborations may generally be terminated in the event of insolvency or a material uncured breach by either
party. Additionally, the collaboration agreement between Merck and GTx may be terminated by Merck upon ninety
days notice to GTx at any time after December 18, 2009. The collaboration agreement between Merck and ARIAD
may be terminated by Merck upon the failure of MK-8669 to meet certain developmental and safety requirements or
in the event Merck concludes it is not advisable to continue the development of MK-8669 for use in a cancer
indication. In addition, Merck may terminate the ARIAD collaboration agreement on or after the third anniversary of
the effective date by providing at least 12 months prior written notice. Upon termination of the ARIAD collaboration
agreement, depending upon the circumstances, the parties have varying rights and obligations with respect to the
continued development and commercialization of MK-8669 and continuing royalty obligations.
On December 29, 2006, Merck completed the acquisition of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. (“Sirna”) for $13 per
share in cash, for a total value of approximately $1.1 billion, which included the purchase of all outstanding Sirna
97Table of Contents
shares, warrants and stock options. The aggregate purchase price of $1.1 billion was paid on January 3, 2007. Sirna
was a publicly-held biotechnology company that is developing a new class of medicines based on RNA interference
(“RNAi”) technology, which could significantly alter the treatment of disease. RNAi-based therapeutics selectively
catalyze the destruction of the RNA transcribed from an individual gene. The acquisition of Sirna has increased
Merck’s ability to use RNAi technology to turn off a targeted gene in a human cell, potentially rendering inoperative
a gene responsible for triggering a specific disease. The transaction was accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting , in which the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from Sirna at the date of acquisition were
recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date in the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The determination of fair values requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions. The excess of
the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets was recorded as goodwill of $369.2 million. The
goodwill was fully allocated to the Pharmaceutical segment and is not deductible for tax purposes. Also, the
Company recorded a charge of $466.2 million for acquired research associated with Sirna’s compounds currently
under development, for which, at the acquisition date, technological feasibility had not been established and no
alternative future use existed. The acquired research charge related to the development of treatments for both the
hepatitis B and hepatitis C viruses, which were in preclinical development, as well as licensing agreements held by
Sirna. The charge, which is not deductible for tax purposes, was recorded in Research and development expense and
was determined based upon the present value of expected future cash flows of new product candidates resulting from
this technology adjusted for the probability of its technical and marketing success utilizing an income approach
reflecting appropriate risk-adjusted discount rates of 27.0% to 30.0%. The ongoing activity with respect to each of
these compounds under development continues and the costs have not been and are not expected to be material to the
Company’s research and development expenses. The allocation of the purchase price also resulted in the recognition
of an intangible asset of $357.8 million and a related deferred tax liability of $146.3 million, as well as other assets
and liabilities - net of $89.3 million. The intangible asset relates to Sirna’s developed technology that can be used
immediately in the research and development process and has alternative future uses. This intangible asset is being
amortized to Research and development expense on a straight-line basis over a seven year useful life. Pro forma
financial information is not required because Sirna’s historical financial results are not significant when compared
with the Company’s financial results. The transaction closed on December 29, 2006, and accordingly, Sirna’s
operating results were included in the Company’s results of operations beginning January 1, 2007.
In June 2006, the Company acquired all of the outstanding equity of GlycoFi, Inc. (“GlycoFi”) for
approximately $373 million in cash ($400 million purchase price net of $25 million in shares already owned and net
transaction costs). GlycoFi was a privately-held biotechnology company in the field of yeast glycoengineering, which
is the addition of specific carbohydrate modifications to the proteins in yeast, and optimization of biologic drug
molecules. GlycoFi’s technology platform is used in the development of glycoproteins, as well as the optimization of
a glycoprotein target. In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded a charge of $296.3 million for
acquired research associated with GlycoFi’s technology platform to be used in the research and development process,
for which, at the acquisition date, technological feasibility had not been established and no alternative future use
existed. This charge is not deductible for tax purposes. The technology is currently being utilized in Merck’s pipeline
of biologics. The charge was recorded in Research and development expense and was determined based upon the
present value of expected future cash flows of new product candidates resulting from this technology adjusted for the
probability of its technical and marketing success utilizing an income approach reflecting the appropriate risk-
adjusted discount rate. The Company also recorded a $99.4 million intangible asset ($57.6 million net of deferred
taxes) related to GlycoFi’s developed technology that can be used immediately in the research and development
process and has alternative future uses. This intangible asset is being amortized to Research and development
expense on a straight-line basis over a five year useful life. The remaining net assets acquired in this transaction were
not material. Because GlycoFi was a development stage company that had not commenced its planned principal
operations, the transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than as a business combination and,
therefore, goodwill was not recorded. GlycoFi’s results of operations have been included with the Company’s
consolidated financial results since the acquisition date.
In May 2006, the Company acquired all of the equity of Abmaxis, Inc. (“Abmaxis”) for approximately
$80 million in cash. Abmaxis was a privately-held biopharmaceutical company dedicated to the discovery and
optimization of monoclonal antibody (“MAb”) products for human therapeutics and diagnostics. Abmaxis developed
and validated a breakthrough antibody engineering technology platform, Abmaxis in-silico
98Table of Contents
Immunization, which has alternative future uses to the Company with no significant technological or engineering
risks at the date of acquisition. In connection with the acquisition, the Company allocated substantially all of the
purchase price to Abmaxis’ technology platform and recorded an intangible asset of $135.3 million ($78.5 million
net of deferred taxes). This intangible asset is being amortized to Research and development expense on a straight-
line basis over a five year useful life. The remaining net assets acquired in this transaction were not material. Because
Abmaxis was a development stage company that had not commenced its planned principal operations, the transaction
was accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than as a business combination and, therefore, goodwill was not
recorded. Abmaxis’ results of operations have been included with the Company’s consolidated financial results since
the acquisition date.
Also in 2006, Merck and Idera Pharmaceuticals (“Idera”) formed a broad collaboration to research, develop
and commercialize Idera’s Toll-like Receptor agonists for use in combination with Merck’s therapeutic and
prophylactic vaccines under development for oncology, infectious diseases and Alzheimer’s disease. Additionally in
2006, Merck and Ambrilia Biopharma Inc. (“Ambrilia”), a biopharmaceutical company developing innovative
therapeutics in the fields of cancer and infectious diseases, announced they entered into an exclusive licensing
agreement granting Merck the worldwide rights to Ambrilia’s HIV/AIDS protease inhibitor program. Also in 2006,
Neuromed Pharmaceuticals Ltd. and Merck signed a research collaboration and license agreement to research,
develop and commercialize novel compounds for the treatment of pain and other neurological disorders.
5 . Financial Instruments and Fair Value
F oreign Currency Risk Management
While the U.S. dollar is the functional currency of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries, a significant portion
of the Company’s revenues are denominated in foreign currencies. Merck relies on sustained cash flows generated
from foreign sources to support its long-term commitment to U.S. dollar-based research and development. To the
extent the dollar value of cash flows is diminished as a result of a strengthening dollar, the Company’s ability to fund
research and other dollar-based strategic initiatives at a consistent level may be impaired. The Company has
established revenue hedging and balance sheet risk management programs to protect against volatility of future
foreign currency cash flows and changes in fair value caused by volatility in foreign exchange rates.
The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the potential for longer-term unfavorable
changes in foreign exchange to decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash flows derived from foreign currency
denominated sales, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. To achieve this objective, the Company will partially hedge
anticipated third-party sales that are expected to occur over its planning cycle, typically no more than three years into
the future. The Company will layer in hedges over time, increasing the portion of sales hedged as it gets closer to the
expected date of the transaction, such that it is probable that the hedged transaction will occur. The portion of sales
hedged is based on assessments of cost-benefit profiles that consider natural offsetting exposures, revenue and
exchange rate volatilities and correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The hedged anticipated sales are a
specified component of a portfolio of similarly denominated foreign currency-based sales transactions, each of which
responds to the hedged risk in the same manner. Merck manages its anticipated transaction exposure principally with
purchased local currency put options, which provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation, to sell foreign
currencies in the future at a predetermined price. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged
anticipated sales, total changes in the options’ cash flows offset the decline in the expected future U.S. dollar cash
flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the options’ value reduces to
zero, but the Company benefits from the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows.
The designated hedge relationship is based on total changes in the options’ cash flows. Accordingly, the
entire fair value change in the options is deferred in AOCI and reclassified into Sales when the hedged anticipated
revenue is recognized. The hedge relationship is highly effective and hedge ineffectiveness is de minimis . The fair
values of purchased currency options are reported in Accounts receivable or Other assets. The cash flows from these
contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
99Table of Contents
The primary objective of the balance sheet risk management program is to protect the U.S. dollar value of
foreign currency denominated net monetary assets from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange that might occur
prior to their conversion to U.S. dollars. Merck principally utilizes forward exchange contracts, which enable the
Company to buy and sell foreign currencies in the future at fixed exchange rates and economically offset the
consequences of changes in foreign exchange on the amount of U.S. dollar cash flows derived from the net assets.
Merck routinely enters into contracts to offset the effects of exchange on exposures denominated in developed
country currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. For exposures in developing country currencies, the
Company will enter into forward contracts to partially offset the effects of exchange on exposures when it is deemed
economical to do so based on a cost-benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the exposure, the volatility of
the exchange rate and the cost of the hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the effect of exchange on
monetary assets and liabilities by managing operating activities and net asset positions at the local level.
Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at spot rates in effect on the
balance sheet date with the effects of changes in spot rates reported in Other (income) expense, net. The forward
contracts are not designated as hedges and are marked to market through Other (income) expense, net. Accordingly,
fair value changes in the forward contracts help mitigate the changes in the value of the remeasured assets and
liabilities attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, except to the extent of the spot-forward
differences. These differences are not significant due to the short-term nature of the contracts, which typically have
average maturities at inception of less than one year.
The Company uses forward contracts to hedge the changes in fair value of certain foreign currency
denominated available-for-sale securities attributable to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in
the fair value of the hedged securities due to fluctuations in spot rates are offset in Other (income) expense, net, by
the fair value changes in the forward contracts attributable to spot rate fluctuations. Hedge ineffectiveness was not
material during 2008, 2007 or 2006. Changes in the contracts’ fair value due to spot-forward differences are excluded
from the designated hedge relationship and recognized in Other (income) expense, net. These amounts were not
significant for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 or 2006.
The fair values of forward exchange contracts are reported in the following four balance sheet line items:
Accounts receivable (current portion of gain position), Other assets (non-current portion of gain position), Accrued
and other current liabilities (current portion of loss position), or Deferred income taxes and noncurrent liabilities
(non-current portion of loss position). The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
I nterest Rate Risk Management
The Company may use interest rate swap contracts on certain investing and borrowing transactions to
manage its net exposure to interest rate changes and to reduce its overall cost of borrowing. The Company does not
use leveraged swaps and, in general, does not leverage any of its investment activities that would put principal capital
at risk.
At December 31, 2008, the Company was a party to two pay-floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap
contracts maturing in 2011 with notional amounts of $125 million each designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate
notes in which the notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed-rate notes. The swaps effectively convert
the fixed-rate obligations to floating-rate instruments. The fair value changes in the notes are offset in interest
expense by the fair value changes in the swap contracts. The fair values of these contracts are reported in Accounts
receivable, Other assets, Accrued and other current liabilities, or Deferred income taxes and noncurrent liabilities.
During 2008, the Company terminated four interest rate swap contracts with notional amounts of $250 million each,
and terminated one interest rate swap contract with a notional amount of $500 million. These swaps had effectively
converted its $1.0 billion, 4.75% fixed-rate notes due 2015 and its $500 million, 4.375% fixed-rate notes due 2013 to
variable rate debt. As a result of the swap terminations, the Company received $128.3 million in cash, excluding
accrued interest which was not material. The corresponding gains related to the basis adjustment of the debt
associated with the terminated swap contracts were deferred and are being amortized as a reduction of interest
expense over the remaining term of the notes. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities
in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
100Table of Contents
Fair Value Measurements
On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FAS 157, which clarifies the definition of fair value, establishes
a framework for measuring fair value, and expands the disclosures on fair value measurements. In February 2008, the
FASB issued FSP 157-2 that deferred the effective date of FAS 157 for one year for nonfinancial assets and
liabilities recorded at fair value on a non-recurring basis. In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP 157-3, which
clarifies the application of FAS 157 in a market that is not active. FAS 157 defines fair value as the exchange price
that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous
market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
FAS 157 also establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and
minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. FAS 157 describes three levels of inputs that
may be used to measure fair value:
Level 1 – Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The Company’s Level 1 assets
include equity securities that are traded in an active exchange market.
Level 2 – Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities;
or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full
term of the assets or liabilities. The Company’s Level 2 assets and liabilities primarily include debt securities
with quoted prices that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments, corporate notes and bonds,
U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, certain mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities,
municipal securities, and derivative contracts whose values are determined using pricing models with inputs that
are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data.
Level 3 – Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are financial
instruments whose values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar
techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant judgment or
estimation. The Company’s Level 3 assets mainly include mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, as well
as certain corporate notes and bonds with limited market activity. At December 31, 2008, $96.6 million, or
approximately 0.9%, of the Company’s investment securities were categorized as Level 3 fair value assets (all of
which were pledged under certain collateral arrangements (see Note 15)). All of the assets classified as Level 3
at December 31, 2008 were acquired when the Company elected to be redeemed-in-kind from a short-term fixed
income fund that restricted cash redemptions as described below.
If the inputs used to measure the financial assets and liabilities fall within more than one level described
above, the categorization is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the
instrument.
101Table of Contents
Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below:
2008
Fair Value Measurements Using 2007
Quoted Prices Significant
In Active Other Significant
Markets for Observable Unobservable
Carrying Identical Assets Inputs Inputs Carrying Fair
($ in millions) Value (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total Value Value
A ssets
Investments
Corporate notes and bonds $ 3,093.2 $ - $ 3,093.2 $ - $ 3,093.2 $ 5,465.0 $ 5,465.0
U.S. government and agency securities 2,885.7 - 2,885.7 - 2,885.7 1,748.4 1,748.4
Mortgage-backed securities (1) 723.9 - 723.9 - 723.9 760.0 760.0
Municipal securities - - - - - 744.6 744.6
Foreign government bonds 319.4 - 319.4 - 319.4 269.9 269.9
Asset-backed securities (1) 306.7 - 306.7 - 306.7 313.2 313.2
Equity securities 144.7 71.1 73.6 - 144.7 150.8 150.8
Commercial paper 133.0 - 133.0 - 133.0 258.1 258.1
Other debt securities 2.8 - 2.8 - 2.8 343.9 343.9
Total Investments $ 7,609.4 $ 71.1 $ 7,538.3 $ - $ 7,609.4 $ 10,053.9 $ 10,053.9
Other assets (2) $ 2,974.5 $ - $ 2,877.9 $ 96.6 $ 2,974.5 $ 958.6 $ 958.6
Derivative assets (3)
Purchased currency options $ 451.3 $ - $ 451.3 $ - $ 451.3 $ 59.9 $ 59.9
Forward exchange contracts 73.2 - 73.2 - 73.2 62.1 62.1
Interest rate swaps 23.9 - 23.9 - 23.9 108.0 108.0
Total Deriviative Assets $ 548.4 $ - $ 548.4 $ - $ 548.4 $ 230.0 $ 230.0
Liabilities
Derivative liabilities (3)
Written currency options $ 1.9 $ - $ 1.9 $ - $ 1.9 $ 8.8 $ 8.8
Forward exchange contracts 273.1 - 273.1 - 273.1 35.8 35.8
Total Derivative Liabilities $ 275.0 $ - $ 275.0 $ - $ 275.0 $ 44.6 $ 44.6
( 1) Mortgage-backed securities represent AAA rated securities issued or unconditionally guaranteed as to payment of principal and interest by
U.S. government agencies. Substantially all of the asset-backed securities are highly-rated (Standard & Poor’s rating of AAA and Moody’s
Investors Service rating of Aaa), secured primarily by credit card, auto loan, and home equity receivables, with weighted-average lives of
primarily 5 years or less.
( 2) Other assets represent a portion of the pledged collateral discussed below and in Note 15. Level 2 Other assets are comprised of $987.4 million
of corporate notes and bonds, $792.5 million of municipal securities, $357.3 million of commercial paper, $276.0 million of mortgage-backed
securities, $240.1 million of U.S. government and agency securities and $224.6 million of asset-backed securities.
( 3) The fair value determination of derivatives includes an assessment of the credit risk of counterparties to the derivatives and the Company’s own
credit risk, the effects of which were not significant.
L evel 3 Valuation Techniques
Financial assets are considered Level 3 when their fair values are determined using pricing models,
discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques and at least one significant model assumption or input is
unobservable. Level 3 financial assets also include certain investment securities for which there is limited market
activity such that the determination of fair value requires significant judgment or estimation. The Company’s Level 3
investment securities at December 31, 2008, primarily include mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, as well
as certain corporate notes and bonds for which there was a decrease in the observability of market pricing for these
investments. These securities were valued primarily using pricing models for which management understands the
methodologies. These models incorporate transaction details such as contractual terms, maturity, timing and amount
of future cash inflows, as well as assumptions about liquidity and credit valuation adjustments of marketplace
participants at December 31, 2008.
102Table of Contents
The table below provides a summary of the changes in fair value, including net transfers in and/or out, of all
financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) during
2008:
Total Re a l ized and Losses
Unrealized Losses Recorded in
Net Purchases, Included in: Earnings for
Beginning Transfers Sales, Compre- Ending Level 3 Assets
Balance (Out) of Settlements, hensive Balance Still Held at
($ in millions) January 1 Level 3 (1) Net Earnings (2) Income December 31 December 31
Other assets $ 958.6 $ (684.5 ) $ (132.8) $ (43.6 ) $ (1.1 ) $ 96.6 $ (44.3 )
Other debt securities 314.5 (314.5 ) - - - - -
Total $ 1,273.1 $ (999.0 ) $ (132.8) $ (43.6 ) $ (1.1 ) $ 96.6 $ (44.3 )
( 1) Transfers in and out of Level 3 are deemed to occur at the beginning of the quarter in which the transaction takes place.
( 2) Amounts are recorded in Other (income) expense, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
On January 1, 2008, the Company had $1,273.1 million invested in a short-term fixed income fund (the
“Fund”). Due to market liquidity conditions, cash redemptions from the Fund were restricted. As a result of this
restriction on cash redemptions, the Company did not consider the Fund to be traded in an active market with
observable pricing on January 1, 2008 and these amounts were categorized as Level 3. On January 7, 2008, the
Company elected to be redeemed-in-kind from the Fund and received its share of the underlying securities of the
Fund. As a result, $1,099.7 million of the underlying securities were transferred out of Level 3 as it was determined
that these securities had observable markets. On December 31, 2008, $96.6 million of the investment securities
associated with the redemption-in-kind were classified in Level 3 as the securities contained at least one significant
input which was unobservable. These securities account for the entire balance of the Company’s Level 3 assets at
December 31, 2008.
F inancial Instruments not Measured at Fair Value
Some of the Company’s financial instruments are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis but are
recorded at amounts that approximate fair value due to their liquid or short-term nature, such as cash and cash
equivalents, receivables and payables.
The estimated fair value of the Company’s loans payable and long-term debt (including current portion) at
December 31, 2008 was $6,294.8 million compared with a carrying value of $6,240.4 million and at December 31,
2007 estimated fair value was $5,815.1 million compared with a carrying amount of $5,739.4 million. Fair value was
estimated using quoted dealer prices.
A summary of the December 31 gross unrealized gains and losses on the Company’s available-for-sale
investments, including those pledged as collateral , recorded in AOCI is as follows:
2 0 08 2 0 07
Gross Unrealized Gross Unrealized
Gains (1) Losses (1) Gains Losses
Corporate notes and bonds $ 31.6 $ (65.3) $ 28.4 $ (20.7 )
U.S. government and agency securities 67.4 (3.2) 32.2 (0.1 )
Mortgage-backed securities 12.5 (5.0) 8.9 -
Municipal securities 28.4 (0.3) 13.3 (0.2 )
Asset-backed securities 0.6 (20.7) 1.8 (1.4 )
Foreign government bonds 13.5 - 0.7 (0.6 )
Other debt securities 1.5 (3.4) 14.5 -
Equity securities 17.7 (3.1) 97.0 (5.5 )
$ 173.2 $ (101.0) $ 196.8 $ (28.5 )
( 1) At December 31, 2008, gross unrealized gains and gross unrealized losses related to amounts pledged as collateral (see below and
Note 15) were $36.1 million and $(30.3) million, respectively.
103Table of Contents
The amount of gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2008 that were in a continuous loss position for
more than 12 months was de minimis. Available-for-sale debt securities maturing within one year totaled $1.1 billion
at December 31, 2008. Of the remaining debt securities, $5.6 billion mature within five years.
L etter of Credit
In August 2008, the Company executed a $4.1 billion letter of credit agreement with a financial institution,
which satisfied certain conditions set forth in the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement (see Note 10). The Company
pledged collateral to the financial institution of approximately $5.1 billion pursuant to the terms of the letter of credit
agreement. Although the amount of assets pledged as collateral is set by the letter of credit agreement and such assets
are held in custody by a third party, the assets are managed by the Company. The Company considers the assets
pledged under the letter of credit agreement to be restricted. As a result, $2.1 billion and $1.4 billion of cash and
investments, respectively, were classified as restricted current assets and $1.6 billion of investments were classified
as restricted non-current assets. The letter of credit amount and required collateral balances will decline as payments
(after the first $750 million) under the Settlement Agreement are made. As of December 31, 2008, $3.8 billion was
recorded within Deferred income taxes and other current assets and $1.3 billion was classified as Other assets.
C oncentrations of Credit Risk
On an ongoing basis, the Company monitors concentrations of credit risk associated with corporate issuers
of securities and financial institutions with which it conducts business. Credit exposure limits are established to limit
a concentration with any single issuer or institution. Cash and investments are placed in instruments that meet high
credit quality standards, as specified in the Company’s investment policy guidelines.
The Company’s four largest U.S. customers, McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc.,
AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Medco Health Solutions, Inc., represented, in aggregate, approximately one-
seventh of accounts receivable at December 31, 2008. The Company monitors the creditworthiness of its customers
to which it grants credit terms in the normal course of business. Bad debts have been minimal. The Company does
not normally require collateral or other security to support credit sales.
6 . Inventories
Inventories at December 31 consisted of:
2008 2007
Finished goods $ 432.6 $ 382.9
Raw materials and work in process 2,147.1 1,732.2
Supplies 98.6 111.1
Total (approximates current cost) 2,678.3 2,226.2
Reduction to LIFO costs - -
$ 2,678.3 $ 2,226.2
Recognized as:
Inventories $ 2,283.3 $ 1,881.0
Other assets 395.0 345.2
Inventories valued under the LIFO method comprised approximately 56% and 57% of inventories at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Amounts recognized as Other assets are comprised entirely of raw
materials and work in process inventories, the majority of which are noncurrent vaccine inventories.
104Table of Contents
7. Other Intangibles
Other intangibles at December 31 consisted of:
2008 2007
Patents and product rights $ 1,656.4 $ 1,656.3
Other 779.2 781.0
Total acquired cost 2,435.6 2,437.3
Patents and product rights $ 1,528.5 $ 1,449.4
Other 381.7 274.7
Total accumulated amortization 1,910.2 1,724.1
$ 525.4 $ 713.2
Other reflects intangibles, primarily technology rights, recorded in connection with the acquisitions of
Sirna, GlycoFi and Abmaxis (see Note 4). Aggregate amortization expense was $186.1 million in 2008,
$235.8 million in 2007 and $170.3 million in 2006. The estimated aggregate amortization expense for each of the
next five years is as follows: 2009, $133.5 million; 2010, $130.8 million; 2011, $104.3 million; 2012, $85.3 million;
2013, $62.9 million.
8 . Joint Ventures and Other Equity Method Affiliates
Equity income from affiliates reflects the performance of the Company’s joint ventures and other equity
method affiliates and was comprised of the following:
Y ears Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006
Merck/Schering-Plough $ 1,536.3 $ 1,830.8 $1 ,218.6
AstraZeneca LP 598.4 820.1 783.7
Other (1) 425.9 325.6 292.1
$ 2,560.6 $ 2,976.5 $2 ,294.4
( 1) Primarily reflects results from Merial Limited, Sanofi Pasteur MSD and Johnson & Johnson°Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company.
M erck/Schering-Plough
In 2000, the Company and Schering-Plough Corporation (“Schering-Plough”) (collectively the “Partners”)
entered into agreements to create separate equally-owned partnerships to develop and market in the United States
new prescription medicines in the cholesterol-management and respiratory therapeutic areas. These agreements
generally provide for equal sharing of development costs and for co-promotion of approved products by each
company. In 2001, the cholesterol-management partnership agreements were expanded to include all the countries of
the world, excluding Japan. In 2002, ezetimibe, the first in a new class of cholesterol-lowering agents, was launched
in the United States as Zetia (marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States). In 2004, a combination product
containing the active ingredients of both Zetia and Zocor , was approved in the United States as Vytorin (marketed as
Inegy outside of the United States).
The cholesterol agreements provide for the sharing of operating income generated by the Merck/Schering-
Plough cholesterol partnership (the “MSP Partnership”) based upon percentages that vary by product, sales level and
country. In the U.S. market, the Partners share profits on Zetia and Vytorin sales equally, with the exception of the
first $300 million of annual Zetia sales on which Schering-Plough receives a greater share of profits. Operating
income includes expenses that the Partners have contractually agreed to share, such as a portion of manufacturing
costs, specifically identified promotion costs (including direct-to-consumer advertising and direct and identifiable
out-of-pocket promotion) and other agreed upon costs for specific services such as on-going clinical research, market
support, market research, market expansion, as well as a specialty sales force and physician education programs.
Expenses incurred in support of the MSP Partnership but not shared between the Partners, such as marketing and
administrative expenses (including certain sales force costs), as well as certain manufacturing costs, are not included
in Equity income from affiliates. However, these costs are reflected in the
105Table of Contents
overall results of the Company. Certain research and development expenses are generally shared equally by the
Partners, after adjusting for earned milestones.
See Note 10 for information with respect to litigation involving the MSP Partnership and the Partners
related to the sale and promotion of Zetia and Vytorin .
The respiratory therapeutic agreements provided for the joint development and marketing in the United
States by the Partners of a once-daily, fixed-combination tablet containing the active ingredients montelukast sodium
and loratadine. Montelukast sodium, a leukotriene receptor antagonist, is sold by Merck as Singulair and loratadine,
an antihistamine, is sold by Schering-Plough as Claritin, both of which are indicated for the relief of symptoms of
allergic rhinitis. During 2008, the Partners received a not-approvable letter from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (“FDA”) for the proposed fixed combination of loratadine/montelukast and subsequently announced
the withdrawal of the New Drug Application for the combination tablet. The companies also terminated the
respiratory joint venture. This action had no impact on the business of the cholesterol joint venture. As a result of the
termination of the respiratory joint venture, the Company was obligated to Schering-Plough in the amount of
$105 million as specified in the joint venture agreements. This resulted in a charge of $43 million during the second
quarter of 2008 which was included in Equity income from affiliates. The remaining amount is being amortized over
the remaining patent life of Zetia through 2016.
Summarized financial information for the MSP Partnership is as follows:
Y ears Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006
Sales $ 4,561.1 $ 5,186.2 $3 ,884.1
Vytorin 2,360.0 2,779.1 1,955.3
Zetia 2,201.1 2,407.1 1,928.8
Materials and production costs 176.3 216.0 179.0
Other expense, net 1,230.1 1,307.2 1,217.1
Income before taxes $ 3,154.7 $ 3,663.0 $2 ,488.0
Merck’s share of income before taxes (1) $ 1,489.5 $ 1,832.5 $1 ,214.5
D ecember 31 2008 2007
T otal assets (2) $6 08.0 $1,014.0
Total liabilities (2) 488.0 656.0
( 1) Merck’s share of the MSP Partnership’s income before taxes differs from the equity income recognized from the MSP Partnership primarily
due to the timing of recognition of certain transactions between the Company and the MSP Partnership, including the $105 million milestone
payment discussed above and other milestone payments.
( 2) Amounts are comprised almost entirely of current balances.
A straZeneca LP
In 1982, Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB (“Astra”) to develop and market Astra’s products
under a royalty-bearing license. In 1993, the Company’s total sales of Astra products reached a level that triggered
the first step in the establishment of a joint venture business carried on by Astra Merck Inc. (“AMI”), in which Merck
and Astra each owned a 50% share. This joint venture, formed in 1994, developed and marketed most of Astra’s new
prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec, the first of a class of medications known as proton
pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining.
In 1998, Merck and Astra completed the restructuring of the ownership and operations of the joint venture
whereby the Company acquired Astra’s interest in AMI, renamed KBI Inc. (“KBI”), and contributed KBI’s operating
assets to a new U.S. limited partnership, Astra Pharmaceuticals L.P. (the “Partnership”), in exchange for a 1%
limited partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the
Partnership in exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP (“AZLP”)
upon Astra’s 1999 merger with Zeneca Group Plc (the “AstraZeneca merger”), became the exclusive distributor of
the products for which KBI retained rights.
106Table of Contents
While maintaining a 1% limited partner interest in AZLP, Merck has consent and protective rights intended
to preserve its business and economic interests, including restrictions on the power of the general partner to make
certain distributions or dispositions. Furthermore, in limited events of default, additional rights will be granted to the
Company, including powers to direct the actions of, or remove and replace, the Partnership’s chief executive officer
and chief financial officer. Merck earns ongoing revenue based on sales of current and future KBI products and such
revenue was $1.6 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, primarily relating to
sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec . In addition, Merck earns certain Partnership returns which are recorded in
Equity income from affiliates as reflected in the table above. Such returns include a priority return provided for in the
Partnership Agreement, variable returns based, in part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a
preferential return representing Merck’s share of undistributed AZLP GAAP earnings. The AstraZeneca merger
triggered a partial redemption in March 2008 of Merck’s interest in certain AZLP product rights. Upon this
redemption, Merck received $4.3 billion from AZLP. This amount was based primarily on a multiple of Merck’s
average annual variable returns derived from sales of the former Astra USA, Inc. products for the three years prior to
the redemption (the “Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value”). Merck recorded a $1.5 billion pretax gain on the
partial redemption in 2008. The partial redemption of Merck’s interest in the product rights did not result in a change
in Merck’s 1% limited partner interest.
In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring, Astra purchased an option (the “Asset Option”) for a payment of
$443.0 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to buy Merck’s interest in the KBI products, excluding the
gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec (the “Non-PPI Products”). The Asset Option is exercisable in the first
half of 2010 at an exercise price equal to the net present value as of March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax
revenue to be received by the Company from the Non-PPI Products (the “Appraised Value”). Merck also had the
right to require Astra to purchase such interest in 2008 at the Appraised Value. In February 2008, the Company
advised AZLP that it would not exercise the Asset Option, thus the $443.0 million remains deferred. In addition, in
1998 the Company granted Astra an option (the “Shares Option”) to buy Merck’s common stock interest in KBI, and,
therefore, Merck’s interest in Nexium and Prilosec , exercisable two years after Astra’s exercise of the Asset Option.
Astra can also exercise the Shares Option in 2017 or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a
minimum amount provided, in each case, only so long as AstraZeneca’s Asset Option has been exercised in 2010.
The exercise price for the Shares Option is based on the net present value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and
Prilosec as determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain true-up mechanisms.
The AstraZeneca merger constituted a Trigger Event under the KBI restructuring agreements. As a result of
the merger, in exchange for Merck’s relinquishment of rights to future Astra products with no existing or pending
U.S. patents at the time of the merger, Astra paid $967.4 million (the “Advance Payment”). The Advance Payment
was deferred as it remained subject to a true-up calculation (the “True-Up Amount”) that was directly dependent on
the fair market value in March 2008 of the Astra product rights retained by the Company. The calculated
True-Up Amount of $243.7 million was returned to AZLP in March 2008 and Merck recognized a pretax gain of
$723.7 million related to the residual Advance Payment balance.
Under the provisions of the KBI restructuring agreements, because a Trigger Event has occurred, the sum of
the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value, the Appraised Value and the True-Up Amount was guaranteed to be a
minimum of $4.7 billion. Distribution of the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value less payment of the
True-Up Amount resulted in cash receipts to Merck of $4.0 billion and an aggregate pretax gain of $2.2 billion which
is included in Other (income) expense, net. AstraZeneca’s purchase of Merck’s interest in the Non-PPI Products is
contingent upon the exercise of the Asset Option by AstraZeneca in 2010 and, therefore, payment of the Appraised
Value may or may not occur. Also, in March 2008, the $1.38 billion outstanding loan from Astra plus interest
through the redemption date was settled. As a result of these transactions, the Company received net proceeds from
AZLP of $2.6 billion.
107Table of Contents
Summarized financial information for AZLP is as follows:
Y ears Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006
Sales $ 5,450.4 $ 6,345.4 $6 ,753.0
Materials and production costs 2,682.4 3,364.0 3,940.4
Other expense, net 1,408.1 1,090.1 1,131.6
Income before taxes 1,359.9 1,891.3 1,681.0
December 31 2008 2007
Current assets $ 2,023.9 $ 5,360.7
Noncurrent assets 359.0 437.0
Total liabilities (all current) 3,054.4 2,231.1
In connection with the 1998 restructuring of AMI, the Company assumed a $2.4 billion par value preferred
stock obligation with a dividend rate of 5% per annum, which is carried by KBI and included in Minority interests.
While a small portion of the preferred stock carried by KBI is convertible into KBI common shares, none of the
preferred securities are convertible into the Company’s common shares and, therefore, are not included as common
shares issuable for purposes of computing Earnings per common share assuming dilution (see Note 16).
M erial Limited
In 1997, Merck and Rhône-Poulenc S.A. (now Sanofi-Aventis S.A.) combined their animal health
businesses to form Merial Limited (“Merial”), a fully integrated animal health company, which is a stand-alone joint
venture, 50% owned by each party. Merial provides a comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to
enhance the health, well-being and performance of a wide range of animal species. Merial sales were $2.6 billion for
2008, $2.4 billion for 2007 and $2.2 billion for 2006.
S anofi Pasteur MSD
In 1994, Merck and Pasteur Mérieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) established an equally-owned
joint venture to market vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for
distribution in Europe. Joint venture vaccine sales were $1.9 billion for 2008, $1.4 billion for 2007 and
$913.9 million for 2006.
J ohnson & Johnson°Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company
In 1989, Merck formed a joint venture with Johnson & Johnson to develop and market a broad range of
nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50% owned venture was subsequently expanded into Canada.
Significant joint venture products are Pepcid AC , an over-the-counter form of the Company’s ulcer medication
Pepcid , as well as Pepcid Complete , an over-the-counter product which combines the Company’s ulcer medication
with antacids. Sales of products marketed by the joint venture were $212.1 million for 2008, $219.7 million for 2007
and $252.6 million for 2006.
Investments in affiliates accounted for using the equity method, including the above joint ventures, totaled
$1.4 billion at December 31, 2008 and $3.9 billion at December 31, 2007. These amounts are reported in Other
assets. Amounts due from the above joint ventures included in Accounts receivable were $623.4 million at
December 31, 2008 and $637.4 million at December 31, 2007.
108Table of Contents
Summarized information for those affiliates (excluding the MSP Partnership and AZLP disclosed separately
above) is as follows:
Y ears Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006
Sales $ 4,860.4 $ 4,218.6 $3 ,640.7
Materials and production costs 1,553.6 1,346.9 1,189.3
Other expense, net 2,297.9 1,995.2 1,693.3
Income before taxes 1,008.9 876.5 758.1
D ecember 31 2008 2007
Current assets $ 1,935.8 $2,113.2
Noncurrent assets 1,174.4 1,139.5
Current liabilities 1,152.6 1,295.8
Noncurrent liabilities 266.5 280.8
9 . Loans Payable, Long-Term Debt and Other Commitments
Loans payable at December 31, 2008 consisted primarily of $1.9 billion of commercial paper borrowings.
During 2008, the Company settled the $1.38 billion Astra Note due in 2008 which was included in Loans payable
and current portion of long-term debt at December 31, 2007 (see Note 8). Loans payable at December 31, 2008 and
2007 also included $322.2 million and $331.7 million, respectively, of long-dated notes that are subject to repayment
at the option of the holders on an annual basis. In December 2006, a foreign subsidiary of the Company entered into
an 18-month, $100 million line of credit with a financial institution. In June 2008, the line of credit was reduced to
$70 million and the maturity was extended to June 2010. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, borrowings under the line
of credit were $60 million and $100 million, respectively, and are included in Loans payable. The weighted average
interest rate for these borrowings included in Loans payable was 1.4% and 5.8% at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.
Long-term debt at December 31 consisted of:
2008 2007
4.75% notes due 2015 $ 1,078.3 $ 1,068.1
4.375% notes due 2013 530.0 524.4
6.4% debentures due 2028 499.3 499.3
5.75% notes due 2036 497.8 497.7
5.95% debentures due 2028 497.2 497.1
5.125% notes due 2011 273.7 258.8
6.3% debentures due 2026 248.0 247.9
Other 319.0 322.5
$ 3,943.3 $ 3,915.8
The Company was a party to interest rate swap contracts which effectively convert the 5.125% fixed-rate
notes to floating-rate instruments (see Note 5).
Other (as presented in the table above) at December 31, 2008 and 2007 consisted primarily of
$292.7 million of borrowings at variable rates averaging 1.1% and 4.4%, respectively. Of these borrowings,
$106.0 million is subject to repayment at the option of the holders beginning in 2010 and $158.7 million is subject to
repayment at the option of the holders beginning in 2011. In both years, Other also included foreign borrowings at
varying rates up to 7.5%.
The aggregate maturities of long-term debt for each of the next five years are as follows: 2009,
$7.4 million; 2010, $6.1 million; 2011, $282.7 million; 2012, $4.1 million; 2013, $537.0 million.
109Table of Contents
In April 2008, the Company extended the maturity date of its $1.5 billion, 5-year revolving credit facility
from April 2012 to April 2013. The facility provides backup liquidity for the Company’s commercial paper
borrowing facility and is to be used for general corporate purposes. The Company has not drawn funding from this
facility.
Rental expense under the Company’s operating leases, net of sublease income, was $222.4 million in 2008.
The minimum aggregate rental commitments under noncancellable leases are as follows: 2009, $103.0 million; 2010,
$79.4 million; 2011, $59.9 million; 2012, $44.4 million; 2013, $33.3 million and thereafter, $56.2 million. The
Company has no significant capital leases.
1 0. Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities
The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its
business, including product liability, intellectual property and commercial litigation, as well as additional matters
such as antitrust actions. The Company records accruals for contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been
incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These accruals are adjusted periodically as assessments change
or additional information becomes available. For product liability claims, a portion of the overall accrual is
actuarially determined and considers such factors as past experience, number of claims reported and estimates of
claims incurred but not yet reported. Individually significant contingent losses are accrued when probable and
reasonably estimable. Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued
when probable and reasonably estimable.
The Company’s decision to obtain insurance coverage is dependent on market conditions, including cost
and availability, existing at the time such decisions are made. As a result of a number of factors, product liability
insurance has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. The Company has evaluated its risks
and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage
that is available and as such, has no insurance for certain product liabilities effective August 1, 2004, including
liability for products first sold after that date. The Company will continue to evaluate its insurance needs and the
costs, availability and benefits of product liability insurance in the future.
V ioxx Litigation
P roduct Liability Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, individual and putative class actions have been filed against the Company in state
and federal courts alleging personal injury and/or economic loss with respect to the purchase or use of Vioxx . All
such actions filed in federal court are coordinated in a multidistrict litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Louisiana (the “MDL”) before District Judge Eldon E. Fallon. A number of such actions filed in state
court are coordinated in separate coordinated proceedings in state courts in New Jersey, California and Texas, and
the counties of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Washoe and Clark Counties, Nevada. As of December 31, 2008, the
Company had been served or was aware that it had been named as a defendant in approximately 10,800 lawsuits,
which include approximately 26,800 plaintiff groups, alleging personal injuries resulting from the use of Vioxx , and
in approximately 242 putative class actions alleging personal injuries and/or economic loss. (All of the actions
discussed in this paragraph and in “Other Lawsuits” below are collectively referred to as the “ Vioxx Product
Liability Lawsuits”.) Of these lawsuits, approximately 8,850 lawsuits representing approximately 22,050 plaintiff
groups are or are slated to be in the federal MDL and approximately 165 lawsuits representing approximately 165
plaintiff groups are included in a coordinated proceeding in New Jersey Superior Court before Judge Carol E.
Higbee.
Of the plaintiff groups described above, most are currently in the Vioxx Settlement Program, described
below. As of December 31, 2008, 70 plaintiff groups who were otherwise eligible for the Settlement Program have
not participated and their claims remained pending against Merck. In addition, the claims of 1,400 plaintiff groups
who are not eligible for the Settlement Program remained pending against Merck. A number of the 1,400 plaintiff
groups are subject to motions to dismiss for failure to comply with court-ordered deadlines. Since December 31,
2008, hundreds of these plaintiff groups have since been dismissed.
110Table of Contents
In addition to the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits discussed above, the claims of over 27,400 plaintiffs had
been dismissed as of December 31, 2008. Of these, there have been over 4,925 plaintiffs whose claims were
dismissed with prejudice (i.e., they cannot be brought again) either by plaintiffs themselves or by the courts. Over
22,475 additional plaintiffs have had their claims dismissed without prejudice (i.e., subject to the applicable statute of
limitations, they can be brought again). Of these, approximately 13,750 plaintiff groups represent plaintiffs who had
lawsuits pending in the New Jersey Superior Court at the time of the Settlement Agreement described below and who
enrolled in the program established by the Settlement Agreement (the “Settlement Program”), Judge Higbee has
dismissed these cases without prejudice for administrative reasons.
On November 9, 2007, Merck announced that it had entered into an agreement (the “Settlement
Agreement”) with the law firms that comprise the executive committee of the Plaintiffs’ Steering Committee
(“PSC”) of the federal Vioxx MDL as well as representatives of plaintiffs’ counsel in the Texas, New Jersey and
California state coordinated proceedings to resolve state and federal myocardial infarction (“MI”) and ischemic
stroke (“IS”) claims filed as of that date in the United States. The Settlement Agreement, which also applies to tolled
claims, was signed by the parties after several meetings with three of the four judges overseeing the coordination of
more than 95% of the U.S. Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits. The Settlement Agreement applies only to U.S. legal
residents and those who allege that their MI or IS occurred in the United States.
Under the Settlement Agreement, Merck will pay a fixed aggregate amount of $4.85 billion into two funds
($4.0 billion for MI claims and $850 million for IS claims) for qualifying claims that enter into the Settlement
Program. Individual claimants will be examined by administrators of the Settlement Program to determine
qualification based on objective, documented facts provided by claimants, including records sufficient for a scientific
evaluation of independent risk factors. The conditions in the Settlement Agreement also require claimants to pass
three gates: an injury gate, a duration gate, and a proximity gate (each as defined in the Settlement Agreement).
The Settlement Agreement provides that Merck does not admit causation or fault. The Settlement
Agreement provided that Merck’s payment obligations would be triggered only if, among other conditions, (1) law
firms on the federal and state PSCs and firms that have tried cases in the coordinated proceedings elect to
recommend enrollment in the program to 100% of their clients who allege either MI or IS, and (2) by June 30, 2008,
plaintiffs enroll in the Settlement Program at least 85% of each of all currently pending and tolled (i) MI claims,
(ii) IS claims, (iii) eligible MI and IS claims together which involve death, and (iv) eligible MI and IS claims together
which allege more than 12 months of use. Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, Merck could exercise a
right to walk away from the Settlement Agreement if the thresholds and other requirements were not met. The
Company waived that right as of August 4, 2008. The waiver of that right triggered Merck’s obligation to pay a fixed
total of $4.85 billion. Payments will be made in installments into the settlement funds. The first payment of
$500 million was made in August 2008 and an additional payment of $250 million was made in October 2008.
Interim payments have been made to certain plaintiffs who alleged that they suffered an MI and the Company
anticipates that interim payments to IS claimants will begin shortly. Additional payments will be made on a periodic
basis going forward, when and as needed to fund payments of claims and administrative expenses.
Merck’s total payment for both funds of $4.85 billion is a fixed amount to be allocated among qualifying
claimants based on their individual evaluation. The distribution of interim payments to qualified claimants began in
August 2008 and will continue on a rolling basis until all claimants who qualify for an interim payment are paid.
Final payments will be made after the examination of all of the eligible claims has been completed.
After the Settlement Agreement was announced on November 9, 2007, judges in the Federal MDL,
California, Texas and New Jersey State Coordinated Proceedings entered a series of orders. The orders:
(1) temporarily stayed their respective litigations; (2) required plaintiffs to register their claims by January 15, 2008;
(3) required plaintiffs with cases pending as of November 9, 2007 to preserve and produce records and serve expert
reports; and (4) required plaintiffs who file thereafter to make similar productions on an accelerated schedule. The
Clark County, Nevada and Washoe County, Nevada coordinated proceedings were also generally stayed.
As of October 30, 2008, the deadline for enrollment in the Settlement Program, more than 48,100 of the
approximately 48,325 individuals who were eligible for the Settlement Program and whose claims were not
1) dismissed, 2) expected to be dismissed in the near future, or 3) tolled claims that appear to have been abandoned
111Table of Contents
had submitted some or all of the materials required for enrollment in the Settlement Program. This represents
approximately 99.8% of the eligible MI and IS claims previously registered with the Settlement Program.
On April 14, 2008 and June 3, 2008, two groups of various private insurance companies and health plans
filed suit against BrownGreer, the claims administrator for the Settlement Program (the “Claims Administrator”), and
U.S. Bancorp, escrow agent for the Settlement Program (the “AvMed” and “Greater New York Benefit Fund” suits).
The private insurance companies and health plans claim to have paid healthcare costs on behalf of some of the
enrolling claimants and seek to enjoin the Claims Administrator from paying enrolled claimants until their claims for
reimbursement from the enrolled claimants are resolved. Each group sought temporary restraining orders and
preliminary injunctions. Judge Fallon denied these requests. In AvMed, the defendants moved to sever the claims of
the named plaintiffs and, in Greater New York Benefit Fund, to strike the class allegations. Judge Fallon granted
these motions. AvMed appealed both of these decisions. The Fifth Circuit heard argument on AvMed’s appeal on
November 4, 2008. On November 17, 2008, the Court of Appeals affirmed the district court’s ruling that denied the
two motions for preliminary injunctive relief. Greater New York Benefit Fund has served a notice of appeal. On
January 22, 2009, the PSC and counsel for certain private insurers announced that they reached a settlement
agreement. The agreement provides a program for resolution of liens asserted by private insurers against payments
received by certain claimants who have enrolled in the Settlement Program. The agreement can be terminated by the
private insurers if fewer than 90% of eligible claimants participate. The plaintiffs in the AvMed and Greater
New York Benefit Fund lawsuits have agreed to participate in the settlement.
There are two U.S. Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits currently scheduled for trial in 2009. The Company
has previously disclosed the outcomes of several Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits that were tried prior to 2008.
Juries have now decided in favor of the Company twelve times and in plaintiffs’ favor five times. One
Merck verdict was set aside by the court and has not been retried. Another Merck verdict was set aside and retried,
leading to one of the five plaintiffs’ verdicts. There have been two unresolved mistrials. With respect to the five
plaintiffs’ verdicts, Merck filed an appeal or sought judicial review in each of those cases. In one of those five, an
intermediate appellate court overturned the trial verdict and directed that judgment be entered for Merck, and in
another, an intermediate appellate court overturned the trial verdict, entering judgment for Merck on one claim and
ordering a new trial on the remaining claims.
All but the following three cases that went to trial are now resolved: McDarby v. Merck, Ernst v. Merck,
and Garza v. Merck.
The first, McDarby, was originally tried along with a second plaintiff, Cona, in April 2006, in Superior
Court of New Jersey, Law Division, Atlantic County. The jury returned a split verdict. The jury determined that
Vioxx did not substantially contribute to the heart attack of Mr. Cona, but did substantially contribute to the heart
attack of Mr. McDarby. The jury also concluded that, in each case, Merck violated New Jersey’s consumer fraud
statute, which allows plaintiffs to receive their expenses for purchasing the drug, trebled, as well as reasonable
attorneys’ fees. The jury awarded $4.5 million in compensatory damages to Mr. McDarby and his wife, who also was
a plaintiff in that case, as well as punitive damages of $9 million. On June 8, 2007, Judge Higbee denied Merck’s
motion for a new trial. On June 15, 2007, Judge Higbee awarded approximately $4 million in the aggregate in
attorneys’ fees and costs. The Company has appealed the judgments in both cases and the Appellate Division held
oral argument on both cases on January 16, 2008. On May 29, 2008, the New Jersey Appellate Division vacated the
consumer fraud awards in both cases on the grounds that the Product Liability Act provides the sole remedy for
personal injury claims. The Appellate Division also vacated the McDarby punitive damage award on the ground of
federal preemption and vacated the attorneys’ fees and costs awarded under the Consumer Fraud Act in both cases.
The Court upheld the McDarby compensatory award. The Company has filed with the Supreme Court of New Jersey
a petition to appeal those parts of the trial court’s rulings that the Appellate Division affirmed. Plaintiffs filed a cross-
petition to appeal those parts of the trial court’s rulings that the Appellate Division reversed. On October 8, 2008, the
Supreme Court of New Jersey granted Merck’s petition for certification of appeal, limited solely to the issue of
whether the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act preempts state law tort claims predicated on the alleged
inadequacy of warnings contained in Vioxx labeling that was approved by the FDA. The court denied the plaintiff’s
cross-petition. On December 4, 2008, the New Jersey Supreme Court granted Merck’s motion to stay the appeal
pending the issuance of a decision from United States Supreme Court in Wyeth v. Levine.
112Table of Contents
As previously reported, in September 2006, Merck filed a notice of appeal of the August 2005 jury verdict
in favor of the plaintiff in the Texas state court case, Ernst v. Merck. On May 29, 2008, the Texas Court of Appeals
reversed the trial court’s judgment and issued a judgment in favor of Merck. The Court of Appeals found the
evidence to be legally insufficient on the issue of causation. Plaintiffs have filed a motion for rehearing en banc in
the Court of Appeals. Merck filed a response in October 2008. In January 2009, plaintiffs filed a reply in support of
their rehearing motion.
As previously reported, in April 2006, in Garza v. Merck, a jury in state court in Rio Grande City, Texas
returned a verdict in favor of the family of decedent Leonel Garza. The jury awarded a total of $7 million in
compensatory damages to Mr. Garza’s widow and three sons. The jury also purported to award $25 million in
punitive damages even though under Texas law, in this case, potential punitive damages were capped at $750,000.
On May 14, 2008, the San Antonio Court of Appeals reversed the judgment and rendered a judgment in favor of
Merck. On December 10, 2008, the Court of Appeals, on rehearing, vacated its prior ruling and issued a replacement.
In the new ruling, the Court ordered a take-nothing judgment for Merck on the design defect claim, but reversed and
remanded for a new trial as to the strict liability claim because of juror misconduct. On January 26, 2009, Merck filed
a petition for review with the Texas Supreme Court.
Merck voluntarily withdrew Vioxx from the market on September 30, 2004. Most states have statutes of
limitations for product liability claims of no more than three years, which require that claims must be filed within no
more than three years after the plaintiffs learned or could have learned of their potential cause of action. As a result,
some may view September 30, 2007 as a significant deadline for filing Vioxx cases. It is important to note, however,
that the law regarding statutes of limitations can be complex and variable, depending on the facts and applicable law.
Some states have longer statutes of limitations. There are also arguments that the statutes of limitations began
running before September 30, 2004. New Jersey Superior Court Judge Higbee and Federal District Court Judge
Fallon have issued orders in cases from New Jersey and eight other jurisdictions ruling that the statutory period for
making Vioxx personal injury claims has passed. Judge Higbee’s order was issued on October 15, 2007 and Judge
Fallon’s was issued on November 8, 2007.
O ther Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, on July 29, 2005, a New Jersey state trial court certified a nationwide class of
third-party payors (such as unions and health insurance plans) that paid in whole or in part for the Vioxx used by their
plan members or insureds. The named plaintiff in that case sought recovery of certain Vioxx purchase costs (plus
penalties) based on allegations that the purported class members paid more for Vioxx than they would have had they
known of the product’s alleged risks. On March 31, 2006, the New Jersey Superior Court, Appellate Division,
affirmed the class certification order. On September 6, 2007, the New Jersey Supreme Court reversed the
certification of a nationwide class action of third-party payors, finding that the suit does not meet the requirements
for a class action. Claims of certain individual third-party payors remain pending in the New Jersey court, and
counsel purporting to represent a large number of third-party payors have filed additional such actions. Judge Higbee
lifted the stay in these cases and the cases are currently in the discovery phase. A status conference with the court
took place in January 2009 to discuss scheduling issues in these cases, including the selection of early trial pool
cases.
The New Jersey Superior Court heard argument on plaintiffs’ motion for class certification in Martin-
Kleinman v. Merck, which is a putative consumer class action, on December 5, 2008.
There are also pending in various U.S. courts putative class actions purportedly brought on behalf of
individual purchasers or users of Vioxx and claiming either reimbursement of alleged economic loss or an entitlement
to medical monitoring. The majority of these cases are at early procedural stages. On June 12, 2008, a Missouri state
court certified a class of Missouri plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for out-of-pocket costs relating to Vioxx. The
plaintiffs do not allege any personal injuries from taking Vioxx. The Company filed a petition for interlocutory
review on June 23, 2008, which was granted on July 30, 2008. Briefing is now complete. During the pendency of the
appeal, discovery is proceeding in the lower court. On February 3, 2009, Judge Fallon dismissed the master personal
injury/wrongful death class action master complaint and the medical monitoring class action master complaint in the
MDL.
113Table of Contents
Plaintiffs also have filed a class action in California state court seeking class certification of California
third-party payors and end-users. The parties are engaged in class certification discovery and briefing. The court
heard oral argument on the class certification issue on February 19, 2009.
The Company has also been named as a defendant in eighteen separate lawsuits brought by Attorneys
General of ten states, five counties, the City of New York, and private citizens (whom have brought qui tam and
taxpayer derivative suits). One of the lawsuits brought by the counties is a class action filed by Santa Clara County,
California on behalf of all similarly situated California counties. These actions allege that the Company
misrepresented the safety of Vioxx and seek (i) recovery of the cost of Vioxx purchased or reimbursed by the state and
its agencies; (ii) reimbursement of all sums paid by the state and its agencies for medical services for the treatment of
persons injured by Vioxx ; (iii) damages under various common law theories; and/or (iv) remedies under various state
statutory theories, including state consumer fraud and/or fair business practices or Medicaid fraud statutes, including
civil penalties.
With the exception of a case filed by the Texas Attorney General (which remains in Texas state court and is
currently scheduled for trial in November 2009), a case filed by the Michigan Attorney General (which was ordered
remanded to state court in January 2009), a case recently filed by the Pennsylvania Attorney General (which has been
removed to federal court but is the subject of a pending motion to remand), and one case which has not been removed
to federal court, the rest of the actions described in the above paragraph have been transferred to the federal MDL
and are in the discovery phase.
S hareholder Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, in addition to the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, the Company and various
current and former officers and directors are defendants in various putative class actions and individual lawsuits
under the federal securities laws and state securities laws (the “ Vioxx Securities Lawsuits”). All of the Vioxx
Securities Lawsuits pending in federal court have been transferred by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
(the “JPML”) to the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey before District Judge Stanley R.
Chesler for inclusion in a nationwide MDL (the “Shareholder MDL”). Judge Chesler has consolidated the Vioxx
Securities Lawsuits for all purposes. The putative class action, which requested damages on behalf of purchasers of
Company stock between May 21, 1999 and October 29, 2004, alleged that the defendants made false and misleading
statements regarding Vioxx in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and
sought unspecified compensatory damages and the costs of suit, including attorneys’ fees. The complaint also
asserted claims under Section 20A of the Securities and Exchange Act against certain defendants relating to their
sales of Merck stock and under Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 against certain defendants based
on statements in a registration statement and certain prospectuses filed in connection with the Merck Stock
Investment Plan, a dividend reinvestment plan. On April 12, 2007, Judge Chesler granted defendants’ motion to
dismiss the complaint with prejudice. Plaintiffs appealed Judge Chesler’s decision to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit. On September 9, 2008, the Third Circuit issued an opinion reversing Judge Chesler’s
order and remanding the case to the District Court. On September 23, 2008, Merck filed a petition seeking rehearing
en banc, which was denied. The case was remanded to the District Court in October 2008, and plaintiffs have filed
their Consolidated and Fifth Amended Class Action Complaint. Merck filed a petition for a writ of certiorari with the
United States Supreme Court on January 15, 2009. Merck expects to file a motion to dismiss the Fifth Amended
Class Action Complaint.
In October 2005, a Dutch pension fund filed a complaint in the District of New Jersey alleging violations of
federal securities laws as well as violations of state law against the Company and certain officers. Pursuant to the
Case Management Order governing the Shareholder MDL, the case, which is based on the same allegations as the
Vioxx Securities Lawsuits, was consolidated with the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits. Defendants’ motion to dismiss the
pension fund’s complaint was filed on August 3, 2007. In September 2007, the Dutch pension fund filed an amended
complaint rather than responding to defendants’ motion to dismiss. In addition in 2007, six new complaints were
filed in the District of New Jersey on behalf of various foreign institutional investors also alleging violations of
federal securities laws as well as violations of state law against the Company and certain officers. Defendants are not
required to respond to these complaints until after Judge Chesler resolves any motion to dismiss in the consolidated
securities action.
114Table of Contents
As previously disclosed, various shareholder derivative actions filed in federal court were transferred to the
Shareholder MDL and consolidated for all purposes by Judge Chesler (the “ Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits”). On May 5,
2006, Judge Chesler granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and denied plaintiffs’ request for leave to amend their
complaint. Plaintiffs appealed, arguing that Judge Chesler erred in denying plaintiffs’ leave to amend their complaint
with materials acquired during discovery. On July 18, 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
reversed the District Court’s decision on the grounds that Judge Chesler should have allowed plaintiffs to make use
of the discovery material to try to establish demand futility, and remanded the case for the District Court’s
consideration of whether, even with the additional materials, plaintiffs’ request to amend their complaint would still
be futile. Plaintiffs filed their brief in support of their request for leave to amend their complaint in November 2007.
The Court denied the motion in June 2008 and closed the case. Plaintiffs have appealed Judge Chesler’s decision to
the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
In addition, as previously disclosed, various putative class actions filed in federal court under the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) against the Company and certain current and former officers and
directors (the “ Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits” and, together with the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits and the Vioxx Derivative
Lawsuits, the “ Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits”) have been transferred to the Shareholder MDL and consolidated for all
purposes. The consolidated complaint asserts claims on behalf of certain of the Company’s current and former
employees who are participants in certain of the Company’s retirement plans for breach of fiduciary duty. The
lawsuits make similar allegations to the allegations contained in the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits. On July 11, 2006,
Judge Chesler granted in part and denied in part defendants’ motion to dismiss the ERISA complaint. In October
2007, plaintiffs moved for certification of a class of individuals who were participants in and beneficiaries of the
Company’s retirement savings plans at any time between October 1, 1998 and September 30, 2004 and whose plan
accounts included investments in the Merck Common Stock Fund and/or Merck common stock. On February 9,
2009, the Court denied the motion for certification of a class as to one count and granted the motion as to the
remaining counts. The Court also limited the class to those individuals who were participants in and beneficiaries of
the Company’s retirement savings plans who suffered a loss due to their investments in Merck stock through the
plans and who did not execute a settlement releasing their claims. On October 6, 2008, defendants filed a motion for
judgment on the pleadings seeking dismissal of the complaint. On December 24, 2008, plaintiffs filed a motion for
partial summary judgment against certain individual defendants. Both motions are pending. Discovery is ongoing in
this litigation.
As previously disclosed, on October 29, 2004, two individual shareholders made a demand on the
Company’s Board to take legal action against Mr. Raymond Gilmartin, former Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer and other individuals for allegedly causing damage to the Company with respect to the allegedly
improper marketing of Vioxx . In December 2004, the Special Committee of the Board of Directors retained the
Honorable John S. Martin, Jr. of Debevoise & Plimpton LLP to conduct an independent investigation of, among
other things, the allegations set forth in the demand. Judge Martin’s report was made public in September 2006.
Based on the Special Committee’s recommendation made after careful consideration of the Martin report and the
impact that derivative litigation would have on the Company, the Board rejected the demand. On October 11, 2007,
the shareholders filed a lawsuit in state court in Atlantic County, New Jersey against current and former executives
and directors of the Company alleging that the Board’s rejection of their demand was unreasonable and improper,
and that the defendants breached various duties to the Company in allowing Vioxx to be marketed. The current and
former executive and director defendants filed motions to dismiss the complaint in June 2008. On October 30, 2008,
proceedings in the case were stayed through March 1, 2009. On November 21, 2008, the pending motions to dismiss
were denied without prejudice.
I nternational Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, in addition to the lawsuits discussed above, the Company has been named as a
defendant in litigation relating to Vioxx in various countries (collectively, the “ Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits”) in Europe,
as well as Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Australia, Turkey, and Israel.
On May 30, 2008, the provincial court of Queen’s Bench in Saskatchewan, Canada entered an order
certifying a class of Vioxx users in Canada, except those in Quebec. The class includes individual purchasers who
allege inducement to purchase by unfair marketing practices; individuals who allege Vioxx was not of acceptable
115Table of Contents
quality, defective or not fit for the purpose of managing pain associated with approved indications; or ingestors who
claim Vioxx caused or exacerbated a cardiovascular or gastrointestinal condition. On June 17, 2008, the Court of
Appeal for Saskatchewan granted the Company leave to appeal the certification order. That appeal was argued before
that court, and the court has reserved decision. On July 28, 2008, the Superior Court in Ontario denied the
Company’s motion to stay class proceedings in Ontario, which had been based on the earlier certification order
entered in Saskatchewan, and decided to certify an overlapping class of Vioxx users in Canada, except those in
Quebec and Saskatchewan, who allege negligence and an entitlement to elect to waive the tort. On November 24,
2008, the Ontario Divisional Court granted the Company’s motion for leave to appeal the Superior Court’s decision
denying the stay of the Ontario class proceedings and denied the Company’s motion to appeal the certification order.
The Company’s appeal was heard by the Ontario Divisional Court in February 2009. On February 13, 2009, the
Divisional Court declined to set aside the order denying the stay. The Company intends to seek leave to appeal from
the Ontario Court of Appeal. Earlier, in November 2006, the Superior court in Quebec authorized the institution of a
class action on behalf of all individuals who, in Quebec, consumed Vioxx and suffered damages arising out of its
ingestion. As of December 31, 2008, the plaintiffs have not instituted an action based upon that authorization.
A trial in a representative action in Australia is scheduled to commence on March 30, 2009, in the Federal
Court of Australia. The named plaintiff, who alleges he suffered an MI, seeks to represent others in Australia who
ingested Vioxx and suffered an MI, thrombotic stroke, unstable angina, transient ischemic attack or peripheral
vascular disease. On November 24, 2008, the Company filed a motion for an order that the proceeding no longer
continue as a representative proceeding. During a hearing on December 5, 2008, the court dismissed that motion and,
on January 9, 2009, issued its reasons for that decision. On February 17, 2009, the Company’s motion for leave to
appeal that decision was denied and the parties were directed to prepare proposed lists of issues to be tried.
A dditional Lawsuits
Based on media reports and other sources, the Company anticipates that additional Vioxx Product Liability
Lawsuits, Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits and Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits (collectively, the “ Vioxx Lawsuits”) may be filed
against it and/or certain of its current and former officers and directors in the future.
I nsurance
As previously disclosed, the Company has product liability insurance for claims brought in the Vioxx
Product Liability Lawsuits with stated upper limits of approximately $630 million after deductibles and co-insurance.
This insurance provides coverage for legal defense costs and potential damage amounts in connection with the Vioxx
Product Liability Lawsuits. Through an arbitration proceeding and negotiated settlements, the Company received an
aggregate of approximately $590 million in product liability insurance proceeds relating to the Vioxx Product
Liability Lawsuits, plus approximately $45 million in fees and interest payments. The Company has no additional
insurance for the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits. The Company’s insurance coverage with respect to the Vioxx
Lawsuits will not be adequate to cover its defense costs and losses.
The Company has Directors and Officers insurance coverage applicable to the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits
and Vioxx Derivative Lawsuits with stated upper limits of approximately $190 million. The Company has Fiduciary
and other insurance for the Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits with stated upper limits of approximately $275 million. As a
result of the arbitration, additional insurance coverage for these claims should also be available, if needed, under
upper-level excess policies that provide coverage for a variety of risks. There are disputes with the insurers about the
availability of some or all of the Company’s insurance coverage for these claims and there are likely to be additional
disputes. The amounts actually recovered under the policies discussed in this paragraph may be less than the stated
upper limits.
I nvestigations
As previously disclosed, in November 2004, the Company was advised by the staff of the SEC that it was
commencing an informal inquiry concerning Vioxx. On January 28, 2005, the Company announced that it received
notice that the SEC issued a formal notice of investigation. Also, the Company has received subpoenas from the
U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) requesting information related to the Company’s research, marketing and
selling activities with respect to Vioxx in a federal health care investigation under criminal statutes. This investigation
includes subpoenas for witnesses to appear before a grand jury. In addition, as previously disclosed,
116Table of Contents
investigations are being conducted by local authorities in certain cities in Europe in order to determine whether any
criminal charges should be brought concerning Vioxx . The Company is cooperating with these governmental entities
in their respective investigations (the “ Vioxx Investigations”). The Company cannot predict the outcome of these
inquiries; however, they could result in potential civil and/or criminal dispositions.
As previously disclosed, on May 20, 2008, the Company reached civil settlements with Attorneys General
from 29 states and the District of Columbia to fully resolve previously disclosed investigations under state consumer
protection laws related to past activities for Vioxx. As part of the civil resolution of these investigations, Merck paid a
total of $58 million to be divided among the 29 states and the District of Columbia. The agreement also includes
compliance measures that supplement policies and procedures previously established by the Company.
In addition, the Company received a subpoena in September 2006 from the State of California Attorney
General seeking documents and information related to the placement of Vioxx on California’s Medi-Cal formulary.
The Company is cooperating with the Attorney General in responding to the subpoena.
R eserves
As discussed above, on November 9, 2007, Merck entered into the Settlement Agreement with the law
firms that comprise the executive committee of the PSC of the federal Vioxx MDL as well as representatives of
plaintiffs’ counsel in the Texas, New Jersey and California state coordinated proceedings to resolve state and federal
MI and IS claims filed as of that date in the United States. The Settlement Agreement, which also applies to tolled
claims, was signed by the parties after several meetings with three of the four judges overseeing the coordination of
more than 95% of the current claims in the Vioxx Litigation. The Settlement Agreement applies only to U.S. legal
residents and those who allege that their MI or IS occurred in the United States. In 2007, as a result of entering into
the Settlement Agreement, the Company recorded a pretax charge of $4.85 billion which represents the fixed
aggregate amount to be paid to plaintiffs qualifying for payment under the Settlement Program.
The Company currently anticipates that two U.S. Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits will be tried in 2009.
Except with respect to the product liability trial scheduled to be held in Australia, the Company cannot predict the
timing of any other trials related to the Vioxx Litigation. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the
Vioxx Lawsuits and will vigorously defend against them. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome
of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the claimants seek indeterminate damages, the
Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible
loss or range of loss with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits not included in the Settlement Program. The Company has
not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the Vioxx Lawsuits not included in the Settlement
Program or the Vioxx Investigations. In each of those cases the Company believes it has strong points to raise on
appeal and therefore that unfavorable outcomes in such cases are not probable. Unfavorable outcomes in the Vioxx
Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of
operations.
Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when
probable and reasonably estimable. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had an aggregate reserve of
approximately $5.372 billion (the “ Vioxx Reserve”) for the Settlement Program and the Company’s future legal
defense costs related to the Vioxx Litigation.
During 2008, the Company spent approximately $305 million in the aggregate, in legal defense costs
worldwide related to (i) the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, (ii) the Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits, (iii) the Vioxx
Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the Vioxx Investigations (collectively, the “ Vioxx Litigation”). In the fourth quarter, the
Company recorded a charge of $62 million solely for its future legal defense costs related to the Vioxx Litigation. In
addition, in the fourth quarter the Company paid an additional $250 million into the settlement funds in connection
with the Settlement Program after having paid $500 million into the settlement funds in the third quarter.
Consequently, as of December 31, 2008, the aggregate amount of the Vioxx Reserve was approximately
$4.379 billion, which is included in Accrued and other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. In
adding to the Vioxx Reserve solely for its future legal defense costs, the Company considered the same factors that it
considered when it previously established reserves for the Vioxx Litigation. Some of the significant factors
considered in the review of the Vioxx Reserve were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company; the
development of the
117Table of Contents
Company’s legal defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of the Vioxx Litigation, including the Settlement
Agreement and the expectation that certain lawsuits will continue to be pending; the number of cases being brought
against the Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most current information regarding
anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial activities and trials in the Vioxx Litigation. The amount
of the Vioxx Reserve as of December 31, 2008 allocated solely to defense costs represents the Company’s best
estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs to be incurred in connection with the remaining aspects of the
Vioxx Litigation; however, events such as additional trials in the Vioxx Litigation and other events that could arise in
the course of the Vioxx Litigation could affect the ultimate amount of defense costs to be incurred by the Company.
The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated
reserves and may determine to increase the Vioxx Reserve at any time in the future if, based upon the factors set
forth, it believes it would be appropriate to do so.
O ther Product Liability Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company is a defendant in product liability lawsuits in the United States
involving Fosamax (the “ Fosamax Litigation”). As of December 31, 2008, approximately 779 cases, which include
approximately 1,158 plaintiff groups had been filed and were pending against Merck in either federal or state court,
including one case which seeks class action certification, as well as damages and/or medical monitoring. In these
actions, plaintiffs allege, among other things, that they have suffered osteonecrosis of the jaw, generally subsequent
to invasive dental procedures, such as tooth extraction or dental implants and/or delayed healing, in association with
the use of Fosamax . On August 16, 2006, the JPML ordered that the Fosamax product liability cases pending in
federal courts nationwide should be transferred and consolidated into one multidistrict litigation (the “ Fosamax
MDL”) for coordinated pre-trial proceedings. The Fosamax MDL has been transferred to Judge John Keenan in the
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. As a result of the JPML order, approximately 645
of the cases are before Judge Keenan. Judge Keenan has issued a Case Management Order (and various amendments
thereto) setting forth a schedule governing the proceedings which focused primarily upon resolving the class action
certification motions in 2007 and completing fact discovery in an initial group of 25 cases by October 1, 2008.
Briefing and argument on plaintiffs’ motions for certification of medical monitoring classes were completed in 2007
and Judge Keenan issued an order denying the motions on January 3, 2008. On January 28, 2008, Judge Keenan
issued a further order dismissing with prejudice all class claims asserted in the first four class action lawsuits filed
against Merck that sought personal injury damages and/or medical monitoring relief on a class wide basis. In October
2008, Judge Keenan issued an order requiring that Daubert motions be filed in May 2009 and scheduling trials in the
first three cases in the MDL for August 2009, October 2009, and January 2010, respectively. A trial is scheduled in
Alabama state court later in 2009.
In addition, in July 2008, an application was made by the Atlantic County Superior Court of New Jersey
requesting that all of the Fosamax cases pending in New Jersey be considered for mass tort designation and
centralized management before one judge in New Jersey. On October 6, 2008, the New Jersey Supreme Court
ordered that all pending and future actions filed in New Jersey arising out of the use of Fosamax and seeking
damages for existing dental and jaw-related injuries, including osteonecrosis of the jaw, but not solely seeking
medical monitoring, be designated as a mass tort for centralized management purposes before Judge Higbee in
Atlantic County Superior Court. As a result of the New Jersey Supreme Court’s order, approximately 100 cases were
coordinated as of December 31, 2008 before Judge Higbee, who is expected to begin setting various case
management deadlines during the first quarter of 2009.
Discovery is ongoing in both the Fosamax MDL litigation as well as in various state court cases. The
Company intends to defend against these lawsuits.
As of December 31, 2007, the Company had a remaining reserve of approximately $27 million solely for its
future legal defense costs for the Fosamax Litigation. During 2008, the Company spent approximately $34 million
and added $40 million to its reserve. Consequently, as of December 31, 2008, the Company had a reserve of
approximately $33 million solely for its future legal defense costs for the Fosamax Litigation. Some of the significant
factors considered in the establishment of the reserve for the Fosamax Litigation legal defense costs were as follows:
the actual costs incurred by the Company thus far; the development of the Company’s legal defense
118Table of Contents
strategy and structure in light of the creation of the Fosamax MDL; the number of cases being brought against the
Company; and the anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial activities in the Fosamax Litigation.
The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves.
Due to the uncertain nature of litigation, the Company is unable to estimate its costs beyond the completion of the
first three federal trials discussed above. The Company has not established any reserves for any potential liability
relating to the Fosamax Litigation. Unfavorable outcomes in the Fosamax Litigation could have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations.
C ommercial Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company was joined in ongoing litigation alleging manipulation by
pharmaceutical manufacturers of Average Wholesale Prices (“AWP”), which are sometimes used in calculations that
determine public and private sector reimbursement levels. In 2002, the JPML ordered the transfer and consolidation
of all pending federal AWP cases to federal court in Boston, Massachusetts. Plaintiffs filed one consolidated class
action complaint, which aggregated the claims previously filed in various federal district court actions and also
expanded the number of manufacturers to include some which, like the Company, had not been defendants in any
prior pending case. In May 2003, the court granted the Company’s motion to dismiss the consolidated class action
and dismissed the Company from the class action case. Subsequent to the Company’s dismissal, the plaintiffs filed an
amended consolidated class action complaint, which did not name the Company as a defendant. The Company and
many other pharmaceutical manufacturers are defendants in similar complaints pending in federal and state court
brought individually by a number of counties in the State of New York. Fifty of the county cases have been
consolidated in New York state court. The Company was dismissed from the Suffolk County case, which was the
first of the New York county cases to be filed. In addition to the New York county cases, as of December 31, 2008,
the Company was a defendant in state cases brought by the Attorneys General of eleven states, all of which are being
defended. In February 2009, the Kansas Attorney General filed suit against Merck and several other manufacturers.
Additionally, the Attorney General of Arizona voluntarily dismissed Merck from its case in February 2009. The court
in the AWP cases pending in Hawaii listed Merck and others to be set for trial in mid-2010.
G overnmental Proceedings
As previously disclosed, in February 2008, the Company announced that it entered into agreements with the
government to settle federal and state civil cases alleging violations of the Medicaid Rebate Statute, as well as federal
and state False Claims Acts in connection with certain nominal pricing programs and sales and marketing activities
between 1994 and 2001. In connection with these settlements, as previously disclosed, Merck entered into a
Corporate Integrity Agreement (“CIA”) with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector
General (“HHS-OIG”) for a five-year term. The CIA requires, among other things, that Merck maintain its ethics
training program and policies and procedures governing promotional practices and Medicaid price reporting. Further,
as required by the CIA, Merck has retained an Independent Review Organization (“IRO”) to conduct a systems
review of its promotional policies and procedures and to conduct, on a sample basis, transactional reviews of
Merck’s promotional programs and certain Medicaid pricing calculations. Merck is also required to provide regular
reports and certifications to the HHS-OIG regarding its compliance with the CIA. The IRO is currently conducting
the required reviews. Merck is scheduled to submit its first Annual Report to the HHS-OIG in May 2009.
V ytorin/Zetia Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company and its joint venture partner, Schering-Plough, have received several
letters addressed to both companies from the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, its Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations (“O&I”), and the Ranking Minority Member of the Senate Finance Committee,
collectively seeking a combination of witness interviews, documents and information on a variety of issues related to
the ENHANCE clinical trial, the sale and promotion of Vytorin , as well as sales of stock by corporate officers. In
addition, since August 2008, the companies have received three additional letters from O&I, including one dated
February 19, 2009, seeking certain information and documents related to the SEAS clinical trial. As previously
disclosed, the companies have each received subpoenas from the New York and New Jersey
119Table of Contents
State Attorneys General Offices and a letter from the Connecticut Attorney General seeking similar information and
documents. In addition, the Company has received five Civil Investigative Demands (“CIDs”) from a multistate
group of 35 State Attorneys General who are jointly investigating whether the companies violated state consumer
protection laws when marketing Vytorin . Finally, in September 2008, the Company received a letter from the Civil
Division of the DOJ informing it that the DOJ is investigating whether the companies’ conduct relating to the
promotion of Vytorin caused false claims to be submitted to federal health care programs. The Company is
cooperating with these investigations and working with Schering-Plough to respond to the inquiries. In addition, the
Company has become aware of or been served with approximately 145 civil class action lawsuits alleging common
law and state consumer fraud claims in connection with the MSP Partnership’s sale and promotion of Vytorin and
Zetia . Certain of those lawsuits allege personal injuries and/or seek medical monitoring. These actions, which have
been filed in or transferred to federal court, are coordinated in a multidistrict litigation in the U.S. District Court for
the District Court of New Jersey before District Judge Dennis M. Cavanaugh. The parties are presently engaged in
motions practice and briefing.
Also, as previously disclosed, on April 3, 2008, a Merck shareholder filed a putative class action lawsuit in
federal court in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania alleging that Merck and its Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer, Richard T. Clark, violated the federal securities laws. This suit has since been withdrawn and re-
filed in the District of New Jersey and has been consolidated with another federal securities lawsuit under the caption
In re Merck & Co., Inc. Vytorin Securities Litigation. An amended consolidated complaint was filed on October 6,
2008 and names as defendants Merck; Merck/Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals, LLC; and certain of the Company’s
officers and directors. Specifically, the complaint alleges that Merck delayed releasing unfavorable results of a
clinical study regarding the efficacy of Vytorin and that Merck made false and misleading statements about expected
earnings, knowing that once the results of the Vytorin study were released, sales of Vytorin would decline and
Merck’s earnings would suffer. On April 22, 2008, a member of a Merck ERISA plan filed a putative class action
lawsuit against the Company and certain of its officers and directors alleging they breached their fiduciary duties
under ERISA. Since that time, there have been other similar ERISA lawsuits filed against the Company in the
District of New Jersey, and all of those lawsuits have been consolidated under the caption In re Merck & Co., Inc.
Vytorin ERISA Litigation. An amended consolidated complaint was filed on February 5, 2009, and names as
defendants Merck and various members of Merck’s Board of Directors and members of committees of Merck’s
Board of Directors. Plaintiffs allege that the ERISA plans’ investment in Company stock was imprudent because the
Company’s earnings are dependent on the commercial success of its cholesterol drug Vytorin and that defendants
knew or should have known that the results of a scientific study would cause the medical community to turn to less
expensive drugs for cholesterol management. The Company intends to defend the lawsuits referred to in this section
vigorously. Unfavorable outcomes resulting from the government investigations or the civil litigation could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations.
In November 2008, the individual shareholder who had previously delivered a letter to the Company’s
Board of Directors demanding that the Board take legal action against the responsible individuals to recover the
amounts paid by the Company in 2007 to resolve certain governmental investigations delivered another letter to the
Board demanding that the Board or a subcommittee thereof commence an investigation into the matters raised by
various civil suits and governmental investigations relating to Vytorin .
V accine Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company is a party to individual and class action product liability lawsuits and
claims in the United States involving pediatric vaccines (e.g., hepatitis B vaccine) that contained thimerosal, a
preservative used in vaccines. Merck has not distributed thimerosal-containing pediatric vaccines in the United States
since the fall of 2001. As of December 31, 2008, there were approximately 230 thimerosal related lawsuits pending
in which the Company is a defendant, although the vast majority of those lawsuits are not currently active. Other
defendants include other vaccine manufacturers who produced pediatric vaccines containing thimerosal as well as
manufacturers of thimerosal. In these actions, the plaintiffs allege, among other things, that they have suffered
neurological injuries as a result of exposure to thimerosal from pediatric vaccines. There are no cases currently
scheduled for trial. The Company will defend against these lawsuits; however, it is possible that
120Table of Contents
unfavorable outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results
of operations.
The Company has been successful in having cases of this type either dismissed or stayed on the ground that
the action is prohibited under the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act (the “Vaccine Act”). The Vaccine Act
prohibits any person from filing or maintaining a civil action (in state or federal court) seeking damages against a
vaccine manufacturer for vaccine-related injuries unless a petition is first filed in the United States Court of Federal
Claims (hereinafter the “Vaccine Court”). Under the Vaccine Act, before filing a civil action against a vaccine
manufacturer, the petitioner must either (a) pursue his or her petition to conclusion in Vaccine Court and then timely
file an election to proceed with a civil action in lieu of accepting the Vaccine Court’s adjudication of the petition or
(b) timely exercise a right to withdraw the petition prior to Vaccine Court adjudication in accordance with certain
statutorily prescribed time periods. The Company is not a party to Vaccine Court proceedings because the petitions
are brought against the United States Department of Health and Human Services.
The Company is aware that there are approximately 5,000 cases pending in the Vaccine Court involving
allegations that thimerosal-containing vaccines and/or the M-M-R II vaccine cause autism spectrum disorders. Not all
of the thimerosal-containing vaccines involved in the Vaccine Court proceeding are Company vaccines. The
Company is the sole source of the M-M-R II vaccine domestically. The Special Masters presiding over the Vaccine
Court proceedings held hearings in three test cases involving the theory that the combination of M-M-R II vaccine
and thimerosal in vaccines causes autism spectrum disorders. On February 12, 2009, the Special Masters issued
decisions in each of those cases, finding that the theory was unsupported by valid scientific evidence and that the
petitioners in the three cases were therefore not entitled to compensation. The Special Masters have held similar
hearings in three different test cases involving the theory that thimerosal in vaccines alone causes autism spectrum
disorders. Decisions have not been issued in this second set of test cases. The Special Masters had previously
indicated that they would hold similar hearings involving the theory that M-M-R II alone causes autism spectrum
disorders, but they have stated that they no longer intend to do so. The Vaccine Court has indicated that it intends to
use the evidence presented at these test case hearings to guide the adjudication of the remaining autism spectrum
disorder cases.
P atent Litigation
From time to time, generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical products file Abbreviated New Drug
Applications (“ANDA’s”) with the FDA seeking to market generic forms of the Company’s products prior to the
expiration of relevant patents owned by the Company. Generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have submitted
ANDA’s to the FDA seeking to market in the United States a generic form of Fosamax, Nexium, Singulair, Primaxin
and Emend prior to the expiration of the Company’s (and AstraZeneca’s in the case of Nexium ) patents concerning
these products. In addition, an ANDA has been submitted to the FDA seeking to market in the United States a
generic form of Zetia prior to the expiration of Schering-Plough’s patent concerning that product. The generic
companies’ ANDA’s generally include allegations of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of the
patents. The Company has filed patent infringement suits in federal court against companies filing ANDA’s for
generic alendronate ( Fosamax ), montelukast ( Singulair ), imipenem/cilastatin ( Primaxin ) and AstraZeneca and
the Company have filed patent infringement suits in federal court against companies filing ANDA’s for generic
esomeprazole ( Nexium ). Also, the Company and Schering-Plough have filed a patent infringement suit in federal
court against companies filing ANDA’s for generic ezetimibe ( Zetia ). Similar patent challenges exist in certain
foreign jurisdictions. The Company intends to vigorously defend its patents, which it believes are valid, against
infringement by generic companies attempting to market products prior to the expiration dates of such patents. As
with any litigation, there can be no assurance of the outcomes, which, if adverse, could result in significantly
shortened periods of exclusivity for these products.
In February 2007, Schering-Plough received a notice from a generic company indicating that it had filed an
ANDA for Zetia and that it is challenging the U.S. patents that are listed for Zetia . Merck and Schering-Plough
market Zetia through a joint venture, MSP Singapore Company LLC. On March 22, 2007, Schering-Plough and MSP
Singapore Company LLC filed a patent infringement suit against Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc., USA and its parent
corporation (“Glenmark”). The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Glenmark’s ANDA until October 2010
or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier.
121Table of Contents
As previously disclosed, in January 2007, the Company received a letter from Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.
(“Ranbaxy”) stating that it had filed an ANDA seeking approval of a generic version of Merck’s Primaxin
(imipenem/cilastatin). The lawsuit asserted infringement on Merck’s patent which is due to expire on September 15,
2009. In July 2008, Merck and Ranbaxy entered into an agreement pursuant to which Ranbaxy can begin to market
in the United States a generic form of imipenem/cilastatin on September 1, 2009.
As previously disclosed, in February 2007, the Company received a notice from Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
(“Teva”), a generic company, indicating that it had filed an ANDA for montelukast and that it is challenging the
U.S. patent that is listed for Singulair . On April 2, 2007, the Company filed a patent infringement action against
Teva. The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Teva’s ANDA until August 2009 or until an adverse court
decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. A trial in this matter commenced on February 23, 2009.
As previously disclosed, in January 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington,
DC found the Company’s patent claims for once-weekly administration of Fosamax to be invalid. The Company
exhausted all options to appeal this decision in 2005. Based on the Court of Appeals’ decision, Fosamax and
Fosamax Plus D lost marketing exclusivity in the United States in 2008. As a result of these events, the Company is
experiencing significant declines in Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D U.S. sales. Similarly, in most major foreign
markets the basic use patent covering alendronate expired in 2008 and generic products are being sold.
In May 2005, the Federal Court of Canada Trial Division issued a decision refusing to bar the approval of
generic alendronate on the grounds that Merck’s patent for weekly alendronate was likely invalid. This decision
cannot be appealed and generic alendronate was launched in Canada in June 2005. In July 2005, Merck was sued in
the Federal Court of Canada by Apotex Corp. (“Apotex”) seeking damages for lost sales of generic weekly
alendronate due to the patent proceeding. In October 2008, the Federal Court of Canada issued a decision awarding
Apotex its lost profits for its generic alendronate product for the period of time that it was held off the market due to
Merck’s lawsuit. The Company has appealed this decision.
As previously disclosed, in September 2004, the Company appealed a decision of the Opposition Division
of the European Patent Office (“EPO”) that revoked the Company’s patent in Europe that covers the once-weekly
administration of alendronate. On March 14, 2006, the Board of Appeal of the EPO upheld the decision of the
Opposition Division revoking the patent. On March 28, 2007, the EPO issued another patent in Europe to the
Company that covers the once-weekly administration of alendronate. Under its terms, this new patent is effective
until July 2018. The Company has sued multiple parties in European countries asserting its European patent covering
once-weekly dosing of Fosamax . Oppositions have been filed in the EPO against this patent. A hearing in that
proceeding is scheduled for March 2009.
In addition, as previously disclosed, in Japan after a proceeding was filed challenging the validity of the
Company’s Japanese patent for the once-weekly administration of alendronate, the patent office invalidated the
patent. The decision is under appeal.
In October 2008, the U.S. patent for dorzolamide, covering both Trusopt and Cosopt , expired, after which
the Company experienced a significant decline in U.S. sales of these products. The Company is involved in litigation
proceedings of the corresponding patents in Canada and Great Britain.
The Company and AstraZeneca received notice in October 2005 that Ranbaxy had filed an ANDA for
esomeprazole magnesium. The ANDA contains Paragraph IV challenges to patents on Nexium . In November 2005,
the Company and AstraZeneca sued Ranbaxy in the United States District Court in New Jersey. As previously
disclosed, AstraZeneca, Merck and Ranbaxy have entered into a settlement agreement which provides that Ranbaxy
will not bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States until May 27, 2014. The Company and
AstraZeneca each received a CID from the United States Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) in July 2008
regarding the settlement agreement with Ranbaxy. The Company is cooperating with the FTC in responding to this
CID.
The Company and AstraZeneca received notice in January 2006 that IVAX Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
(“IVAX”), subsequently acquired by Teva, had filed an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium. The ANDA contains
Paragraph IV challenges to patents on Nexium . In March 2006, the Company and AstraZeneca sued Teva in the
United States District Court in New Jersey. In January 2008, the Company and AstraZeneca sued Dr. Reddy’s
122Table of Contents
Laboratories (“Dr. Reddy’s”) in the District Court in New Jersey based on Dr. Reddy’s filing of an ANDA for
esomeprazole magnesium. A trial has been scheduled for January 2010 with respect to both IVAX’s and Dr. Reddy’s
ANDAs. In addition, the Company and AstraZeneca received notice in December 2008 that Sandoz Inc. (“Sandoz”)
had filed an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium. The ANDA contains Paragraph IV challenges to patents on
Nexium . In January 2009, the Company and AstraZeneca sued Sandoz in the District Court in New Jersey based on
Sandoz’s filing of an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium.
In January 2009, the Company received notice that an ANDA was filed with the FDA for aprepitant which
contained a Paragraph IV challenge to patents on Emend . The Company is evaluating the information provided with
the notice to determine what action should be taken.
In Europe, the Company is aware of various companies seeking registration for generic losartan (the active
ingredient for Cozaar ). The Company has patent rights to losartan via license from E.I. du Pont de Nemours and
Company (“du Pont”). The Company and du Pont have filed patent infringement proceedings against various
companies in Portugal, Spain, Norway and Austria.
O ther Litigation
In February 2008, an individual shareholder delivered a letter to the Company’s Board of Directors
demanding that the Board take legal action against the responsible individuals to recover the amounts paid by the
Company in 2007 to resolve certain governmental investigations.
As previously disclosed, prior to the spin-off of Medco Health Solutions, Inc. (“Medco Health”), the
Company and Medco Health agreed to settle, on a class action basis, a series of lawsuits asserting violations of
ERISA (the “Gruer Cases”). The Company, Medco Health and certain plaintiffs’ counsel filed the settlement
agreement with the federal District Court in New York, where cases commenced by a number of plaintiffs, including
participants in a number of pharmaceutical benefit plans for which Medco Health is the pharmacy benefit manager,
as well as trustees of such plans, have been consolidated. Medco Health and the Company agreed to the proposed
settlement in order to avoid the significant cost and distraction of prolonged litigation. The proposed class settlement
has been agreed to by plaintiffs in five of the cases filed against Medco Health and the Company. Under the proposed
settlement, the Company and Medco Health have agreed to pay a total of $42.5 million, and Medco Health has
agreed to modify certain business practices or to continue certain specified business practices for a period of five
years. The financial compensation is intended to benefit members of the settlement class, which includes ERISA
plans for which Medco Health administered a pharmacy benefit at any time since December 17, 1994. The District
Court held hearings to hear objections to the fairness of the proposed settlement and approved the settlement in 2004,
but has not yet determined the number of class member plans that have properly elected not to participate in the
settlement. The settlement becomes final only if and when all appeals have been resolved. Certain class member
plans have indicated that they will not participate in the settlement. Cases initiated by three such plans and two
individuals remain pending in the Southern District of New York. Plaintiffs in these cases have asserted claims based
on ERISA as well as other federal and state laws that are the same as or similar to the claims that had been asserted
by settling class members in the Gruer Cases. The Company and Medco Health are named as defendants in these
cases.
Three notices of appeal were filed and the appellate court heard oral argument in May 2005. In December
2005, the appellate court issued a decision vacating the District Court’s judgment and remanding the cases to the
District Court to allow the District Court to resolve certain jurisdictional issues. A hearing was held to address such
issues in February 2006. The District Court issued a ruling in August 2006 resolving such jurisdictional issues in
favor of the settling plaintiffs. The class members and the other party that had previously appealed the District
Court’s judgment renewed their appeals. In October 2007, the renewed appeals were affirmed in part and vacated in
part by the federal court of appeals. The appeals court remanded the class settlement for further proceedings in the
District Court.
The District Court preliminarily approved the amended settlement in May 2008. However, plaintiffs that
had initially opted out of the settlement class filed objections to the settlement. The District Court ordered briefing on
the objections and heard argument in October 2008. The District Court has not yet issued its ruling on those
objections.
123Table of Contents
After the spin-off of Medco Health, Medco Health assumed substantially all of the liability exposure for the
matters discussed in the foregoing three paragraphs. These cases are being defended by Medco Health.
There are various other legal proceedings, principally product liability and intellectual property suits
involving the Company, which are pending. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such proceedings or the
proceedings discussed in this Note, in the opinion of the Company, all such proceedings are either adequately
covered by insurance or, if not so covered, should not ultimately result in any liability that would have a material
adverse effect on the financial position, liquidity or results of operations of the Company, other than proceedings for
which a separate assessment is provided in this Note.
E nvironmental Matters
The Company is a party to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents.
These proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste disposal facilities, transporters of waste to the
sites and generators of hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to reimburse the government
for cleanup costs. The Company has been made a party to these proceedings as an alleged generator of waste
disposed of at the sites. In each case, the government alleges that the defendants are jointly and severally liable for
the cleanup costs. Although joint and several liability is alleged, these proceedings are frequently resolved so that the
allocation of cleanup costs among the parties more nearly reflects the relative contributions of the parties to the site
situation. The Company’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. For some sites the potential liability is de
minimis and for others the costs of cleanup have not yet been determined. While it is not feasible to predict the
outcome of many of these proceedings brought by federal or state agencies or private litigants, in the opinion of the
Company, such proceedings should not ultimately result in any liability which would have a material adverse effect
on the financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources of the Company. The Company has taken
an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and such amounts do not include any reduction for
anticipated recoveries of cleanup costs from former site owners or operators or other recalcitrant potentially
responsible parties.
As previously disclosed, approximately 2,200 plaintiffs have filed an amended complaint against Merck
and 12 other defendants in United States District Court, Eastern District of California asserting claims under the
Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as well as negligence and nuisance. The suit seeks
damages for personal injury, diminution of property value, medical monitoring and other alleged real and personal
property damage associated with groundwater and soil contamination found at the site of a former Merck subsidiary
in Merced, California. The Company intends to defend itself against these claims.
In management’s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably
estimable have been accrued and totaled $89.5 million and $109.6 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not consider potential recoveries from other parties and will be
paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next
15 years. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of
remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess
of the liabilities accrued should exceed $70.0 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these
expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations,
liquidity or capital resources for any year.
1 1. Stockholders’ Equity
Other paid-in capital increased by $304.2 million in 2008, $848.4 million in 2007 and $266.5 million in
2006. The increases in all periods reflect share-based compensation activity, including the recognition of share-based
compensation and the impact of shares issued and related income tax benefits. The increase in 2007 also reflects the
issuance of shares related to the acquisition of NovaCardia (see Note 4).
124Table of Contents
A summary of treasury stock transactions (shares in millions) is as follows:
2 00 8 2 00 7 2 00 6
Shares Cost Shares Cost Shares Cost
B alance as of January 1 811.0 $ 28,174.7 808.4 $2 7,567.4 794.3 $ 26,984.4
Purchases 69.5 2,725.0 26.5 1,429.7 26.4 1,002.3
Issuances (1) (4.7) (164.2) (23.9 ) (822.4) (12.3) (419.3 )
B alance as of December 31 875.8 $ 30,735.5 811.0 $2 8,174.7 808.4 $ 27,567.4
( 1) Issued primarily under share-based compensation plans.
At December 31, 2008 and 2007, 10 million shares of preferred stock, without par value, were authorized;
none were issued.
1 2. Share-Based Compensation Plans
The Company has share-based compensation plans under which employees, non-employee directors and
employees of certain of the Company’s equity method investees may be granted options to purchase shares of
Company common stock at the fair market value at the time of grant. In addition to stock options, the Company
grants performance share units (“PSUs”) and restricted stock units (“RSUs”) to certain management level employees.
These plans were approved by the Company’s shareholders. At December 31, 2008, 126.8 million shares were
authorized for future grants under the Company’s share-based compensation plans. The Company settles employee
share-based compensation awards primarily with treasury shares.
Employee stock options are granted to purchase shares of Company stock at the fair market value at the
time of grant. These awards generally vest one-third each year over a three-year period, with a contractual term of
10 years. RSUs are stock awards that are granted to employees and entitle the holder to shares of common stock as
the awards vest, as well as non-forfeitable dividend equivalents. The fair value of the awards is determined and fixed
on the grant date based on the Company’s stock price. PSUs are stock awards where the ultimate number of shares
issued will be contingent on the Company’s performance against a pre-set objective or set of objectives. The fair
value of each PSU is determined on the date of grant based on the Company’s stock price. Over the performance
period, the number of shares of stock that are expected to be issued will be adjusted based on the probability of
achievement of a performance target and final compensation expense will be recognized based on the ultimate
number of shares issued. Both PSU and RSU payouts will be in shares of Company stock after the end of the vesting
or performance period, generally three years, subject to the terms applicable to such awards.
The Company recognizes employee share-based compensation expense pursuant to FASB Statement
No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, which requires the recognition of the fair value of share-based compensation in net
income, which the Company recognizes on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. In addition, the
Company applied the provisions of FASB Staff Position 123R-3, Transition Election Related to Accounting for the
Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards , which provided the Company an optional short-cut method for
calculating the historical pool of windfall tax benefits. Compensation expense is recognized immediately for awards
granted to retirement-eligible employees or over the period from the grant date to the date retirement eligibility is
achieved. This approach is known as the non-substantive vesting period approach. Total pretax share-based
compensation cost recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income in 2008, 2007, and 2006 was $348.0 million,
$330.2 million and $312.5 million, respectively, with related income tax benefits of $107.5 million, $104.1 million
and $98.5 million, respectively.
The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model for determining the fair value of option grants.
In applying this model, the Company uses both historical data and current market data to estimate the fair value of its
options. The Black-Scholes model requires several assumptions including expected dividend yield, risk-free interest
rate, volatility, and term of the options. The expected dividend yield is based on historical patterns of dividend
payments. The risk-free rate is based on the rate at grant date of zero-coupon U.S. Treasury Notes with a term equal
to the expected term of the option. Expected volatility is estimated using a blend of historical and implied volatility.
The historical component is based on historical monthly price changes. The implied volatility is obtained
125Table of Contents
from market data on the Company’s traded options. The expected life represents the expected amount of time that
options granted are expected to be outstanding, based on historical and forecasted exercise behavior.
The weighted average fair value of options granted in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $9.80, $9.51 and $7.25 per
option, respectively, and were determined using the following assumptions:
Y ears Ended December 31 2 008 2 007 2 006
E xpected dividend yield 3.5% 3.4 % 4.2 %
Risk-free interest rate 2.7% 4.4 % 4.6%
Expected volatility 3 1.0 % 24.6 % 26.5 %
Expected life (years) 6.1 5.7 5.7
Summarized information relative to the Company’s stock option plans activity (options in thousands) is as
follows:
Weighted
Weighted Average
Average Remaining Aggregate
Number Exercise Contractual Intrinsic
of Options Price Term Value
Balance as of January 1, 2008 243,014.1 $ 53.47
Granted 35,542.7 43.35
Exercised (2,856.4 ) 35.83
Forfeited (28,049.1 ) 59.97
O utstanding as of December 31, 2008 247,651.3 $ 51.50 5.17 $ 13.7
Exercisable as of December 31, 2008 180,678.1 $ 54.63 3.95 $ 13.3
Additional information pertaining to the Company’s stock option plans is provided in the table below:
Y ears Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006
Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised $ 40.3 $ 301.2 $ 67.3
Fair value of stock options vested $ 259.0 $ 251.1 $ 857.4
Cash received from the exercise of stock options $ 102.3 $ 898.6 $ 369.9
A summary of the Company’s nonvested RSU and PSU activity (shares in thousands) is as follows:
R SUs P S Us (1 )
Weighted Weighted
Average Average
Number Grant Date Number Grant Date
of Shares Fair Value of Shares Fair Value
Nonvested as of January 1, 2008 5,423.3 $ 37.26 1,406.8 $ 37.75
Granted 3,337.6 37.81 742.2 44.30
Vested (2,267.9 ) 31.68 (416.3) 31.99
Forfeited (200.8 ) 41.91 (111.3) 43.14
N onvested at December 31, 2008 6,292.2 $ 39.41 1,621.4 $ 41.86
(1) The PSU rollforward excludes 83.2 thousand additional shares that were ultimately issued/vested during 2008 in connection with PSUs
granted in 2005 that exceeded anticipated performance targets.
At December 31, 2008, there was $444.1 million of total pretax unrecognized compensation expense related
to nonvested stock options, RSU and PSU awards which will be recognized over a weighted average period of
2.0 years. For segment reporting, share-based compensation costs are unallocated expenses.
126Table of Contents
13. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans
The Company has defined benefit pension plans covering eligible employees in the United States and in
certain of its international subsidiaries. Pension benefits in the United States are based on a formula that considers
final average pay and years of credited service. In addition, the Company provides medical, dental and life insurance
benefits, principally to its eligible U.S. retirees and similar benefits to their dependents, through its other
postretirement benefit plans. The Company uses December 31 as the year-end measurement date for all of its pension
plans and other postretirement benefit plans.
The net cost for the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans consisted of the following
components:
Ot h er Po stretir e men t
Pension Benefits Benefits
Years Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
Service cost $ 344.1 $ 377.2 $ 363.7 $ 73.2 $ 90.8 $ 91.3
Interest cost 414.2 379.9 341.3 113.8 107.7 100.1
Expected return on plan assets (559.4) (491.4) (436.8) (129.0) (130.5) (112.6 )
Net amortization 70.4 149.4 169.4 (22.6 ) (16.8 ) 1.9
Termination benefits 62.3 25.6 29.7 11.2 7.7 3.6
Curtailments 5.7 1.1 - (15.9 ) (16.8 ) (2.6 )
Settlements 8.6 5.4 14.7 - - -
N et pension and other postretirement cost $ 345.9 $ 447.2 $ 482.0 $ 30.7 $ 42.1 $ 81.7
The net pension cost attributable to U.S. plans included in the above table was $226.4 million in 2008,
$302.2 million in 2007 and $327.2 million in 2006.
In connection with the Company’s restructuring actions (see Note 3), Merck recorded termination charges
in 2008, 2007 and 2006 on its pension and other postretirement benefit plans related to expanded eligibility for
certain employees exiting the Company. Also, in connection with these restructuring activities, the Company
recorded net curtailment losses in 2008 and 2007 on its pension plans and net curtailment gains in 2008, 2007 and
2006 on its other postretirement benefit plans.
In 2006, amendments that changed participant contributions for other postretirement benefit plans generated
curtailment gains.
In addition, the Company recorded settlement losses in 2008, 2007 and 2006 on certain of its domestic and
international pension plans.
127Table of Contents
Summarized information about the changes in plan assets and benefit obligation, the funded status and the
amounts recorded at December 31, 2008 and 2007 is as follows:
O ther Po s treti rement
Pension Benefits Benefits
2008 2007 2008 2007
Fair value of plan assets at January 1 $ 7,385.4 $7 ,056.7 $1 ,577.6 $ 1,484.2
Actual return on plan assets (2,049.7 ) 498.4 (512.0) 95.0
Company contributions 1,115.8 185.3 70.2 44.8
Benefits paid from plan assets (568.2 ) (362.5 ) (47.4) (46.4 )
Other 4.3 7.5 - -
F air value of plan assets at December 31 $ 5,887.6 $7 ,385.4 $1 ,088.4 $ 1,577.6
Benefit obligation at January 1 $ 7,049.4 $6 ,926.8 $1 ,936.8 $ 1,821.8
Service cost 344.1 377.2 73.2 90.8
Interest cost 414.2 379.9 113.8 107.7
Actuarial losses (gains) 167.8 (242.9 ) (136.4) (12.7 )
Benefits paid (643.2 ) (391.8 ) (76.7) (80.1 )
Plan amendments - (20.9 ) (180.6) (8.0 )
Curtailments (249.6 ) (5.6 ) 6.0 9.6
Termination benefits 62.3 25.6 11.2 7.7
Other (4.9 ) 1.1 - -
B enefit obligation at December 31 $ 7,140.1 $7 ,049.4 $1 ,747.3 $ 1,936.8
Funded status at December 31 $ (1,252.5 ) $ 336.0 $ (658.9) $ (359.2 )
Recognized as:
Other assets $ 142.4 $1 ,132.3 $ 147.7 $ 387.9
Accrued and other current liabilities (46.8 ) (37.3 ) (3.4) (3.8 )
Deferred income taxes and noncurrent liabilities (1,348.1 ) (759.0 ) (803.2) (743.3 )
The fair value of U.S. pension plan assets included in the preceding table was $3.5 billion in 2008 and
$4.4 billion in 2007. The pension benefit obligation of U.S. plans included in this table was $4.6 billion in 2008 and
$4.3 billion in 2007.
The weighted average asset allocations of the investment portfolio for the pension and other postretirement
benefit plans at December 31 are as follows:
O ther
Pension Benefits Postretirement Benefits
Target 2008 2007 Target 2008 2007
U.S. equities 36% 36% 38% 55% 53% 55%
International equities 31% 25% 34% 26% 21% 29%
Fixed-income investments 28% 32% 24% 17% 23% 16%
Real estate and other investments 4% 4 % 3 % 0 % 0 % 0%
Cash and cash equivalents 1% 3 % 1 % 2 % 3 % 0%
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
The target investment portfolios for the Company’s pension plans are determined by country based on the
nature of the liabilities and considering the demographic composition of the plan participants (average age, years of
128Table of Contents
service and active versus retiree status) and local regulations. Other investments include insurance contracts for
certain international pension plans. The target investment portfolio asset allocation for the Company’s other
postretirement benefit plans is consistent with the long-term nature of the plans’ benefit obligation and is well
diversified among the asset classes in which the portfolio invests. The actual return on plan assets for pension and
other postretirement benefit plans reflects the portfolios’ allocation to global equity markets which delivered
significant negative returns during 2008.
As a result of the decline in plan assets noted above, the Company contributed $765.9 million to its pension
plans and other postretirement benefit plans during the fourth quarter of 2008. Contributions to the pension plans and
other postretirement benefit plans during 2009 are expected to be $600.0 million and $60.0 million, respectively.
Expected benefit payments are as follows:
Other
Pension Postretirement
Benefits Benefits
2009 $ 320.1 $ 79.5
2010 328.4 86.0
2011 357.5 92.4
2012 388.4 97.7
2013 421.3 103.3
2014 - 2018 2,759.2 606.8
Expected benefit payments are based on the same assumptions used to measure the benefit obligations and
include estimated future employee service.
At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the accumulated benefit obligation was $5.7 billion and $5.6 billion,
respectively, for all pension plans. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the accumulated benefit obligation for
U.S. pension plans was $3.4 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively.
For pension plans with benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007, the fair
value of plan assets was $4.8 billion and $558.3 million, respectively, and the benefit obligation was $6.2 billion and
$1.4 billion, respectively. For those plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, the fair value of plan assets was $414.5 million and $4.4 million, respectively, and the
accumulated benefit obligation was $880.0 million and $405.0 million, respectively.
Effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 106 and 132R
(“FAS 158”), except for the requirement to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the Company’s fiscal
year end, which was effective as of December 31, 2008. FAS 158 required the Company to fully recognize the
funded status of its benefit plans. Each overfunded plan is recognized as an asset and each underfunded plan is
recognized as a liability. Previously unrecognized net losses and unrecognized plan changes are recognized as a
component of AOCI (see Note 17).
129Table of Contents
Net loss amounts reflect experience differentials primarily relating to differences between expected and
actual returns on plan assets as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions. Net loss amounts in excess of
certain thresholds are amortized into net pension and other postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining
service life of employees. The following amounts were reflected as components of Other comprehensive income:
Other
Pension Postretirement
Year Ended December 31, 2008 Plans Benefit Plans Total
Net loss arising during the period $ (2,586.0 ) $ (509.3) $ (3,095.3 )
Prior service credit arising during the period 10.6 157.7 168.3
$ (2,575.4 ) $ (351.6) $ (2,927.0 )
N et loss amortization included in benefit cost $ 50.8 $ 26.1 $ 76.9
Prior service cost (credit) amortization included in benefit cost 7.6 (48.7) (41.1 )
$ 58.4 $ (22.6) $ 35.8
Year Ended December 31, 2007
N et gain (loss) arising during the period $ 269.1 $ (16.5) $ 252.6
Prior service credit (cost) arising during the period 21.4 (21.2) 0.2
$ 290.5 $ (37.7) $ 252.8
N et loss amortization included in benefit cost $ 139.3 $ 26.6 $ 165.9
Prior service cost (credit) amortization included in benefit cost 12.1 (43.4) (31.3 )
$ 151.4 $ (16.8) $ 134.6
The estimated net loss and prior service cost (credit) amounts that will be amortized from AOCI into net
pension and postretirement benefit cost during 2009 are $106.8 million and $7.9 million, respectively, for pension
plans and are $72.5 million and $(50.0) million, respectively, for other postretirement benefit plans.
The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. The weighted average assumptions
used in determining pension plan and U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plan information are as follows:
U.S. P ens ion an d O ther
Postretirement
Pension Plans Benefit Plans
December 31 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
Net cost
D iscount rate 5.90% 5.35% 5.15% 6.50% 6.00% 5.75%
Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.65% 7.65% 7.65% 8.75% 8.75% 8.75%
Salary growth rate 4.30% 4.20% 4.20% 4.50% 4.50% 4.50%
B enefit obligation
D iscount rate 5.75% 5.90% 5.35% 6.20% 6.50% 6.00%
Salary growth rate 4.25% 4.30% 4.20% 4.50% 4.50% 4.50%
The expected rate of return for both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans represents the
average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits included in the benefit obligation are to
be paid and is determined on a country basis. In developing the expected rate of return within each country, long-
term historical returns data is considered as well as actual returns on the plan assets and other capital markets
experience. Using this reference information, the long-term return expectations for each asset category and a
weighted average expected return for each country’s target portfolio is developed, according to the allocation among
those investment categories. The expected portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active
130Table of Contents
management as appropriate. For 2009, the Company’s expected rate of return of 8.75% will remain unchanged from
2008 for its U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans.
The health care cost trend rate assumptions for other postretirement benefit plans are as follows:
D ecember 31 2008 2007
Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year 9.0% 9.0%
Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline 5.0% 5.0%
Year that the trend rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2016 2015
A one percentage point change in the health care cost trend rate would have had the following effects:
One P ercen tage
Point
Increase Decrease
Effect on total service and interest cost components $ 32.9 $ (26.1 )
Effect on benefit obligation $ 250.0 $ (204.5 )
1 4. Other (Income) Expense, Net
Y ears Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006
Interest income $ (631.4 ) $ (741.1) $ (764.3)
Interest expense 251.3 384.3 375.1
Exchange losses (gains) 147.4 (54.3 ) (25.0 )
Minority interests 123.9 121.4 120.5
Other, net (2,085.4 ) 335.9 (89.0 )
$ (2,194.2 ) $ 46.2 $ (382.7)
The fluctuation in exchange losses (gains) in 2008 from 2007 is primarily due to the higher cost of foreign
currency contracts due to lower U.S. interest rates and unfavorable impacts of period-to-period changes in foreign
currency exchange rates on net long or net short foreign currency positions, considering both net monetary assets and
related foreign currency contracts. The change in Other, net for 2008 primarily reflects an aggregate gain in 2008
from AZLP of $2.2 billion (see Note 8), the impact of a $671 million charge in 2007 related to the resolution of
certain civil governmental investigations, and a 2008 gain of $249 million related to the sale of the Company’s
remaining worldwide rights to Aggrastat , partially offset by a $300 million expense for a contribution to the Merck
Company Foundation, higher recognized losses of $153 million, net, in the Company’s investment portfolio and a
$58 million charge related to the resolution of an investigation into whether the Company violated consumer
protection laws with respect to the sales and marketing of Vioxx (see Note 10). The change in Other, net for 2007
primarily reflects a charge in 2007 related to the resolution of certain civil governmental investigations, partially
offset by the favorable impact of 2007 gains on sales of assets and product divestitures, as well as a net gain on the
settlements of certain patent disputes. Interest paid was $247.0 million in 2008, $406.4 million in 2007 and
$387.5 million in 2006.
131Table of Contents
15. Taxes on Income
A reconciliation between the Company’s effective tax rate and the U.S. statutory rate is as follows:
2 0 08 20 07 20 06
Amount Tax Rate Amount Tax Rate Amount Tax Rate
U .S. statutory rate applied to income before taxes $ 3,432.7 35.0 % $ 1,179.8 35.0 % $ 2,177.5 35.0 %
Differential arising from:
Foreign earnings (1,155.2 ) (11.7 ) (1,196.0 ) (35.5 ) (1,024.1 ) (16.5 )
Foreign tax credit utilization (192.0 ) (2.0 ) - - - -
State tax settlements (191.6 ) (2.0 ) - - - -
Tax exemption for Puerto Rico operations - - - - (87.6 ) (1.4 )
State taxes 310.9 3.2 11.6 0.3 129.6 2.1
Acquired research - - 113.8 3.4 266.9 4.3
Other (1) (205.4 ) (2.1 ) (13.9 ) (0.4 ) 325.3 5.2
$ 1,999.4 20.4 % $ 95.3 2.8 % $ 1,787.6 28.7 %
(1) Other includes the tax effect of minority interests, contingency reserves, research credits, export incentives and miscellaneous items.
The 2007 tax rate reconciliation percentage of (35.5)% for foreign earnings reflects the change in mix of
foreign and domestic earnings primarily resulting from the $4.85 billion U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge.
Income (loss) before taxes consisted of:
Y ears Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006
Domestic $ 5,086.2 $( 2,647.2 ) $2 ,124.4
Foreign 4,721.6 6,017.9 4,097.0
$ 9,807.8 $ 3,370.7 $6 ,221.4
Taxes on income consisted of:
Y ears Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006
Current provision
Federal $ 1,053.6 $ 988.1 $1 ,618.4
Foreign 292.4 687.0 458.3
State 123.3 202.2 241.1
1,469.3 1,877.3 2,317.8
Deferred provision
Federal 419.0 (1,671.5 ) (374.1)
Foreign 55.8 157.2 (130.3)
State 55.3 (267.7) (25.8)
530.1 (1,782.0 ) (530.2)
$ 1,999.4 $ 95.3 $1 ,787.6
132Table of Contents
Deferred income taxes at December 31 consisted of:
2008 2007
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
Other intangibles $ - $ 177.3 $ - $ 229.7
Inventory related 248.6 - 267.4 9.0
Accelerated depreciation - 1,045.1 - 1,096.3
Advance payment - - 338.6 -
Equity investments - 75.1 - 690.2
Pensions and other postretirement benefits 796.5 129.9 239.3 184.0
Compensation related 347.5 - 374.8 -
Vioxx Litigation reserve 1,755.1 - 2,130.0 -
Unrecognized tax benefits 984.1 - 980.8 -
Net operating losses 224.7 - 339.5 -
Other 1,012.9 60.2 899.1 8.7
Subtotal 5,369.4 1,487.6 5,569.5 2,217.9
Valuation allowance (94.2 ) (94.0 )
T otal deferred taxes $ 5,275.2 $ 1,487.6 $ 5,475.5 $ 2,217.9
N et deferred income taxes $ 3,787.6 $ 3,257.6
Recognized as:
Deferred income taxes and other current
assets $ 2,436.9 $ 829.5
Other assets 1,666.7 2,823.7
Income taxes payable $ 3.8 $ -
Deferred income taxes and noncurrent
liabilities 312.2 395.6
The Company has net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards in a number of jurisdictions, the most
significant of which is the United Kingdom with NOL carryforwards of $76.5 million which have no expiration date.
The valuation allowance in both years primarily relates to certain Canadian NOL carryforwards resulting from a legal
entity reorganization.
Income taxes paid in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $1.8 billion, $3.5 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively.
Stock option exercises reduced income taxes paid by $138.4 million in 2007. Stock option exercises did not have a
significant impact on taxes paid in 2008 or 2006.
On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, (“FIN 48”), which resulted in the
recognition of an $81 million decrease in the Company’s existing liability for unrecognized tax benefits, with a
corresponding increase to the January 1, 2007 Retained earnings balance. After the implementation of FIN 48, as of
January 1, 2007, the Company’s liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $5.01 billion, excluding liabilities for
interest and penalties.
133Table of Contents
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
2008 2007
Balance as of January 1 $ 3,689.5 $ 5,008.4
Additions related to current year positions 269.4 284.5
Additions related to prior year positions 64.2 187.8
Reductions for tax positions of prior years (310.5) (87.0 )
Settlements (1) (38.8 ) (1,703.5 )
Lapse of statute of limitations (8.8 ) (0.7 )
B alance as of December 31 $ 3,665.0 $ 3,689.5
( 1) Reflects the settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) discussed below .
If the Company were to recognize the unrecognized tax benefits of $3.66 billion at December 31, 2008, the
income tax provision would reflect a favorable net impact of $2.91 billion.
The Company recognizes interest, penalties and exchange gains and losses associated with uncertain tax
positions as a component of Taxes on Income in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Interest and penalties
associated with uncertain tax positions amounted to $101 million in 2008 and $270 million in 2007. Liabilities for
accrued interest and penalties included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet were $1.68 billion, $1.60 billion and
$2.40 billion as of December 31, 2008, December 31, 2007 and January 1, 2007.
As previously disclosed, the IRS has completed its examination of the Company’s tax returns for the years
1993 to 2001. As a result of the examination, the Company made an aggregate payment of $2.79 billion in February
2007. This payment was offset by (i) a tax refund of $165 million received in 2007 for amounts previously paid for
these matters and (ii) a federal tax benefit of approximately $360 million related to interest included in the payment,
resulting in a net cash cost to the Company of approximately $2.3 billion in 2007. The impact for years subsequent to
2001 for items reviewed as part of the examination was included in the payment although those years remain open in
all other respects. The closing of the IRS examination did not have a material impact on the Company’s results of
operations in 2007 as these amounts had been previously provided for.
The Company reported the results of the IRS adjustments for the years 1993 through 2001 to various state
tax authorities. This resulted in additional tax, as well as interest and penalty payments of $20 million and $9 million,
respectively, in 2008 and $57 million and $67 million, respectively, in 2007, and an equivalent reduction in the
balances of unrecognized tax benefits, accrued interest and penalties.
The amount of unrecognized tax benefits will change in the next 12 months due to the anticipated closure of
various foreign and state tax examinations, including the settlement with the Canada Revenue Agency (“CRA”)
discussed below. The Company estimates that the change could result in a reduction in unrecognized tax benefits of
approximately $1.2 billion.
As previously disclosed, in October 2006, the CRA issued the Company a notice of reassessment
containing adjustments related to certain intercompany pricing matters. In February 2009, Merck and the CRA
negotiated a settlement agreement in regard to these matters. The settlement calls for Merck to pay an additional tax
of approximately $300 million (U.S. dollars) and interest of approximately $360 million (U.S. dollars) with no
additional amounts or penalties due on this assessment. In accordance with FIN 48, the settlement will be accounted
for in the first quarter of 2009. The Company had previously established reserves for these matters. A significant
portion of the taxes paid is expected to be creditable for U.S. tax purposes. The resolution of these matters will not
have a material effect on the Company’s financial position or liquidity, other than with respect to the associated
collateral as discussed below.
In addition, in July 2007 and November 2008, the CRA proposed additional adjustments for 1999 and 2000,
respectively, relating to other intercompany pricing matters. The adjustments would increase Canadian tax due by
approximately $260 million (U.S. dollars) plus $240 million (U.S. dollars) of interest. It is possible that the CRA will
propose similar adjustments for later years. The Company disagrees with the positions taken by the CRA and
believes they are without merit. The Company intends to contest the assessments through the CRA appeals
134Table of Contents
process and the courts if necessary. Management believes that resolution of these matters will not have a material
effect on the Company’s financial position or liquidity.
In connection with the appeals process, during 2007, the Company pledged collateral to two financial
institutions, one of which provided a guarantee to the CRA and the other to the Quebec Ministry of Revenue
representing a portion of the tax and interest assessed. The collateral is included in Deferred income taxes and other
current assets and Other Assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and totaled approximately $1.2 billion and
$1.4 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The guarantees will be reduced and the related collateral
released following payments to the CRA and Quebec Ministry of Revenue, causing the restricted amounts to be
reclassified to cash and investments as appropriate on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The IRS is examining the Company’s 2002 to 2005 federal income tax returns. In addition, various state
and foreign tax examinations are in progress. Tax years that remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions
include Germany from 1999, Italy from 2000 and Japan from 2002.
At December 31, 2008, foreign earnings of $22.0 billion have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary
companies for reinvestment, therefore no provision has been made for income taxes that would be payable upon the
distributions of such earnings. In addition, the Company has subsidiaries operating in Puerto Rico and Singapore
under tax incentive grants that expire in 2028 and 2026, respectively.
1 6. Earnings per Share
The weighted average common shares used in the computations of basic earnings per common share and
earnings per common share assuming dilution (shares in millions) are as follows:
Y ears Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006
A verage common shares outstanding 2,135.8 2,170.5 2,177.6
Common shares issuable (1) 9.5 22.4 10.1
A verage common shares outstanding assuming dilution 2,145.3 2,192.9 2,187.7
( 1) Issuable primarily under share-based compensation plans.
In 2008, 2007 and 2006, 201.2 million, 123.7 million and 222.5 million, respectively, of common shares
issuable under the Company’s share-based compensation plans were excluded from the computation of earnings per
common share assuming dilution because the effect would have been antidilutive.
135Table of Contents
17. Comprehensive Income
The components of Other comprehensive income are as follows:
P retax (1) Tax A fter Tax
Year Ended December 31, 2008
N et unrealized gain on derivatives $ 208.9 $ (83.5) $ 125.4
Net loss realization 43.3 (17.1) 26.2
D erivatives 252.2 (100.6) 151.6
N et unrealized loss on investments (212.9) 79.2 (133.7 )
Net loss realization 116.9 (63.7) 53.2
I nvestments (96.0) 15.5 (80.5 )
B enefit plan net (loss) gain and prior service cost (credit), net of
amortization (2,891.2) 1,129.5 (1,761.7 )
C umulative translation adjustment related to equity investees (37.2) - (37.2 )
$ (2,772.2) $ 1,044.4 $ (1,727.8 )
Year Ended December 31, 2007
N et unrealized loss on derivatives $ (50.5) $ 20.7 $ (29.8 )
Net loss realization 43.0 (17.6) 25.4
D erivatives (7.5 ) 3.1 (4.4 )
N et unrealized gain on investments 106.2 (24.5) 81.7
Net gain realization (36.1) 12.4 (23.7 )
I nvestments 70.1 (12.1) 58.0
B enefit plan net gain (loss) and prior service cost (credit), net of
amortization 387.4 (147.1) 240.3
C umulative translation adjustment related to equity investees 34.4 9.9 44.3
$ 484.4 $ (146.2) $ 338.2
Year Ended December 31, 2006
N et unrealized loss on derivatives $ (111.2) $ 45.2 $ (66.0 )
Net loss realization 25.5 (10.4) 15.1
D erivatives (85.7) 34.8 (50.9 )
N et unrealized gain on investments 33.9 (7.8 ) 26.1
Net loss realization 0.2 (0.2 ) -
I nvestments 34.1 (8.0 ) 26.1
M inimum pension liability 34.8 (12.3) 22.5
C umulative translation adjustment related to equity investees 29.0 (10.1) 18.9
$ 12.2 $ 4.4 $ 16.6
(1) Net of applicable minority interest.
136Table of Contents
The components of Accumulated other comprehensive loss are as follows:
D ecember 31 2008 2007
Net unrealized gain (loss) on derivatives $ 111.9 $ (39.7 )
Net unrealized gain on investments 63.1 143.6
Pension plan net loss (2,440.7 ) (853.6 )
Other postretirement benefit plan net loss (596.5) (305.4 )
Pension plan prior service cost (26.4) (38.0 )
Other postretirement benefit plan prior service cost 309.0 204.1
Cumulative translation adjustment related to equity investees 25.7 62.9
$( 2,553.9 ) $( 826.1 )
At December 31, 2008, $1.4 million of the net unrealized gain on derivatives is associated with options
maturing in the next 12 months, which hedge anticipated foreign currency denominated sales over that same period.
1 8. Segment Reporting
The Company’s operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of two
reportable segments: the Pharmaceutical segment and the Vaccines and Infectious Diseases segment. Segment
composition reflects certain managerial changes that were implemented in early 2008. In addition, in the first quarter
of 2008, the Company revised the calculation of segment profits to include a greater allocation of costs to the
segments. Segment disclosures for prior periods have been recast on a comparable basis with 2008.
The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical products marketed either directly by
Merck or through joint ventures. These products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, sold by prescription,
for the treatment of human disorders. Merck sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug
wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health
maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. The Vaccines and Infectious Diseases
segment includes human health vaccine and infectious disease products marketed either directly by Merck or, in the
case of vaccines, also through a joint venture. Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult
vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. Merck sells these human health vaccines primarily to
physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. A large component of pediatric and
adolescent vaccines is sold to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Vaccines for Children program,
which is funded by the U.S. government. Infectious disease products consist of therapeutic agents for the treatment of
infection sold primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals and government agencies. The Vaccines and
Infectious Diseases segment includes the majority of the Company’s aggregate vaccine and infectious disease
product sales, but excludes sales of these products by non-U.S. subsidiaries which are included in the Pharmaceutical
segment.
137Table of Contents
Other segments include other non-reportable human and animal health segments. The accounting policies
for the segments described above are the same as those described in Note 2. Revenues and profits for these segments
are as follows:
V accines and
Infectious
Pharmaceutical Diseases All Other Total
Year Ended December 31, 2008
S egment revenues $ 19,382.9 $ 4,237.0 $ 81.8 $ 23,701.7
Segment profits 12,400.4 2,798.9 419.3 15,618.6
Included in segment profits:
Equity income from affiliates 1,786.6 121.4 416.2 2,324.2
Depreciation and amortization (96.2) (5.2 ) - (101.4)
Y ear Ended December 31, 2007
S egment revenues $ 19,617.6 $ 4,321.5 $ 162.0 $ 24,101.1
Segment profits 13,430.6 2,625.0 452.7 16,508.3
Included in segment profits:
Equity income from affiliates 2,260.0 65.8 390.1 2,715.9
Depreciation and amortization (131.0) (6.1 ) - (137.1)
Y ear Ended December 31, 2006
S egment revenues $ 19,835.6 $ 2,244.7 $ 162.1 $ 22,242.4
Segment profits 12,476.5 1,253.1 380.7 14,110.3
Included in segment profits:
Equity income from affiliates 1,673.1 72.4 315.2 2,060.7
Depreciation and amortization (153.0) (5.0 ) - (158.0)
Segment profits are comprised of segment revenues less certain elements of materials and production costs
and operating expenses, including components of equity income (loss) from affiliates and depreciation and
amortization expenses. For internal management reporting presented to the chief operating decision maker, the
Company does not allocate the vast majority of indirect production costs, research and development expenses and
general and administrative expenses, as well as the cost of financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain
responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by
these divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment profits.
138Table of Contents
Sales (1) of the Company’s products were as follows:
Y ears Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006
P harmaceutical:
Singulair $ 4,336.9 $ 4,266.3 $ 3,579.0
Cozaar/Hyzaar 3,557.7 3,350.1 3,163.1
Fosamax 1,552.7 3,049.0 3,134.4
Januvia 1,397.1 667.5 42.9
Cosopt/Trusopt 781.2 786.8 697.1
Zocor 660.1 876.5 2,802.7
Maxalt 529.2 467.3 406.4
Propecia 429.1 405.4 351.8
Arcoxia 377.3 329.1 265.4
Vasotec/Vaseretic 356.7 494.6 547.2
Janumet 351.1 86.4 -
Proscar 323.5 411.0 618.5
Emend 263.8 204.2 130.8
Other pharmaceutical (2) 2,278.9 2,422.9 2,780.5
Vaccine and infectious disease product sales included in the Pharmaceutical segment (3) 2,187.6 1,800.5 1,315.8
P harmaceutical segment revenues 19,382.9 19,617.6 19,835.6
V accines (4) and Infectious Diseases:
Gardasil 1,402.8 1,480.6 234.8
ProQuad/M-M-R II/Varivax 1,268.5 1,347.1 820.1
RotaTeq 664.5 524.7 163.4
Zostavax 312.4 236.0 38.6
Hepatitis vaccines 148.3 279.9 248.5
Other vaccines 354.6 409.9 354.0
Primaxin 760.4 763.5 704.8
Cancidas 596.4 536.9 529.8
Isentress 361.1 41.3 -
Crixivan/Stocrin 275.1 310.2 327.3
Invanz 265.0 190.2 139.2
Other infectious disease 15.5 1.7 -
Vaccine and infectious disease product sales included in the Pharmaceutical segment (3) (2,187.6 ) (1,800.5 ) (1,315.8 )
V accines and Infectious Diseases segment revenues 4,237.0 4,321.5 2,244.7
O ther segment revenues (5) 81.8 162.0 162.1
Total segment revenues 23,701.7 24,101.1 22,242.4
O ther (6) 148.6 96.6 393.6
$ 23,850.3 $ 24,197.7 $ 22,636.0
( 1) Presented net of discounts and returns.
( 2) Other pharmaceutical primarily includes sales of other human pharmaceutical products and revenue from the Company’s relationship with
AZLP primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. Revenue from AZLP was $1.6 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion in 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively. In 2006, other pharmaceutical also reflects certain supply sales, including supply sales associated with the
Company’s arrangement with Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories for the sale of generic simvastatin.
( 3) Sales of vaccine and infectious disease products by non-U.S. subsidiaries are included in the Pharmaceutical segment.
( 4) These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Company’s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur
MSD, the results of which are reflected in Equity income from affiliates. These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur
MSD.
( 5) Includes other non-reportable human and animal health segments.
( 6) Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, sales related to divested products or businesses and other
supply sales not included in segment results.
139Table of Contents
Consolidated revenues by geographic area where derived are as follows:
Y ears Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006
United States $ 13,370.5 $ 14,690.9 $ 13,776.8
Europe, Middle East and Africa 5,773.8 5,159.0 4,977.1
Japan 1,823.5 1,533.2 1,479.0
Other 2,882.5 2,814.6 2,403.1
$ 23,850.3 $ 24,197.7 $ 22,636.0
A reconciliation of total segment profits to consolidated Income before taxes is as follows:
Y ears Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006
Segment profits $ 15,618.6 $ 16,508.3 $ 14,110.3
Other profits 90.4 21.8 256.7
Adjustments 424.7 367.7 516.3
Unallocated:
Interest income 631.4 741.1 764.3
Interest expense (251.3 ) (384.3 ) (375.1)
Equity income from affiliates 236.5 260.6 233.7
Depreciation and amortization (1,529.8 ) (1,851.0 ) (2,110.4)
Research and development (4,805.3 ) (4,882.8 ) (4,782.9)
Gain on distribution from AstraZeneca LP 2,222.7 - -
U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge - (4,850.0 ) -
Other expenses, net (2,830.1 ) (2,560.7 ) (2,391.5)
$ 9,807.8 $ 3,370.7 $ 6,221.4
Other profits are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate profits as well as operating profits related
to divested products or businesses and other supply sales. Adjustments represent the elimination of the effect of
double counting certain items of income and expense. Equity income from affiliates includes taxes paid at the joint
venture level and a portion of equity income that is not reported in segment profits. Other expenses, net, include
expenses from corporate and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income (expense), net.
Long-lived assets (1) by geographic area where located is as follows:
Y ears Ended December 31 2008 2007 2006
United States $ 10,546.7 $ 10,943.0 $ 11,542.7
Europe, Middle East and Africa 1,672.5 1,650.3 1,730.7
Japan 756.7 885.3 942.4
Other 987.8 1,035.4 1,353.8
$ 13,963.7 $ 14,514.0 $ 15,569.6
( 1) Long-lived assets are comprised of property, plant and equipment, net; goodwill and intangible assets, net.
The Company does not disaggregate assets on a products and services basis for internal management
reporting and, therefore, such information is not presented.
140Table of Contents
R eport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
T o the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of Merck & Co., Inc.:
I n our opinion, the consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, of retained
earnings, of comprehensive income and of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Merck & Co., Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based
on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these financial
statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report under Item 9A. Our
responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the
financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed
risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A s discussed in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it
accounts for defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans in 2006.
A s discussed in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it
accounts for unrecognized tax benefits in 2007.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that
could have a material effect on the financial statements.
B ecause of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.
P ricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Florham Park, New Jersey
February 26, 2009
141Table of Contents
( b) Supplementary Data
Selected quarterly financial data for 2008 and 2007 are contained in the Condensed Interim Financial Data
table below.
C ondensed Interim Financial Data (Unaudited)
( $ in millions except per share amounts) 4t h Q (1),(2) 3r d Q (2),(3) 2n d Q (2),(4) 1s t Q (2),(5)
2008 (6)
S ales $6,032.4 $5,943.9 $6,051.8 $5,822.1
Materials and production costs 1,470.0 1,477.9 1,396.5 1,238.1
Marketing and administrative expenses 1,862.1 1,730.3 1,930.2 1,854.4
Research and development expenses 1,386.6 1,171.1 1,169.3 1,078.3
Restructuring costs 103.1 757.5 102.2 69.7
Equity income from affiliates (720.0) (665.6 ) (523.0 ) (652.1 )
Other (income) expense, net 3.2 61.8 (81.9 ) (2,177.3 )
Income before taxes 1,927.4 1,410.9 2,058.5 4,411.0
Net income 1,644.8 1,092.7 1,768.3 3,302.6
Basic earnings per common share $0.78 $0.51 $0.82 $1.53
Earnings per common share assuming dilution $0.78 $0.51 $0.82 $1.52
2 007 (6)
S ales $6,242.8 $6,074.1 $6,111.4 $5,769.4
Materials and production costs 1,544.8 1,517.7 1,552.3 1,525.8
Marketing and administrative expenses 1,719.5 1,951.4 2,083.7 1,802.0
Research and development expenses 1,381.7 1,440.5 1,030.5 1,030.0
Restructuring costs 156.2 49.3 55.8 65.8
Equity income from affiliates (796.3) (768.5 ) (759.1 ) (652.6 )
U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge 4,850.0 - - -
Other (income) expense, net 567.4 (180.9 ) (84.0 ) (256.0 )
(Loss) income before taxes (3,180.5 ) 2,064.6 2,232.2 2,254.4
Net (loss) income (1,630.9 ) 1,525.5 1,676.4 1,704.3
Basic (loss) earnings per common share $(0.75) $0.70 $0.77 $0.79
(Loss) earnings per common share assuming dilution $(0.75) $0.70 $0.77 $0.78
( 1) The fourth quarter 2008 tax provision reflects the favorable impact of foreign exchange rate changes and a benefit relating to the U.S.
research and development tax credit. Amounts for the fourth quarter of 2007 include the impact of the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement
charge, a civil governmental investigations charge and an insurance arbitration gain (see Note 10). The fourth quarter 2007 tax provision, in
addition to these items, also reflects the favorable impacts of adjustments relating to certain federal and state tax items.
( 2) Amounts for fourth quarter 2008 and third and second quarter 2007 include the impact of additional Vioxx legal defense reserves (see
Note 10). Amounts for first quarter 2008 include the impact of additional Fosamax legal defense reserves (see Note 10).
( 3) Amounts for third quarter 2007 include acquired research expense associated with an acquisition (see Note 4) and a net gain on the
settlements of certain patent disputes.
( 4) Amounts for 2008 reflect the favorable impact of tax settlements.
( 5) Amounts for 2008 include a gain on distribution from AstraZeneca LP (see Note 8), a gain related to the sale of the Company’s remaining
worldwide rights to Aggrastat , the realization of foreign tax credits and an expense for a contribution to the Merck Company Foundation.
Amounts for 2007 include gains on sales of assets and product divestitures.
( 6) Amounts for 2008 and 2007 include the impact of restructuring actions (see Note 3).
142Table of Contents
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
Not applicable.
I tem 9A. Controls and Procedures.
Management of the Company, with the participation of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on their evaluation,
as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-K, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or
15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Act”)) are effective.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Act. Management conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control — Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). Based
on this evaluation, management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2008. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has performed
its own assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and its attestation
report is included in this Form 10-K filing.
There have been no significant changes in internal control over financial reporting for the period covered by
this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting. As the Company has previously disclosed, it is in the process of a multi-year
implementation of an enterprise wide resource planning system. The implementation of this system in the United
States is planned for 2009, which will include modifications to the design, operation and documentation of its
internal controls over financial reporting. Any material problem with the planned implementation or subsequent
interruption of this system or data contained within could have a material effect on the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting. The Company will plan for contingency measures to minimize the risk of any
disruption.
M anagement’s Report
M anagement’s Responsibility for Financial Statements
Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the Company’s financial statements rests with
management. The financial statements report on management’s stewardship of Company assets. These statements are
prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and, accordingly, include amounts that are
based on management’s best estimates and judgments. Nonfinancial information included in the Annual Report on
Form 10-K has also been prepared by management and is consistent with the financial statements.
To assure that financial information is reliable and assets are safeguarded, management maintains an
effective system of internal controls and procedures, important elements of which include: careful selection, training
and development of operating and financial managers; an organization that provides appropriate division of
responsibility; and communications aimed at assuring that Company policies and procedures are understood
throughout the organization. A staff of internal auditors regularly monitors the adequacy and application of internal
controls on a worldwide basis.
To ensure that personnel continue to understand the system of internal controls and procedures, and policies
concerning good and prudent business practices, the Company periodically conducts the Management’s Stewardship
Program for key management and financial personnel. This program reinforces the importance and understanding of
internal controls by reviewing key corporate policies, procedures and systems. In addition, the Company has
compliance programs, including an ethical business practices program to reinforce the Company’s long-standing
commitment to high ethical standards in the conduct of its business.
The financial statements and other financial information included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly
present, in all material respects, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our
143Table of Contents
formal certification to the Securities and Exchange Commission is included in this Form 10-K filing. In addition, in
May 2008, the Company submitted to the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) a certificate of the CEO certifying
that he was not aware of any violation by the Company of NYSE Corporate Governance Listing Standards.
M anagement’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company’s
internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. Management conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control — Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this
evaluation, management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31,
2008.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls
may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, has
been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their
report which appears herein.
Richard T. Clark
Chairman, President Peter N. Kellogg
and Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer
I tem 9B. Other Information.
None.
PART III
I tem 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.
The required information on directors and nominees is incorporated by reference from the discussion under
Item 1. Election of Directors of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
April 28, 2009. Information on executive officers is set forth in Part I of this document on pages 42 through 44.
The required information on compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is
incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 28, 2009.
The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct — Our Values and Standards applicable to all employees,
including the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer. The Code of
Conduct is available on the Company’s website at www.merck.com/about/corporategovernance . The Company
intends to post on this website any amendments to, or waivers from, its Code of Conduct. A printed copy will be
sent, without charge, to any stockholder who requests it by writing to the Chief Ethics Officer of Merck & Co., Inc.,
One Merck Drive, Whitehouse Station, NJ 08889-0100.
144Table of Contents
The required information on the identification of the audit committee and the audit committee financial
expert is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading “Board Committees” of the Company’s
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 28, 2009.
I tem 11. Executive Compensation.
The information required on executive compensation is incorporated by reference from the discussion under
the headings “Compensation Discussion and Analysis”, “Summary Compensation Table”, “All Other Compensation”
table, “Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table”, “Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Table”, “Option
Exercises and Stock Vested Table”, Retirement Plan Benefits and related “Pension Benefits” table, Nonqualified
Deferred Compensation and related tables, Potential Payments on Termination or Change in Control, including the
discussion under the subheadings “Separation”, “Separation Plan Payment and Benefit Estimates” table, “Individual
Agreements”, “Change in Control” and “Change in Control Payment and Benefit Estimates” table, as well as all
footnote information to the various tables, of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held April 28, 2009.
The required information on director compensation is incorporated by reference from the discussion under
the heading “Director Compensation” and related “Director Compensation” table and “Schedule of Director Fees”
table of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 28, 2009.
The required information under the headings “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation” and “Compensation and Benefits Committee Report” is incorporated by reference from the Company’s
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 28, 2009.
I tem 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters.
Information with respect to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is
incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading “Equity Compensation Plan Information” of the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 28, 2009. Information with
respect to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated by reference from the
discussion under the heading “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” of the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 28, 2009.
I tem 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.
The required information on transactions with related persons is incorporated by reference from the
discussion under the heading “Related Person Transactions” of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 28, 2009.
The required information on director independence is incorporated by reference from the discussion under
the heading “Independence of Directors” of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held April 28, 2009.
I tem 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services.
The information required for this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under “Audit
Committee” beginning with the caption “Pre-Approval Policy for Services of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm” through “All Other Fees” of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held April 28, 2009.
145Table of Contents
PART IV
I tem 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.
(a) The following documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K
1. Financial Statements
Consolidated statement of income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006
Consolidated statement of retained earnings for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006
Consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2008 and 2007
Consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting firm
146Table of Contents
2. Financial Statement Schedules
Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership Combined Financial Statements
M erck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership
Combined Statements of Net Sales and Contractual Expenses
Years Ended December 31,
($ in millions)
2008 2007 2006
Net sales $ 4,561 $ 5,186 $ 3,884
C ost of sales 176 216 179
Selling, general and administrative 1,062 1,151 1,056
Research and development 168 156 161
1,406 1,523 1,396
I ncome from operations $ 3,155 $ 3,663 $ 2,488
M erck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership
Combined Balance Sheets
December 31,
($ in millions)
2 0 08 2007
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents $ 204 $ 491
Accounts receivable, net 311 402
Inventories 79 105
Prepaid expenses and other assets 14 16
Total assets $ 608 $ 1,014
Liabilities and Partners’ Capital
Rebates payable $ 263 $ 377
Payable to Merck, net 81 119
Payable to Schering-Plough, net 100 115
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 44 45
Total liabilities 488 656
Commitments and contingent liabilities (notes 3 and 5)
Partners’ capital 120 358
Total liabilities and Partners’ capital $ 608 $ 1,014
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined financial statements.
147Table of Contents
Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership
Combined Statements of Cash Flows
Years Ended December 31,
($ in millions)
2008 2007 2006
Operating Activities:
Income from operations $ 3,155 $ 3,663 $ 2,488
Adjustments to reconcile income from operations to net cash provided by operating
activities:
Accounts receivable, net 91 (109) (63 )
Inventories 26 (18) (21 )
Prepaid expenses and other assets 2 (2) (1 )
Rebates payable (114 ) 106 151
Payable to Merck and Schering-Plough, net (53) 1 (130 )
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (1) 38 5
Non-cash charges 68 60 52
Net cash provided by operating activities 3,174 3,739 2,481
F inancing Activities:
Contributions from Partners 407 722 721
Distributions to Partners (3,868) (4,006) (3,206 )
Net cash used for financing activities (3,461) (3,284) (2,485 )
N et increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (287 ) 455 (4 )
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period 491 36 40
C ash and cash equivalents, end of period $ 204 $ 491 $ 36
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined financial statements.
148Table of Contents
Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership
Combined Statements of Partners’ Capital (Deficit)
($ in millions)
S chering-
Plough Merck Total
Balance, January 1, 2006 $ 33 $ (169 ) $ (136 )
Contributions from Partners 344 429 773
Income from operations 1,273 1,215 2,488
Distributions to Partners (1,648) (1,558) (3,206 )
B alance, December 31, 2006 2 (83) (81 )
Contributions from Partners 276 506 782
Income from operations 1,831 1,832 3,663
Distributions to Partners (1,944) (2,062) (4,006 )
B alance, December 31, 2007 165 193 358
Contributions from Partners 143 264 407
Income from operations 1,665 1,490 3,155
Distributions to Partners (1,964) (1,836) (3,800 )
B alance, December 31, 2008 $ 9 $ 111 $ 120
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined financial statements.
149Table of Contents
Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
1 . Description of Business and Basis of Presentation
D escription of Business
In May 2000, Merck & Co., Inc. (“Merck”) and Schering-Plough Corporation (“Schering-Plough”)
(collectively the “Partners”) entered into agreements (the “Agreements”) to jointly develop and market in the United
States, Schering-Plough’s then investigational cholesterol absorption inhibitor (“CAI”) ezetimibe (marketed today in
the United States as ZETIA and as EZETROL in most other countries) (the “Cholesterol Collaboration”) and a fixed-
combination tablet containing the active ingredients montelukast sodium and loratadine (the “Respiratory
Collaboration”). Montelukast sodium, a leukotriene receptor antagonist, is sold by Merck as SINGULAIR and
loratadine, an antihistamine, is sold by Schering-Plough as CLARITIN, both of which are indicated for the relief of
symptoms of allergic rhinitis. The Respiratory Collaboration was terminated in 2008 in accordance with the
applicable agreements, following the receipt of a not-approvable letter from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(“FDA”) for the fixed-combination tablet.
The Cholesterol Collaboration is formally referred to as the Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership
(the “Partnership”). In December 2001, the Cholesterol Collaboration Agreements were expanded to include all
countries of the world, except Japan. The Cholesterol Collaboration Agreements provide for ezetimibe to be
developed and marketed in the following forms:
• Ezetimibe, a once daily CAI, non-statin cholesterol reducing medicine used alone or co-administered
with any statin drug, and
• Ezetimibe and simvastatin (Merck’s existing ZOCOR statin cholesterol modifying medicine) combined
into one tablet (marketed today in the United States as VYTORIN and as INEGY in most other
countries).
VYTORIN and ZETIA were approved by the FDA in July 2004 and October 2002, respectively. Together,
these products, whether marketed as VYTORIN, ZETIA or under other trademarks locally, are referred to as the
“Cholesterol Products.”
Under the Cholesterol Collaboration Agreements, the Partners established jointly-owned, limited purpose
legal entities based in Canada and the United States through which to carry out the contractual activities of the
Partnership in these countries. An additional jointly-owned, limited purpose legal entity based in Singapore was
established to own the rights to the intellectual property and to fund and oversee research and development and
manufacturing activities of the Cholesterol Collaboration. In all other markets except Latin America, subsidiaries of
Merck or Schering-Plough perform marketing activities for the Cholesterol Products under contract with the
Partnership. These legal entity and subsidiary operations are collectively referred to as the “Combined Companies.”
In Latin America, the Partnership sells directly to Schering-Plough and Merck’s Latin American subsidiaries and
Schering-Plough and Merck compete against one another in the cholesterol market. Consequently, selling, promotion
and distribution activities for the Cholesterol Products within Latin America are not included in the Combined
Companies.
The Partnership is substantially reliant on the infrastructures of Merck and Schering-Plough. There are a
limited number of employees of the legal entities of the Partnership and most activities are performed by employees
of either Merck or Schering-Plough under service agreements with the Partnership. Profits, which are shared by the
Partners under differing arrangements in countries around the world, are generally defined as net sales minus
(1) agreed upon manufacturing costs and expenses incurred by the Partners and invoiced to the Partnership, (2) direct
promotion expenses incurred by the Partners and invoiced to the Partnership, (3) expenses for a limited specialty
sales force in the United States incurred by the Partners and invoiced to the Partnership, and certain amounts for sales
force physician detailing of the Cholesterol Products in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada and Italy,
(4) administration expenses based on a percentage of Cholesterol Product net sales, which are invoiced by one of the
Partners, and (5) other costs and expenses incurred by the Partners that were not contemplated when the Cholesterol
Collaboration Agreements were entered into but that were subsequently agreed to by both Partners.
150Table of Contents
Agreed upon research and development expenses incurred by the Partners and invoiced to the Partnership are shared
equally by the Partners, after adjusting for special allocations in the nature of milestones due to one of the Partners.
The Partnership’s future results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may differ materially from
the historical results presented herein because of the risks and uncertainties related to the Partnership’s business. The
Partnership’s future operating results and cash flows are dependent on the Cholesterol Products. Any events that
adversely affect the market for those products could have a significant impact on the Partnership’s results of
operations and cash flows. These events could include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with
manufacturing, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments, exclusion from
government reimbursement programs, discontinuation or removal from the market of a product for safety or other
reason, and the results of future clinical or outcomes studies (Note 5).
B asis of Presentation
The accompanying combined balance sheets and combined statements of net sales and contractual
expenses, cash flows and partners’ capital (deficit) include the Cholesterol and Respiratory Collaboration activities of
the Combined Companies. The Respiratory Collaboration activities primarily pertained to clinical development work
and pre-launch marketing activities. Spending on respiratory-related activities ceased in 2008 following termination
of the collaboration, and is not material to the income from operations in any of the years presented.
Net sales include the net sales of the Cholesterol Products sold by the Combined Companies. Expenses
include amounts that Merck and Schering-Plough have contractually agreed to directly invoice to the Partnership, or
are shared through the contractual profit sharing arrangements between the Partners, as described above.
The accompanying combined financial statements were prepared for the purpose of complying with certain
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and reflect the activities of the Partnership based
on the contractual agreements between the Partners. Such combined financial statements include only the expenses
agreed by the Partners to be shared or included in the calculation of profits under the contractual agreements of the
Partnership, and are not intended to be a complete presentation of all of the costs and expenses that would be
incurred by a stand-alone pharmaceutical company for the discovery, development, manufacture, distribution and
marketing of pharmaceutical products.
Under the Cholesterol Collaboration Agreements, certain activities are charged to the Partnership by the
Partners based on contractually agreed upon allocations of Partner-incurred expenses as described below. In the
opinion of management, any allocations of expenses described below are made on a basis that reasonably reflects the
actual level of support provided. All other expenses are expenses of the Partners and are reflected in their separate
consolidated financial statements.
As described above, the profit sharing arrangements under the Cholesterol Collaboration Agreements
provide that only certain Partner-incurred costs and expenses be invoiced to the Partnership by the Partners and
therefore become part of the profit sharing calculation. The following paragraphs list the typical categories of costs
and expenses that are generally incurred in the discovery, development, manufacture, distribution and marketing of
the Cholesterol Products and provide a description of how such costs and expenses are treated in the accompanying
combined statements of net sales and contractual expenses, and in determining profits under the contractual
agreements.
• Manufacturing costs and expenses — All contractually agreed upon manufacturing plant costs and
expenses incurred by the Partners related to the manufacture of the Cholesterol Products are included as
Cost of sales in the accompanying combined statements of net sales and contractual expenses, including
direct production costs, certain production variances, expenses for plant services and administration,
warehousing, distribution, materials management, technical services, quality control, and asset utilization.
All other manufacturing costs and expenses incurred by the Partners not agreed to be included in the
determination of profits under the contractual agreements are not invoiced to the Partnership and,
therefore, are excluded from the accompanying combined financial statements. These costs and expenses
include, but are not limited to, yield gains and losses in excess of jointly agreed upon yield rates and
excess/idle capacity of manufacturing plant assets.
151Table of Contents
• Direct promotion expenses — Direct promotion represents direct and identifiable out-of-pocket expenses
incurred by the Partners on behalf of the Partnership including, but not limited to, contractually agreed
upon expenses related to market research, detailing aids, agency fees, direct-to-consumer advertising,
meetings and symposia, trade programs, launch meetings, special sales force incentive programs and
product samples. All such contractually agreed upon expenses are included in Selling, general and
administrative in the accompanying combined statements of net sales and contractual expenses. All other
promotion expenses incurred by the Partners not agreed to be included in the determination of profits
under the contractual agreements are excluded from the accompanying combined financial statements.
• Selling expenses — In the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and other markets outside the United
States (primarily Italy), the general sales forces of the Partners provide a majority of the physician detail
activity at an agreed upon cost which is included in Selling, general and administrative in the
accompanying combined statements of net sales and contractual expenses. In addition, the agreed upon
costs of a limited specialty sales force for the United States market that calls on opinion leaders in the
field of cholesterol medicine are also included in Selling, general and administrative. All other selling
expenses incurred by the Partners not agreed to be included in the determination of profits under the
contractual agreements are excluded from the accompanying combined financial statements. These
expenses include the total costs of the general sales forces of the Partners detailing the Cholesterol
Products in most countries other than the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and Italy.
• Administrative expenses — Administrative support is primarily provided by one of the Partners. The
contractually agreed upon expenses for support are determined based on a percentage of the net sales of
the Cholesterol Products. Such amounts are included in Selling, general and administrative in the
accompanying combined statements of net sales and contractual expenses. Selected contractually agreed
upon direct costs of employees of the Partners for support services and out-of-pocket expenses incurred
by the Partners on behalf of the Partnership are also included in Selling, general and administrative. All
other expenses incurred by the Partners not agreed to be included in the determination of profits under the
contractual agreements are excluded from the accompanying combined financial statements. These
expenses include, but are not limited to, certain U.S. managed care services, Partners’ subsidiary
management in most international markets, and other indirect expenses such as corporate overhead and
interest.
• Research and development (“R&D”) expenses — R&D activities are performed by the Partners and
agreed upon costs and expenses are invoiced to the Partnership. These agreed upon expenses generally
represent an allocation of each Partner’s estimate of full time equivalents devoted to pre-clinical and
post-marketing clinical development and regulatory activities and include grants and other third-party
expenses. These contractually agreed upon allocated costs are included in Research and development in
the accompanying combined statements of net sales and contractual expenses. All other R&D costs that
are incurred by the Partners but not jointly agreed upon, are excluded from the accompanying combined
financial statements.
2 . Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
P rinciples of Combination
The accompanying combined balance sheets and combined statements of net sales and contractual
expenses, cash flows and partners’ capital (deficit) include the Cholesterol and Respiratory Collaboration activities of
the Combined Companies. Interpartnership balances and profits are eliminated.
U se of Estimates
The combined financial statements are prepared based on contractual agreements between the Partners, as
described above, and include certain amounts that are based on management’s best estimates and judgments.
Estimates are used in determining such items as provisions for sales discounts and returns and government and
managed care rebates. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these
estimates.
152Table of Contents
Foreign Currency Translation
The net assets of the Partnership’s foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars at current exchange
rates. The U.S. dollar effects arising from translating the net assets of these operations are included in Partners’
capital, and are not significant.
C ash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of highly liquid money market instruments with original
maturities of less than three months. In 2007, the Partnership changed certain cash management practices, increasing
the amount of cash held by the Partnership. The Partnership’s cash, which is primarily invested in highly liquid
money market instruments, is used to fund trade obligations coming due in the month and for distributions to the
Partners. Interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents is reported as a reduction to Selling, general and
administrative in the accompanying combined statements of net sales and contractual expenses and amounted to
$10 million, $8 million, and $5 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
I nventories
Substantially all inventories are valued at the lower of first in, first out cost or market.
I ntangible Assets
Intangible assets consist of licenses, trademarks and trade names owned by the Partnership. These
intangible assets were recorded at the Partners’ historical cost at the date of contribution, at a nominal value.
R evenue Recognition, Rebates, Returns and Allowances
Revenues from sales of Cholesterol Products are recognized when title and risk of loss pass to the customer.
Recognition of revenue also requires reasonable assurance of collection of sales proceeds and completion of all
performance obligations.
Net sales of VYTORIN/INEGY and ZETIA/EZETROL for the years ended December 31 are as follows:
$ in millions 2008 2007 2006
Vytorin/Inegy $ 2,360 $ 2,779 $ 1,955
Zetia/Ezetrol 2,201 2,407 1,929
T otal $ 4,561 $ 5,186 $ 3,884
In the United States, sales discounts are issued to customers as direct discounts at the point-of-sale or
indirectly through an intermediary wholesale purchaser, known as chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates.
Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of return under certain conditions. Sales are recorded net
of provisions for sales discounts and returns for which reliable estimates can be made at the time of sale. Reserves for
chargebacks, discounts and returns and allowances are reflected as a direct reduction to accounts receivable and
amounted to $34 million and $44 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Accruals for rebates are
reflected as Rebates payable, shown separately in the combined balance sheets.
I ncome Taxes
Generally, taxable income or losses of the Partnership are allocated to the Partners and included in each
Partner’s income tax return. In some states and other jurisdictions, the Partnership is subject to an income tax, which
is included in the combined financial statements and shared between the Partners. Except for these income taxes,
which are not significant to the combined financial statements, no provision has been made for federal, foreign or
state income taxes. At December 31, 2008, the Partnership had $49 million of deferred tax assets comprised solely of
net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) generated by a branch of a legal entity of the Partnership. These NOLs
expire between 2009 and 2015, and carry a full valuation allowance. In January 2007, the Partnership adopted
Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48) .
Adoption of FIN 48 had no impact on the Partnership’s financial statements.
C oncentrations of Credit Risk & Segment Information
The Partnership’s concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of accounts receivable. The Partnership
does not normally require collateral or other security to support credit sales. Bad debts for the years ended
153Table of Contents
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 have been minimal. At December 31, 2008, three customers each represented
25%, 19% and 17% of Accounts receivable, net. The same three customers each accounted for more than 10% of Net
sales as shown in the table below.
P er cen t o f N et Sa les
2008 2007 2006
McKesson Drug Company 24% 28% 30%
Cardinal Health, Inc. 21% 26% 28%
Amerisourcebergen Corp. 16% 17% 12%
The Partnership derived approximately 65%, 75% and 80% of its combined Net sales from the United
States in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
T ermination of the Respiratory Collaboration
The Respiratory Collaboration was terminated in 2008 in accordance with the applicable agreements,
following the receipt of a not-approvable letter from the FDA for the proposed montelukast/loratadine combination
tablet. As a result of termination, Schering-Plough received $105 million in incremental allocations of Partnership
profits in 2008. Except for the allocation of certain profits, termination had no other impact on the Cholesterol
Collaboration.
3 . Inventories
Inventories at December 31 consisted of:
$ in millions 20 08 2 007
Finished goods $ 31 $ 37
Raw materials and work in process 48 68
T otal $ 79 $ 105
The Partnership has entered into long-term agreements with the Partners for the supply of active
pharmaceutical ingredients (API) and for the formulation and packaging of the Cholesterol Products at an agreed
upon cost. In connection with these supply agreements, the Partnership has entered into capacity agreements under
which the Partnership has committed to take a specified annual minimum supply of API and formulated tablets or
pay a penalty. These capacity agreements are in effect for a period of seven years following the first full year of
production by one of the Partners and expire beginning in 2009. The Partnership had no payment obligation under
the capacity agreements at December 31, 2008.
4 . Related Party Transactions
The Partnership receives substantially all of its goods and services, including pharmaceutical product,
manufacturing services, sales force services, administrative services and R&D services, from its Partners. The
Partnership had a net payable to Merck and Schering-Plough for these services of $81 million and $100 million,
respectively, at December 31, 2008, and $119 million and $115 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007.
Selling, general and administrative expense includes contractually defined costs for physician detailing
provided by Schering-Plough and Merck of $223 million and $201 million, respectively, in 2008, $242 million and
$197 million, respectively, in 2007 and $204 million and $203 million, respectively, in 2006. These expenses are not
necessarily reflective of the actual cost of the Partners’ sales efforts in the countries in which the amounts are
contractually defined. Included in these amounts are $68 million, $60 million and $52 million in 2008, 2007 and
2006, respectively, relating to contractually defined costs of physician detailing in Italy. These amounts were not
invoiced or paid by the Partnership to the Partners, but are a component of the profit sharing calculation.
Cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expense also include contractually defined costs for
distribution and administrative services provided by Merck and Schering-Plough of $39 million, $34 million and
$27 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These amounts are not necessarily reflective of the actual costs for
such distribution and administrative services.
154Table of Contents
The Partnership also sells Cholesterol Products directly to the Partners, principally to Merck and Schering-
Plough affiliates in Latin America. In Latin America, where the Partners compete with one another in the cholesterol
market, Merck and Schering-Plough purchase Cholesterol Products from the Partnership and sell directly to third
parties. Sales to the Partners are included in Net sales at their invoiced price in the accompanying combined
statements of net sales and contractual expenses and totaled $74 million, $82 million and $61 million in 2008, 2007
and 2006, respectively.
5 . Legal and Other Matters
The Partnership may become party to claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its
business, including product liability and intellectual property. The Partnership records a liability in connection with
such matters when it is probable a liability has been incurred and an amount can be reasonably estimated. Legal costs
associated with litigation and investigation activities are expensed as incurred.
The Partnership maintains insurance coverage with deductibles and self-insurance as management believes
is cost beneficial. The Partnership self-insures all of its risk as it relates to product liability and accrues an estimate of
product liability claims incurred but not reported.
In February 2007, Schering-Plough received a notice from Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc. USA
(“Glenmark”), a generic pharmaceutical company, indicating that it had filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application
(“ANDA”) for a generic form of ZETIA and that it is challenging the U.S. patents that are listed for ZETIA. In
March 2007, Schering-Plough and the Partnership filed a patent infringement suit against Glenmark and its parent
company. The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Glenmark’s ANDA until the earlier of October 2010 or
an adverse court decision, if any. Schering-Plough and the Partnership intend to vigorously defend its patents, which
they believe are valid, against infringement by generic companies attempting to market products prior to the
expiration dates of such patents. As with any litigation, there can be no assurances of the outcomes which, if adverse,
could result in significantly shortened periods of exclusivity.
In January 2008, the Partners announced the results of the Effect of Combination Ezetimibe and High-Dose
Simvastatin vs. Simvastatin Alone on the Atherosclerotic Process in Patients with Heterozygous Familial
Hypercholesterolemia (“ENHANCE”) clinical trial, an imaging trial in 720 patients with heterozygous familial
hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very high levels of LDL “bad” cholesterol and greatly
increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease. Despite the fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/80 mg
(VYTORIN) significantly lowered LDL “bad” cholesterol more than simvastatin 80 mg alone, there was no
significant difference between treatment with ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin alone on the pre-specified
primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of carotid artery walls over two years as measured by ultrasound. There
also were no significant differences between treatment with ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin on the four pre-
specified key secondary endpoints: percent of patients manifesting regression in the average carotid artery intima-
media thickness (“CA IMT”); proportion of patients developing new carotid artery plaques >1.3 mm; changes in the
average maximum CA IMT; and changes in the average CA IMT plus in the average common femoral artery IMT. In
ENHANCE, when compared to simvastatin alone, ezetimibe/simvastatin significantly lowered LDL “bad”
cholesterol, as well as triglycerides and C-reactive protein (“CRP”). Ezetimibe/simvastatin is not indicated for the
reduction of CRP. In the ENHANCE study, the overall safety profile of ezetimibe/simvastatin was generally
consistent with the product label. The ENHANCE study was not designed nor powered to evaluate cardiovascular
clinical events. The Improved Reduction in High-Risk Subjects Presenting with Acute Coronary Syndrome
(“IMPROVE-IT”) trial is underway and is designed to provide cardiovascular outcomes data for
ezetimibe/simvastatin in patients with acute coronary syndrome. No incremental benefit of ezetimibe/simvastatin on
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. In
March 2008, the results of ENHANCE were reported at the annual Scientific Session of the American College of
Cardiology. In January 2009, the FDA announced that it had completed its review of the final clinical study report of
ENHANCE. The FDA stated that the results from ENHANCE did not change its position that an elevated LDL
cholesterol is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and that lowering LDL cholesterol reduces the risk for
cardiovascular disease. The FDA also stated that, based on current available data, patients should not stop taking
VYTORIN or other cholesterol lowering medications and should talk to their doctor if they have any questions about
VYTORIN, ZETIA, or the ENHANCE trial.
155Table of Contents
On July 21, 2008, efficacy and safety results from the Simvastatin and Ezetimibe in Aortic Stenosis
(“SEAS”) study were announced. SEAS was designed to evaluate whether intensive lipid lowering with VYTORIN
10/40 mg would reduce the need for aortic valve replacement and the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality
versus placebo in patients with asymptomatic mild to moderate aortic stenosis who had no indication for statin
therapy. VYTORIN failed to meet its primary end point for the reduction of major cardiovascular events. There also
was no significant difference in the key secondary end point of aortic valve events; however, there was a reduction in
the group of patients taking VYTORIN compared to placebo in the key secondary end point of ischemic
cardiovascular events. VYTORIN is not indicated for the treatment of aortic stenosis. No incremental benefit of
VYTORIN on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been
established. In the study, patients in the group who took VYTORIN 10/40 mg had a higher incidence of cancer than
the group who took placebo. There was also a nonsignificant increase in deaths from cancer in patients in the group
who took VYTORIN versus those who took placebo. Cancer and cancer deaths were distributed across all major
organ systems. The Partners and the Partnership believe the cancer finding in SEAS is likely to be an anomaly that,
taken in light of all the available data, does not support an association with VYTORIN. In August 2008, the FDA
announced that it was investigating the results from the SEAS trial. In this announcement, the FDA also cited interim
data from two large ongoing cardiovascular trials of VYTORIN — the Study of Heart and Renal Protection
(“SHARP”) and the IMPROVE-IT clinical trials — in which there was no increased risk of cancer with the
combination of simvastatin plus ezetimibe. The SHARP trial is expected to be completed in 2010. The IMPROVE-IT
trial is scheduled for completion around 2012. The FDA determined that, as of that time, these findings in the SEAS
trial plus the interim data from ongoing trials should not prompt patients to stop taking VYTORIN or any other
cholesterol lowering drug.
The Partners and the Partnership are committed to working with regulatory agencies to further evaluate the
available data and interpretations of those data, and do not believe that changes in the clinical use of VYTORIN are
warranted.
As previously disclosed, since December 2007, Merck and Schering-Plough have received several letters
addressed to both companies from the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, its Subcommittee on Oversight
and Investigations (“O&I”), and the Ranking Minority Member of the Senate Finance Committee, collectively
seeking a combination of witness interviews, documents and information on a variety of issues related to the
ENHANCE clinical trial, the sale and promotion of VYTORIN, as well as sales of stock by corporate officers of
Merck and Schering-Plough. In addition, since August 2008, the Partners have received three additional letters from
O&I, including one dated February 19, 2009, seeking certain information and documents related to the SEAS clinical
trial. Also, as previously disclosed, the Partners and the Partnership have received subpoenas from the New York and
New Jersey State Attorneys General Offices and a letter from the Connecticut Attorney General seeking similar
information and documents. In addition, the Partners and the Partnership have received five Civil Investigative
Demands (“CIDs”) from a multistate group of 35 State Attorneys General who are jointly investigating whether
violations of state consumer protection laws occurred when marketing VYTORIN. Finally, in September 2008,
Merck and Schering-Plough received a letter from the Civil Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”)
informing them that the DOJ is investigating whether the companies’ conduct relating to the promotion of
VYTORIN caused false claims to be submitted to federal health care programs. The Partners and the Partnership are
cooperating with these investigations and responding to the inquiries. In addition, the Partners and the Partnership
have become aware of or been served with approximately 145 civil class action lawsuits alleging common law and
state consumer fraud claims in connection with the Partnership’s sale and promotion of VYTORIN and ZETIA.
Certain of those lawsuits allege personal injuries and/or seek medical monitoring. These actions, which have been
filed in or transferred to federal court, are coordinated in a multidistrict litigation in the U.S. District Court for the
District Court of New Jersey before District Judge Dennis M. Cavanaugh. The parties are presently engaged in
motions practice and briefing.
While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of the investigations or lawsuits arising from the ENHANCE
and SEAS clinical trials, unfavorable outcomes could have a significant adverse effect on the Partnership’s financial
position, results of operations and cash flows.
156Table of Contents
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
T he Partners of the Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership
W e have audited the accompanying combined balance sheets of the Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership
(the “Partnership”) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, as described in Note 1, and the related combined statements
of net sales and contractual expenses, partners’ capital (deficit) and cash flows, as described in Note 1, for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
management of the Partnership, Merck & Co., Inc., and Schering-Plough Corporation. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
W e conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards as established by the Auditing
Standards Board (United States) and in accordance with the auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Partnership is not required to
have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included
consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate
in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Partnership’s
internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
T he accompanying statements were prepared for the purpose of complying with certain rules and regulations of the
Securities and Exchange Commission and, as described in Note 1, are not intended to be a complete presentation of
the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of all the activities of a stand-alone pharmaceutical
company involved in the discovery, development, manufacture, distribution and marketing of pharmaceutical
products.
I n our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the combined
financial position of the Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership, as described in Note 1, as of December 31,
2008 and 2007, and the combined results of its net sales and contractual expenses and its combined cash flows, as
described in Note 1, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
D eloitte & Touche LLP
Parsippany, New Jersey
February 26, 2009
157Table of Contents
Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted because they are either not required or not
applicable.
Financial statements of other affiliates carried on the equity basis have been omitted because, considered
individually or in the aggregate, such affiliates do not constitute a significant subsidiary.
3. Exhibits
Ex hib it
Number Description
2 .1 —Master Restructuring Agreement dated as of June 19, 1998 between Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc.,
Astra Merck Inc., Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises, Inc., KBI Sub Inc.,
Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a
request for confidential treatment filed with the Commission) — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
2 .2 —Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Merck & Co., Inc., Spinnaker Acquisition Corp., a
wholly owned subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc., dated as of October 30,
2006 — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 30, 2006
3 .1 —Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Merck & Co., Inc. (May 17, 2007) — Incorporated by
reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 17, 2007
3 .2 —By-Laws of Merck & Co., Inc. (as amended effective May 31, 2007) — Incorporated by reference to
Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 31, 2007
4 .1 —Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1991, between Merck & Co., Inc. and Morgan Guaranty
Trust Company of New York, as Trustee — Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to Registration
Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-39349)
4 .2 —First Supplemental Indenture between Merck & Co., Inc. and First Trust of New York, National
Association, as Trustee — Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on
Form S-3 (No. 333-36383)
*10. 1 —Executive Incentive Plan (as amended effective February 27, 1996) — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
*10. 2 —Base Salary Deferral Plan (as adopted on October 22, 1996, effective January 1, 1997) —
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
*10. 3 — Merck & Co., Inc. Deferral Program (amended and restated as of January 1, 2009)
*10. 4 —1996 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of December 19, 2006) — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006
*10. 5 —2001 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of December 19, 2006) — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006
*10. 6 —2004 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of December 19, 2006) — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006
*10. 7 —2007 Incentive Stock Plan (as amended effective December 19, 2006) — Incorporated by reference
to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006
*10. 8 —Merck & Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan — Incorporated by reference to
Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 23, 2004
*10. 9 —Merck & Co., Inc. Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees (amended and restated
effective as of July 11, 2006) — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated
July 11, 2006
*10. 10 —Merck & Co., Inc. Special Separation Program for “Separated” Employees (effective as of January 1,
2009)
*10. 11 —Merck & Co., Inc. Special Separation Program for “Bridged” Employees (effective as of January 1,
2009)
*10. 12 —Merck & Co., Inc. Special Separation Program for “Separated Retirement Eligible” Employees
(effective as of January 1, 2009)
158Table of Contents
Ex hib it
Number Description
*10. 13 —1996 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (as amended April 27, 1999) — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1999
*10. 14 —2001 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (as amended April 19, 2002) — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 2002
*10. 15 —2006 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (effective April 25, 2006; as amended and restated
February 27, 2007) — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2006
*10. 16 — Supplemental Retirement Plan (as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009)
*10. 17 —Retirement Plan for the Directors of Merck & Co., Inc. (amended and restated June 21, 1996) —
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1996
*10. 18 — Plan for Deferred Payment of Directors’ Compensation (amended and restated as of January 1, 2009)
*10. 19 —Offer Letter between Merck & Co., Inc. and Peter S. Kim, dated December 15, 2000 — Incorporated
by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003
*10. 20 —Offer Letter between Merck & Co., Inc. and Peter N. Kellogg, dated June 18, 2007 — Incorporated
by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 28, 2007
10. 21 —Amended and Restated License and Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra AB
and Astra Merck Inc. — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period
ended June 30, 1998
10. 22 —KBI Shares Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc.
and Merck Holdings, Inc. — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period
ended June 30, 1998
10. 23 —KBI-E Asset Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc.,
Astra Merck Inc. and Astra Merck Enterprises Inc. — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10. 24 —KBI Supply Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra Merck Inc. and Astra
Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment filed
with the Commission). — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period
ended June 30, 1998
10. 25 —Second Amended and Restated Manufacturing Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 among Merck &
Co., Inc., Astra AB, Astra Merck Inc. and Astra USA, Inc. — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10. 26 —Limited Partnership Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between KB USA, L.P. and KBI Sub Inc. —
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10. 27 —Distribution Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra Merck Enterprises Inc. and Astra
Pharmaceuticals, L.P. — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period
ended June 30, 1998
10. 28 —Agreement to Incorporate Defined Terms dated as of June 19, 1998 between Astra AB, Merck & Co.,
Inc., Astra Merck Inc., Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises Inc., KBI Sub Inc.,
Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10. 29 —Cholesterol Governance Agreement, dated as of May 22, 2000, by and among MSP Distribution
Services(C) LLC, MSP Marketing Services (C) LLC, MSP Technology (US) Company LLC, Merck
Cardiovascular Health Company, Merck Technology (US) Company, Inc., Schering MSP
Corporation, Schering Sales Management, Inc., Schering Sales Corporation, Schering MSP
Pharmaceuticals L.P., MSP Cholesterol LLC, MSP Singapore Company, LLC, MSD Technology
Singapore Pte. Ltd., MSD Ventures Singapore Pte. Ltd., Osammor Pte. Ltd. (to be renamed Schering-
Plough (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.), Citimere Pte. Ltd. (to be renamed Schering-Plough (Singapore)
Research Pte. Ltd.), Schering Corporation, Schering-Plough Corporation, and Merck & Co., Inc.
(Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment filed with the
Commission) — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended
June 30, 2008
159Table of Contents
Ex hib it
Number Description
10 .30 — First Amendment to the Cholesterol Governance Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2001, by and
among MSP Distribution Services (C) LLC, MSP Marketing Services (C) LLC, MSP Technology
(US) Company LLC, Merck Cardiovascular Health Company, Merck Technology (US) Company,
Inc., Schering MSP Corporation, Schering Sales Management, Inc., Schering Sales Corporation,
Schering MSP Pharmaceuticals L.P., MSP Singapore Company, LLC (the “Singapore Partnership”),
MSD Technology Singapore Pte. Ltd., MSD Ventures Singapore Pte. Ltd., Schering-Plough
(Singapore) Pte. Ltd., Schering-Plough (Singapore) Research Pte. Ltd., Schering Corporation,
Schering-Plough Corporation, and Merck & Co., Inc. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request
for confidential treatment filed with the Commission) — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 2008
10 .31 — Master Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2001, by and among MSP Technology (U.S.) Company
LLC, MSP Singapore Company, LLC, Schering Corporation, Schering-Plough Corporation, and
Merck & Co., Inc. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment filed
with the Commission) — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period
ended June 30, 2008
10 .32 — Master Merial Venture Agreement, dated as of May 23, 1997, by and among Rhône-Poulenc S.A.,
Institut Mérieux S.A., Rhône-Mérieux S.A., Merck & Co., Inc., Merck SH Inc., and Merial Limited
(Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment filed with the
Commission) — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended
June 30, 2008
10 .33 — Form of Voting Agreement made and entered into as of October 30, 2006 by and between Merck &
Co., Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on
Form 8-K dated October 30, 2006
10 .34 — Settlement Agreement, dated November 9, 2007, by and between Merck & Co., Inc. and The Counsel
Listed on the Signature Pages Hereto, including the exhibits thereto — Incorporated by reference to
Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 9, 2007
12 — Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges
21 — Subsidiaries of Merck & Co., Inc.
23 .1 — Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm — Contained on page 162 of this Report
23 .2 — Independent Auditor’s Consent — Contained on page 163 of this Report
24 .1 — Power of Attorney
24 .2 — Certified Resolution of Board of Directors
31 .1 — Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
31 .2 — Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
32 .1 — Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer
32 .2 — Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
Copies of the exhibits may be obtained by stockholders upon written request directed to the Office of the
Secretary, Merck & Co., Inc., P.O. Box 100 — WS 3AB-05, Whitehouse Station, New Jersey 08889-0100.
160Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
D ated: February 27, 2009
MERCK & CO., INC.
By RICHARD T. CLARK
(Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer)
By CELIA A. COLBERT
Celia A. Colbert
(Attorney-in-Fact)
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signatures Title Date
RICHARD T. CLARK Chairman, President and Chief Executive February 27, 2009
Officer; Principal Executive Officer; Director
PETER N. KELLOGG Executive Vice President and Chief Financial February 27, 2009
Officer; Principal Financial Officer
JOHN CANAN Senior Vice President and Global Controller; February 27, 2009
Principal Accounting Officer
LESLIE A. BRUN Director February 27, 2009
JOHNNETTA B. COLE Director February 27, 2009
STEVEN F. GOLDSTONE Director February 27, 2009
WILLIAM B. HARRISON, JR. Director February 27, 2009
HARRY R. JACOBSON Director February 27, 2009
WILLIAM N. KELLEY Director February 27, 2009
CARLOS E. REPRESAS Director February 27, 2009
THOMAS E. SHENK Director February 27, 2009
SAMUEL O. THIER Director February 27, 2009
WENDELL P. WEEKS Director February 27, 2009
PETER C. WENDELL Director February 27, 2009
Celia A. Colbert, by signing her name hereto, does hereby sign this document pursuant to powers of
attorney duly executed by the persons named, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an
exhibit to this document, on behalf of such persons, all in the capacities and on the date stated, such persons
including a majority of the directors of the Company.
By CELIA A. COLBERT
Celia A. Colbert
(Attorney-in-Fact)
161Table of Contents
Exhibit 23.1
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No.
333-146356) and on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-21087, 33-21088, 33-51235, 33-53463, 33-64273, 33-64665, 333-91769,
333-30526, 333-31762, 333-53246, 333-56696, 333-72206, 333-65796, 333-101519, 333-109296, 333-117737,
333-117738, 333-139561 and 333-139562) of Merck & Co., Inc. of our report dated February 26, 2009 relating to the
financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this
Form 10-K.
P ricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
F lorham Park, New Jersey
February 26, 2009
162Table of Contents
Exhibit 23.2
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ CONSENT
We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-146356 on Form S-3 and
Registration Statement Nos. 33-21087, 33-21088, 33-51235, 33-53463, 33-64273, 33-64665, 333-91769,
333-31762, 333-53246, 333-56696, 333-72206, 333-65796, 333-101519, 333-109296, 333-117737, 333-117738,
333-139561 and 333-139562 on Form S-8 of Merck & Co., Inc. of our report dated February 26, 2009, relating to the
combined financial statements of the Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership appearing in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K of Merck & Co., Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2008.
D eloitte & Touche LLP
P arsippany, New Jersey
February 26, 2009
163Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX
Ex hib it
Number Description
2 .1 —Master Restructuring Agreement dated as of June 19, 1998 between Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc.,
Astra Merck Inc., Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises, Inc., KBI Sub Inc., Merck
Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request for
confidential treatment filed with the Commission) — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
2 .2 —Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Merck & Co., Inc., Spinnaker Acquisition Corp., a
wholly owned subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc., dated as of October 30,
2006 — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 30, 2006
3 .1 —Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Merck & Co., Inc. (May 17, 2007) — Incorporated by
reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 17, 2007
3 .2 —By-Laws of Merck & Co., Inc. (as amended effective May 31, 2007) — Incorporated by reference to
Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 31, 2007
4 .1 —Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1991, between Merck & Co., Inc. and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company
of New York, as Trustee — Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to Registration Statement on
Form S-3 (No. 33-39349)
4 .2 —First Supplemental Indenture between Merck & Co., Inc. and First Trust of New York, National
Association, as Trustee — Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on
Form S-3 (No. 333-36383)
*10. 1 —Executive Incentive Plan (as amended effective February 27, 1996) — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
*10. 2 —Base Salary Deferral Plan (as adopted on October 22, 1996, effective January 1, 1997) — Incorporated
by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
*10. 3 — Merck & Co., Inc. Deferral Program (amended and restated as of January 1, 2009)
*10. 4 —1996 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of December 19, 2006) — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006
*10. 5 —2001 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of December 19, 2006) — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006
*10. 6 —2004 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of December 19, 2006) — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006
*10. 7 —2007 Incentive Stock Plan (as amended effective December 19, 2006) — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006
*10. 8 —Merck & Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan — Incorporated by reference to Current
Report on Form 8-K dated November 23, 2004
*10. 9 —Merck & Co., Inc. Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees (amended and restated effective
as of July 11, 2006) — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 11, 2006
*10. 10 —Merck & Co., Inc. Special Separation Program for “Separated” Employees (effective as of January 1,
2009)
*10. 11 —Merck & Co., Inc. Special Separation Program for “Bridged” Employees (effective as of January 1,
2009)
*10. 12 —Merck & Co., Inc. Special Separation Program for “Separated Retirement Eligible” Employees
(effective as of January 1, 2009)
*10. 13 —1996 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (as amended April 27, 1999) — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1999
*10. 14 —2001 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (as amended April 19, 2002) — Incorporated by
reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 2002
*10. 15 —2006 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (effective April 25, 2006; as amended and restated
February 27, 2007) — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2006
*10. 16 — Supplemental Retirement Plan (as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009)Table of Contents
Ex hib it
Number Description
*10. 17 —Retirement Plan for the Directors of Merck & Co., Inc. (amended and restated June 21, 1996) —
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1996
*10. 18 — Plan for Deferred Payment of Directors’ Compensation (amended and restated as of January 1, 2009)
*10. 19 —Offer Letter between Merck & Co., Inc. and Peter S. Kim, dated December 15, 2000 — Incorporated
by reference to Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003
*10. 20 —Offer Letter between Merck & Co., Inc. and Peter N. Kellogg, dated June 18, 2007 — Incorporated by
reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 28, 2007
10. 21 —Amended and Restated License and Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra AB and
Astra Merck Inc. — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended
June 30, 1998
10. 22 —KBI Shares Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc.
and Merck Holdings, Inc. — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period
ended June 30, 1998
10. 23 —KBI-E Asset Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among Astra AB, Merck & Co., Inc.,
Astra Merck Inc. and Astra Merck Enterprises Inc. — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10. 24 —KBI Supply Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra Merck Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals,
L.P. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment filed with the
Commission). — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended
June 30, 1998
10. 25 —Second Amended and Restated Manufacturing Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 among Merck &
Co., Inc., Astra AB, Astra Merck Inc. and Astra USA, Inc. — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10. 26 —Limited Partnership Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between KB USA, L.P. and KBI Sub Inc. —
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10. 27 —Distribution Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra Merck Enterprises Inc. and Astra
Pharmaceuticals, L.P. — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period
ended June 30, 1998
10. 28 —Agreement to Incorporate Defined Terms dated as of June 19, 1998 between Astra AB, Merck & Co.,
Inc., Astra Merck Inc., Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises Inc., KBI Sub Inc.,
Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998
10. 29 —Cholesterol Governance Agreement, dated as of May 22, 2000, by and among MSP Distribution
Services(C) LLC, MSP Marketing Services(C) LLC, MSP Technology (US) Company LLC, Merck
Cardiovascular Health Company, Merck Technology (US) Company, Inc., Schering MSP Corporation,
Schering Sales Management, Inc., Schering Sales Corporation, Schering MSP Pharmaceuticals L.P.,
MSP Cholesterol LLC, MSP Singapore Company, LLC, MSD Technology Singapore Pte. Ltd., MSD
Ventures Singapore Pte. Ltd., Osammor Pte. Ltd. (to be renamed Schering-Plough (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd.), Citimere Pte. Ltd. (to be renamed Schering-Plough (Singapore) Research Pte. Ltd.), Schering
Corporation, Schering-Plough Corporation, and Merck & Co., Inc. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject
to a request for confidential treatment filed with the Commission) — Incorporated by reference to
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 2008
10. 30 —First Amendment to the Cholesterol Governance Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2001, by and
among MSP Distribution Services(C) LLC, MSP Marketing Services(C) LLC, MSP Technology (US)
Company LLC, Merck Cardiovascular Health Company, Merck Technology (US) Company, Inc.,
Schering MSP Corporation, Schering Sales Management, Inc., Schering Sales Corporation, Schering
MSP Pharmaceuticals L.P., MSP Singapore Company, LLC (the “Singapore Partnership”), MSD
Technology Singapore Pte. Ltd., MSD Ventures Singapore Pte. Ltd., Schering-Plough (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd., Schering-Plough (Singapore) Research Pte. Ltd., Schering Corporation, Schering-Plough
Corporation, and Merck & Co., Inc. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential
treatment filed with the Commission) — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for
the period ended June 30, 2008Table of Contents
Ex hib it
Number Description
10. 31 — Master Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2001, by and among MSP Technology (U.S.) Company
LLC, MSP Singapore Company, LLC, Schering Corporation, Schering-Plough Corporation, and
Merck & Co., Inc. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment filed with
the Commission) — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended
June 30, 2008
10. 32 — Master Merial Venture Agreement, dated as of May 23, 1997, by and among Rhône-Poulenc S.A.,
Institut Mérieux S.A., Rhône-Mérieux S.A., Merck & Co., Inc., Merck SH Inc., and Merial Limited
(Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment filed with the
Commission) — Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended
June 30, 2008
10. 33 — Form of Voting Agreement made and entered into as of October 30, 2006 by and between Merck & Co.,
Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. — Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K dated
October 30, 2006
10. 34 — Settlement Agreement, dated November 9, 2007, by and between Merck & Co., Inc. and The Counsel
Listed on the Signature Pages Hereto, including the exhibits thereto — Incorporated by reference to
Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 9, 2007
12 — Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges
21 — Subsidiaries of Merck & Co., Inc.
23. 1 — Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm — Contained on page xxx of this Report
23. 2 — Independent Auditor’s Consent — Contained on page xxx of this Report
24. 1 — Power of Attorney
24. 2 — Certified Resolution of Board of Directors
31. 1 — Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
31. 2 — Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
32. 1 — Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer
32. 2 — Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.Exhibit 10.3
MERCK & CO., INC.
DEFERRAL PROGRAM
(Amended and Restated as of January 1, 2009)TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Article I Administration 1
Article II Eligibility 1
Article III Deferral Into a Deferred Compensation Account 2
Article IV Valuation of Deferred Compensation Accounts 4
Article V Redesignation Within a Deferred Compensation Account 6
Article VI Distribution of Deferred Compensation Accounts 7
Article VII Deductions from Distributions 9
Article VIII Beneficiary Designations 9
Article IX Amendments 9
Article X Claims and Appeal Procedures 10
Article XI Domestic Relations Orders 11
Schedule I Deferral Program Investment Alternatives 12
Schedule II Special Provisions Applicable to Medco Health Employees 13
(i)MERCK & CO., INC. DEFERRAL PROGRAM
The Deferral Program (the “Program”) is an unfunded arrangement intended to permit a select group of management to defer
income that would otherwise be immediately payable to them as annual base salary or under various incentive plans of Merck &
Co., Inc. (the “Merck” or the “Company”). The Program is a “nonqualified deferred compensation plan” within the meaning of
Section 409A of the Code (“Section 409A”).
Anything in the Program to the contrary notwithstanding, the Program shall be interpreted and operated in compliance with the
requirements, if any, of Section 409A (or any successor thereto) as in effect from time to time, including but not limited to
applicable regulations of the U.S. Department of the Treasury or Internal Revenue Service and Treas. Reg. Secs. 1.409A-1
through 1.409A-6 or any successor thereto. Any payment called for under the Program as of a designated date shall be made no
later than a date within the same tax year of a participant, or by March 15 of the following year, if later (or such other dates as
specified in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A 3(d) or any successor thereto); provided further, that the participant is not permitted to
designate the taxable year of payment. Where the Program’s obligation to pay is unclear to the Company, including a dispute
about who is the proper beneficiary of a participant who dies, payment shall be made as soon as adminstratively feasible after the
Program’s obligation becomes clear and at a time permitted by Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-3(g)(4) or any successor thereto.
I. ADMINISTRATION
The Program is administered by the Compensation and Benefits Committee (“Committee”) of the Company’s Board of
Directors. The Committee is composed of non-employee directors only. The Committee shall have responsibility for determining
which investments will be available under the Program, and those investments shall be listed on Schedule I hereto. The
Committee shall make all decisions affecting the timing, price or amount of any and all of the Deferred Compensation of “officers”
as defined in Rule 16a-1(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Section 16 Officers”) other than rules of general
application to all Participants, but may otherwise delegate any of its authority under this Program.
II. ELIGIBILITY
A. Salaried employees of Merck & Co., Inc. who are based in and subject to U.S. income taxes are eligible to make an election to
defer into the Program if they are in Bands 1 through 3 (or successor level according to Merck’s assignment as in effect from time
to time) according to Merck’s payroll system on the date by which initial elections must be made for a year. Otherwise, eligibility to
defer under this Program will be determined in accordance with the terms of the Company’s Base Salary Deferral Plan and
various incentive plans and the Committee may refuse to permit any employee or class of employees to participate in this
Program.
B. Anything in the Program to the contrary notwithstanding, the following are not eligible to make an election: any person who
(1) is an independent contractor for the Company or its affiliates; (2) agrees or has agreed that he or she is an independent
contractor for the Company; (3) has an agreement or understanding with the Company or its affiliates that such person is not an
employee, even if that person previously has been an employee; or (4) is employed by a temporary or other employment agency,
regardless of the amount of control, supervision ortraining provided by the Company or its affiliates. The foregoing exclusion applies even if a court, agency or other authority rules
that the person happens to be a common law employee of the Company or its affiliates. Also excluded are individuals who are
included in a unit of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement between employee representatives and one or more
employers; provided, however, that such an employee may be an eligible employee during the period he or she is not covered by
covered by a collective bargaining agreement and during which he or she otherwise is eligible to participate according to Article II,
Section A.
C. A person who has made an election into the Program pursuant to Section A above shall be a Participant for so long as he or
she has an account balance, but cannot make another election to defer unless he or she is then eligible pursuant to Article II,
Section A. If a person has made an election to defer but thereafter becomes ineligible to defer (for example, a Band 3 employee
becomes a Band 4 employee), the election nonetheless will be given effect.
III. DEFERRAL INTO A DEFERRED COMPENSATION ACCOUNT
A. Initial Election to Defer
To defer, a participant must irrevocably elect to defer under the Program by the earlier of the time specified in Treas. Reg. Sec.
1.409A-2 or any successor thereto or:
1 . Base Salary Deferral Plan , prior to the end of the year preceding the year during which such base salary will be earned. The
amount that may be deferred is
(a) Not less than 5 percent of Annual Base Salary (as defined in the Base Salary Deferral Plan) and
(b) Not more than the lesser of
(1) 50 percent of Annual Base Salary or
(2) The portion of the Participant’s Annual Base Salary that exceeds the amount determined under Section 401(a)(17) of
the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”)
provided, however, that amounts may be expressed in relation to amounts that may be deducted by the Company under
Section 162(m) of the Code.
2. Annual incentive plans (such as the Annual Incentive Plan and the Executive Incentive Plan), prior to the commencement of
the performance year during which the bonus monies to be deferred will be earned, provided :
(a) A participant who is hired by the Company during a performance year may make an election, no later than the 30th day
from the participant’s date of hire, to defer bonus monies to be earned during such performance year, and
(b) The minimum that may be deferred in any year under this Section IV.A.2. is $3,000.
3. Annual grants of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Performance Share Units (PSUs) may be deferred prior to the
commencement of the last year of the award period during which they will be earned. Other RSUs and PSUs may not be
deferred. After 2008, RSUs
2and PSUs for which the deferral election is made after grant must be deferred in compliance with the rules applicable to re-
deferral (as opposed to initial elections) under Section 409A as described in Article VI, Section F. Deferrals of RSUs and PSUs
must be made initially into the Merck Common Stock fund and may not thereafter be reallocated into any other investment
alternative provided pursuant to Schedule I (a “Mutual Fund”).
Amounts so deferred are known as “Deferred Compensation” and will be credited to the participant’s “Deferred Compensation
Account.” Deferred Compensation shall be accounted for in one account regardless of the plan (e.g., Base Salary Deferral or
incentive plan) under which it was deferred, but a separate election to defer applies for each year for base salary, annual
incentive, or grant of RSUs or PSUs, and records shall show each separate election. Further, for purposes of modifications to a
distribution schedule, each such separate election shall be eligible for such a modification. Only amounts described above may be
deferred; stock option gains may not be deferred.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a participant’s Deferral Election will be cancelled if he or she receives a hardship distribution from
the Merck & Co., Inc. Employee Savings & Security Plan or other qualified savings plan with a 401(k) feature maintained by the
Company or its affiliates if and only if such cancellation is required by applicable regulation of the Internal Revenue Service. If a
participant terminates employment or transfers to a class of employees that is ineligible to make a deferral election after having
made a deferral election, the election will nevertheless be effected. If the Company pays an amount that it reasonably believes is
or may be held to be a “substitute payment,” within the meaning of Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(b)(9), for an amount that would
have been deferred pursuant to the foregoing, that substitute payment also will be deferred according to the participant’s election.
B. Initial Election of Distribution Schedule
1. Timing of Election
The participant must elect an initial distribution schedule when making the initial election pursuant to III.A. above.
2. Distribution Schedule
A participant may elect to have payments begin (a) in a particular year (whether or not employment has then ended) or (b) in
the year following the participant’s “Separation from Service” as defined below, or (c) up to 15 years subsequent to the
participant’s Separation from Service. Separation from Service means Separation from Service as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec.
1.409A-1(h) or any successor thereto and includes but is not limited to: retirement; separation due to lack of work; voluntary
resignation; or involuntary termination of employment. It does not include termination of service due to death or commencement of
employment with a joint venture (as described below). A participant may elect a lump sum or a schedule of annual installments, up
to a maximum of 15 annual installments.
3. Manner of Elections
All elections under the Program shall be made with the Program’s designated recordkeeper (the “Recordkeeper”) in the
manner and in accordance with the process approved by the Company’s head of Human Resources Department from time to
time.
34. Default Designation
Where a Participant’s initial election of a distribution schedule is for any reason unclear to the Company (including but not
limited to where a Participant failed to elect when amounts will be distributed), the Participant shall be deemed to have elected to
receive distributions in the year following the year in which occurs his Separation from Service.
C. Election of Investment Alternatives
The participant shall designate, in accordance with procedures established by the Company for such designation, the portion
(in multiples of 1 percent) of the Deferred Compensation to be allocated to any investment alternative available under this
Program.
IV. VALUATION OF DEFERRED COMPENSATION ACCOUNTS
The Deferral Program shall offer as investment alternatives (a) a fund of Merck Common Stock and (b) Mutual Funds.
A. Merck Common Stock
1. Initial Crediting
The amount allocated to Merck Common Stock shall be used to determine the number of full and partial shares of Merck
Common Stock which such amount would purchase at the closing price of Merck Common Stock on the New York Stock
Exchange (“NYSE”) on the date cash payments of base salary, for amounts deferred under the Base Salary Deferral Plan, or
incentive awards, for amounts deferred under the various incentive plans, would otherwise be paid to the participant (the “Deferral
Date”). The Company shall credit the participant’s Deferred Compensation Account with the number of full and partial shares of
Merck Common Stock so determined. However, at no time prior to the delivery of such shares shall any actual shares be
purchased or earmarked for such Account and the participant shall not have any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to
shares credited to his/her Deferred Compensation Account.
2. Dividends
The Company shall credit the Participant’s Deferred Compensation Account with the number of full and partial shares of Merck
Common Stock purchasable at the closing price of Merck Common Stock on the NYSE as of the date each dividend is paid on the
Common Stock, with the dividends that would have been paid on the number of shares credited to such Account (including pro
rata dividends on any partial share) had the shares so credited then been issued and outstanding.
3. Redesignations
The value of Merck Common Stock for purposes of redesignation shall be the closing price of Merck Common Stock on the
NYSE on the first day the NYSE is open after the request is received by the Recordkeeper.
44. Distributions
Distributions of Merck Common Stock will be valued at the closing price of Merck Common Stock on the NYSE on the
Distribution Date.
5. Limitations
Shares of Merck Common Stock to be delivered under the provisions of this Program may be delivered by the Company from
its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock or from Common Stock held in the treasury. The Company also may, in its
sole and nonreviewable discretion, purchase shares on public markets in order to make distributions under the Program.
6. Adjustments
In the event of a reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares, merger, consolidation,
rights offering or any other change in the corporate structure or shares of the Company, the number and kind of shares of Merck
Common Stock available under this Program or credited to participants’ Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be adjusted
accordingly.
7. Fair Market Value of Merck Common Stock
For purposes of valuation of Merck Common Stock, if Merck Common Stock is no longer traded on the NYSE, but is publicly
traded on any other exchange, references to NYSE shall mean such other exchange. If Merck Common Stock is not publicly
traded and if the Committee determines that a measurement of Merck Common Stock on any applicable date would not constitute
fair market value, then the Committee shall decide on the date and method to determine fair market value, which shall be in
accord with any requirements set forth under Section 409A or any successor thereto.
B. Mutual Funds
1. Initial Crediting
The amount allocated to each Mutual Fund shall be used to determine the number of full and partial Mutual Fund shares that
such amount would purchase at the closing net asset value of the Mutual Fund shares on the Deferral Date. The Company shall
credit the participant’s Deferred Compensation Account with the number of full and partial Mutual Fund shares so determined.
However, no actual Mutual Fund shares shall be purchased or earmarked for such Account, nor shall the participant have the
rights of a shareholder with respect to such Mutual Fund shares.
2. Dividends
The Company shall credit the participant’s Deferred Compensation Account with the number of full and partial Mutual Fund
shares purchasable, at the closing net asset value of the Mutual Fund shares as of the date each dividend is paid on the Mutual
Fund shares, with the dividends that would have been paid on the number of shares credited to such Account (including pro rata
dividends on any partial share) had the shares then been owned by the participant for purposes of the above computation.
53. Redesignations
The value of Mutual Fund shares for purposes of redesignation shall be the net asset value of such Mutual Fund at the close of
business on the first day the NYSE is open after the request is received by the Recordkeeper.
4. Distributions
Mutual Fund distributions will be valued based on the closing net asset value of the Mutual Fund shares on the Distribution
Date (as defined below).
5. Adjustments
In the event of a reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares, merger, consolidation,
rights offering or any other change in the corporate structure or shares of a Mutual Fund, the number and kind of shares of that
Mutual Fund credited to participants’ Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be adjusted accordingly.
6. Default Designation
Where a Participant’s designation of investment alternatives is for any reason not clear (including but not limited to where a
Participant failed to make such an election), the Participant shall be deemed to have designated deferrals into the life cycle, target
or similar Mutual Fund with a target date closest to the Participant’s attainment of age 65.
V. REDESIGNATION WITHIN A DEFERRED COMPENSATION ACCOUNT
A. Basic Redesignation Rules
A participant, or the beneficiary or legal representative of a deceased participant, may redesignate amounts credited to a
Deferred Compensation Account among the investments available under this Program in accordance with the following rules:
(1) Eligible Participants —All Participants and beneficiaries may redesignate.
(2) Frequency and Timing — Redesignation shall be effective as of 4:00 p.m. E.T. on the first day the NYSE is open after the
request is received by the Recordkeeper.
(3) Amount and Extent of Redesignation — Redesignation must be in 1% multiples of the investment from which
redesignation is being made.
(4) Beneficiaries or Legal Representatives — The beneficiary or legal representative of a deceased participant may
redesignate subject to the same rules as participants.
B. Special Rules for Redesignation Into or Out of Merck Common Stock
1. Frequency and Timing
For Section 16 Officers, redesignations may only be made into or out of Merck Common Stock during any window period
established by the Company from time-to-time. Redesignation out of Merck Common Stock is restricted to amounts held in Merck
Common Stock for longer
6than six months. Redesignation shall not be permitted to the extent the Company is aware of a transaction that the Company
reasonably believes may cause a violation under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
2. Material, Nonpublic Information
The Committee, in its sole discretion and with advice of counsel, at any time may rescind a redesignation into or out of Merck
Common Stock if such redesignation was made by a participant who, (a) at the time of the redesignation was in the possession of
material, nonpublic information with respect to the Company; and (b) in the Committee’s estimation benefited from such
information in the timing of his/her redesignation. The Committee’s determination shall be final and binding. In the event of such
rescission, the participant’s Deferred Compensation Account shall be returned to a status as though such redesignation had not
occurred. Notwithstanding the above, the Committee shall not rescind a redesignation if the facts were reviewed by the participant
with the General Counsel of the Company or a designee prior to the redesignation and if the General Counsel or designee had
concluded that such participant was not in possession of adverse material, nonpublic information.
C. Conversion of Common Stock Accounts
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, convert all of the shares of Merck Common Stock allocated to a participant’s
Deferred Compensation Account in the manner provided below where a position which a participant has taken or wishes to take
is, in the opinion of the Committee, such as would make uncertain the propriety of the participant’s having a continued interest in
Merck Common Stock. The date of conversion shall be the date of commencement of such other employment or the date of the
Committee’s action, whichever is later.
Conversion shall be from an expression of value in shares of Merck Common Stock in the participant’s Deferred Compensation
Account to an expression of value in United States dollars in another available investment. The value of the Merck Common Stock
shall be based upon its closing price on the NYSE on the date of conversion or if no trading took place on such day, the next
business day on which trading took place. Any conversion under this paragraph shall be irrevocable and absolute.
VI. DISTRIBUTION OF DEFERRED COMPENSATION ACCOUNTS
Distribution of Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be made in accordance with the participant’s distribution schedule pro
rata by investment. Distributions from Merck Common Stock will be made in shares, with cash payable for any partial share,
subject to the limitations set forth in Article IV, Section A.5. For Section 16 Officers, distribution of amounts in Merck Common
Stock is also restricted to amounts held in Merck Common Stock for longer than six months. Distributions from Mutual Funds will
be in cash. Distributions will be valued on the Distribution Date, i.e, the 15 th day of the distribution month (or, if such day is not a
business day, the next business day) and paid as soon thereafter as practicable. Distribution months shall mean only January,
April, July, and October.
7A. Separation from Service
1. Distribution Commences.
Upon a participant’s Separation from Service, Deferred Compensation Accounts will commence in accordance with the
participant’s previously elected schedule. If a participant incurs a Separation from Service and thereafter is rehired by the
Company, such rehire shall be ignored and distributions shall commence notwithstanding such rehire; provided, however, that if
the participant is eligible and elects to make additional deferrals, those additional deferrals may be payable in relation to the
subsequent Separation from Service.
2. Specified Employee.
Anything in the Program to the contrary notwithstanding, to the extent required by Section 409A, distributions on account of a
Separation from Service to a “Specified Employee,” as such term is defined in Section 409A, may not be made before the date
which is 6 months after the date of Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the employee). Where a payment
would have been made to a Specified Employee within such 6-month period and such payment is one of a series of annual
payments, the first payment shall be delayed as necessary and the remaining payments shall be made according to their elected
schedule notwithstanding such delay, such that two otherwise annual payments may be made in a single year.
B. Death
In the event of a participant’s death, whether or not distributions have commenced pursuant to a Participant’s election,
Deferred Compensation Accounts under this Program will be distributed to the participant’s beneficiary or estate in a lump sum as
soon as administratively feasible and in any event by March 15 of the year following death (except as otherwise permitted by
Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-3(g)(4) or any successor thereto).
C. Automatic Distribution
Except as provided in Schedule II, if a participant incurs a Separation from Service and has a Deferred Compensation Account
valued at less than $125,000 on the first Distribution Date thereafter, the Deferred Compensation Account shall be distributed in a
lump sum as soon as administratively feasible following such termination and in any event by March 15 of the year following death
(except as otherwise permitted by Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-3(g)(4) or any successor thereto).
D. Joint Venture Service
A participant’s termination of employment in order to take a position with a joint venture or other business entity in which the
Company shall directly or indirectly own 50 percent or more of the outstanding voting or other ownership interest shall not be
considered a Separation from Service.
E. Hardship Distributions
The Committee shall distribute a participant’s Deferred Compensation Account, if and to the extent a participant applies to
receive a distribution due to an Unforeseeable Emergency as
8defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-3(i). A participant wishing a hardship distribution must provide the Committee or its delegate
with sufficient evidence to prove compliance with Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-3(i).
F. Modifications to Distribution Schedule
After making an initial election, a participant may elect to change his or her distribution schedule from time to time, provided,
however, such changes shall not be permitted if it might reasonably be expected to cause a “plan failure” as such term is used in
Section 409A of the Code. For example, except as otherwise permitted by Section 409A, no election may permit an acceleration
of a distribution, or may become effective earlier than one year from the date it is made, or may permit an additional deferral after
the initial election unless it results in a deferral of at least five additional years from the previously schedule distribution date. For
purposes of this provision, where a participant has elected to receive a distribution as a series of payments, such series shall be
considered a single distribution for purposes of Section 409A. Any such elections shall be made with the Recordkeeper in the
manner and in accordance with the process approved by the Company’s’ head of Human Resources Department from time to
time.
VII. DEDUCTIONS FROM DISTRIBUTIONS
The Company will deduct from each distribution amounts required to be withheld for income, Social Security and other tax
purposes. Such withholding will be done on a pro rata basis per investment. The Company may also deduct any amounts the
participant owes the Company for any reason.
VIII. BENEFICIARY DESIGNATIONS
A participant may designate a beneficiary to receive his/her Deferred Compensation Account upon the participant’s death. If
the beneficiary predeceases the participant or if the participant does not name a beneficiary, the participant’s Deferred
Compensation Account will be distributed to the participant’s estate. Such designation shall be on in the format designated by the
Company’s’ head of Human Resources Department from time to time, and it must be received by the Company’s Human
Resources Department prior to such participant’s death to be valid.
IX. AMENDMENTS
The Committee may amend or terminate this Program at any time. However, such amendment may not retroactively reduce a
participant’s Deferred Compensation Account.
For two years following a change in control of the Company (as such term is defined in the Change in Control Separation
Benefits Plan) the material terms of the Program (including terms relating to eligibility, benefit calculation, benefit accrual, cost to
participants, subsidies and rates of employee contributions) may not be modified in a manner that is materially adverse to
individuals who participated immediately before the change in control. The Company will pay the legal fees and expenses of any
participant that prevails on his or her claim for relief in an action regarding an impermissible amendment to the Program (other
than ordinary claims for benefits) or, if applicable, in an action regarding restrictive covenants applicable to the participant.
9X. CLAIMS AND APPEALS PROCEDURE
10.1. Determination of Claim
An Employee or his/her authorized representative may present a claim for benefits to the Global Benefits Leader or the successor
thereto (the “Director”) or such other person as the Committee may determine to handle claims and appeals from the Program.
The Director will make all determinations as to the Employee’s claim for benefits under the Program. If the Director grants a claim,
benefits payable under the Program will be paid to the Employee as soon as feasible thereafter. If the Director denies in whole or
part any claim for a benefit under the Program, he/she will furnish the claimant with notice of the decision not later than 90 days
after receipt of the claim. If special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim, the Director will provide a
written notice of the extension during the initial 90-day period, in which case a decision will be rendered not more than 180 days
after receipt of the claim. The written notice which the Director will provide to every claimant who is denied a claim for benefits will
set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant:
(a) the specific reason or reasons for the denial;
(b) specific reference to pertinent Program provisions on which the denial is based;
(c) a description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of
why such material or information is necessary; and
(d) appropriate information as to the steps to be taken if the claimant wishes to submit his/her claim for review.
10.2. Appeal of Denied Claim
A claimant or his/her authorized representative may request a review of the denied claim by the Committee. Such request will be
made in writing and will be presented to the Committee not more than 60 days after receipt by the claimant of written notification
of the denial of the claim. The Committee will render its decision on review not later than 60 days after receipt of the claimant’s
request for review, unless special circumstances require an extension of time, in which case a decision will be rendered as soon
as possible but not later than 120 days after receipt of the request for review. The decision on review will be in writing and will
include specific reasons for the decision.
10.3 ERISA Section 503
It is intended that the claims procedure of the Program be administered in accordance with regulations of the Department of Labor
issued under ERISA Section 503.
10.4 Limitation on Action
No action at law or in equity (an “Action”) shall be maintained by a Participant, Beneficiary or other individual, entity or party
(including but not limited to a person determined to be other than a Participant or Beneficiary) (a “Claimant”) against the Program,
the Company, their affiliates, agents, fiduciaries, officers, directors, employees, successors, assigns or plans (collectively, the
“Program Group”) unless (a) the Claimant has presented every basis or argument in support of the Action (a “Claim”) in strict
accordance with both Sections 6.1 and 6.2 which Claim is denied in whole or in part and (b) unless the Action is commenced no
later than one year after the date the Company provides notice of the adverse decision pursuant to Section 6.2. Where the
10Company puts the Claimant on notice of the Company’s or Program’s intention with respect to the basis or argument in support of
the Action, the Claimant must commence the process described in Section 10.1 within one year of such notice. A “Claim” includes
but is not limited to a claim for benefits and a purported or actual fiduciary breach by any member of the Program Group. The
limitation of Action may only be tolled by a writing executed by the Director.
XI. DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDERS
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Program to the contrary, the creation, assignment or recognition of a right to any
benefit payable with respect to a Participant pursuant to a “domestic relations order” (as hereinafter defined) is not prohibited. In
the event a right to a benefit hereunder is established pursuant to a domestic relations order, any benefit otherwise payable to the
Participant or his/her beneficiary hereunder shall be appropriately reduced to reflect the effect of the qualified domestic relations
order. For purposes of the Program, “Alternate Payee” means a person who would be an alternate payee under Section 414(p)(8)
of the Code if the Program were subject to Section 401(a) of the Code. A “domestic relations order” shall mean any judgment,
decree or order, including the approval of a property settlement agreement, provided that:
(a) the order relates to the provision of child support, alimony or marital property rights and is made pursuant to state
domestic relations or community property laws;
(b) the order creates or recognizes the existence of an Alternate Payee’s right to receive all or a portion of the Participant’s
Account Balance;
(c) the order specifies the name and last known mailing address of the Participant and each Alternate Payee covered by the
order;
(d) the order precisely and unambiguously specifies the amount or percentage of the Participant’s Account Balance to be
paid to each Alternate Payee or the manner in which the amount or percentage is to be determined;
(e) the order clearly specifies that it applies to this Program;
(f) the order does not require this Program to provide any type of benefits or form of benefits not otherwise provided under
this Program;
(g) the order provides that the Alternate Payee shall receive his or her interest in the Program in a lump sum as soon as
administratively feasible following determination by the Company’s legal department (or its delegate) that the order satisfies the
requirements of this Article.
11SCHEDULE I
DEFERRAL PROGRAM INVESTMENT ALTERNATIVES
“ Mutual Funds” shall mean all of the same investment alternatives offered under the Merck & Co., Inc. Employee Savings and
Security Plan as in effect from time to time, excluding participant loans and Merck Common Stock.
The Merck Common Stock fund offered under the Deferral Program shall be measured as if it were invested 100% in Merck
Common Stock with dividends reinvested in additional shares of Merck Common Stock.
12SCHEDULE II
SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO
MEDCO HEALTH EMPLOYEES
(Approved July 23, 2002)
DEFINITIONS
Medco Health — Medco Health Solutions, Inc.
Medco Health Employee — A participant who is (i) employed by Medco Health prior to the Spin-Off or (ii) employed by Merck prior
to the Spin-Off and expected to be employed by Medco Health prior to or as of the Spin-Off.
Separated Medco Health Employee — A participant in the Deferral Program who is employed by Medco Health as of the date of
the Spin-Off and is considered to have terminated employment with the Company as a result of the Spin-Off.
Spin-Off — The distribution by Merck to its shareholders of the equity securities of Medco Health. The Spin-Off will be a divestiture
for purposes of the Deferral Program.
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Article VI, Section C of the Deferral Program, the Deferred Compensation Account of
each Separated Medco Health Employee shall be paid out in accordance with Article VI, Section D, without regard to the
$125,000 threshold set forth in Section C.
13Exhibit 10.10
MERCK & CO., INC.
SPECIAL SEPARATION PROGRAM
FOR
“SEPARATED” EMPLOYEES
Eligible Employees: Employees of Merck & Co., Inc. who are not subject to a collective bargaining agreement and:
(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or between January 1,
2009 through December 31, 2011; and
(2) who, as of their Separation Date are
• Less than age 49; or
• At least age 49 but not yet age 64 with less than 9 years of Credited Service
Effective Date: As of January 1, 2009This document summarizes the benefits for which a “Separated Employee” may be eligible under the Special Separation Program
and other Merck employee benefit plans and programs. Unless otherwise noted below, the terms and conditions of Merck’s
employee benefit plans and programs applicable on an employee’s termination of employment from Merck are as described in the
applicable sections of the current Merck Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification) previously provided to
you or provided to you with this Brochure, as such plans and programs (and the applicable sections of the Merck Benefits Book)
may be amended from time to time. (A copy of the applicable sections of the Merck Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of
material modification) can be obtained on line at http://humres.merck.com/benefit/about_benefits_book.html or
www.merck.com/benefits or by calling the Merck Benefits Service Center at 1-800-666-3725). However, to the extent that the
terms below differ from those described in the applicable sections of the current Merck Benefits Book (and applicable summaries
of material modification), this communication constitutes a summary of material modifications and should be kept with that book.
“Separated Employees” are certain nonunionized Merck & Co., Inc. employees
(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as that term is defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or between
January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011; and
(2) who, as of their Separation Date, is:
• Less than age 49 or
• At least age 49 but not yet age 64 with less than nine years of Credited Service
Separated Employees are only those employees who are designated by Merck as “Separated Employees.” “Separated
Employees” do not include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute a Separation From Service
as determined by Merck, including employees who resign for any reason. Benefits described in this Brochure only apply to
Separated Employees and do not apply to any other Merck employees.
If you have been designated as a Separated Employee, the Company will provide you with a separation letter (the “Separation
Letter”) that will describe the Special Separation Program benefits for which you are eligible and include a release of legal claims
against the Company, and may also include other terms, such as non-solicitation and non-competition provisions, as the
Company in its sole discretion decides to include. In order to receive the benefits under the Special Separation Program, you must
sign and return the Separation Letter by the date stated in the letter (the “Separation Letter Return Date”) and, if a revocation
period is applicable to you, not revoke the letter within the revocation period.
2Special Separation Program
All benefits under this Special Separation Program are contingent upon the Separated Employee signing (and, if a revocation
period is applicable, not revoking) the Separation Letter. They consist of:
• Separation Pay
• Outplacement Services
• Eligibility for continued medical, dental and life insurance benefits
• Eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which his or her Separation Date
occurs if his or her Separation Date occurs after June 30 and on or before December 31 of that performance year
• Eligibility for extended use of the day care center
Separation Pay, Outplacement Benefits and continued medical, dental and life insurance benefits are described in the Separation
Plan SPD distributed with this Brochure.
This Brochure describes the following:
• the eligibility for extended use of the day care center, if applicable, under the Special Separation Program in exchange for
signing and not revoking the Separation Letter;
• the benefits for those Separated Employees who do not sign, or who sign and, if a revocation period is applicable to them,
later revoke, the Separation Letter; and
• the terms and conditions of certain Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to any separated employee without
regard to whether they sign the Separation Letter.
3Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental
Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental — If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter
If you do not sign the Separation Letter (or if a revocation period is applicable to you, you revoke the Separation Letter), your
medical and dental coverage options in effect on your Separation Date will continue under Merck’s medical and dental plans (as
they may be amended from time to time) until the end of the month following the calendar month in which your Separation Date
occurred. At the end of that period, you will be eligible to elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to
18 months from your Separation Date. If you have no medical and/or dental coverage under Merck’s medical and dental plans on
your Separation Date, you will not have medical and/or dental coverage, as applicable, after your Separation Date nor will you be
eligible to elect such coverage under COBRA.
Special Separation Program — Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental — If You Sign the Separation Letter
Under the Special Separation Program, if you sign the Separation Letter (and if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not
revoke the Separation Letter), you will be eligible to continue medical and dental coverage under Merck’s plans (as they may be
amended from time to time) for the Separation Pay Period as more fully described in the Separation Plan SPD. If the Separation
Pay Period is less than six months, you may continue medical and dental coverage for six months. Your contributions to continue
such coverage will be the same as the contributions for active employees, as they may change from time to time and will be
payable to Merck (or its designee) in the time and manner specified by Merck from time to time. If you do not pay the required
contributions to Merck (or its designee) in the time and manner specified by Merck from time to time, your coverage will be
terminated and it will not be reinstated. Provided you have paid the required contributions to continue coverage, at the end of the
Separation Pay Period or, if the Separation Pay Period is less than 6 months, at the end of the 6-month period during which
medical and dental coverages are provided, you may elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to an
additional 18 months.
Continuation of medical and dental coverages under the Special Separation Program is subject to the early forfeiture provisions
described in the Separation Plan SPD.
4Life Insurance
Life Insurance — If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter
If you do not sign the Separation Letter (or if a revocation period is applicable to you, you revoke the Separation Letter), your
employee group term life, dependent life, and survivor income protection will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date.
After this 31-day period you may elect to continue these coverages at the level in effect on your Separation Date under Merck’s
Life Insurance Plan (as it may be amended from time to time). You may continue these coverages at your cost for up to the earlier
of 30 months from your Separation Date or age 65. If you wish to continue your survivor income protection and/or your dependent
life coverage, you must continue your employee group term life (basic and optional). To continue your life insurance coverage(s)
you must contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725) within 31 days after your Separation Letter Return Date
and you must pay the applicable premium in the time and manner specified by Merck. If you fail to pay the premium in the time
and manner specified by Merck, your coverage(s) will be terminated and they will not be reinstated. If you are interested in
continuing your coverage(s), contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725) for more information.
Your accidental death and dismemberment coverage ends on your Separation Date.
A full month’s premium may be deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.
Special Separation Program — Life Insurance — If You Sign the Separation Letter
Under the Special Separation Program, if you sign the Separation Letter (and if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not
revoke the Separation Letter), your basic employee group term life insurance coverage will continue under Merck’s Life Insurance
Plan (as it may be amended from time to time) until the earlier of (i) last day of the month in which the Separation Pay Period
ends, or, if the Separation Pay Period is less than 6 months, then for 6 months beginning on the first of the month coincident with
or following your Separation Date as more fully described in the Separation Plan SPD, or (ii) age 65. If your basic employee group
term life coverage is under the “Old Format” (that is, equal to 2x base pay), your contributions to continue such coverage will be
the same as the contributions for active employees, as they may change from time to time and will be payable to Merck (or its
designee) in the time and manner specified by Merck from time to time. If you do not pay the required contributions to Merck (or its
designee) in the time and manner specified by Merck from time to time, your
5coverage will default to “New Format” (that is 1x base pay). No contributions are required if your basic employee group term life
coverage is under the “New Format” (that is 1x base pay). Continuation of basic life insurance under the Special Separation
Program is subject to the early forfeiture provisions described in the Separation Plan SPD.
If you sign the Separation Letter (and if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter) and your
basic life insurance continues, you may also continue optional term life, dependent life and survivor income protection at your cost
for up to the earlier of 30 months from your Separation Date or age 65. If you wish to continue your survivor income protection
and/or your dependent life coverage, you must continue your optional employee group term life. To continue your optional life
insurance coverage(s) you must contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725) within 31 days after your Separation
Letter Return Date and you must pay the applicable premium in the time and manner specified by Merck. If you fail to pay the
premium in the time and manner specified by Merck, your optional coverage(s) will be terminated and they will not be reinstated. If
you are interested in continuing your optional coverage(s), contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725) for more
information. After the Separation Pay Period, you may continue your basic employee group term life coverage at your cost for the
remainder of the period ending at the earlier of the expiration of the 30-month period from your Separation Date or age 65. At that
time, if you are interested in continuing your basic life coverage, you must contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-
3725).
If your basic life insurance ends as a result of the early forfeiture provisions of the Separation Benefits Plan, you will not be
allowed to continue your optional coverages under the 30-month continuation provisions. See the life insurance section of the
Merck Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification) for description of conversion rights.
6The chart below is provided for your convenience to compare the medical, dental and life insurance benefits offered under the
Special Separation Program to the normal plan provisions.
Regular Plan Special Separation
Provisions Program (if sign letter)
Medical, Dental, Benefits continue to the end of Benefits continue to the end of the
Prescription Drug the month following the month month in which the Separation Pay
in which your Separation Date Period ends (or a minimum of
occurs; eligible for COBRA 6 months), provided you pay the
afterward applicable employee contributions in
the time and manner specified by Merck
(or its designee); eligible for COBRA
afterward
Basic Employee Term Life Coverage at level in effect on Coverage continues to the end of the
Insurance (New Format-maximum Separation Date continues for month in which the Separation Pay
1x base pay; Old Format -2x base 31 days; you may elect to Period ends (or a minimum of
pay) continue coverage for up to 6 months) (but not beyond age 65),
30 months (but not beyond age provided you pay the applicable
65) from your Separation Date at employee contributions in the time and
your cost manner specified by Merck (or its
designee); you may elect to continue
coverage for the balance of up to
30 months (but not beyond age 65)
from your Separation Date at your cost
Optional Employee Coverage at level in effect on Coverage at level in effect on your
Group Term Life, your Separation Date continues Separation Date continues for 31 days;
Dependent Life, for 31 days; you may elect to you may elect to continue coverage for
Survivor Income continue coverage for up to up to 30 months (but not beyond age
30 months (but not beyond age 65) from your Separation Date at your
65) from your Separation Date at cost
your cost
AD&D No coverage No coverage
Merck On-Site Day Care Centers
If your child is enrolled in a Merck on-site day care center, the child can remain enrolled at the center until the Separation Letter
Return Date. If you sign the Separation Letter and your child is in an infant, toddler or preschool room as of your Separation Date,
he/she may continue at the day care center until the third month anniversary of your Separation Date; a child in kindergarten as of
your Separation Date may continue until the end of the calendar week in which kindergarten graduation occurs; provided that
continued enrollment is subject to your continuing to abide by the rules and regulations of the day care center and the terms of the
Separation Letter. Continuation for the first three months shall be at the regular tuition rate. For kindergarten children continuing
after the first three months, there may be an additional charge.
Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program (“AIP/EIP”)—
As described in more detail below, payment of bonuses, or a special payment in lieu of a bonus, depends on when a Separated
Employee’s Separation Date occurs during a performance year. Actual AIP/EIP bonuses with respect to the
7performance year immediately preceding the Separated Employee’s Separation Date may be paid to employees whose
employment terminates between January 1 and the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees . No AIP/EIP
or special payment in lieu of a bonus with respect to the performance year in which the Separation Date occurs is payable for any
employee separated January 1 through June 30, inclusive. A special payment in lieu of a bonus is payable under this program
with respect to the performance year in which the Separation Date occurs only for employees whose Separation Dates occur on
or after July 1 and on or before December 31 of that performance year. For executives who are listed in the Summary
Compensation Table for the most recent proxy materials issued by the Company in connection with the annual meeting of
shareholders, the amount of payment in lieu of EIP award, if any, will be guided by the following principles, but the Company
retains complete discretion to pay more, or less, than those amounts. The Company reserves the right to treat the payment of
AIP/EIP bonuses and/or the special payments in lieu of AIP/EIP bonuses as supplemental wages subject to flat-rate withholding
(that is, not taking into account any exemptions).
If Your Separation Date occurs between January 1 and prior to the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for the prior
performance year
If your Separation Date occurs on or after January 1 and prior to the day AIP/EIP bonuses for the prior performance year are paid
to other Merck employees, you will be eligible for consideration for an AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the prior complete
performance year on the same terms and conditions as other Merck employees. Provided you are in a class of employees eligible
for an AIP/EIP, your AIP/EIP bonus, if any, will be paid to you at the same time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid to other Merck
employees or will be deferred in accordance with your applicable deferral election for that AIP/EIP performance year, as
applicable. Eligibility for consideration for AIP/EIP bonus is not contingent upon your signing the Separation Letter. You will not be
eligible for any AIP/EIP or payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP for the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs.
If Your Separation Date occurs between the time AIP/EIP bonuses for the prior performance year are paid and June 30
If your Separation Date occurs after AIP/EIP bonuses for the prior performance year are paid to other Merck employees and on or
before June 30, you will not be eligible for consideration for an AIP/EIP bonus or the special in lieu of bonus payment described
below whether or not you sign the Separation Letter.
8If Your Separation Date occurs after June 30 and on or before December 31
If your Separation Date occurs after June 30 and on or before December 31, a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP with respect
to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be paid only if you sign (and, if a revocation period is
applicable to you, do not revoke) the Separation Letter. The special payment, if any, will be calculated based on the target bonus
applicable to you under the Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program with respect to the current performance year
and the number of full and partial months you worked in the current performance year and is subject to adjustment by the
Company in its sole discretion based on a variety of factors, including but not limited to your documented poor or extraordinary
performance in the current performance year. If you receive a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus, it will be paid to you
(less applicable withholding) as soon as administratively feasible following your Separation Date. However, if you elected to defer
your AIP/EIP bonus, that election will apply to payments made in lieu of AIP/EIP bonus.
OTHER BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS
Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units
Only employees may receive incentives under Merck’s incentive stock plans, including stock options, restricted stock units
(“RSUs”) or performance stock units (“PSUs”); therefore, you will not be eligible to receive any grants after your Separation Date.
Outstanding Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs
Whether you sign the Separation Letter or not, the separation provisions applicable to stock options, RSUs and PSUs will apply to
any outstanding incentives you hold on your Separation Date. The separation provisions may differ based on the grants. IT IS
YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS.
Stock Options (separation terms)
Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made prior to 2001, the terms are:
9Vested options will expire upon the earlier of (i) the day before the one-year anniversary of your Separation Date or (ii) the
original 10-year expiration date.
Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2001 and thereafter:
Unvested options will vest on the Separation Date. You will then have two years to exercise them and previously vested grants.
All outstanding vested options—including those previously vested—will expire on the day before the second anniversary of your
Separation Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).
Key R&D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants and other stock option grants may have different terms. See the term
sheets applicable to such stock option grants.
If you are later rehired, stock options that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire date will be reinstated to active status
as if your employment had not been interrupted.
RSUs (separation terms)
Under the separation provisions of the RSUs, a pro rata portion of your annual grants of restricted stock units, if any, generally will
vest and become distributable at the same time as if your employment had continued. See the term sheets applicable to RSUs
granted to you, if any.
PSUs (separation terms)
Under the separation provisions of the PSUs, a pro rata portion of your annual grant of performance share units, if any, will be
payable when the distribution, if any, with respect to the applicable performance year is made to active employees. See the term
sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.
If you have any question about your stock options, RSUs or PSUs, you can call the HR Service Center at 1-866-MRK-HR4U (1-
866-675-4748).
* * *
The following describes the terms and conditions of certain Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to employees whose
employment with Merck terminates for any reason. For additional information, see the applicable sections of the current Merck
Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification).
10Dependent Care Reimbursement Account
Your participation in the Dependent Care Reimbursement Account (“DCRA”) ends on your Separation Date. Eligible expenses
incurred throughout the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs (even after Merck employment ends) can be
reimbursed but only up to the amount actually contributed to the account. Claims for those expenses must be submitted to
Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15 th of the year following the year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts
remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.
Financial Engines
Your eligibility to use the Financial Engines financial planning tool will end on your Separation Date.
Financial Planning
If you elected Financial Planning, you will continue in this benefit through the remainder of the calendar year in which your
Separation Date occurs. Your remaining cost for this benefit will be deducted from your final pay check, or, if necessary, from any
Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan. Your Financial Planning election is irrevocable and cannot be
changed.
Flexible Benefits Program
The Flexible Benefits Program consists of the following Merck plans and programs: medical, dental, vision, health care and
dependent care reimbursement accounts, financial planning, life insurance (including basic and optional term life, dependent term
life, survivor income and accidental death and dismemberment), long term care and long term disability. Your participation in
these plans ends as described elsewhere in this communication. However, a full month of contribution/premium for your coverage
under these plans in effect on your Separation Date may be deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation
Date occurs.
Health Care Reimbursement Account
Your participation in the Health Care Reimbursement Account (“HCRA”) ends on your Separation Date, unless you elect to
continue to participate in accordance with COBRA for the remainder of the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs. If
you elect to continue participation in HCRA under COBRA, you must make your required contributions on an after-tax basis.
Eligible expenses incurred while you participate in HCRA during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs can be
reimbursed up to your entire elected amount.
11Claims incurred after your participation in HCRA ends cannot be reimbursed, no matter how much money is left in the account.
Claims for expenses incurred during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs and while you are a participant in
HCRA must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15 of the year following the year in which your Separation
Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.
Long Term Care
If you elected coverage under Merck’s Long Term Care Plan for you (or your spouse or same-sex domestic partner), that
coverage will end on your Separation Date. However, if you want to continue coverage without interruption, you must contact CNA
(the insurer) and pay your first quarterly premium to CNA within 31 days after the last day of the month in which your Separation
Date occurs. For more information (and to request the necessary forms) contact CNA directly at 1-800-528-4582.
Long Term Disability
Your participation in the Long Term Disability Plan will end on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. In
other words, you must have satisfied the 26-week eligibility period by the end of the month that includes your Separation Date to
be eligible for LTD benefits. If you are disabled and receiving income replacement benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan on
your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the Long Term Disability Plan. However,
Separation Pay paid by the Company under the Special Separation Program will act as an offset from benefits payable under the
Long Term Disability Plan (meaning the LTD benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay).
Pension
If you have at least 5 years of Vesting Service (as that term is defined in the Retirement Plan) as of your Separation Date, you will
be a “terminated vested” participant in the Retirement Plan. This means that your employment will have terminated before you
were eligible to “retire” from active service with the Company (generally, age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service (as that
term is defined in the Retirement Plan)) and that you have a “vested” pension under the Retirement Plan.
If you are a “terminated vested” participant, your benefits under the Retirement Plan must begin no later than the first day of the
month following age 65 after your employment terminates. However, you can start receiving a reduced benefit on the first day of
any month after you reach age 55. The early payment reduction for a “terminated vested” participant is an “actuarial” reduction.
That is,
12your life expectancy and certain other actuarial assumptions are used in calculating the reduction amount. You should expect this
to reduce your benefits substantially because by commencing your benefit early, you receive benefits earlier and for a longer
period. A table illustrating examples of actuarial reductions from the age 65 benefit and a more detailed explanation of the benefits
for “terminated vested” participants can be found in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the current Merck Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification). If you do not have at least 5 years of Vesting Service as of your Separation Date,
you will not be eligible for a benefit under the Retirement Plan.
After you leave the Company, if you are entitled to a vested benefit from the Retirement Plan, you’ll receive a statement that will
tell you what your life income will be at age 65. This will be sent to you within approximately one year from your Separation Date.
If any portion of your benefit is from a different plan, such as the Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees of Merck & Co., Inc., there
is an offset which reduces the benefit from the Retirement Plan. The aggregate lump sum benefit payable from two different plans
generally differs slightly from a lump sum payable from only one plan (especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).
Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes. A bonus or
the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement
Plan purposes.
Savings Plan
Any Separation Pay you receive under the Special Separation Program is not Base Pay and may not be contributed to the
Savings Plan. A pro-rata deduction will be made to the Savings Plan based on the percentage of your monthly base pay you
receive for the month in which your Separation Date occurs. If you have a plan loan and do not repay it within 45 days of your
Separation Date, the loan will be declared in default and reported as a taxable distribution to the Internal Revenue Service.
You generally may receive a final distribution from the Savings Plan at any time after your Separation Date. However, if your
account balance is $5,000 or less, your account balance automatically will be distributed to you soon after your Separation Date.
If, upon reaching age 65, you have not previously elected to receive your benefits, your account balance will be distributed to you
without regard to its amount. Review the information in the Salaried Savings Plan section of the current Merck Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) for additional information on Receiving a Final Distribution.
13Short Term Disability
Subject to applicable state law, your participation in the Short Term Disability Plan ends on your Separation Date. If you are
disabled and are receiving income replacement benefits under the Short Term Disability Plan on your Separation Date, those
benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the plan. However, subject to state law, Separation Pay paid by the
Company under the Special Separation Program will act as an offset from benefits payable under the Short Term Disability Plan
(meaning the STD benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay). Where state law does not permit such offsets to be made to STD
benefits (or where the Company in its sole and absolute discretion determines it is easier for the Company to administer), STD
benefits will instead act as an offset from Separation Pay paid (or payable) by the Company under the Special Separation
Program (meaning Separation Pay will be reduced by the STD benefits).
Travel Accident
Your coverage under the Travel Accident Insurance Plan ends on your Separation Date.
Vacation Pay
You will be paid for any amount of vacation that you have accrued but not used as of your Separation Date. Conversely, you must
reimburse Merck for any vacation you used prior to your Separation Date that you had not earned as of your Separation Date. Any
such amounts to be reimbursed may be deducted from Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan.
Vision
Coverage under the Vision Plan ends on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. You will be given the
opportunity to continue this benefit in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from your Separation Date by paying the
required premiums.
14* * *
The Special Separation Program described here currently is scheduled to be in effect for Separations From Service that
occur from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. Merck retains the right (to the extent permitted by law) to amend
or terminate the Special Separation Program and any benefit or plan described in this brochure (or otherwise) at any
time. However, following a change in control of Merck (as defined in the Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan),
certain limitations apply to Merck’s ability to amend or terminate this and other benefit plans.
While it has no current intention to do so, Merck also may extend, decrease or enhance, the Special Separation Program
in the future. If you sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date, any later amendment or
termination will not decrease or increase the amount of Separation Pay you are eligible to receive under the Special
Separation Program.
Notwithstanding anything in the Special Separation Program to the contrary, benefits under the Program that are subject
to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be adjusted to avoid the excise tax under
Section 409A. Merck will take any and all steps it determines are necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust
benefits under the Special Separation Program to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to,
reducing or eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment of benefits, etc.
Payments made on account of separation from service are limited during the six months following the termination of
employment of a “Specified Employee” as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A- 1(i) or any successor thereto, which in
general includes the top 50 employees of a company ranked by compensation. Notwithstanding anything contained in
the Special Separation Program to the contrary, if a Covered Employee is a “Specified Employee” on his or her
Separation Date, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no payments
will be made during the six-month period following termination of employment. Instead, amounts that would otherwise
have been paid during that six-month period will be accumulated and paid, without interest, as soon as administratively
feasible following the end of such six-month period after termination of employment.
15Glossary of Definitions
As used in this document, the following terms have the following meanings.
“Basic Employee Group Term Life Coverage” is the lesser of the amount of the Separated Employee’s group term life coverage in
effect on the Separation Date or 1x base pay for those who are considered New Format (2x base pay for those who are
considered Old Format).
“Company” or “Merck” means Merck & Co., Inc.
“Credited Service” is as defined in the Retirement Plan.
“Retirement Plan” means the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of Merck & Co., Inc.
“Separation Benefits Plan” means the Merck & Co., Inc. Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees
“Separation Date” means a Separated Employee’s last day of employment with Merck.
“Separated Employees” are certain nonunionized Merck & Co., Inc. employees
(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as that term is defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or between
January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011; and
(2) who, as of their Separation Date, is:
• Less than age 49 or
• At least age 49 but not yet age 64 with less than nine years of Credited Service
Separated Employees are only those employees who are designated by Merck as “Separated Employees.” “Separated
Employees” do not include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute a Separation From Service
as determined by Merck, including employees who resign for any reason.
“Separation Letter” means the Company-provided letter that will describe the Special Separation Program benefits and include a
release of claims against the Company and may include such other terms such as non-solicitation and non-competition provisions,
as the Company determines.
“Separation Letter Return Date” is the date stated in the Separation Letter by which Separated Employees must sign and return it
to the Company.
16“Separation Pay Period” is the number of full or partial workweeks for which a Separated Employee is being paid Separation Pay.
“Special Separation Program” means the separation benefits that Separated Employees receive if they sign (and, if a revocation
period is applicable to them, do not revoke) the Separation Letter.
17Exhibit 10.11
MERCK & CO., INC.
SPECIAL SEPARATION PROGRAM
FOR
“BRIDGED” EMPLOYEES
Eligible Employees: Employees of Merck & Co., Inc. who are not subject to a collective bargaining agreement and:
(1) Who Experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or between January 1,
2009 and December 31, 2011; and
(2) Who as of their last day of employment (Separation Date), are
• at least 49 years of age but not yet age 55 and have at least 9 years of Credited Service; or
• at least 55 years of age but not yet age 65* and have at least 9 years of Credited Service but do not have 10 years
of Credited Service; or
• at least 64 years of age but not yet age 65* and have less than 9 years of Credited Service
* For those who are at least age 65 with at least 9 but less than 10 years of Credited Service, see the brochure applicable
to “Separated Retirement Eligible” Employees.
Effective Date: As of January 1, 2009This document summarizes the benefits for which a “Bridge-Eligible Employee” may be eligible under the Special Separation
Program and other Merck employee benefit plans and programs. Unless otherwise noted below, the terms and conditions of
Merck’s employee benefit plans and programs applicable on an employee’s termination of employment from Merck are as
described in the applicable sections of the current Merck Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification)
previously provided to you or provided to you with this Brochure, as such plans and programs (and the applicable sections of the
Merck Benefits Book) may be amended from time to time. (A copy of the applicable sections of the Merck Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) can be obtained on line at
http://humres.merck.com/benefit/about_benefits_book.html or www.merck.com/benefits or by calling the Merck Benefits Service
Center at 1-800-666-3725). However, to the extent that the terms below differ from those described in the applicable sections of
the current Merck Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification), this communication constitutes a summary
of material modifications and should be kept with that book.
“Bridge-Eligible Employees” are certain nonunionized Merck & Co., Inc. employees
(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or between January 1, 2009 and
December 31, 2011; and
(2) who as of their last day of employment with Merck (the “Separation Date”), are
o at least 49 years of age but not yet age 55 and have at least 9 years of Credited Service; or
o at least 55 years of age but not yet age 65 and have at least 9 years of Credited Service but do not have 10 years of
Credited Service; or
o at least 64 years of age but not yet age 65 and have less than 9 years of Credited Service (as defined in the Retirement
Plan).
Bridge-Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by Merck as “Bridge-Eligible Employees.” “Bridge-
Eligible Employees” do not include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute a Separation From
Service as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan as determined by Merck, including employees who resign for any reason.
Benefits described in this Brochure only apply to Bridge-Eligible Employees and do not apply to any other Merck employees.
If you have been designated as a Bridge-Eligible Employee, the Company will provide you with a separation letter (the
“Separation Letter”) that will describe the Special Separation Program benefits for which you are eligible and will include a release
of legal claims against the Company, and may also include other terms, such as non-solicitation and non-competition provisions,
as the Company in its
2sole discretion decides to include. In order for you to retire under the Retirement Plan as of your Separation Date and to receive
the benefits under the Special Separation Program, you must sign and return the Separation Letter by the date stated in the letter
(the “Separation Letter Return Date”) and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, not revoke the letter within the revocation
period.
Bridge-Eligible Employees who sign, return and, if a revocation period is applicable, do not revoke the Separation Letter shall be
treated as retired under the Retirement Plan and referred to as “Bridged Employees.”
Special Separation Program
All benefits under this Special Separation Program are contingent upon the Bridge-Eligible Employee signing (and, if a revocation
period is applicable, not revoking) the Separation Letter. They consist of:
• Separation Pay
• Outplacement Services
• A pro-rata portion of certain early retirement subsidies under the Retirement Plan (“Pension Bridge”) and treatment as a
retiree under the Retirement Plan
• Medical and dental benefits
o For Bridge-Eligible Employees with at least 9 years of Credited Service (as defined by the Retirement Plan) as of
their Separation Dates)—Treatment as a retiree for purposes of medical, dental benefits
o For Bridge-Eligible Employees who have less than 9 years of Credited Service as of their Separation Dates—
Eligibility for continued medical and dental benefits for a period
• Treatment as a retiree for purposes of life insurance benefits
• Treatment as a retiree for purposes of unexercised stock options and restricted stock units and performance stock units
• Eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which his or her Separation Date
occurs if his or her Separation Date occurs after June 30 and on or before December 31 of that performance year
• Eligibility for extended use of the day care center
Separation Pay and Outplacement Benefits are described in the Separation Plan SPD distributed with this Brochure.
3This Brochure describes:
• the additional benefits offered under the Special Separation Program that are not described in the Separation Plan SPD:
• Pension Bridge;
• treatment as a retiree for purposes of medical, dental and life insurance benefits (provided that, for retiree healthcare
benefits, the Bridge-Eligible Employees would have had at least 9 years of Credited Service (as defined by the
Retirement Plan) as of their Separation Dates);
• treatment as a retiree for purposes of stock options, restricted stock units and performance stock units;
• eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which his or her Separation
Date occurs and
• eligibility for extended use of the day care center;
• the benefits for those Bridge-Eligible Employees who do not sign, or, if a revocation period is applicable to them, who sign
and later revoke, the Separation Letter; and
• the terms and conditions of certain Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to any separated employee without
regard to whether they sign the Separation Letter.
Retirement Plan — Pension Bridge
“Terminated Vested” — If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter
By definition, as of the Separation Date, Bridge-Eligible Employees are not eligible for early or normal retirement under the terms
of the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees. So, on your Separation Date, if you are not a Bridged Employee (one who has
signed and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, not revoked the Separation Letter) and you have at least 5 years of Vesting
Service (as that term is defined in the Retirement Plan), you will be a “terminated vested” participant in the Retirement Plan for all
purposes and will stop accruing additional Credited Service (as that term is defined in the Retirement Plan). This means that your
employment will have terminated after you are vested and before you were eligible for early or normal retirement under the
Retirement Plan (generally, at least age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service, or at least age 65 without regard to years of
service). If you are less than 65 and your employment terminates before you have at least 5 years of Vesting Service, you are not
vested and have no entitlement under the Retirement Plan; you are not considered “terminated vested.”
If you are a “terminated vested” participant, your benefits under the Retirement Plan must begin no later than the first day of the
month following age 65. However, you can start receiving a reduced benefit on the first day of any month after you reach age 55.
Your benefit will be reduced to reflect early payment of
4your benefits. The early payment reduction for a “terminated vested” participant is an “actuarial” reduction. That is, your life
expectancy and certain other actuarial assumptions are used in calculating the reduction amount for each year prior to age 65 that
the benefits begin. You should expect this to reduce your benefits substantially because by commencing your benefit early, you
receive benefits earlier and for a longer period. A table illustrating examples of actuarial reductions from the age 65 benefit and a
more detailed explanation of the benefits for “terminated vested” participants can be found in the Salaried Retirement Plan section
of the current Merck Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification).
After you leave the Company, if you are entitled to a vested benefit from the Retirement Plan, you’ll receive a statement that will
tell you what your life income will be at age 65. This will be sent to you within approximately one year from your Separation Date.
If any portion of your benefit is from a different plan, such as the Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees of Merck & Co., Inc., there
is an offset which reduces the benefit from the Retirement Plan. The aggregate lump sum benefit payable from two different plans
generally differs slightly from a lump sum payable from only one plan (especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).
Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes. A bonus or
the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement
Plan purposes.
Special Separation Program – Pension “Bridge” – If You Sign the Separation Letter
For Retirement Plan purposes, as a Bridged Employee (one who has signed and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoked
the Separation Letter), you will be considered to have retired from active service with Merck on your Separation Date and will be
entitled to a pro-rata portion of your early retirement subsidies. For those who are not yet 55, you will be considered to have a
“deferred” pension on the terms described below. A “deferred” pension benefit is payable no earlier than the first of the month
following the participant’s 55 th birthday.
Early Retirement Subsidy . Your benefit from the Retirement Plan will be based on the Credited Service accrued as of the
Separation Date and will be payable at age 65; however, you can begin to receive your benefits on the first day of any month after
you reach age 55. If you commence your benefit at or after age 55 but before age 62, the benefit will still be reduced. The amount
of the reduction is less than the actuarial reduction that applies to “terminated vested” participants and more than the reduction
that applies to early retirees who are not Bridged Employees.
5The Retirement Plan provides that the benefits for early retirees are reduced by 0.25% for each month (i.e., 3% for each year) that
they begin before age 62. Bridged Employees receive a pro-rata portion (the “Pro-Rata Fraction”) of the enhancement provided by
the early retirement subsidies. The Pro-Rata Fraction equals the percentage of the employee’s Credited Service on his/her
Separation Date divided by the Credited Service that employee would have had if employment had continued until he/she was
first eligible to be treated as an early retiree. For purposes of this fraction, Credited Service is limited to 35 years for both Credited
Service at separation and the Credited Service had employment continued to his/her first day of eligibility for treatment as an early
retiree.
For example, assume an employee is 49 years old with 9 years of Credited Service on his Separation Date. He would have been
first eligible to be treated as an early retiree when he attained age 55, when he would have had 15 years of Credited Service. The
Pro-Rata Fraction in this example would be 9/15.
As another example, assume a Bridged Employee is 57 with 9 years of Credited Service on her Separation Date. This employee
would have been first eligible to be treated as an early retiree when she had 10 years of Credited Service, so the pro-rata portion
would be 9/10.
To calculate the benefit that will be paid, the formula is
• Pro-Rata Fraction TIMES the participant’s accrued benefit as of the Separation Date payable with early retirement
subsidies
• PLUS (1 MINUS the Pro-Rata Fraction) TIMES the participant’s accrued benefit at Separation Date actuarially reduced for
early commencement
Here’s an example of how this formula will work. Assume an employee is 52 years old at separation with 23 years of Credited
Service. His earliest retirement age will be 55, at which time he would have had 26 years of Credited Service, so his Pro-Rata
Fraction is 23/26, or 88.46%. Assume his accrued benefit—that is, the age 65 annuity paid every month for the rest of his life—is
$1,000. If he receives his pension at age 55, as an early retiree he would receive $790. As a terminated vested participant, he
would receive $340.
6Under the formula, he would receive
• 88.46% Times $790 equals $698.83
Plus
(1-88.46% = 11.54%) Times $340 equals $39.24
Equals
$738.07 as an annuity, payable at age 55.
The $738.07 annuity value could be converted into any of the forms of benefit available under the Retirement Plan.
Rule of 85 Transition Benefit . Bridged Employees who, if their employment with Merck had continued would have qualified for the
Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years of their Separation Date will receive the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit when benefits
from the Retirement Plan begin. In other words, this enhancement applies if on your Separation Date you are at least 53 years
old, and the sum of your age and Credited Service is at least 81. The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit will be payable upon
commencement of your pension benefits, even if the date of commencement of pension benefits is earlier than the date you would
otherwise have qualified for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit, and is included in the early retirement subsidies that are subject to
the Pro-Rata Fraction described above.
The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit is fully described in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the current Merck Benefits Book
(and applicable summaries of material modification). In general, the Rule of 85 was phased out in July of 1995. It had provided
that an employee whose employment terminated after age 55, when age and service equaled at least 85, would be eligible for an
unreduced age 65 benefit instead of the normal early retirement subsidy (i.e., a 3% per year reduction for each year that benefit
payments begin prior to age 62). The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit preserved 100% of the Rule of 85 for any employee who was
50 or older in July of 1995, with 90% preserved for then 49 year old employees, 80% for then 48 year old employees, etc. No
benefit was preserved for employees then 40 or younger.
For example, assume a Bridged Employee was born June 30, 1954. On July 1, 1995, this employee was 41 so 10% of her Rule of
85 benefit was preserved. Assume further that her Separation Date is January 1, 2009 (she’ll be 54 years and 6 months old) and
that she then has 30 years of Credited Service. If her employment had continued until she attained age 55, she would have been
entitled to the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit as of July 1, 2009 (her age and service as of that date would have exceeded 85). This
employee may begin to receive her benefits (including her Rule of 85 Transition Benefit, i.e., 10% of the Rule of 85 benefit) from
the Retirement Plan on July 1, 2009, the first day of the month after she reaches age 55. For this Bridged Employee, her “early
retirement subsidies” as described above that are subject to the Pro-Rata Fraction would include the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit.
7On the other hand, assume instead that a Bridged Employee would be 52 on his Separation Date. No matter how many years of
Credited Service he had, he is not eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Special Separation Program because he
would not have been entitled to the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years of his Separation Date had he remained a
Merck employee. In other words, he would not have reached age 55 and had 85 points within 2 years of his Separation Date had
his employment continued.
Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit . Bridged Employees also will be eligible for the Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit
under the Special Separation Program. The Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit is fully described in the Salaried Retirement
Plan section of the current Merck Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification). In general, the Social
Security Bridge Transition Benefit reduces the offset for Social Security Benefits under the Retirement Plan by providing a
temporary monthly supplement prior to age 62. The benefit was eliminated in July 1995 but was preserved for employees then at
least age 50, with 90% preserved for employees then 49, 80% for employees then 48, etc. The benefit was not preserved for
employees then 40 or younger. Because this benefit does not require any particular number of points, you may be eligible for the
Social Security Transition Benefit even if you are not eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit.
Death of a Bridged Employee . If you die after you sign the Separation Letter but before you begin to receive your benefits from
the Retirement Plan, your spouse (or estate in the case of any unmarried participant) will receive an annuity or a lump sum. If you
die before age 55, you will be eligible for the Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit. If you were eligible for the Rule of 85
Transition Benefit on your Separation Date, you will not be eligible for this benefit if you die before you reach age 55. The Pro-
Rata Fraction described above would be applied as described above. The benefit is calculated as though you had elected a joint
and 50% survivor annuity with your spouse (if you’re unmarried, as though you had a spouse the same age as you) on the day
before you died. The lump sum is the actuarial equivalent of just the 50% survivor portion of the benefit—that is, taking into
account your death. The annuity or lump sum is payable only after your spouse (or administrator of your estate) applies for the
benefit. Bridged Employees under the Special Separation Program will not be charged for the qualified pre-retirement spousal
annuity fully described in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the current Merck Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of
material modification).
Other Information . Except as described here, you will be treated as a terminated vested participant for Retirement Plan purposes.
For example, you may not receive a “disability retirement” as discussed in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the current
Merck Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification).
8The special provisions in the Retirement Plan regarding Bridged Employees are subject to certain discrimination tests under tax
laws. Our actuaries have reviewed data on a preliminary basis and concluded that these special provisions satisfy those tests
under most scenarios. However, if the provisions in practice happen to fail the tests, the benefits described here will be paid, to
the extent necessary, from Company assets outside the Retirement Plan. Benefits from the Retirement Plan have tax advantages
that payments outside it do not. You will be notified as soon as possible if this provision affects you.
After you leave the Company, if you are entitled to a vested benefit from the Retirement Plan, you’ll receive a statement that will
tell you what your life income will be at age 65. This will be sent to you within approximately one year from your Separation Date.
If any portion of your benefit is from a different plan, such as the Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees of Merck & Co., Inc., there
is an offset which reduces the benefit from the Retirement Plan. The aggregate lump sum benefit payable from two different plans
generally differs slightly from a lump sum payable from only one plan (especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).
Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes. A bonus or
the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement
Plan purposes.
Split Election . Bridged Employees whose pension benefits are payable in part from the Supplemental Retirement Plan who wish
to make an election with respect to the retirement benefits under that plan may do so in accordance with that plan by contacting
the HR Service Center at 1-866-MRK-HR4U (1-866-675-4748) to request the appropriate paperwork if eligible.
Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental
Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental – If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter
If you don’t sign the Separation Letter (or if a revocation period is applicable to you, you revoke the Separation Letter), your
medical and dental coverage options in effect on your Separation Date will continue under Merck’s medical and dental plans (as
they may be amended from time to time) until the end of the month following the calendar month in which your Separation Date
occurred. At the end of that period, you will be eligible to elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to
18 months from your Separation Date. If you have no medical and/or dental coverage under Merck’s plans on your Separation
9Date, you will not have medical and/or dental coverage, as applicable, after your Separation Date nor will you be eligible to elect
such coverage under COBRA.
Special Separation Program – Retiree Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental – If You Have at least Nine Years
of Credited Service as of Your Separation Date and You Sign the Separation Letter
Under the Special Separation Program, if you have at least nine years of Credited Service on your Separation Date and you sign
(and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke) the Separation Letter, you will be eligible to participate in retiree
medical and dental coverage under Merck’s plans (as they may be amended from time to time) as of the first day of the month
after your Separation Date (even if your Separation Date is not the first day of a month). Your active employee coverage will
continue until the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. Your retiree healthcare benefits will commence as of
the first of the month following your Separation Date (“Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date”).
You will be automatically enrolled in retiree dental under the comprehensive coverage option and in retiree medical coverage
under the same coverage option in which you were enrolled as an active employee on the day before your Retiree Healthcare
Commencement Date, provided that coverage option is available to you as a retiree; if that medical coverage option is not
available, you will be automatically enrolled in the plan’s default option (currently the Merck PPO option if your address is within
the network coverage area, otherwise the Merck 80/20 Out of Area option). Coverage under your retiree medical and dental
coverage will also automatically continue for your eligible dependents who were your covered dependents under the applicable
plans on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date.
You are permitted to add eligible dependents or drop covered dependents and/or change medical coverage options retroactive to
the date your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date only if you notify the Merck Benefits Service Center of such change(s)
within 30 days after your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. Thereafter, any permitted changes will only be made
prospectively.
Note that only those eligible dependents who are your “Dependents of Record” as of your Retiree Healthcare
Commencement Date can be eligible for dependent coverage under your retiree healthcare coverage. Be sure to register
your eligible dependents as “Dependents of Record” with the Merck Benefit Service Center within 30 days after your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date. If an eligible dependent is not timely registered as your “Dependent of Record”, he/she will
never be eligible for dependent coverage under your Merck retiree healthcare coverage. Eligible dependents who are your
covered dependents on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, are automatically registered as Dependents of Record.
10You can “opt-out” of retiree coverage, but note that your ability to re-enroll for coverage is generally limited to annual open
enrollment (with the following January 1 as the re-enrollment effective date); mid-year enrollment is available only if you are
covered under and lose other coverage and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center to re-enroll in Merck retiree coverage
within 30 days of the loss of your other coverage.
You must pay the applicable retiree premiums for retiree healthcare coverage beginning on your Retiree Healthcare
Commencement Date. You will receive an invoice from Fidelity that indicates the premium due for your retiree coverage. If you fail
to pay the premium required for retiree medical and dental coverage in the time and manner specified on the invoice, you will be
deemed to have opted out of coverage and your ability to re-enroll is limited as described above.
For purposes of determining the retiree medical and dental premiums, a Bridged Employee
• will have the number of points that is the sum of his/her age and years of adjusted service as recorded on the Company’s
records (from age 40 for those subject to the “Rule of 88”; all adjusted service for those subject to the “Rule of 92”) as of
his/her Separation Date; provided however, if such sum is less than 65, then the Bridged Employee is deemed to have 65
points; and
• will pay premiums for medical coverage in accordance with the premium schedule for the “Rule of 92” or the “Rule of 88”,
as applicable, in effect on his/her Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, as the premium schedule may be amended
from time to time.
To determine whether the “Rule of 92” or the “Rule of 88” applies to you and to see the premiums applicable to those
schedules, see the Reference Library on Fidelity’s netbenefits website.
Continuation of retiree medical and dental coverages for Bridged Employees under the Special Separation Program is subject to
the same early forfeiture provisions applicable to separated employees as described in the Separation Plan SPD. The forfeiture
provisions will apply for the Separation Pay Period only.
11Special Separation Program – If You Are 64 and Would Have Less than 9 Years of Credited Service as of Your Separation
Date and You Sign the Separation Letter
If, you (a) are 64 and have less than nine years of Credited Service on your Separation Date and (b) sign the Separation Letter
(and if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter), then, under the Special Separation Program,
you will be eligible for continued medical and dental coverage (not retiree coverage) under Merck’s medical and dental plans (as
they may be amended from time to time) for the Separation Pay Period as more fully described in the Separation Plan SPD. If the
Separation Pay Period is less than six months, you may continue medical and dental coverage for six months. Your contributions
to continue such coverage will be the same as the contributions for active employees, as they may change from time to time and
will be payable to Merck (or its designee) in the time and manner specified by Merck from time to time. If you do not pay the
required contributions to Merck (or its designee) in the time and manner specified by Merck from time to time, your coverage will
be terminated and it will not be reinstated. Provided you have paid the required contributions to continue coverage, at the end of
the Separation Pay Period or, if the Separation Pay Period is less than 6 months, then at the end of the 6-month period during
which medical and dental coverages are provided, you may elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to
an additional 18 months.
Continuation of medical and dental coverages under the Special Separation Program for Bridge-Eligible Employees under this
paragraph is subject to the same early forfeiture provisions applicable to separated employees as described in the Separation
Plan SPD.
Life Insurance
Life Insurance – If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter
If you do not sign the Separation Letter (or if a revocation period is applicable to you, you revoke the Separation Letter), your
employee group term life, dependent life, and survivor income protection will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date.
After this 31-day period you may elect to continue these coverages at the level in effect on your Separation Date under Merck’s
Life Insurance Plan (as it may be amended from time to time). You may continue these coverages at your cost for up to the earlier
of 30 months from your Separation Date or age 65. If you wish to continue your survivor income protection and/or your dependent
life coverage, you must continue your employee group term life (basic and optional). To continue your life insurance coverage(s)
you must contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725) within 31 days after your Separation Letter Return Date
and you must pay the applicable premium in the time and manner specified by Merck. If you fail to
12pay the premium in the time and manner specified by Merck, your coverage(s) will be terminated and they will not be reinstated. If
you are interested in continuing your coverage(s), contact The Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725) for more
information.
Your accidental death and dismemberment coverage ends on your Separation Date.
A full month’s premium may be deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.
Special Separation Program — Life Insurance — If You Sign the Separation Letter
Under the Special Separation Program, if you sign the Separation Letter (and if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not
revoke the Separation Letter), you will be considered a retiree for life insurance purposes under Merck’s Life Insurance Plan (as it
may be amended from time to time) as of your Separation Date, with retiree coverage to begin on the first day of the month after
your Separation Date. As a retiree, your employee group term life insurance coverage equal to 1x base pay (or 2x base pay if you
have “Old Format”) will continue at no cost to you. This amount will reduce by 25% of the amount of your coverage starting on the
first day of the month following your Separation Date, and by an equal dollar amount on the anniversary of that date, until the third
anniversary of that date, when no balance remains. You have the right to convert the amount of reduction to an individual policy.
See the Life Insurance Plan section of the current Merck Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification) for
information on conversion. As a retiree, you may continue your employee group term life insurance in excess of 1x base pay (2x if
you are “Old Format”), dependent life and/or survivor income protection (collectively “Optional Coverages”) in effect on your
Separation Date until age 65 by paying the applicable premiums in the time and manner required by Merck. If you fail to pay the
premium required to continue your coverage in the time and manner specified by Merck, your coverage(s) will be terminated and
they will not be reinstated.
Continuation of basic life insurance as a retiree under the Special Separation Program is subject to the same early forfeiture
provisions applicable to separated employees as described in the Separation Plan SPD. If your basic life insurance ends as a
result of forfeiture, your Optional Coverages will also cease. See the life insurance section of the Merck Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) for description of conversion rights.
Your accidental death and dismemberment coverage ends on your Separation Date.
13The chart below is provided for your convenience to compare the medical, dental and life insurance benefits offered under the
Special Separation Program to the normal plan provisions.
Regular Plan Special Separation
Provisions Program
Medical, Dental, Prescription Drug Benefits continue to the end of the You will be treated as a retiree
month following the month in which with applicable contributions if
your Separation Date occurs; eligible you would have at least 9 years
for COBRA afterward of credited service as of your
Separation Date
If you have less than 9 years of
credited service as of your
Separation Date, then benefits
continue to the end of the month
in which the Separation Pay
Period ends (or a minimum of 6
months), provided you pay the
applicable employee
contributions in the time and
manner specified by Merck (or its
designee); thereafter eligible for
COBRA
Basic Employee Term Life Insurance Coverage at level in effect on Treated as a retiree - Coverage
(New Format-maximum 1x base pay; Separation Date continues for 31 level in effect on Separation Date
if Old Format -2x base pay) days; you may elect to continue reduced by 25% on the first day
coverage for up to 30 months (but of the month following your
not beyond age 65) from Separation Separation Date, then reduced on
Date at your cost each anniversary of that date
until coverage amount reaches
zero
Optional Employee Group Term Life, Coverage at level in effect on Treated as a retiree — You can
Dependent Life, Survivor Income Separation Date continues for 31 continue coverage at your cost
days; you may elect to continue up to age 65
coverage for up to 30 months (but
not beyond age 65) from Separation
Date at your cost
AD&D No coverage No coverage
Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units
Only employees may receive incentives under Merck’s incentive stock plans, including stock options, restricted stock units
(“RSUs”) or performance stock units (“PSUs”); therefore, you will not be eligible to receive any grants after your Separation Date.
14Outstanding Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs
If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter – “Separated” for Purposes of Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs
Under Merck’s incentive stock plans, stock options, RSUs and PSUs held by a U.S. employee whose employment ends are
treated under the provisions of the grants applicable to retirement only if the employee is considered a retiree under the
Retirement Plan. Bridge-Eligible Employees who do not sign the Separation Letter (or, if a revocation period is applicable, who
revoke the Separation Letter) are not considered retirees under the Retirement Plan. Therefore, if you do not sign the Separation
Letter (or, if a revocation period is applicable to you, you revoke the Separation Letter), the separation provisions (not the
retirement provisions) applicable to stock options, RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentives you hold on your
Separation Date. The separation provisions may differ based on the grants. IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE
YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS .
Stock Options (separation terms)
Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made prior to 2001, the separation terms are:
Vested options will expire upon the earlier of (i) the day before the one-year anniversary of your Separation Date or (ii) the
original 10-year expiration date.
Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made during 2001 and thereafter, the separation terms are:
Unvested options will vest on the Separation Date. You will then have two years to exercise them and previously vested grants.
All outstanding vested options—including those previously vested—will expire on the day before the second anniversary of your
Separation Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).
Key R&D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants, and other stock option grants may have different terms. See the term
sheets applicable to such stock option grants.
If you are treated as separated, and later rehired, stock options that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire date will be
reinstated to active status as if your employment had not been interrupted.
15RSUs (separation terms)
If you are treated as separated, a pro rata portion of your annual grants of restricted stock units, if any, generally will vest and
become distributable at the same time as if your employment had continued. See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to
you, if any.
PSUs (separation terms)
If you are treated as separated, a pro rata portion of your annual grant of performance share units, if any, will be payable when the
distribution, if any, with respect to the applicable performance year is made to active employees. See the term sheets applicable
to PSUs granted to you, if any.
If you have any question about your stock options, restricted stock units or performance stock units, you can call The HR Service
Center at 1-866-MRK-HR4U (1-866-675-4748).
Special Separation Program – If You Sign the Separation Letter – “Retired” for Purposes of Stock Options, RSUs and
PSUs
Under Merck’s incentive stock plans, stock options, RSUs and PSUs held by a U.S. employee whose employment ends are
treated under the provisions of the grants applicable to retirement only if the employee is considered a retiree under the
Retirement Plan. If you sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke) the Separation Letter you are
considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan. Therefore, if you sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not
revoke) the Separation Letter, the retirement provisions (not the separation provisions) applicable to stock options, RSUs and
PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentive you hold on your Separation Date. The retirement provisions may differ based on the
grants. IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS .
Stock Options (retirement terms)
Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made prior to 2001, the retirement provisions are:
Vested options: May be exercised until the earlier of (i) the day before the 5 th anniversary of your Separation Date (considered
your “retirement date”) or (ii) the original expiration date.
Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made during 2001 and thereafter, the retirement provisions
are:
Unvested options will vest on the original vesting date and then be exercisable for the full term of the option, expiring on the
original
16expiration date. Vested options will be exercisable for then remaining term of the option, expiring on the original expiration date.
Key R&D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants, and other stock option grants may have different terms. See the term
sheets applicable to such stock option grants.
If you are treated as retired, and later rehired, stock options that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire date will continue
under the retirement terms.
RSUs (retirement terms)
If you are treated as retired, your annual grants of restricted stock units that were granted at least 6 months prior to your
Separation Date, if any, generally will vest and become distributable as if your employment with Merck had continued. RSUs
granted within 6 months of your Separation Date will be forfeited. See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.
PSUs (retirement terms)
If you are treated as retired, a pro rata portion of your annual grant of performance share units that were granted to you at least
6 months prior to your Separation Date, if any, will be payable when the distribution, if any, with respect to the applicable
performance year is made to active employees. Performance share units, if any, granted to you within 6 months of your
Separation Date will lapse on your Separation Date. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.
If you have any question about your stock options, RSUs or PSUs, call the HR Service Center at 1-866-MRK-HR4U (1-866-675-
4748).
Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program (“AIP/EIP”)—
As described in more detail below, payment of bonuses, or a special payment in lieu of a bonus, depends on when a Bridged
Employee’s Separation Date occurs during a performance year. Actual AIP/EIP bonuses with respect to the performance year
immediately preceding the Bridged Employee’s Separation Date may be paid to employees whose employment terminates
between January 1 and the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees. No AIP/EIP or special payment in lieu
of a bonus with respect to the performance year in which the Separation Date occurs is payable for any employee separated
January 1 through June 30, inclusive. A special payment in lieu of a bonus is payable under this program with respect to the
performance year in which the Separation Date occurs only for employees whose Separation Dates occur on or after July 1 and
on or before December 31 of that performance year. For executives who are listed in the Summary Compensation Table for the
most
17recent proxy materials issued by the Company in connection with the annual meeting of shareholders, the amount of payment in
lieu of EIP award, if any, will be guided by the following principles, but the Company retains complete discretion to pay more, or
less, than those amounts. The Company reserves the right to treat the payment of AIP/EIP bonuses and/or the special payments
in lieu of AIP/EIP bonuses as supplemental wages subject to flat-rate withholding (that is, not taking into account any exemptions).
If Your Separation Date occurs between January 1 and prior to the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for the prior
performance year
If your Separation Date occurs on or after January 1 and prior to the day AIP/EIP bonuses for the prior performance year are paid
to other Merck employees, you will be eligible for consideration for an AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the prior complete
performance year on the same terms and conditions as other Merck employees. Provided you are in a class of employees eligible
for an AIP/EIP, your AIP/EIP bonus, if any, will be paid to you at the same time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid to other Merck
employees or will be deferred in accordance with your applicable deferral election for that AIP/EIP performance year, as
applicable. Eligibility for consideration for AIP/EIP bonus is not contingent upon your signing the Separation Letter. You will not be
eligible for any AIP/EIP or payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP for the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs.
If Your Separation Date occurs between the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for the prior performance year and June 30
If your Separation Date occurs after AIP/EIP bonuses are paid to other Merck employees and on or before June 30, you will not
be eligible for consideration for an AIP/EIP bonus or the special in lieu of bonus payment described below whether or not you sign
the Separation Letter.
If Your Separation Date occurs after June 30 and on or before December 31
If your Separation Date occurs after June 30 and on or before December 31, a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP with respect
to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be paid only if you sign (and, if a revocation period is
applicable to you, do not revoke) the Separation Letter. The special payment, if any, will be calculated based on the target bonus
applicable to you under the Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program with respect to the current performance year
and the number of full and partial months you worked in the current performance year and is subject to adjustment by the
Company in its sole discretion based on a variety of factors, including but not limited to your documented poor or extraordinary
performance in the current performance year. If you receive a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus, it will be paid to you
(less applicable withholding) as soon as administratively feasible following your Separation Date. However, if you elected to defer
your
18AIP/EIP bonus, that election will apply to payments made in lieu of AIP/EIP bonus.
Merck On-Site Day Care Centers
If your child is enrolled in a Merck on-site day care center, the child can remain enrolled at the center until the Separation Letter
Return Date. If you sign the Separation Letter and your child is in an infant, toddler or preschool room as of your Separation Date,
he/she may continue at the day care center until the third month anniversary of your Separation Date; a child in kindergarten as of
your Separation Date may continue until the end of the calendar week in which kindergarten graduation occurs; provided that
continued enrollment is subject to your continuing to abide by the rules and regulations of the day care center and the terms of the
Separation Letter. Continuation for the first three months shall be at the regular tuition rate. For kindergarten children continuing
after the first three months, there may be an additional charge.
* * *
The following describes the terms and conditions of certain Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to employees whose
employment with Merck terminates for any reason. For additional information, see the applicable sections of the current Merck
Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification).
Dependent Care Reimbursement Account
Your participation in the Dependent Care Reimbursement Account (“DCRA”) ends on your Separation Date. Eligible expenses
incurred throughout the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs (even after Merck employment ends) can be
reimbursed but only up to the amount actually contributed to the account. Claims for those expenses must be submitted to
Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15 th of the year following the year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts
remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.
Financial Engines
Your eligibility to use the Financial Engines financial planning tool will end on your Separation Date.
Financial Planning
If you elected Financial Planning, you will continue in this benefit through the remainder of the calendar year in which your
Separation Date occurs. Your
19remaining cost for this benefit will be deducted from your final pay check, or, if necessary, from any Separation Pay paid pursuant
to the Separation Benefits Plan. Your Financial Planning election is irrevocable and cannot be changed.
Flexible Benefits Program
The Flexible Benefits Program consists of the following Merck plans and programs: medical, dental, vision, health care and
dependent care reimbursement accounts, financial planning, life insurance (including basic and optional term life, dependent term
life, survivor income and accidental death and dismemberment), long term care and long term disability. Your participation in
these plans ends as described elsewhere in this communication. However, a full month of contribution/premium for your coverage
under these plans in effect on your Separation Date may be deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation
Date occurs.
Health Care Reimbursement Account
Your participation in the Health Care Reimbursement Account (“HCRA”) ends on your Separation Date, unless you elect to
continue to participate in accordance with COBRA for the remainder of the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs. If
you elect to continue participation in HCRA under COBRA, you must make your required contributions on an after-tax basis.
Eligible expenses incurred while you participate in HCRA during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs can be
reimbursed up to your entire elected amount. Claims incurred after your participation in HCRA ends cannot be reimbursed, no
matter how much money is left in the account. Claims for expenses incurred during the calendar year in which your Separation
Date occurs and while you are a participant in HCRA must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15 of the year
following the year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been
paid will be forfeited.
Long Term Care
If you elected coverage under Merck’s Long Term Care Plan for you (or your spouse or same-sex domestic partner), that
coverage will end on your Separation Date. However, if you want to continue coverage without interruption, you must contact CNA
(the insurer) and pay your first quarterly premium to CNA within 31 days after the last day of the month in which your Separation
Date occurs. For more information (and to request the necessary forms) contact CNA directly at 1-800-528-4582.
20Long Term Disability
Your participation in the Long Term Disability Plan will end on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. In
other words, you must have satisfied the 26-week eligibility period by the end of the month that includes your Separation Date to
be eligible for LTD benefits. If you are disabled and receiving income replacement benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan on
your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the Long Term Disability Plan. However,
Separation Pay paid by the Company under the Special Separation Program will act as an offset from benefits payable under the
Long Term Disability Plan (meaning the LTD benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay).
Savings Plan
Any Separation Pay you receive under the Special Separation Program is not Base Pay and may not be contributed to the
Savings Plan. A pro-rata deduction will be made to the Savings Plan based on the percentage of your monthly base pay you
receive for the month in which your Separation Date occurs. If you have a plan loan and do not repay it within 45 days of your
Separation Date, the loan will be declared in default and reported as a taxable distribution to the Internal Revenue Service.
You generally may receive a final distribution from the Savings Plan at any time after your Separation Date. However, if your
account balance is $5,000 or less, your account balance automatically will be distributed to you soon after your Separation Date.
If, upon reaching age 65, you have not previously elected to receive your benefits, your account balance will be distributed to you
without regard to its amount. Review the information in the Salaried Savings Plan section of the current Merck Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) for additional information on Receiving a Final Distribution.
Short Term Disability
Subject to applicable state law, your participation in the Short Term Disability Plan ends on your Separation Date. If you are
disabled and are receiving income replacement benefits under the Short Term Disability Plan on your Separation Date, those
benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the plan. However, subject to state law, Separation Pay paid by the
Company under the Special Separation Program will act as an offset from benefits payable under the Short Term Disability Plan
(meaning the STD benefits will be reduced by the Separation Pay). Where state law does not permit such offsets to be made to
STD benefits (or where the Company in its sole and absolute discretion determines it is easier for the Company to administer),
STD benefits will instead act as an offset from Separation Pay paid (or payable) by the Company under
21the Special Separation Program (meaning Separation Pay will be reduced by the STD benefits).
Travel Accident
Your coverage under the Travel Accident Insurance Plan ends on your Separation Date.
Vacation Pay
You will be paid for any amount of vacation that you have accrued but not used as of your Separation Date. Conversely, you must
reimburse Merck for any vacation you used prior to your Separation Date that you had not earned as of your Separation Date. Any
such amounts to be reimbursed may be deducted from any Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan.
Vision
Coverage under the Vision Plan ends on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. You will be given the
opportunity to continue this benefit in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from your Separation Date by paying the
required premiums.
* * *
The Special Separation Program described here currently is scheduled to be in effect for Separations From Service that
occur from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. Merck retains the right (to the extent permitted by law) to amend
or terminate the Special Separation Program and any benefit or plan described in this brochure (or otherwise) at any
time. However, following a change in control of Merck (as defined in the Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan),
certain limitations apply to Merck’s ability to amend or terminate this and other benefit plans. In addition, an employee
whose employment is terminated without cause within two years following a change in control will also be entitled to
receive the retirement bridge as provided in the Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan.
While it has no current intention to do so, Merck also may extend, decrease or enhance, the Special Separation Program
in the future. If you sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date, any later amendment or
termination will not decrease or increase the amount of Separation Pay you are eligible to receive under the Special
Separation Program.
22Notwithstanding anything in the Special Separation Program to the contrary, benefits under the Program that are subject
to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be adjusted to avoid the excise tax under
Section 409A. Merck will take any and all steps it determines are necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust
benefits under the Special Separation Program to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to,
reducing or eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment of benefits, etc.
Payments generally may not be made on account of separation from service are limited during the six months following
the termination of employment of a “Specified Employee” as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A- 1(i) or any successor
thereto, which in general includes the top 50 employees of a company ranked by compensation. Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Special Separation Program to the contrary, if a Covered Employee is a “Specified Employee”
on his or her Separation Date, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,
no payments will be made during the six-month period following termination of employment. Instead, amounts that
would otherwise have been paid during that six-month period will be accumulated and paid, without interest, as soon as
administratively feasible following the end of such six-month period after termination of employment.
23Glossary of Definitions
As used in this document, the following terms have the following meanings.
“Bridge-Eligible Employees” are employees of Merck & Co., Inc. who are not subject to a collective bargaining agreement and
(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or between January 1, 2009 and
December 31, 2011; and
(2) who as of their last day of employment with Merck (the “Separation Date”), are
o at least 49 years of age but not yet age 55 and have at least 9 years of Credited Service; or
o at least 55 years of age but not yet age 65 and have at least 9 years of Credited Service but do not have 10 years of
Credited Service; or
o at least 64 years of age but not yet age 65 and have less than 9 years of Credited Service
Bridge-Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by Merck as “Bridge-Eligible Employees.” This Brochure
only applies to Bridge-Eligible Employees.
“Bridged Employees” are those Bridge-Eligible Employees who sign (and if a revocation period is applicable to them, do not
revoke) the Separation Letter. Bridged Employees are considered retired under the Retirement Plan. “Bridged Employees” do not
include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute separation as determined by Merck, including
employees who resign for any reason.
“Company” or “Merck” means Merck & Co., Inc.
“Credited Service” is as defined in the Retirement Plan.
“Retirement Plan” means the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of Merck & Co., Inc.
“Separation Benefits Plan” means the Merck & Co., Inc. Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees
“Separation Date” means a Bridge-Eligible Employee’s last day of employment with Merck.
“Separation Letter” means the Company-provided letter that will describe the Special Separation Program benefits and include a
release of claims against the
24Company and may include such other terms such as non-solicitation and non-competition provisions, as the Company
determines.
“Separation Letter Return Date” is the date stated in the Separation Letter by which Bridge-Eligible Employees must sign and
return it to the Company. If they sign and return (and, if a revocation period is applicable to them, do not revoke) the Separation
Letter, they become Bridged Employees.
“Separation Pay Period” is the number of full or partial work weeks for which a Bridged Employee is being paid Separation Pay.
“Special Separation Program” means the separation benefits that Bridged Employees receive if they sign (and, if a revocation
period is applicable, do not revoke) the Separation Letter.
25Exhibit 10.12
MERCK & CO., INC.
SPECIAL SEPARATION PROGRAM
FOR
“SEPARATED RETIREMENT ELIGIBLE” EMPLOYEES
Eligible Employees: Employees of Merck & Co., Inc. who are not subject to a collective bargaining agreement and:
(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or between January 1, 2009
and December 31, 2011; and
(2) who on the Separation Date are
• at least age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service; or
• at least age 65
Effective Date: As of January 1, 2009This document summarizes the benefits for which a “Separated Retirement Eligible Employee” may be eligible under the Special
Separation Program and other Merck employee benefit plans and programs. Unless otherwise noted below, the terms and
conditions of Merck’s employee benefit plans and programs applicable on an employee’s termination of employment from Merck
are as described in the applicable sections of the current Merck Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification)
previously provided to you or provided to you with this Brochure, as such plans and programs (and the applicable sections of the
Merck Benefits Book) may be amended from time to time. (A copy of the applicable sections of the Merck Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) can be obtained on line at
http://humres.merck.com/benefit/about_benefits_book.html or www.merck.com/benefits or by calling the Merck Benefits Service
Center at 1-800-666-3725). However, to the extent that the terms below differ from those described in the applicable sections of
the current Merck Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification), this communication constitutes a summary
of material modifications and should be kept with that book.
“Separated Retirement Eligible Employees” are certain nonunionized Merck & Co., Inc. employees
(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or between January 1, 2009 and
December 31, 2011; and
(2) who as of their last day of employment with Merck (the “Separation Date”), are
• at least age 55 and have at least 10 years of Credited Service (as defined in the Retirement Plan); or
• at least age 65.
Separated Retirement Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by Merck as “Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees.” “Separated Retirement Eligible Employees” do not include employees who terminate employment in any way
that does not constitute a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) as determined by Merck, including
employees who resign for any reason. Benefits described in this Brochure only apply to Separated Retirement Eligible Employees
and do not apply to any other Merck employees.
If you have been designated as a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee, the Company will provide you with a separation letter
(the “Separation Letter”) that will describe the Special Separation Program benefits for which you are eligible and will include a
release of legal claims against the Company, and may also include other terms, such as non-solicitation and non-competition
provisions, as the Company in its sole discretion decides to include. In order to receive the benefits under the Special Separation
Program, you must sign and return the Separation Letter by the date stated in the letter (the “Separation Letter Return
2Date”) and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, not revoke the letter within the revocation period.
Special Separation Program
All benefits under this Special Separation Program are contingent upon the Separated Retirement Eligible Employee signing (and,
if a revocation period is applicable, not revoking) the Separation Letter. They consist of:
• Separation Pay
• Outplacement Services
• Eligibility for continued medical and dental benefits (for employees not otherwise eligible for retiree medical and
dental benefits)
• Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Retirement Plan (for those who would have attained it within two years of
their Separation Dates)
• Eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which his or her Separation
Date occurs
• Eligibility for extended use of the day care center
Separation Pay and Outplacement Benefits are described in the Separation Plan SPD distributed with this Brochure.
This Brochure describes:
• additional benefits offered under the Special Separation Program that are not described in the Separation Plan SPD:
o eligibility for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Retirement Plan
o eligibility for continued medical and dental benefits for employees who are not otherwise eligible for retiree medical
and dental benefits; and
o eligibility for extended use of the day care center, if applicable.
• benefits for those Separated Retirement Eligible Employees who do not sign, or, if a revocation period is applicable to them,
who sign and later revoke, the Separation Letter; and
• terms and conditions of certain Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to any separated employee without regard to
whether they sign the Separation Letter.
3Retirement Plan – Rule of 85 Transition Benefit
If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter
You are eligible to retire under the terms of the Retirement Plan. As a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee, you will be
considered to have retired from active service for Retirement Plan purposes on your Separation Date (even if the Separation Date
is not the first day of a month). Your benefit from the Retirement Plan will be based on the Credited Service accrued as of your
Separation Date and will be payable on the first day of the month following age 65 (or, if you are at least 65 on your Separation
Date, on the first day of the month following your Separation Date). However, you can begin to receive your benefits on the first
day of any month after you reach age 55. If you commence your benefit at or after age 55 but before age 62, the benefit will be
reduced. This reduction reflects that payments are made earlier and for a longer period of time. The reduction for “retirees” is
0.25% for each month (i.e., 3% for each year that benefit payments begin before age 62). The reduction is much less than the
actuarial reduction that applies to “terminated vested” participants. You will not receive the “Rule of 85 Transition Benefit” unless
you are eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit as described below.
Death. If you die after your Separation Date but before you begin to receive your benefits from the Retirement Plan, your spouse
(or estate in the case of any unmarried participant) will receive an annuity or a lump sum. The lump sum, according to the plan
factors in effect as they change from time to time, is based on your age 65 accrued benefit, reduced .25% per month before age
62 that your death occurs. Then the benefit is calculated as though you had elected a joint and 100% survivor annuity with your
spouse (if you’re unmarried, as though you had a spouse the same age as you) on the day before you died. The lump sum is the
actuarial equivalent of just the 100% survivor portion of the benefit—that is, taking into account your death. The annuity or lump
sum is payable only after your spouse (or administrator of your estate) applies for the benefit.
Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes. A bonus or
the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement
Plan purposes.
If any portion of your benefit is from a different plan, such as the Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees of Merck & Co., Inc., there
is an offset which reduces the benefit from the Retirement Plan. The aggregate lump sum benefit payable from two different plans
generally differs slightly from a lump sum payable from only one plan (especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).
Special Separation Program – Rule of 85 Transition Benefit – If You Sign the Separation Letter
4As described above in the paragraph “If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter,” you are eligible to retire under the terms of the
Retirement Plan. Under the Special Separation Program, if you would have qualified for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within
two years of your Separation Date, the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit will be paid to you under special provisions under the
Retirement Plan. The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit will be payable upon commencement of your pension benefits, even if the date
of commencement of pension benefits is earlier than the date you would otherwise have qualified for the Rule of 85 Transition
Benefit.
The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit is fully described in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the current Merck Benefits Book
(and applicable summaries of material modification). In general, the Rule of 85 was phased out in July of 1995. It had provided
that an employee whose employment terminated after age 55, and whose age and service equaled at least 85, would be eligible
for an unreduced age 65 benefit instead of the normal early retirement subsidy (i.e., a 3% per year reduction for every year the
benefit begins prior to age 62). The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit preserved 100% of the Rule of 85 for any employee who was 50
or older in July of 1995, with 90% preserved for then 49 year old employees, etc. No benefit was preserved for employees then 40
or younger.
You are eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Special Separation Program, if you would have reached the Rule of
85 Transition Benefit within two years of your Separation Date. In other words, this enhancement applies if on your Separation
Date the sum of your age and Credited Service is at least 81.
For example, assume a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee was born June 30, 1951. On July 1, 1995, this employee was
44, so 40% of her Rule of 85 Transition benefit was preserved. Assume further that her Separation Date is January 1, 2009 and
that she then has exactly 26 years of Credited Service. If her employment had continued, she would have been entitled to the
Rule of 85 Transition Benefit as of October 1, 2009 (her age and service as of that date would have equaled 85). Therefore, this
employee would receive the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit (i.e., 40% of the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit) when her benefits from
the Retirement Plan begin, because October 1, 2009, is less than two years from her Separation Date of January 1, 2009.
On the other hand, assume instead that a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee’s age and Credited Service as of his
Separation Date add up to less than 81. He is not eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Special Separation
Program because he would not have been entitled to the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years of his Separation Date.
5The special provisions in the Retirement Plan are subject to certain discrimination tests under tax laws. Our actuaries have
reviewed data on a preliminary basis and concluded that these special provisions satisfy those tests, under most scenarios.
However, if the provisions in practice happen to fail the tests, the benefits described here will be made, to the extent necessary,
from Company assets outside the Retirement Plan. Benefits from the Retirement Plan have tax advantages that payments outside
it do not. You will be notified as soon as possible if this provision affects you.
Split Election . Separated Retirement Eligible Employees whose pension benefits are payable in part from the Supplemental
Retirement Plan who wish to make an election with respect to the retirement benefits under that plan may do so in accordance
with that plan by contacting the HR Service Center at 1-866-MRK-HR4U (1-866-675-4748) to request the appropriate paperwork if
eligible.
Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental
If You Are Eligible For Retiree Healthcare Benefits under the Current Terms of the Merck Medical and Dental Plans
If, as of your Separation Date, you are eligible for retiree healthcare (medical and dental) benefits under the terms of Merck’s
medical and dental plans, whether you sign the Separation Letter or not, you will be eligible to select retiree healthcare coverage
under Merck’s plans (as they may be amended from time to time) as of the first day of the month after your Separation Date (even
if your Separation Date is not the first day of a month). Your active employee coverage will continue to the end of the month in
which your Separation Date occurs. Your retiree healthcare benefits will commence as of the first of the month following your
Separation Date (“Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date”).
You will be automatically enrolled in retiree dental under the comprehensive coverage option and in retiree medical coverage
under the same coverage option in which you were enrolled as an active employee on the day before your Retiree Healthcare
Commencement Date, provided that coverage option is available to you as a retiree; if that medical coverage option is not
available, you will be automatically enrolled in the plan’s default option (currently the Merck PPO option if your address is within
the network coverage area, otherwise the Merck 80/20 Out of Area option). Coverage under your retiree medical and dental
coverage will also automatically continue for your eligible dependents who were your covered dependents under the applicable
plans on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date.
You are permitted to add eligible dependents or drop covered dependents and/or change medical coverage options retroactive to
the date your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date only if you notify the Merck Benefits Service Center of
6such change(s) within 30 days after your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. Thereafter, any permitted changes will only be
made prospectively.
Note that only those eligible dependents who are your “Dependents of Record” as of your Retiree Healthcare
Commencement Date can be eligible for dependent coverage under your retiree healthcare coverage. Be sure to register
your eligible dependents as “Dependents of Record” with the Merck Benefit Service Center within 30 days after your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date. If an eligible dependent is not timely registered as your “Dependent of Record”, he/she will
never be eligible for dependent coverage under your Merck retiree healthcare coverage. Eligible dependents who are your
covered dependents on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, are automatically registered as Dependents of Record.
You can “opt-out” of retiree coverage, but note that your ability to re-enroll for coverage is generally limited to annual open
enrollment (with the following January 1 as the re-enrollment effective date); mid-year enrollment is available only if you are
covered under and lose other coverage and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center to re-enroll in Merck retiree coverage
within 30 days of the loss of your other coverage.
You must pay the applicable premiums for retiree healthcare coverage beginning on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement
Date. You will receive an invoice from Fidelity that indicates the premium due for your retiree coverage. If you fail to pay the
premium required for retiree healthcare coverage in the time and manner specified on the invoice, you will be deemed to have
opted out of coverage and your ability to re-enroll is limited as described above.
For purposes of determining the retiree medical and dental premiums, a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee
• will have the number of points that is the sum of his/her age and years of adjusted service as recorded on the
Company’s records (from age 40 for those subject to the “Rule of 88”; all adjusted service for those subject to the “Rule
of 92”) as of his/her Separation Date; and
• will pay premiums for medical coverage in accordance with the premium schedule for the “Rule of 92” or the “Rule of
88”, as applicable, in effect on his/her Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, as the premium schedule may be
amended from time to time.
To determine whether the “Rule of 92” or the “Rule of 88” applies to you and to see the premiums applicable to those
schedules, see the Reference Library on Fidelity’s netbenefits website.
You are eligible for retiree healthcare benefits if, as of your Separation Date, you are at least age 55 and:
7• have at least 10 years of service with the Company after age 40; or
• (i) were an employee of the Company on January 1, 2003, (ii) have not had a break in service since January 1, 2003, and
(iii) have at least 10 years of Credited Service (as defined in the Retirement Plan); or
• (i) had a break in service with the Company after age 45 and before April 1, 2002, (ii) had returned to work before April 1,
2002 and were employed on that date, (iii) have not had a break in service since April 1, 2002, and (iv) have 10 years of
Credited Service (as defined in the Retirement Plan).
If You Are Not Eligible For Retiree Healthcare Benefits
If You Are Not Eligible For Retiree Healthcare Benefits — If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter
If you are not eligible for retiree healthcare benefits and do not sign the Separation Letter (or if a revocation period is applicable to
you, you revoke the Separation Letter), your medical and dental coverage options in effect on your Separation Date will continue
under the normal provisions of Merck’s medical and dental plans (as they may be amended from time to time) until the end of the
month following the calendar month in which your Separation Date occurred. At the end of that period, you will be eligible to elect
to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from your Separation Date. If you have no medical
and/or dental coverage under Merck’s medical and dental plans on your Separation Date, you will not have medical and/or dental
coverage, as applicable, after your Separation Date nor will you be eligible to elect such coverage under COBRA.
Special Separation Program – If You Are Not Eligible For Retiree Healthcare Benefits and Have at Least 9 Years of
Credited Service — If You Sign the Separation Letter
If, on your Separation Date, you (i) are at least age 55 and, (ii) have at least 9 years of Credited Service (as defined in the
Retirement Plan), (iii) are not eligible for retiree healthcare benefits (see the section “If You Are Eligible for Retiree Healthcare
Benefits under the Current Terms of Merck’s Medical and Dental Plans,“ above), and (iv) sign the Separation Letter (and if a
revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter), then, under the Special Separation Program, you will
be eligible to select retiree healthcare coverage under Merck’s plans (as they may be amended from time to time) as of the first
day of the month after your Separation Date (even if your Separation Date is not the first day of a month). Your active employee
coverage will continue to the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. Your retiree healthcare benefits will
commence as of the first of the month following your Separation Date (“Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date”).
8You will be automatically enrolled in retiree dental under the comprehensive coverage option and in retiree medical coverage
under the same coverage option in which you were enrolled as an active employee on the day before your Retiree Healthcare
Commencement Date, provided that coverage option is available to you as a retiree; if that medical coverage option is not
available, you will be automatically enrolled in the plan’s default option (currently the Merck PPO option if your address is within
the network coverage area, otherwise the Merck 80/20 Out of Area option). Coverage under your retiree medical and dental
coverage will also automatically continue for your eligible dependents who were your covered dependents under the applicable
plans on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date.
You are permitted to add eligible dependents or drop covered dependents and/or change medical coverage options retroactive to
the date your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date only if you notify the Merck Benefits Service Center of such change(s)
within 30 days after your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. Thereafter, any permitted changes will only be made
prospectively.
Note that only those eligible dependents who are your “Dependents of Record” as of your Retiree Healthcare
Commencement Date can be eligible for dependent coverage under your retiree healthcare coverage. Be sure to register
your eligible dependents as “Dependents of Record” with the Merck Benefit Service Center within 30 days after your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date. If an eligible dependent is not timely registered as your “Dependent of Record”, he/she will
never be eligible for dependent coverage under your Merck retiree healthcare coverage. Eligible dependents who are your
covered dependents on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, are automatically registered as Dependents of Record.
You can “opt-out” of retiree coverage, but note that your ability to re-enroll for coverage is generally limited to annual open
enrollment (with the following January 1 as the re-enrollment effective date); mid-year enrollment is available only if you are
covered under and lose other coverage and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center to re-enroll in Merck retiree coverage
within 30 days of the loss of your other coverage.
You must pay the applicable premiums for retiree healthcare coverage beginning on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement
Date. You will receive an invoice from Fidelity that indicates the premium due for your retiree coverage. If you fail to pay the
premium required for retiree healthcare coverage in the time and manner specified by on the invoice, you will be deemed to have
opted out of coverage and your ability to re-enroll is limited as described above.
For purposes of determining the retiree medical and dental premiums, a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee
9• will have the number of points that is the sum of his/her age and years of adjusted service as recorded on the
Company’s records (from age 40 for those subject to the “Rule of 88”; all adjusted service for those subject to the “Rule
of 92”) as of his/her Separation Date; provided, however, that if such sum is less than 65, then the Separated
Retirement Eligible Employee is deemed to have 65 points; and
• will pay premiums for medical coverage in accordance with the premium schedule for the “Rule of 92” or the “Rule of
88”, as applicable, in effect on his/her Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, as the premium schedule may be
amended from time to time.
To determine whether the “Rule of 92” or the “Rule of 88” applies to you and to see the premiums applicable to those
schedules, see the Reference Library on Fidelity’s netbenefits website.
Continuation of retiree medical and dental coverages under the Special Separation Program for Separated Retirement Eligible
Employees who are not otherwise eligible for retiree healthcare benefits is subject to the same early forfeiture provisions
applicable to separated employees as described in the Separation Plan SPD. The forfeiture provisions will apply for the
Separation Pay Period only.
Special Separation Program – If You Are Not Eligible For Retiree Healthcare Benefits and Have Less than 9 Years of
Credited Service and You Sign the Separation Letter
If, on your Separation Date, you are (i) a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee who is not otherwise eligible for retiree
healthcare benefits under the terms of Merck’s medical and dental plans, (ii) have less than nine years of Credited Service, and
(iii) you sign the Separation Letter (and if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter), then,
under the Special Separation Program, you will be eligible for continued medical and dental coverage (not retiree coverage) under
Merck’s medical and dental plans (as they may be amended from time to time) for the Separation Pay Period as more fully
described in the Separation Plan SPD. If the Separation Pay Period is less than six months, you may continue medical and dental
coverage for six months. Your contributions to continue such coverage will be the same as the contributions for active employees,
as they may change from time to time and will be payable to Merck (or its designee) in the time and manner specified by Merck
from time to time. If you do not pay the required contributions to Merck (or its designee) in the time and manner specified by Merck
from time to time, your coverage will be terminated and it will not be reinstated. Provided you have paid the required contributions
to continue coverage, at the end of the Separation Pay Period or, if the Separation Pay Period is less than 6 months, then at the
end of the 6-month period during which medical and dental coverages are provided, you may elect to
10continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to an additional 18 months.
Continuation of medical and dental coverages under the Special Separation Program for Separated Retirement Eligible
Employees who are not otherwise eligible for retiree healthcare benefits is subject to the same early forfeiture provisions
applicable to separated employees as described in the Separation Plan SPD.
Life Insurance
Whether you sign the Separation Letter or not , you will be considered a retiree for life insurance purposes under Merck’s Life
Insurance Plan (as it may be amended from time to time) as of your Separation Date, with retiree coverage to begin on the first
day of the month after your Separation Date. As a retiree, your employee group term life insurance coverage equal to 1x base pay
(or 2x base pay if you have “Old Format”) will continue at no cost to you. This amount will reduce by 25% of the amount of your
coverage starting on the first day of the month after your Separation Date, and by an equal dollar amount on the anniversary of
that date, until the third anniversary of that date, when no balance remains. You have the right to convert the amount by which
your insurance is reduced to an individual policy. See the Life Insurance Plan section of the current Merck Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) for information on conversion. If you are a retiree who is not yet age 65 on your
Separation Date, you may continue your employee group term life insurance in excess of 1x base pay (2x if you are “Old Format”),
dependent life and/or survivor income protection (collectively “Optional Coverages”) in effect on your Separation Date until age 65
by paying the applicable premiums in the time and manner required by Merck. If you fail to pay the premium required to continue
your coverage in the time and manner specified by Merck, your coverage(s) will be terminated and they will not be reinstated. If
you are age 65 or older on your Separation Date, your Optional Coverages will continue for 31 days from your Separation Date.
During this period you may convert these coverages to an individual policy. See the Life Insurance Plan section of the current
Merck Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification) for information on conversion.
In any event, your accidental death and dismemberment coverage ends on your Separation Date.
The chart below is provided for your convenience to compare the medical, dental and life insurance benefits offered under the
regular plan provisions and the Special Separation Program.
11Regular Plan Special Separation
Provisions Program
Medical, Dental, If eligible for retiree healthcare If eligible for retiree healthcare
Prescription Drug benefits — you will be treated as a benefits – treated as a retiree
retiree w/ applicable contributions w/applicable contributions paid by
retiree
If not eligible for retiree healthcare If not eligible for retiree healthcare
benefits — benefits continue until benefits – medical and or dental
the end of the month following the benefits continue for the Separation
month in which your Separation Pay Period (minimum 6 months),
Date occurred; eligible for COBRA provided you pay the applicable
afterward employee contributions in the time
and manner specified by Merck (or
its designee); eligible for COBRA
afterward
Basic Employee Term Life Treated as a retiree Treated as a retiree — Coverage level
Insurance (New Format-maximum in effect on Separation Date reduced
1x base pay; Old Format —2x base by 25% on the first day of the month
pay) following Separation Date, then
reduced on each anniversary of that
date until coverage amount reaches
zero
Optional Employee Treated as a retiree — You can Treated as a retiree — You can
Group Term Life, continue coverage at your cost up continue coverage at your cost up to
Dependent Life, to age 65 age 65
Survivor Income
AD&D No coverage No coverage
Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program (“AIP/EIP”)—
As described in more detail below, payment of bonuses, or a special payment in lieu of a bonus, depends on when a Separated
Retirement Eligible Employee’s Separation Date occurs during a performance year and whether or not the employee signs the
Separation Letter.
• For the performance year prior to Separation Date: Actual AIP/EIP bonuses with respect to the performance year
immediately preceding the Separated Retirement Eligible Employee’s Separation Date may be paid to employees whose
employment terminates between January 1 and prior to the time AIP/EIP bonuses for the prior performance year are paid
for that year to other employees.
• For the performance year in which the Separation Date occurs: For employees who do not sign the Separation Letter, a
pro-rated actual AIP/EIP bonuses with respect to the performance year in which the Separated Retirement Eligible
Employee’s Separation Date occurs may be paid to employees at the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that performance
year to other employees. For employees who sign the Separation Letter, a special payment in lieu of an actual AIP/EIP
bonus for the performance year in which the Separated Retirement Eligible Employee’s Separation Date occurs is payable
under this program. For executives who are listed in the Summary Compensation Table for the
12most recent proxy materials issued by the Company in connection with the annual meeting of shareholders, the amount of
payment in lieu of EIP award, if any, will be guided by the following principles, but the Company retains complete
discretion to pay more, or less, than those amounts.
• The Company reserves the right to treat the payment of AIP/EIP bonuses and/or the special payments in lieu of AIP/EIP
bonuses as supplemental wages subject to flat-rate withholding (that is, not taking into account any exemptions).
AIP/EIP For Performance Year Prior to Separation Date
If your Separation Date occurs on or after January 1 and prior to the day AIP/EIP bonuses for the prior performance year are paid
to other Merck employees, you will be eligible for consideration for an AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the prior complete
performance year on the same terms and conditions as other Merck employees. Provided you are in a class of employees eligible
for an AIP/EIP, your AIP/EIP bonus, if any, will be paid to you at the same time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid to other Merck
employees or will be deferred in accordance with your applicable deferral election for that AIP/EIP performance year, as
applicable. Eligibility for consideration for AIP/EIP bonus for the prior performance year is not contingent upon your signing the
Separation Letter.
AIP/EIP For Performance Year in which Separation Date occurs—If you do not sign the Separation Letter
If you do not sign the Separation Letter, you will be eligible for consideration for an AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the performance
year in which your Separation Date occurs on the same terms and conditions as other Merck employees who retired during the
performance year. Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an AIP/EIP, your AIP/EIP bonus, if any, will be paid to you
at the same time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid to other Merck employees or will be deferred in accordance with your applicable
deferral election for that AIP/EIP performance year, as applicable.
AIP/EIP For Performance Year in which Separation Date occurs—If you sign the Separation Letter
A special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be paid
only if you sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke) the Separation Letter. The special payment, if any,
will be calculated based on the target bonus applicable to you under the Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program
with respect to the current performance year and the number of full and partial months you worked in the current performance
year and is subject to adjustment by the Company in its sole discretion based on a variety of factors, including but not limited to
your documented poor or extraordinary performance in the current
13performance year. If you receive a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus, it will be paid to you (less applicable withholding)
as soon as administratively feasible following your Separation Date. However, if you elected to defer your AIP/EIP bonus, that
election will apply to payments made in lieu of AIP/EIP bonus.
Merck On-Site Day Care Centers
If your child is enrolled in a Merck on-site day care center, the child can remain enrolled at the center until the Separation Letter
Return Date. If you sign the Separation Letter and your child is in an infant, toddler or preschool room as of your Separation Date,
he/she may continue at the day care center until the third month anniversary of your Separation Date; a child in kindergarten as of
your Separation Date may continue until the end of the calendar week in which kindergarten graduation occurs; provided that
continued enrollment is subject to your continuing to abide by the rules and regulations of the day care center and the terms of the
Separation Letter. Continuation for the first three months shall be at the regular tuition rate. For kindergarten children continuing
after the first three months, there may be an additional charge.
14OTHER BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS
Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units
Only employees may receive incentives under Merck’s incentive stock plans, including stock options, restricted stock units
(“RSUs”) or performance stock units (“PSUs”); therefore, you will not be eligible to receive any grants after your Separation Date.
Outstanding Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs
Under Merck’s incentive stock plans, stock options, RSUs and PSUs held by a U.S. employee whose employment ends are
treated under the provisions of the grants applicable to retirement only if the employee is considered a retiree under the
Retirement Plan.
Whether you sign the Separation Letter or not , because you are considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan the retirement
provisions applicable to stock options, restricted stock units and performance stock units will apply to any outstanding incentive
you hold on your Separation Date. The retirement provisions may differ based on the grants. IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILTY TO
FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS .
Retirement Provisions
Stock Options
Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made prior to 2001, the retirement provisions are:
Vested options: May be exercised until the earlier of (i) the day before the 5 th anniversary of your Separation Date
(considered your “retirement date”) or (ii) the original expiration date.
Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made during 2001 and thereafter, the retirement provisions
are:
Unvested options will vest on the original vesting date and then be exercisable for the full term of the option, expiring on the
original expiration date. Vested options will be exercisable for then remaining term of the option, expiring on the original
expiration date.
Key R&D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants, and other stock option grants may have different terms. See the term
sheets applicable to such stock option grants.
15If you are treated as retired, and later rehired, stock options that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire date will continue
under the retirement terms.
RSUs
Under the retirement provisions of the RSUs, your annual grants of restricted stock units that were granted at least 6 months prior
to your Separation Date, if any, generally will vest and become distributable as if your employment with Merck had continued.
RSUs granted within 6 months of your Separation Date will be forfeited. See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if
any.
PSUs
Under the retirement provisions of the PSUs, a pro rata portion of your annual grant of performance share units that were granted
to you at least 6 months prior to your Separation Date, if any, will be payable when the distribution, if any, with respect to the
applicable performance year is made to active employees. Performance share units, if any, granted to you within 6 months of your
Separation Date will lapse on your Separation Date. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.
If you have any question about your stock options, restricted stock units or performance stock units, you can call the HR Service
Center at 1-866-MRK-HR4U (1-866-675-4748).
* * *
The following describes the terms and conditions of certain Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to employees whose
employment with Merck terminates for any reason. For additional information, see the applicable sections of the current Merck
Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification).
Dependent Care Reimbursement Account
Your participation in the Dependent Care Reimbursement Account (“DCRA”) ends on your Separation Date. Eligible expenses
incurred throughout the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs (even after Merck employment ends) can be
reimbursed but only up to the amount actually contributed to the account. Claims for those expenses must be submitted to
Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15 th of the year following the year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts
remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.
16Financial Engines
Your eligibility to use the Financial Engines financial planning tool will end on your Separation Date.
Financial Planning
If you elected Financial Planning, you will continue in this benefit through the remainder of the calendar year in which your
Separation Date occurs. Your remaining cost for this benefit will be deducted from your final pay check, or, if necessary, from any
Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan. Your Financial Planning election is irrevocable and cannot be
changed.
Flexible Benefits Program
The Flexible Benefits Program consists of the following Merck plans and programs: medical, dental, vision, health care and
dependent care reimbursement accounts, financial planning, life insurance (including basic and optional term life, dependent term
life, survivor income and accidental death and dismemberment), long term care and long term disability. Your participation in
these plans ends as described elsewhere in this communication. However, a full month of contribution/premium for your coverage
under these plans in effect on your Separation Date may be deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation
Date occurs.
Health Care Reimbursement Account
Your participation in the Health Care Reimbursement Account (“HCRA”) ends on your Separation Date, unless you elect to
continue to participate in accordance with COBRA for the remainder of the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs. If
you elect to continue participation in HCRA under COBRA, you must make your required contributions on an after-tax basis.
Eligible expenses incurred while you participate in HCRA during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs can be
reimbursed up to your entire elected amount. Claims incurred after your participation in HCRA ends cannot be reimbursed, no
matter how much money is left in the account. Claims for expenses incurred during the calendar year in which your Separation
Date occurs and while you are a participant in HCRA must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15 of the year
following the year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been
paid will be forfeited.
Long Term Care
If you elected coverage under Merck’s Long Term Care Plan for you (or your spouse or same-sex domestic partner), that
coverage will end on your
17Separation Date. However, if you want to continue coverage without interruption, you must contact CNA (the insurer) and pay your
first quarterly premium to CNA within 31 days after the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. For more
information (and to request the necessary forms) contact CNA directly at 1-800-528-4582.
Long Term Disability
Your participation in the Long Term Disability Plan will end on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. In
other words, you must have satisfied the 26-week eligibility period by the end of the month that includes your Separation Date to
be eligible for LTD benefits. If you are disabled and receiving income replacement benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan on
your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the Long Term Disability Plan. However,
Separation Pay paid by the Company under the Special Separation Program will act as an offset from benefits payable under the
Long Term Disability Plan (meaning the LTD benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay).
Savings Plan
Any Separation Pay you receive under the Special Separation Program is not Base Pay and may not be contributed to the
Savings Plan. A pro-rata deduction will be made to the Savings Plan based on the percentage of your monthly base pay you
receive for the month in which your Separation Date occurs. If you have a plan loan and do not repay it within 45 days of your
Separation Date, the loan will be declared in default and reported as a taxable distribution to the Internal Revenue Service.
You generally may receive a final distribution from the Savings Plan at any time after your Separation Date. However, if your
account balance is $5,000 or less, your account balance automatically will be distributed to you soon after your Separation Date.
If, upon reaching age 65, you have not previously elected to receive your benefits, your account balance will be distributed to you
without regard to its amount. Review the information in the Salaried Savings Plan section of the current Merck Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) for additional information on Receiving a Final Distribution.
Short Term Disability
Subject to applicable state law, your participation in the Short Term Disability Plan ends on your Separation Date. If you are
disabled and are receiving income replacement benefits under the Short Term Disability Plan on your Separation Date, those
benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the plan. However, subject to state law, Separation Pay paid by the
Company under the Special Separation Program will act as an offset from benefits payable under
18the Short Term Disability Plan (meaning the STD benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay). Where state law does not permit
such offsets to be made to STD benefits (or where the Company in its sole and absolute discretion determines it is easier for the
Company to administer), STD benefits will instead act as an offset from Separation Pay paid (or payable) by the Company under
the Special Separation Program (meaning Separation Pay will be reduced by the STD benefits).
Travel Accident
Your coverage under the Travel Accident Insurance Plan ends on your Separation Date.
Vacation Pay
You will be paid for any amount of vacation that you have accrued but not used as of your Separation Date. Conversely, you must
reimburse Merck for any vacation you used prior to your Separation Date that you had not earned as of your Separation Date. Any
such amounts to be reimbursed may be deducted from any Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan.
Vision
Coverage under the Vision Plan ends on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. You will be given the
opportunity to continue this benefit in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from your Separation Date by paying the
required premiums.
* * *
19The Special Separation Program described here currently is scheduled to be in effect for Separations From Service that
occur from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. Merck retains the right (to the extent permitted by law) to amend
or terminate the Special Separation Program and any benefit or plan described in this brochure (or otherwise) at any
time. However, following a change in control of Merck (as defined in the Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan),
certain limitations apply to Merck’s ability to amend or terminate this and other benefit plans. In addition, an employee
whose employment is terminated without cause within two years following a change in control will also be entitled to
receive the retirement bridge as provided in the Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan.
While it has no current intention to do so, Merck also may extend, decrease or enhance, the Special Separation Program
in the future. If you sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date, any later amendment or
termination will not decrease or increase the amount of Separation Pay you are eligible to receive under the Special
Separation Program.
Notwithstanding anything in the Special Separation Program to the contrary, benefits under the Program that are subject
to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be adjusted to avoid the excise tax under
Section 409A. Merck will take any and all steps it determines are necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust
benefits under the Special Separation Program to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to,
reducing or eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment of benefits, etc.
Payments made on account of separation from service are limited during the six months following the termination of
employment of a “Specified Employee” as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A- 1(i) or any successor thereto, which in
general includes the top 50 employees of a company ranked by compensation. Notwithstanding anything contained in
the Special Separation Program to the contrary, if a Covered Employee is a “Specified Employee” on his or her
Separation Date, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no payments
will be made during the six-month period following termination of employment. Instead, amounts that would otherwise
have been paid during that six-month period will be accumulated and paid, without interest, as soon as administratively
feasible following the end of such six-month period after termination of employment.
20Glossary of Definitions
As used in this document, the following terms have the following meanings.
“Company” or “Merck” means Merck & Co., Inc.
“Credited Service” is as defined in the Retirement Plan.
“Retirement Plan” means the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of Merck & Co., Inc.
“Separation Benefits Plan” means the Merck & Co., Inc. Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees
“Separated Retirement Eligible Employees” are certain nonunionized Merck & Co., Inc. employees
(1) who experience a Separation From Service ( as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or between January 1, 2009
and December 31, 2011; and
(2) who as of their last day of employment with Merck (the “Separation Date”) are
• at least age 55 and have at least 10 years of Credited Service (as defined in the Retirement Plan) or
• at least age 65.
Separated Retirement Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by Merck as “Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees.” “Separated Retirement Eligible Employees” do not include employees who terminate employment in any way
that does not constitute a Separation From Service (as defined in Separation Benefits Plan) as determined by Merck, including
employees who resign for any reason.
“Separation Date” means a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee’s last day of employment with Merck.
“Separation Letter” means the Company-provided letter that will describe the Special Separation Program benefits and include a
release of claims against the Company and may include such other terms such as non-solicitation and non-competition provisions,
as the Company determines.
“Separation Letter Return Date” is the date stated in the Separation Letter by which Separated Retirement Eligible Employees
must sign and return it to the Company.
“Separation Pay Period” is the number of full or partial workweeks for which a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee is being
paid Separation Pay.
21“Special Separation Program” means the separation benefits that Separated Retirement Eligible Employees receive if they sign
(and, if a revocation period is applicable, do not revoke) the Separation Letter.
22Exhibit 10.16
MERCK & CO., INC.
SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT PLAN
As Amended and Restated effective January 1, 2009TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Article I Purpose 1
Article II Definitions 1
Article III Benefits Payable Under This Plan 2
Article IV Payments of Benefits 4
Article V Plan Administration 8
Article VI Claims and Appeal Procedure 8
Article VII Amendment and Termination 9
Article VIII Miscellaneous 1 0
Article IX Change in Control 1 1MERCK & CO., INC.
SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT PLAN
I. PURPOSE
1.1 The Merck & Co., Inc. Supplemental Retirement Plan (the “Plan”) is intended to provide additional benefits to executive
participants in the Merck & Co., Inc. Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees (the “Qualified Plan”) as follows: (i) benefits not
payable by the Qualified Plan because of the limitations on benefits payable from the Qualified Plan set forth in Sections 415
and/or 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (ii) benefits not payable by such Qualified Plan because of
the exclusion of deferred compensation from the Qualified Plan, (iii) a minimum aggregate benefit for the incumbents at time of
actual retirement in positions designated as bona fide executive or high policymaking under the Company’s Corporate Policy on
Executive Retirement, and (iv) an enhanced benefit for certain of such individuals who have held such positions prior to
January 1, 1995.
II. DEFINITIONS
2.1 “ADEA-Exempt Employee” means an Employee who occupies a position designated as “bona fide executive” or “high policy
making” under the Company’s Corporate Policy on Executive Retirement.
2.2 “Basic Supplemental Benefit” means the benefit described in Section 3.1 and 3.2 hereof.
2.3 “Beneficiary” means the individual, individuals or entity entitled to receive a death or survivor benefit under the Qualified Plan
or pursuant to Section 4.2.
2.4 “Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
2.5 “Committee” means the U.S. Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Company, a management committee appointed by
the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company.
2.6 “Company” means Merck & Co., Inc. or any successor thereto.
2.7 “Compensation” means compensation as defined in the Qualified Plan; provided, however, that if an Employee defers, or if
there is a mandatory deferral of, all or any portion of an award under an Incentive Plan in any year, such deferred amount will be
included in Compensation for such year, notwithstanding any subsequent forfeiture.
2.8 “Credited Service” means credited service as defined in the Qualified Plan.
2.9 “Director” means the Global Benefits Leader or the successor thereto.2.10 “Employee” means an employee of the Company or its subsidiaries who is a participant in the Qualified Plan. The following
are not “Employees”: any person who (1) is an independent contractor for the Company or its Affiliates; (2) agrees or has agreed
that he or she is an independent contractor for the Company; (3) has an agreement or understanding with the Company or its
Affiliates that such person is not an Employee, even if that person previously has been an Employee; (4) is employed by a
temporary or other employment agency, regardless of the amount of control, supervision or training provided by the Company or
its Affiliates or (5) is a leased employee (as defined in Section 414(n) of the Code). The foregoing exclusion applies even if a
court, agency or other authority rules that the person happens to be a common law employee of the Company or its Affiliates.
“Employee” also excludes individuals who are included in a unit of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement
between employee representatives and one or more employers; provided, however, that such an employee may be an eligible
employee during the period he or she is not covered by covered by a collective bargaining agreement and during which he or she
participates in the Qualified Plan.
2.11 “Enhanced Credited Service” means credited service as defined in Section 3.3.
2.12 “Enhanced Supplemental Benefit” means the benefit described in Section 3.3.
2.13 “Incentive Plan” means the Merck & Co., Inc. Annual Incentive Plan, Executive Incentive Plan, Subsidiary Incentive Plan,
Calgon Vestal Annual Incentive Plan or Kelco Annual Incentive Plan.
2.14 “Participant” means an Employee who has a benefit under this Plan.
2.15 “Plan” means the Merck & Co., Inc. Supplemental Retirement Plan as amended from time to time.
2.16 “Post-2004 Accruals” means benefits that accrued or will accrue (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) under the
Plan on or after January 1, 2005
2.17 “Pre-2005 Accruals” means benefits that accrued (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) under the Plan on or
before December 31, 2004
2.18 “Prior Benefit” means the benefit described in Section 3.3.
2.19 “Qualified Plan” means the Retirement Plan for the Salaried Employees of Merck & Co., Inc. as in effect from time to time.
2.20 “Supplemental Benefits” means the benefits provided for pursuant to Article III.
III. BENEFITS PAYABLE UNDER THIS PLAN
3.1. An Employee will be entitled to a Basic Supplemental Benefit in an amount equal to the excess of (a) over (b) where:
2(a) is the benefit which would have been paid to such Employee (or his/her Beneficiary) under the Qualified Plan if the
provisions were administered (1) without regard to the limitations set forth in Section 415 and/or Section 401(a)(17) of the Code,
and (2) as if the definition of Compensation set forth herein was substituted for the definition of compensation in the Qualified
Plan; and
(b) is the benefit which is payable to such Employee (or his/her Beneficiary) under the Qualified Plan.
3.2 An Employee who, at time of termination of employment or death,
(a) is an ADEA-Exempt Employee and
(b) in the case of termination of employment prior to normal retirement date, has had, immediately prior to such retirement, at
least ten years of Credited Service,
will be entitled at normal retirement date to a Basic Supplemental Benefit in an amount equal to the excess, if any, of $50,000 per
year, on a life income basis, over the benefit which is payable to such Employee (or his/her Beneficiary) under the Qualified Plan
and any other provision of this Plan. In the case of early or disability retirement or death prior to normal retirement date, such
benefit will be reduced, prior to any reduction set forth in Section 4.1 below, by multiplying $50,000 by a fraction the numerator of
which is such Employee’s years of Credited Service as of the date of such early or disability retirement or death and the
denominator of which will be such Employee’s years of Credited Service assuming he/she terminated employment with the
Company or an affiliate on his/her normal retirement date.
3.3 ADEA-Exempt Employees who are such Employees on or after March 1, 1988 and who are mandatorily retired at normal
retirement date will be entitled to an Enhanced Supplemental Benefit determined as follows:
(a) for each month of Credited Service earned under the Qualified Plan by an ADEA-Exempt Employee prior to or during the
period in which such Employee is an ADEA-Exempt Employee, such Employee will be granted an additional month of Credited
Service, up to an aggregate maximum of 35 years, such additional Credited Service constituting the Enhanced Credited Service
for such Employee;
(b) such Employee’s Basic Supplemental Benefit will be determined using the formula set forth in Section 3.1 above and as if
the definition of Enhanced Credited Service set forth above were substituted for the definition of Credited Service in the Qualified
Plan; the resulting increased benefit, less such Employee’s Basic Supplemental Benefit, and the benefit payable to such
Employee under the Qualified Plan, will then be reduced by any other benefit paid or payable to such Employee under any other
retirement plan, except for any retirement plan sponsored in whole or in part by the Company or any of its affiliates, in which he or
she has ever participated regardless of the nature of the sponsor (including, without limitation, government-sponsored plans) (the
“Prior Benefit”). The resulting amount will be such Employee’s Enhanced Supplemental Benefit. All benefit amounts used in
determining the Enhanced Supplemental Benefit will be determined by the Company on a
3lump-sum basis utilizing the actuarial and interest rate assumptions employed as of the date of retirement by the Qualified Plan,
or, in the case of a Prior Benefit previously distributed to an Employee, using such other interest rates as the Company deems
appropriate under the circumstances;
(c) subject to Section 3.3(d), such Employee will have a non-forfeitable right to the Enhanced Supplemental Benefit at such
time as he or she has a non-forfeitable right to a benefit under the Qualified Plan;
(d) at such time as any Employee becomes an ADEA-Exempt Employee, he or she will promptly provide the Company with
confirmation, in such detail as may from time to time be required by the Company, of the nature and amount of any Prior Benefit.
The Company may establish such rules and regulations as it deems appropriate in confirming the existence, nature and terms of
payments of any such Prior Benefit. Failure of an Employee to comply with such rules and regulations or any other Company
requests in this regard will result in forfeiture of the Enhanced Supplemental Benefit. The Company will determine whether any
plan in which an Employee has participated is a plan providing a Prior Benefit and will determine the amount thereof and its
decisions will be final and binding in all respects.
(e) Enhanced Credited Service will be used only to calculate an Employee’s Enhanced Supplemental Benefit as described
above and not for any other purpose under this Plan or the Qualified Plan.
(f) In the case of the early or disability retirement or death prior to normal retirement date of an ADEA-Exempt Employee who
would have been eligible for an Enhanced Supplemental Benefit upon retirement on his or her normal retirement date, an
Enhanced Supplemental Benefit will only be payable with the consent of the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board
of Directors of the Company.
(g) Effective January 1, 1995, there will be no further accruals under the Enhanced Supplemental Benefit provisions of this
Plan, except that those individuals listed on Exhibit One hereto will continue such accruals under the terms and conditions set
forth in this Section.
IV. PAYMENT OF BENEFITS
4.1 With respect to Pre-2005 Accruals, the payment of Supplemental Benefits hereunder will be governed by the terms of the
Qualified Plan, including but not limited to actuarial or other reductions relative to termination of employment or early retirement,
and any applicable elections thereunder, with respect to date of commencement, form of benefit, payments in the event of death,
vesting, and any other term, condition or election applicable to such benefits.
4.2 Section 4.1 notwithstanding, with respect to Pre-2005 Accruals,
(a) An Employee who elects a lump-sum payment under the Qualified Plan may elect to receive his/her Supplemental Benefits
in any other form allowed under the Qualified
4Plan. Any such election must be made no later than the end of the calendar year preceding the year in which the Employee
“Retires” (that is, the year of his or her Annuity Starting Date for the Qualified Plan); provided, however , that for elections made
after 2008, such election shall not become effective before the first anniversary of the date it is received by the Company. In the
event a Participant makes such an election, he/she will designate a Beneficiary to receive any death or survivor benefit which may
become payable hereunder.
(b) An Employee who is prohibited from electing a form of benefit under the Qualified Plan because spousal consent has not
been obtained, as required under Section 417(a)(2)(A) of the Code, may elect to receive his/her Supplemental Benefit in any other
form allowed under the Qualified Plan. Any such election must be made no later than the end of the calendar year preceding the
year in which the Employee Retires; provided, however , that for elections made after 2008, such election shall not become
effective before the first anniversary of the date it is received by the Company. In the event a Participant makes such an election,
he/she will designate a Beneficiary to receive any death or survivor benefit which may become payable hereunder.
(c) Any Employee eligible to make an election under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section may elect a lump sum under this Plan
to be paid on the first of January following the Employee’s Normal Retirement Date regardless of whether the employee dies
before that date, and the amount of the lump sum will be the exact amount that would have been paid if the Employee had elected
a lump sum payable on his/her actual retirement date. Any such election must be made no later than the end of the calendar year
preceding the year in which the Employee receives his benefit from the Qualified Plan; provided, however , that for elections made
after 2008, such election shall not become effective before the first anniversary of the date it is received by the Company. In the
event an Employee makes such an election, he/she will designate a Beneficiary to receive any death benefit which may become
payable hereunder.
(d) An employee who qualifies for a Disability Retirement (as defined in the Qualified Plan) will receive his or her Pre-2005
Accruals under this Plan at the same time and in the same manner as benefits are paid under the Qualified Plan without regard to
any previous election under this Section.
4.3 With respect to Post-2004 Accruals, effective January 1, 2009,
(a) Benefits will commence on the Post-2004 Start Date, which shall be the later of the first day of the first month following
(i) the Participant’s post-2008 Separation from Service (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) or (ii) the Participant’s
attainment of age 55. Benefits will be payable as a lump sum, calculated in the same manner as lump sums are calculated under
the Qualified Plan for annuity starting dates on the Post-2004 Start Date unless the Participant has elected to defer receipt in
accordance with 4.3(b) or (c).
(b) During 2008, a Participant may make an election (an “Initial Election”) to receive benefits in the form of five or 10 Annual
Installments, which shall commence as of the Post-2004 Start Date. The amount of such installments shall equal the present
value of the amount described in 4.3(a) payable over five or 10 equal annual installments, subject to rounding, using the same
interest rate, compounded monthly, as provided in 4.3(a).
5Notwithstanding the foregoing, if on the Post-2004 Start Date the amount calculated under Section 4.3(a) does not exceed 25% of
the annual compensation limit in effect under Section 417 of the Internal Revenue Code (or any successor thereto) for that year, a
lump-sum payment calculated under Section 4.3(a) will instead be made.
(c) After December 31, 2008, a Participant may elect to defer receipt of the Post-2004 Accruals by making an election (a
“Deferral Election”) not less than 12 months before the Post-2004 Start Date. A Participant may only make one Deferral Election.
The Deferral Election is irrevocable and is not effective until the first anniversary of the date it is received by the Company. A
Deferral Election shall become payable either (i) in the case of a Participant who is younger than 54, on the first day of the month
following the later of attainment of age 60 or Separation from Service or (ii) in the case of a Participant who is 54 or older, the first
day of the month following the 5 th anniversary of his or her Separation from Service. Payment of benefits of such Participant’s
benefit shall be in the form of (x) a lump sum, (y) five annual payments or (z) 10 annual payments.
(1) If in the form of a lump sum, the amount shall equal the future value of the lump sum calculated pursuant to Section 4.3
(a) using the same interest rate used in Section 4.3(a), expressed as a monthly rate and compounded monthly.
(2) If in the form of annual payments, the amounts shall be equal to the present value of the amount described in 4.3(c)(1)
payable over five or 10 equal annual installments, subject to rounding, using the same interest rate, compounded monthly, as
provided in 4.3(c)(1). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if at the time the first payment is to be paid the lump sum amount calculated
under Section 4.3(c)(1) does not exceed 25% of the annual compensation limit in effect under Section 417 of the Internal
Revenue Code (or any successor thereto) for that year, a lump-sum payment calculated under Section 4.3(c)(1) will instead be
made.
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, where a Participant dies and has not begun to receive Post-2004 Accruals, they shall be
paid in a lump sum to the (1) Beneficiary, (2) current spouse (within the meaning of the Qualified Plan) if no Beneficiary has been
designated or (3) estate, if there is no such spouse and no Beneficiary has been designated, of the Participant as soon as
administratively feasible after such death using the assumptions applicable under the Qualified Plan. If a Participant has begun to
receive installments of his or her Post-2004 Accruals but dies before receiving the last installment, such Beneficiary, spouse, or
estate shall be paid the present value of the remaining, unpaid payments as soon as administratively feasible following such death
using the lump-sum interest rate under the Qualified Retirement Plan that was used pursuant to Section 4.3(a).
(e) Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, for a Participant who prior to separation from service becomes
“disabled” within the meaning of Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(h)(1)(i) or any successor thereto, Post-2004 Start Date shall mean the
first day of the 30 th month after the onset of the disability (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) unless prior thereto
the Participant recovers and returns to service with the Company. Such benefit shall be distributed in a lump sum, which shall not
be reduced for early commencement, actuarially or otherwise. No further accruals shall apply to such
6participant under this Plan. In the event such a Participant dies prior to such 30 th month, such benefit shall be paid in accordance
with Section 4.3(d).
4.4 The creation, assignment or recognition of a right to any benefit payable with respect to a Participant pursuant to a “domestic
relations order” (as hereinafter defined) must be in accordance with this Section. In the event a right to a benefit hereunder is
established pursuant to a domestic relations order, any benefit otherwise payable to the Participant or his/her beneficiary
hereunder shall be appropriately reduced to reflect the effect of the domestic relations order. For purposes of the Plan, “Alternate
Payee” means a person who would be an alternate payee under Section 414(p)(8) of the Code if the Plan were subject to Section
401(a) of the Code. A domestic relations order that is or purports to be applicable to the Qualified Plan does not apply to this Plan
unless it satisfies the requirements of this Section. A domestic relations order shall mean any judgment, decree or order, including
the approval of a property settlement agreement, provided that:
(a) the order relates to the provision of child support, alimony or marital property rights and is made pursuant to state domestic
relations or community property laws;
(b) the order creates or recognizes the existence of an Alternate Payee’s right to receive all or a portion of the Participant’s
benefit under this Plan;
(c) the order specifies the name and last known mailing address of the Participant and each Alternate Payee covered by the
order;
(d) the order precisely and unambiguously specifies the amount or percentage of the Participant’s benefit to be paid to each
Alternate Payee or the manner in which the amount or percentage is to be determined;
(e) the order clearly specifies that it applies to this Plan;
(f) the order does not require this Plan to provide any type of benefits or form of benefits not otherwise provided under this
Plan;
(g) With respect to post 2004 accruals, the order provides that the Alternate Payee shall receive his or her interest in the Plan
in the same form and at the same time as the Participant receives his or her benefit; and
(h) The Company’s legal department (or its delegate) determines that the order satisfies the requirements of this Article.
4.5. Benefit payments will be paid in cash from the general funds of the Company, and no special or separate fund will be
established and no segregation of assets will be made to assure payment of distributions. Nothing contained in this Plan and no
action taken pursuant to its provisions will create or be construed to create a trust of any kind. To the extent that any person
acquires a right to receive benefits from the Company or its subsidiaries under this Plan, such right will be no greater than the right
of an unsecured creditor of the Company or its subsidiaries.
7V. PLAN ADMINISTRATION
5.1 The Plan is operated under the direction of the Board of Directors of the Company and administered by the Director and
Employee Benefits Committee. Rules of general application to the Qualified Plan may be adopted for the administration of this
Plan to the extent consistent with the purposes of this Plan.
5.2 The Director and Employee Benefits Committee have the full discretionary power and authority to make factual
determinations, to interpret the Plan, to make benefit eligibility determinations, and to resolve all questions arising in the
administration, interpretation and application of the Plan. They will correct any defect, reconcile any inconsistency, or supply any
omission with respect to the Plan. All such corrections, reconciliations, interpretations and completions of Plan provisions are final,
binding and conclusive upon the parties, including the Company, Employees, Participants, alternate payees, and their affiliates,
families, dependents, beneficiaries, heirs, successors and assigns.
VI. CLAIMS AND APPEALS PROCEDURE
6.1. Determination of Claim
An Employee or his/her authorized representative may present a claim for benefits to the Director. The Director will make all
determinations as to the Employee’s claim for benefits under the Plan. If the Director grants a claim, benefits payable under the
Plan will be paid to the Employee as soon as feasible thereafter. If the Director denies in whole or part any claim for a benefit
under the Plan, he/she will furnish the claimant with notice of the decision not later than 90 days after receipt of the claim. If
special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim, the Director will provide a written notice of the
extension during the initial 90-day period, in which case a decision will be rendered not more than 180 days after receipt of the
claim. The written notice which the Director will provide to every claimant who is denied a claim for benefits will set forth in a
manner calculated to be understood by the claimant:
(a) the specific reason or reasons for the denial;
(b) specific reference to pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based;
(c) a description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of
why such material or information is necessary; and
(d) appropriate information as to the steps to be taken if the claimant wishes to submit his/her claim for review.
6.2. Appeal of Denied Claim
A claimant or his/her authorized representative may request a review of the denied claim by the Employee Benefits Committee.
Such request will be made in writing and will be presented to the Employee Benefits Committee not more than 60 days after
receipt by the claimant of written notification of the denial of the claim. The Employee Benefits Committee will render its decision
on review not later than 60 days after receipt of the claimant’s request for review, unless special circumstances require an
extension of time, in
8which case a decision will be rendered as soon as possible but not later than 120 days after receipt of the request for review. The
decision on review will be in writing and will include specific reasons for the decision.
6.3 ERISA Section 503
It is intended that the claims procedure of the Plan be administered in accordance with regulations of the Department of Labor
issued under ERISA Section 503.
6.4 Limitation of Action
No action at law or in equity (an “Action”) shall be maintained by a Participant, Beneficiary or other individual, entity or party
(including but not limited to a person determined to be other than a Participant or Beneficiary) (a “Claimant”) against the Plan, the
Company, their affiliates, agents, fiduciaries, officers, directors, employees, successors, assigns or plans (collectively, the “Plan
Group”) unless (a) the Claimant has presented every basis or argument in support of the Action (a “Claim”) in strict accordance
with both Sections 6.1 and 6.2 which Claim is denied in whole or in part and (b) unless the Action is commenced no later than one
year after the date the Company provides notice of the adverse decision pursuant to Section 6.2. Where the Company puts the
Claimant on notice of the Company’s or Plan’s intention with respect to the basis or argument in support of the Action, the
Claimant must commence the process described in Section 6.1 within one year of such notice. A “Claim” includes but is not limited
to a claim for benefits and a purported or actual fiduciary breach by any member of the Plan Group. The limitation of Action may
only be tolled by a writing executed by the Director.
VII. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
7.1 The Committee, with the concurrence of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, will have the right to alter or amend this
Plan including the right to merge the Plan with any other retirement plan of the Company which is not qualified under Section 401
(a) of the Code; provided that amendments which (i) result in a significant cost increase, or (ii) would have a significant adverse
effect on rights of Employees including the termination of this Plan, or (iii) would have a significant effect on the long-term rights or
liabilities of the Company, must be approved by the Board of Directors of the Company.
7.2 If this Plan is amended, the rights of an Employee to his/her accrued benefits under the Plan, determined as of the date of
such amendment, will be nonforfeitable to the extent that any such amendment would reduce such Employee’s accrued benefits
hereunder. If the Company terminates this Plan, the rights of an Employee to his/her accrued benefits will be nonforfeitable. If the
Company terminates the Qualified Plan with respect to participants therein, Pre-2005 Accruals will be payable to affected
Employees in accordance with all of the terms and conditions applicable to such Employees’ benefits under the Qualified Plan in
the event of its termination; with respect to Post-2004 Accruals, benefits shall be payable in a lump sum at the earliest time
permitted and as otherwise provided by Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix) or any successor thereto.
9VIII. MISCELLANEOUS
8.1 Except as otherwise provided in Section 4.4, no right to payment or any other interest of an Employee or his/her Beneficiary
will be assignable or subject to attachment, execution or levy of any kind.
8.2 Nothing in this Plan will be construed as giving any Employee or Participant the right to continued employment with the
Company.
8.3 No Supplemental Benefit will be deemed salary or other compensation to the Employee for the purpose of computing benefits
to which he/she may be entitled under the Qualified Plan. This Plan will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company
and its successors and assigns and the Employee and his/her Beneficiary.
8.4 The Company may withhold from any benefits payable under the Plan any taxes required to be withheld pursuant to any law
or governmental regulation or ruling and any amounts deemed to be owing to the Company for any reason within the Company’s
reasonable discretion.
8.5 This Plan is not intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code.
8.6 This Plan is established and maintained pursuant to this written plan document and may not be amended, altered, terminated
or administered except as provided herein. This plan document constitutes the complete Plan and benefits provided hereunder
and supersedes any and all other agreements and understandings, both oral and written, as they relate to the subject matter of
this Plan.
8.7 (a) The Plan is a “nonqualified deferred compensation plan” within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code. Anything in the
Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, with respect to Post-2004 Accruals, the Plan shall be interpreted and operated in compliance
with the requirements, if any, of Section 409A (or any successor thereto) as in effect from time to time, including but not limited to
applicable regulations of the U.S. Department of the Treasury or Internal Revenue Service including but not limited to Treas. Reg.
Secs. 1.409A-1 through 1.409A-6 or any successor thereto. Any payment called for under the Plan that is subject to Section 409A
as of a designated date shall be made no later than a date within the same tax year of a participant, or by March 15 of the
following year, if later (or such other date as specified in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A 3(d) or any successor thereto); provided further,
that the participant is not permitted to designate the taxable year of payment.
(b) Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, to the extent required by Section 409A with respect to Post-2004
Accruals, distributions on account of a Separation from Service to a “Specified Employee,” as such term is defined in
Section 409A, may not be made before the date which is six months after the date of Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the
date of death of the employee). Where such a payment would have been made to a Specified Employee within such six-month
period and such payment is one of a series of annual payments, the first payment shall be delayed as necessary and the
remaining payments shall be made according to their elected schedule notwithstanding such delay, such that two otherwise
annual payments may be made in a single year.
10IX. Change in Control
9.1 This Article describes benefits under the Plan provided to a Participant who also is a participant (a “CIC Participant”) in and as
defined in the Merck & Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan (the “CIC Plan”) if such CIC Participant signs and
returns the release of claims in use under the CIC Plan. Generally, CIC Participants are limited to certain Employees in Bands 1
and 2.
9.2 If a CIC Participant’s employment is terminated in circumstances entitling him or her to the Severance Benefits (as such term
is defined in the CIC Plan) provided in Section 4.3(b) of the CIC Plan,
(a) For a CIC Participant who participates in this Plan and on his or her Termination Date (as such term is defined in the CIC
Plan) is not at least age 55 with at least ten years of Credited Service under the Qualified Plan but would attain at least age 50
and have at least ten years of Credited Service under the Qualified Plan within two years following the date of the Change in
Control (as such term is defined in the CIC Plan and assuming continued employment during the entirety of such two-year period),
then the CIC Participant shall be deemed to be eligible for a subsidized early retirement benefit under this Plan commencing no
earlier than age 55 based on his or her Credited Service under this Plan accrued as of his or her Termination Date.
(b) For a CIC Participant who participates in this Plan and on his or her Termination Date is not at least age 65 but would attain
at least age 65 within two years following the date of the Change in Control without regard to years of Credited Service (assuming
continued employment during the entirety of such two-year period), then the CIC Participant shall be deemed to be eligible for a
benefit unreduced for early commencement under this Plan upon commencement of his or her benefit under this Plan.
(c) For a CIC Participant who participates in this Plan and on his or her Termination Date is not eligible for the “Rule of 85
Transition Benefit” (as such term is defined in the Qualified Plan) but would have been eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit
within two years following the date of the Change in Control (assuming continued employment during the entirety of such two-year
period), then the CIC Participant shall be deemed to be eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit upon commencement of his or
her benefit under this Plan.
9.3. If a CIC Participant’s employment is terminated in circumstances entitling him or her to the Severance Benefits provided in
Section 4.3(a) of the CIC Plan,
(a) If the CIC Participant participates in this Plan at any time prior to the Termination Date, the Company shall adjust the benefit
payable thereunder
(1) by adding a number of years of additional Credited Service to the CIC Participant’s existing Credited Service as of the
Termination Date equal to the Multiple(as such term is defined in the CIC Plan),
(2) by assuming for each of the years of Credited Service added pursuant to Section 9.3(a)(1) that the CIC Participant’s
Compensation (as such term is
11defined in the Qualified Plan) was equal to the sum of the CIC Participant’s Base Salary and Bonus Amount,
(3) by adding a number of years of age to the CIC Participant thereunder equal to the Multiple and
(4) then by calculating the CIC Participant’s pension in accordance with the formula provided therein as of immediately prior
to the Change in Control or, if greater, as of the Termination Date.
(b) Anything in this Section 9.3 to the contrary notwithstanding, the application of the Multiple and any additional years of age
shall not cause the CIC Participant’s total years of Credited Service or age to exceed the amount that would have applied to the
CIC Participant if his or her employment had continued to age 65.
9.4 Benefits payable under this Article shall be at such times and in such forms as provided in Article IV.
12EXHIBIT ONE
(NONE, effective January 1, 2009)Exhibit 10.18
MERCK & CO., INC.
PLAN FOR DEFERRED PAYMENT OF
DIRECTORS’ COMPENSATION
(Amended and Restated as of January 1, 2009)TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Article I Purpose 1
Article II Election of Deferral, Investment Alternatives and Distribution Schedule 1
Article III Valuation of Deferred Amounts 3
Article IV Redesignation Within a Deferral Account 4
Article V Payment of Deferred Amounts 5
Article VI Designation of Beneficiary 5
Article VII Plan Amendment or Termination 6
Article VIII Section 409A Compliance 6
(i)MERCK & CO., INC.
PLAN FOR DEFERRED PAYMENT OF
DIRECTORS’ COMPENSATION
I. PURPOSE
The Merck & Co., Inc. Plan for Deferred Payment of Directors’ Compensation (“Plan”) provides an unfunded arrangement for
directors of Merck & Co., Inc. other than current employees to value, account for and ultimately distribute amounts deferred
(i) voluntarily in case of annual retainers and Board and committee meeting fees and (ii) mandatorily in certain other cases as
described herein.
II. ELECTION OF DEFERRAL, INVESTMENT ALTERNATIVES AND DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE
A. Election of Voluntary Deferral Amount
1. Prior to December 31 of each year, each director may irrevocably elect (an “Initial Election”) to defer, until termination of
service as a director or later, 50% or 100% of each of the following (together, the “Voluntary Deferral Amount”) with
respect to the 12 months beginning April 1 of the next calendar year after such Initial Election:
(a) Board retainer
(b) Committee Chairperson retainer
(c) Audit Committee member retainer, and
(d) Board and committee meeting fees.
2. Prior to commencement of duties as a director or within the first 30 days following commencement of services, a director
newly elected or appointed to the Board during a calendar year may make an Initial Election for the portion of the
Voluntary Deferral Amount applicable to such director’s first year of service (or part thereof).
3. The Voluntary Deferral Amount shall be credited as follows: (1) Board and committee meeting fees that are deferred are
credited as of the last business day of each calendar quarter; (2) if the Board retainer, Lead Director retainer, Committee
Chairperson retainer and/or Audit Committee member retainer are deferred, a pro-rata share of the deferred retainer is
credited as of the last business day of each calendar quarter. The dates as of which the Voluntary Deferral Amount, or
parts thereof, are credited to the director’s deferred account are hereinafter referred to as the Voluntary Deferral Dates.
4. Effective December 1, 2008, once an Initial Election is made, it shall continue to apply in successive years on the same
terms and conditions until the director makes a new Initial Election.
B. Mandatory Deferral Amount
1. As of the Friday following the Company’s Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the “Mandatory Deferral Date”), each director
will be credited with an amount equivalent to the annual cash retainer for the 12 month period beginning on theApril 1 preceding the Annual Meeting (the “Mandatory Deferral Amount”). The Mandatory Deferral Amount will be
measured by the Merck Common Stock account.
2. A director newly elected or appointed to the Board after the Mandatory Deferral Date will be credited with a pro rata
portion of the Mandatory Deferral Amount applicable to such director’s first year of service (or part thereof). Such pro rata
portion shall be credited to the director’s account as of the first day of such director’s service.
C. Automatic Deferral of Executive Committee Fees
Between June 2005, and April 2007, directors who served as either Chairperson or member of the Board’s Executive
Committee, in lieu of any cash payment for such service, were credited with an amount provided by way of retainer or
meeting fees (the “Automatic Deferral Amount”). The Automatic Deferral Amount is measured by the Merck Common
Stock account.
D. Election of Investment Alternatives
Each Initial Election shall include an election as to the investment alternatives by which the value of amounts deferred will
be measured in accordance with Article III, below. Investment alternatives available under this Plan shall be the same as
the investment alternatives available from time to time under the Merck & Co., Inc. Deferral Program (the “Executive
Deferral Program”); provided, however, that at all times there shall be a Merck Common Stock fund. All investment
alternatives other than Merck Common Stock are referred to herein as “Other Investment Alternatives.”
E. Initial Election of Distribution Schedule
An Initial Election shall include an election of the year during which the Distribution Date (as defined below) shall occur
and shall apply to all Voluntary Deferral Amounts, Mandatory Deferral Amounts and Automatic Deferral Amounts credited
during the same period. The Distribution Date shall be the 15th day of the month (or, if such day is not a business day, the
next business day) of a calendar quarter following the Director’s termination of service as a director or such number of
years thereafter as would be permitted for distributions elected under the Executive Deferral Program.
F. Changes to Distribution Schedule
If and to the extent that participants in the Executive Deferral Program are permitted to make re-deferral elections from
time to time, participants in this Plan may elect to defer their Distribution Dates subject to the same restrictions applicable
under the Executive Deferral Program; provided, however, that no re-deferral election may have the effect of accelerating
a distribution prior to a director’s termination of service or death.
2III. VALUATION OF DEFERRED AMOUNTS
A. Merck Common Stock
1. Initial Crediting . The annual Mandatory Deferral Amount shall be used to determine the number of full and partial shares
of Merck Common Stock that such amount would purchase at the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York
Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) on the Mandatory Deferral Date.
The Automatic Deferral Amount was used to determine the number of full and partial shares of Merck Common Stock that
such amount would have purchased at the closing price of the Common Stock on the NYSE.
That portion of the Voluntary Deferral Amount allocated to Merck Common Stock shall be used to determine the number
of full and partial shares of Merck Common Stock that such amount would purchase at the closing price of the Common
Stock on the NYSE on the applicable Voluntary Deferral Date.
This Plan is unfunded: at no time will any shares of Merck Common Stock be purchased or earmarked for such deferred
amounts nor will any rights of a shareholder exist with respect to such amounts.
2. Dividends. Each director’s account will be credited with the additional number of full and partial shares of Merck Common
Stock that would have been purchasable with the dividends on shares previously credited to the account at the closing
price of the Common Stock on the NYSE on the date each dividend was paid.
3. Distributions. Distributions from the Merck Common Stock account will be valued at the closing price of Merck Common
Stock on the NYSE as of the Distribution Date.
4. For purposes of valuation of Merck Common Stock, if Merck Common Stock is no longer traded on the NYSE, but is
publicly traded on any other exchange, references to NYSE shall mean such other exchange. If Merck Common Stock is
not publicly traded and if the Committee on Corporate Governance of the Board of Directors determines that a
measurement of Merck Common Stock on any Mandatory or Voluntary Deferral Date or Distribution Date would not
constitute fair market value, then the Committee shall decide on the date and method to determine fair market value,
which shall be in accord with any requirements set forth under Section 409A or any successor thereto.
B. Other Investment Alternatives
1. Initial Crediting. The amount allocated to each Other Investment Alternative shall be used to determine the full and partial
Other Investment Alternative shares that such amount would purchase at the closing net asset value of the Other
Investment Alternative shares on the Mandatory or Voluntary Deferral Date, whichever is applicable. The director’s
account will be credited with the number of full and partial Other Investment Alternative shares so determined.
3At no time will any Other Investment Alternative shares be purchased or earmarked for such deferred amounts nor will any
rights of a shareholder exist with respect to such amounts.
2. Dividends. Each director’s account will be credited with the additional number of full and partial Other Investment
Alternative shares that would have been purchasable, at the closing net asset value of the Other Investment Alternative
shares as of the date each dividend is paid on the Other Investment Alternative shares, with the dividends that would have
been paid on the number of shares previously credited to such account (including pro rata dividends on any partial
shares).
3. Distributions. Other Investment Alternative distributions will be valued based on the closing net asset value of the Other
Investment Alternative shares as of the Distribution Date.
C. Adjustments
In the event of a reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares, merger, consolidation,
rights offering or any other change in the corporate structure or shares of the Company or an Other Investment
Alternative, the number and kind of shares or units shall be adjusted accordingly.
IV. REDESIGNATION WITHIN A DEFERRAL ACCOUNT
A. General
A director may redesignate how his or her account is invested among the Other Investment Alternatives (a
“Redesignation”). A Redesignation affects only the Investment Alternatives; it does not affect the timing of distributions
from the Plan. Amounts deferred using the Merck Common Stock method and any earnings attributable to such
deferrals may not be redesignated prior to the first anniversary of the termination of the director’s service. The
change will be effective at the closing price as of (i) the day when the redesignation request is received pursuant to
administrative guidelines established by the Human Resources Financial Services area provided the request is received
prior to the close of the NYSE on such day or (ii) the next following business day if the request is received when the NYSE
is closed.
B. When Redesignation May Occur
1. During Active Service . There is no limit on the number of times a director may Redesignate the portion of his/her deferred
account permitted to be Redesignated. Each such request shall be irrevocable and can be Redesignated in whole
percentages or as a dollar amount.
2. After Death . Following the death of a director, the legal representative or beneficiary of such director may Redesignate
subject to the same rules as for active directors set forth in Article IV, Section B.1.
4C. Valuation of Amounts to be Redesignated
The portion of the director’s account to be Redesignated will be valued at its cash equivalent and such cash equivalent will
be converted into shares or units of the Other Investment Alternatives. For purposes of such Redesignations, the cash
equivalent of the value of the Other Investment Alternative shares shall be the closing net asset value of such Other
Investment Alternative as of (i) the day when the Redesignation request is received pursuant to administrative guidelines
established by the Human Resources Financial Services area of the Treasury department, provided the request is
received prior to the close of the NYSE on such day or (ii) the next following business day if the request is received when
the NYSE is closed.
V. PAYMENT OF DEFERRED AMOUNTS
A. Payment
All payments to directors of amounts deferred will be in cash as of the Distribution Date. Distributions shall be pro rata by
investment alternative. Distributions shall be paid as soon as administratively feasible after the Distribution Date.
B. Forfeitures
A director’s deferred amount attributable to the Mandatory Deferral Amount and earnings thereon shall be forfeited upon
his or her removal as a director or upon a determination by the Committee on Corporate Governance, in its sole discretion
that, a director has:
(i) joined the Board of, managed, operated, participated in a material way in, entered employment with, performed
consulting (or any other) services for, or otherwise been connected in any material manner with a company,
corporation, enterprise, firm, limited partnership, partnership, person, sole proprietorship or any other business entity
determined by the Committee on Corporate Governance in its sole discretion to be competitive with the business of
the Company, its subsidiaries or its affiliates (a “Competitor”);
(ii) directly or indirectly acquired an equity interest of 5 percent or greater in a Competitor; or
(iii) disclosed any material trade secrets or other material confidential information, including customer lists, relating to the
Company or to the business of the Company to others, including a Competitor.
VI. DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARY
In the event of the death of a director:
A. The deferred amount at the date of death shall be paid to the last named beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the
director, or, if no beneficiary has been designated, to the legal representative of the director’s estate.
5B. A lump sum distribution of any remaining account balance will be made to the director’s beneficiary or estate’s legal
representative as soon as administratively feasible following such death, whether or not the director was in service at the time
of death or has commenced to receive payments of his or her account balance. The Distribution Date of such a distribution
shall be the 15th day of the month (or, if such day is not a business day, the next business day) of the calendar quarter
following the date the Company learns of such death.
VII. PLAN AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION
The Committee on Corporate Governance shall have the right to amend or terminate this Plan at any time for any reason.
VIII. SECTION 409A COMPLIANCE
Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, the Plan shall comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (or
any successor thereto) and shall be interpreted in accordance therewith. Any payment called for under the Plan as of or as
soon as administratively feasible on or after a designated date shall be made no later than a date within the same tax year of a
director, or by March 15 of the following year, if later (or such other time as permitted in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-3(d) or any
successor thereto); provided further, that the director is not permitted to designate the taxable year of payment. Where the
Plan’s obligation to pay is unclear, including a dispute about who is the proper beneficiary of a director who dies, payment shall
be made as soon as adminstratively feasible after the Program’s obligation becomes clear and at a time permitted by Treas.
Reg. Sec. 1.409A-3(g)(4) or any successor thereto.
6Exhibit 12
MERCK & CO., INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges
($ in millions except ratio data)
Years Ended December 31,
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Income Before Taxes $ 9,807.8 $ 3,370.7 $ 6,221.4 $ 7,363.9 $ 7,974.5
Add (Subtract):
One-third of rents 74.8 66.4 67.8 68.2 71.9
Interest expense, gross 251.3 384.3 375.1 385.5 293.7
Interest capitalized, net of amortization 40.9 31.8 29.4 (1.0 ) (21.3 )
Equity (income) loss from affiliates, net of
distributions (493.7 ) (454.3 ) (362.5 ) (615.9 ) (421.2 )
Preferred stock dividends, net of tax 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 151.0
Earnings as defined $ 9,801.1 $ 3,518.9 $ 6,451.2 $ 7,320.7 $ 8,048.6
One-third of rents $ 74.8 $ 66.4 $ 67.8 $ 68.2 $ 71.9
Interest expense, gross 251.3 384.3 375.1 385.5 293.7
Preferred stock dividends 145.0 158.1 166.0 166.7 207.1
Fixed Charges $ 471.1 $ 608.8 $ 608.9 $ 620.4 $ 572.7
Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 21 6 11 12 14
For purposes of computing these ratios, “earnings” consist of income from continuing operations before taxes, one-third of rents
(deemed by the Company to be representative of the interest factor inherent in rents), interest expense, net of amounts
capitalized, equity (income) loss from affiliates, net of distributions, and dividends on preferred stock of subsidiary companies.
“Fixed charges” consist of one-third of rents, interest expense as reported in the Company’s consolidated financial statements and
dividends on preferred stock of subsidiary companies. Interest expense does not reflect interest on Financial Accounting
Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes – an interpretation of FASB Statement
No. 109 , (“FIN 48”) liabilities.Exhibit 21
MERCK & CO., INC. SUBSIDIARIES
as of 12/31/08
The following is a list of subsidiaries of the Company, doing business under the name stated.
Country or State
Name of Incorporation
Abmaxis Inc. Delaware
Ancare Australia (Pty) Limited 1 Australia
Ancare Ireland Limited 1 Ireland
Animal Health Care South Africa (Pty) Limited 1 South Africa
ASP, Inc. 1 Georgia
Banyu Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Japan
Beijing Merial Vital Laboratory Animal Technology Co. Ltd. 1 China
BRC Ltd. Bermuda
Charles E. Frosst (U.K.) Limited United Kingdom
Chibret Pharmazeutische GmbH Germany
Cloverleaf International Holdings S.a.r.l. Luxembourg
Comsort, Inc. Delaware
Coophavet S.A.S. 1 France
Crosswinds B.V. Netherlands
Dieckmann Arzneimittel GmbH Germany
European Insurance Risk Excess Limited Ireland
Farmacox-Companhia Farmaceutica, Lda Portugal
Farmasix-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda Portugal
Financiere MSD S.A.S. France
Fontelabor-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda. Portugal
Fregenal Holdings S.A. Panama
Frosst Iberica, S.A. Spain
Frosst Laboratories, Inc. Delaware
Frosst Portuguesa — Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda. Portugal
GlycoFi, Inc. Delaware
Hangzhou MSD Pharmaceutical Company Limited 1 China
Hawk and Falcon L.L.C. Delaware
Heptafarma Companhia Farmaceutica, Lda. Portugal
IM Merial Holdings, LLC 1 Delaware
International Indemnity Ltd. Bermuda
Istituto Di Richerche Di Biologia Molecolare S.p.A. Italy
Istituto Gentili S.p.A./Inc. Italy/Delaware
Johnson & Johnson — Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company 1 New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Consumer Pharma of Canada 1 Canada
KBI Inc. Delaware
KBI Sub Inc. Delaware
KBI-E Inc. Delaware
KBI-P Inc. Delaware
Kiinteisto Oy Viistotie 11 Finland
Laboratoires Merck Sharp & Dohme-Chibret SNC FranceCountry or State
Name of Incorporation
Laboratorios Abello, S.A. Spain
Laboratorios Biopat, S.A. Spain
Laboratorios Chibret, S.A. Spain
Laboratorios Frosst, S.A. Spain
Laboratorios Medichip S.L. Spain
Laboratorios Merial Peru S.A. 1 Peru
Laboratorios Neurogard, S.A. Spain
Laboratorios Quimico-Farmaceuticos Chibret, Lda. Portugal
LOSPAR Partnership 1 Delaware
Maple Leaf Holdings SRL Barbados
MCM Vaccine Co. 1 Pennsylvania
Merck and Company, Incorporated Delaware
Merck Borinquen Holdings, Inc. Delaware
Merck Capital Ventures, LLC Delaware
Merck Cardiovascular Health Company Nevada
Merck Frosst Canada Ltd. Canada
Merck Frosst Company Canada
Merck Frosst Finco LP Canada
Merck Frosst Schering Pharma GP 1 Canada
Merck HDAC Research, LLC Delaware
Merck Holdings II Corp. Delaware
Merck Holdings LLC Delaware
Merck Respiratory Health Company Nevada
Merck SH Inc. Delaware
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Argentina) Inc. Delaware
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Asia) Limited Hong Kong
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Australia) Pty. Limited Australia
Merck Sharp & Dohme (China) Limited Hong Kong
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Enterprises) B.V. Netherlands
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Europe) Inc. Delaware
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Holdings) B.V. Netherlands
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Holdings) Limited United Kingdom
Merck Sharp & Dohme (I.A.) Corp. Delaware
Merck Sharp & Dohme (International) Limited Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Investments) B.V. Netherlands
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Ireland) Ltd. Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Israel — 1996) Company Ltd. Israel
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Italia) S.p.A. Italy
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Lebanon) S.A.L. Lebanon
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Middle East) Limited Cyprus
Merck Sharp & Dohme (New Zealand) Limited New Zealand
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Panama) S.A. Panama
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Puerto Rico) Ltd. Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Singapore) Ltd. Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) A.B. Sweden
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Switzerland) GmbH Switzerland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Asia Pacific Services Pte Ltd. Singapore
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. Netherlands
Merck Sharp & Dohme Biologics (Ireland) Ltd. Bermuda
2Country or State
Name of Incorporation
Merck Sharp & Dohme Bulgaria EOOD Bulgaria
Merck Sharp & Dohme Chibret A.G. Switzerland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Comercializadora, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o. Croatia
Merck Sharp & Dohme de Espana, S.A. Spain
Merck Sharp & Dohme de Mexico S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Merck Sharp & Dohme de Puerto Rico, Inc. Delaware
Merck Sharp & Dohme de Venezuela S.R.L. Venezuela
Merck Sharp & Dohme Farmaceutica Ltda. Brazil
Merck Sharp & Dohme Finance Europe Limited United Kingdom
Merck Sharp & Dohme GmbH Austria
Merck Sharp & Dohme IDEA AG Switzerland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Industria Quimica e Veterinaria Limitada Brazil
Merck Sharp & Dohme inovativna zdravila d.o.o. Slovenia
Merck Sharp & Dohme International Services B.V. Netherlands
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health) Ltd Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ísland hf Iceland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Japan Co., Ltd. Japan
Merck Sharp & Dohme Limited United Kingdom
Merck Sharp & Dohme Manufacturing Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Manufacturing Holdings Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme OU Estonia
Merck Sharp & Dohme Peru SRL Peru
Merck Sharp & Dohme Pharmaceuticals LLC Russia
Merck Sharp & Dohme Pharmaceuticals SRL Barbados
Merck Sharp & Dohme Quimica de Puerto Rico Ltd. Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme Quimica de Puerto Rico, Inc. Delaware
Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Ltd. Bermuda
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania SRL Romania
Merck Sharp & Dohme S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Merck Sharp & Dohme S.A. Morocco
Merck Sharp & Dohme SIA Latvia
Merck Sharp & Dohme Singapore Trading Pte. Ltd. Singapore
Merck Sharp & Dohme Tunisie Sarl Tunisia
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Limitada Portugal
Merck Sharp and Dohme Holdings de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Merck Sharp Dohme Ilaclari Limited Sirketi Turkey
Merck Technology (U.S.) Company, Inc. Nevada
Merial (IA) LLP 1 Puerto Rico
Merial (Thailand) Ltd 1 Thailand
Merial Animal Health Co. Ltd. 1 China
Merial Animal Health Limited (U.K.) 1 United Kingdom
Merial Animal Health Limited 1 Ireland
Merial Argentina SA 1 Argentina
Merial Asia Pte, Ltd. 1 Singapore
Merial Australia Pty Ltd 1 Australia
Merial B.V. 1 Netherlands
Merial Belgium 1 Belgium
Merial Canada, Inc. 1 Canada
3Country or State
Name of Incorporation
Merial Colombia S.A. 1 Colombia
Merial de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 1 Mexico
Merial Distribution SAS 1 France
Merial Finance LLC 1 Delaware
Merial GmbH 1 Germany
Merial Hong Kong Limited 1 Hong Kong
Merial Inc. 1 Delaware
Merial International Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 1 China
Merial Italia SpA 1 Italy
Merial Japan, Limited 1 Japan
Merial Korea Ltd 1 Korea
Merial Laboratorios SA 1 Spain
Merial Limited/LLC 1 United Kingdom/Delaware
Merial Mexico S.A. de C.V. 1 Mexico
Merial Nanjing Animal Health Co. Ltd. 1 China
Merial New Zealand Limited 1 New Zealand
Merial Norden A/S 1 Denmark
Merial Philippines, Inc. 1 Philippines
Merial Portuguesa — Saude Animal LDA 1 Portugal
Merial Production SAS 1 France
Merial SA 1 Uruguay
Merial SAS 1 France
Merial Saude Animal Ltda 1 Brazil
Merial Select, Inc. 1 Georgia
Merial South Africa (Proprietary) Limited 1 South Africa
Merial Taiwan Co., Ltd. 1 Taiwan
Merial Technologies, Inc. 1 Delaware
Merial Venezuela , C.A. 1 Venezuela
ML Holdings (Canada) Inc. Canada
MSD (Nippon Holdings) BV Netherlands
MSD (Norge) A/S Norway
MSD (Proprietary) Limited South Africa
MSD (Shanghai) Pharmaceuticals Consultancy Co., Ltd. China
MSD (Thailand) Ltd. Thailand
MSD Australia Superannuation Pty Ltd. Australia
MSD Brazil (Investments) B.V. Netherlands
MSD Chibropharm GmbH Germany
MSD China (Investments) B.V. Netherlands
MSD Eurofinance L.P. Bermuda
MSD Finance B.V. Netherlands
MSD Finland Oy Finland
MSD International Holdings, Inc. Delaware
MSD Investment Holdings (Ireland) Ireland
MSD Ireland (Holdings) S.a.r.l. Luxembourg
MSD Ireland Resources Ireland
MSD Korea Ltd. Korea
MSD Latin America Services S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
MSD Limited United Kingdom
MSD Magyarország Kereskedelmi es Szolgaltato Kft Hungary
4Country or State
Name of Incorporation
MSD Mexico Investments B.V. Netherlands
MSD Overseas Manufacturing Co (Ireland) Ireland
MSD Overseas Manufacturing Co. Bermuda
MSD Pharmaceuticals Private Limited India
MSD Polska Sp.z.o.o. Poland
MSD Puerto Rico Holdings, Inc. Puerto Rico
MSD Regional Business Support Center GmbH Germany
MSD Scandinavia AS Norway
MSD Sharp & Dohme GmbH Germany
MSD Stamford Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore
MSD Technology Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore
MSD Tuas Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore
MSD Unterstutzungskasse GmbH Germany
MSD Ventures Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore
MSD Vostok B.V. Netherlands
MSD-Essex GmbH 1 Switzerland
MSDJ Holdings (Canada) Inc. Canada
MSD-SP Ltd. 1 United Kingdom
MSP Distribution Services (C) LLC 1 Nevada
MSP Distribution Services (R) LLC 1 Nevada
MSP Singapore Company, LLC 1 Delaware
MSP Technology (U.S.) Company, LLC 1 Delaware
Neopharmed S.p.A. Italy
Nomad New Jersey, Inc. 1 New Jersey
NovaCardia, Inc. Delaware
P.T. Merck Sharp & Dohme Indonesia Indonesia
Pasteur Vaccins S.A. 1 France
Rhone-Merieux Limited 1 United Kingdom
Rosetta Biosoftware UK Limited United Kingdom
Rosetta Inpharmatics LLC Delaware
Sanofi Pasteur MSD A/S 1 Denmark
Sanofi Pasteur MSD AB 1 Sweden
Sanofi Pasteur MSD AG 1 Switzerland
Sanofi Pasteur MSD ApS 1 Denmark
Sanofi Pasteur MSD AS 1 Norway
Sanofi Pasteur MSD Gestion S.A. 1 France
Sanofi Pasteur MSD GmbH 1 Austria
Sanofi Pasteur MSD GmbH 1 Germany
Sanofi Pasteur MSD Ltd. 1 United Kingdom
Sanofi Pasteur MSD Ltd. 1 Ireland
Sanofi Pasteur MSD N.V./S.A. 1 Belgium
Sanofi Pasteur MSD Oy 1 Finland
Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.A. 1 Portugal
Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.A. 1 Spain
Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.p.A. 1 Italy
Sanofi Pasteur MSD SNC 1 France
SFPA, Inc. 1 Delaware
Sharp & Dohme, S.A. Spain
Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. Delaware
5Country or State
Name of Incorporation
TELERx Marketing Inc. Pennsylvania
The MSD Foundation Limited United Kingdom
Thomas Morson & Son Limited United Kingdom
Transrow Manufacturing Ltd. 1 Bermuda
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme Lithuania
Variopharm Arzneimittel GmbH Germany
Vin-Mex, S.A. 1 Mexico
1 own less than 100%
6EXHIBIT 24.1
POWER OF ATTORNEY
Each of the undersigned does hereby appoint CELIA A. COLBERT and BRUCE N. KUHLIK and each of them, severally,
his/her true and lawful attorney or attorneys to execute on behalf of the undersigned (whether on behalf of the Company, or as an
officer or director thereof, or by attesting the seal of the Company, or otherwise) the Form 10-K Annual Report of Merck & Co., Inc.
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including amendments thereto and all
exhibits and other documents in connection therewith.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument has been duly executed as of the 24 th day of February 2009.
MERCK & CO., Inc.
By /s/ Richard T. Clark
Richard T. Clark
(Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer)
/s/ Richard T. Clark Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
R ichard T. Clark (Principal Executive Officer; Director)
/s/ Peter N. Kellogg Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
P eter N. Kellogg (Principal Financial Officer)
/s/ John Canan Senior Vice President and Controller
J ohn Canan (Principal Accounting Officer)
DIRECTORS
/s/ Leslie A. Brun
L eslie A. Brun R ochelle B. Lazarus
/s/ Johnnetta B. Cole /s/ Carlos E. Represas
J ohnnetta B. Cole C arlos E. Represas
/s/ Thomas E. Shenk
T homas H. Glocer T homas E. Shenk
/s/ Steven F. Goldstone
S teven F. Goldstone A nne M. Tatlock
/s/ William B. Harrison, Jr. /s/ Samuel O. Thier
W illiam B. Harrison, Jr. S amuel O. Thier
/s/ Harry R. Jacobson /s/ Wendell P. Weeks
H arry R. Jacobson W endell P. Weeks
/s/ William N. Kelley /s/ Peter C. Wendell
W illiam N. Kelley P eter C. WendellEXHIBIT 24.2
I, Debra A. Bollwage, Senior Assistant Secretary of Merck & Co., Inc. (the “Company”), a corporation duly organized and
existing under the laws of the State of New Jersey, do hereby certify that the following is a true copy of a resolution adopted at a
meeting of the Board of Directors of said Company on February 24, 2009 in accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws of said
Company:
“ Special Resolution No. — 2009
RESOLVED, that the proposed form of Form 10-K Annual Report of the Company for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2008 attached hereto is hereby approved with such changes as the proper officers of the Company, with the advice of counsel,
deem appropriate; and
RESOLVED, that each officer and director who may be required to execute the aforesaid Form 10-K Annual Report or any
amendments thereto (whether on behalf of the Company or as an officer or director thereof, or by attesting the seal of the
Company, or otherwise) is hereby authorized to execute a power of attorney appointing Celia A. Colbert and Bruce N. Kuhlik
and each of them, severally, his/her true and lawful attorney or attorneys to execute in his/her name, place and stead (in any
such capacity) such Form 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto and any and all exhibits and other
documents necessary or incidental in connection therewith and to file the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
each of said attorneys to have power to act with or without the others, and to have full power and authority to do and perform in
the name and on behalf of each of said officers and directors, or both, as the case may be, every act whatsoever necessary or
advisable to be done in the premises as fully and to all intents and purposes as any such officer or director might or could do in
person.”
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my signature and affixed the seal of the Company this 27 th day of
February 2009.
[Corporate Seal] /s/ Debra A. Bollwage
Debra A. Bollwage
Senior Assistant SecretaryExhibit 31.1
CERTIFICATION
I, Richard T. Clark, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Merck & Co., Inc.;
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented
in this report;
4. The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:
a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and
d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; and
5. The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing
the equivalent functions):
a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and
b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant’s internal control over financial reporting.
Date: February 27, 2009
By: /s/ Richard T. Clark
R ichard T. Clark
Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerExhibit 31.2
CERTIFICATION
I, Peter N. Kellogg, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Merck & Co., Inc.;
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented
in this report;
4. The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:
a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and
d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; and
5. The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing
the equivalent functions):
a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and
b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant’s internal control over financial reporting.
Date: February 27, 2009
By: /s/ Peter N. Kellogg
P eter N. Kellogg
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
OfficerExhibit 32.1
Section 1350
Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of Merck & Co., Inc. (the “Company”), hereby certifies that the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 (the “Report”) fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
Dated: February 27, 2009 /s/ Richard T. Clark
Name: Richard T. Clark
Title: Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerExhibit 32.2
Section 1350
Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of Merck & Co., Inc. (the “Company”), hereby certifies that the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 (the “Report”) fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
Dated: February 27, 2009 /s/ Peter N. Kellogg
Name: Peter N. Kellogg
Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer