10-K 1 body.htm 10 K BODY
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
Form 10-K
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001 Commission File No. 1-6571
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Incorporated in New Jersey I.R.S. Employer Identification No. 22-1918501
2000 Galloping Hill Road
Kenilworth, N.J. 07033
(908) 298-4000
Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Name of each exchange on
which registered
Common Shares, $.50 par value New York Stock Exchange
Preferred Share Purchase Rights* New York Stock Exchange
*At the time of filing, the Rights were not traded separately from the Common Shares.
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months and has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
YES X NO ___
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
Aggregate market value of common shares at February 28, 2002 held by non-affiliates based on closing price: $50.5 billion
Common shares outstanding as of February 28, 2002: 1,465,887,953
Part of Form 10-K
Documents incorporated by reference incorporated into
Schering-Plough Corporation 2001 Parts I, II and IV
Annual Report to ShareholdersSchering-Plough Corporation Proxy Part III
Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders on April 23, 2002
Part I
Item 1. Business
The terms "Schering-Plough" and the "Company," as used herein, refer to Schering-Plough Corporation and its subsidiaries,
except as otherwise indicated by the context. Schering-Plough Corporation is a holding company which was incorporated in
1970. The trademarks indicated by CAPITAL LETTERS in this Form 10-K are the property of, licensed to, promoted or
distributed by Schering-Plough Corporation, its subsidiaries or related companies.
Subsidiaries of Schering-Plough are engaged in the discovery, development, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical
products worldwide. Discovery and development efforts target the field of human health. Occasionally, application in the field of
animal health can result from these efforts. The Company views animal health applications as a means to maximize the return on
investments in discovery and development. The Company operates primarily in the prescription pharmaceutical marketplace.
However, where appropriate, the Company has sought and may in the future seek regulatory approval to switch prescription
products to over-the-counter (OTC) status as a means of extending a product's life cycle. In this way, the OTC marketplace is yet
another means of maximizing the return on investments in discovery and development. One example of this is the Company's
applications currently pending with the federal Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to switch all indications and market all
formulations of the Company's CLARITIN brand of nonsedating antihistamine as OTC products.
Prescription products include: CELESTAMINE, CLARINEX, CLARITIN, CLARITIN-D, CLARITIN SYRUP, NASONEX,
POLARAMINE, PROVENTIL and VANCERIL, allergy/respiratory; CAELYX, CEDAX, EULEXIN, GARAMYCIN, INTRON A,
PEG-INTRON, REBETOL (ribavirin), REBETRON Combination Therapy containing REBETOL capsules and INTRON A
injection, REMICADE and TEMODAR, anti-infective and anticancer; DIPROLENE, DIPROSONE, ELOCON, LOTRISONE,
QUADRIDERM and VALISONE, dermatologicals; IMDUR, INTEGRILIN, K-DUR and NITRO-DUR, cardiovasculars; and
CELESTONE, DIPROSPAN and SUBUTEX, other pharmaceuticals.
Animal health products include: CEPRAVIN and NUFLOR, antimicrobials; BANAMINE, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory;
RALGRO, a growth promotant implant; OTOMAX, an otic producta; broad range of vaccines for many species; parasiticides,
sutures, bandages and nutritional products.
Foot care, OTC and sun care products include: CLEAR AWAY wart remover; DR. SCHOLL'S foot care products; LOTRIMIN AF
and TINACTIN antifungals; A & D ointment; AFRIN nasal decongestant; CHLOR-TRIMETON antihistamine; CORICIDIN and
DRIXORAL cold and decongestant products; CORRECTOL laxative; BAIN DE SOLEIL, COPPERTONE and SOLARCAINE
sun care products.
Net Sales by Major Product and Therapeutic Category
(Dollars in millions)
For the years ended December 31,
2001 2000 Percent
Change
ALLERGY & RESPIRATORY $ 4,217 $ 4,189 1%
CLARITIN/CLARINEX 3,159 3,011 5
NASONEX 524 415 26
PROVENTIL 230 197 17
VANCERIL 82 127 (35)
VANCENASE 2 175 (99)
OTHER ALLERGY & RESPIRATORY 220 264 (17)
ANTI-INFECTIVE & ANTICANCER 2,273 2,015 13
INTRON FRANCHISE* 1,447 1,360 6
TEMODAR 180 121 49
REMICADE 166 57 N/M
EULEXIN 83 128 (35)
OTHER ANTI-INFECTIVE & ANTICANCER 397 349 14CARDIOVASCULARS 623 746 (17)
INTEGRILIN 231 172 34
K-DUR 216 290 (26)
NITRO-DUR 113 138 (18)
IMDUR 52 120 (57)
OTHER CARDIOVASCULARS 11 26 (58)
DERMATOLOGICALS 593 680 (13)
ELOCON 190 171 12
LOTRISONE 87 192 (55)
OTHER DERMATOLOGICALS 316 317 -
OTHER PHARMACEUTICALS 663 716 (7)
WORLDWIDE PHARMACEUTICALS 8,369 8,346 -
ANIMAL HEALTH 694 720 (4)
FOOT CARE 323 348 (7)
OTC 196 202 (2)
SUN CARE 220 199 10
CONSOLIDATED NET SALES $ 9,802 $ 9,815 -
N/M - Not meaningful
*The INTRON franchise consists of INTRON A, PEG-INTRON, a longer-acting form of INTRON A (as monotherapy for treating
hepatitis C and in combination with REBETOL Capsules) and REBETRON Combination Therapy, containing REBETOL
Capsules and INTRON A Injection.
The "Segment Information" as set forth in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's 2001 Annual Report
to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.
Prescription drugs are introduced and made known to physicians, pharmacists, hospitals, managed care organizations and
buying groups by trained professional sales representatives, and are sold to hospitals, certain managed care organizations,
wholesale distributors and retail pharmacists. Prescription products are also introduced and made known through journal
advertising, direct mail advertising, by distributing samples to physicians and through television, radio, internet, print and other
advertising media.
Animal health products are promoted to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers.
Foot care, OTC and sun care products are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets,
and are promoted directly to the consumer through television, radio, internet, print and other advertising media.
The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and includes other large companies with substantial resources for research,
product development, advertising, promotion and field selling support. There are numerous domestic and international
competitors in this industry. Some of the principal competitive techniques used by the Company for its products include research
and development of new and improved products, high product quality, varied dosage forms and strengths and switching
prescription products to non-prescription status. In the United States, many of the Company's products are subject to
increasingly competitive pricing as managed care groups, institutions, federal and state government entities and agencies and
buying groups seek price discounts and rebates. Governmental and other pressures toward the dispensing of generic products
may significantly reduce the sales of certain products when they become no longer protected by patents or data exclusivity
arrangements with the FDA.
The Company's subsidiaries own (or have licensed rights under) a number of patents and patent applications, both in the United
States and abroad. Patents and patent applications relating to the Company's significant products, including, without limitation,
CLARINEX, the CLARITIN family of products, INTRON A, REBETRON Combination Therapy containing REBETOL capsules
and INTRON A injection, PEG-INTRONR, EBETOL and NASONEX, are of material importance to the CompanyC. ertain
CLARITIN (loratadine) related patents expire over the next several years. The compound patent for loratadine is set to expire on
June 19, 2002. U.S. market exclusivity for CLARITIN was extended by the FDA to December 19, 2002, because the Company
conducted pediatric clinical trials at the request of the FDA. The compound patent for desloratadine is set to expire on April 21,
2004. U.S. market exclusivity for CLARINEX was extended by the FDA to October 21, 2004, because the Company conductedpediatric clinical trials at the request of the FDA. These patents are subject to litigation as described in Item 3, Legal
Proceedings, of this Form 10-K.
CLARITIN (loratadine) sales in the United States, in all formulations, accounted for 28 percent of the Company's consolidated
worldwide sales in 2001, and a larger percentage of the Company's consolidated earnings. The Company has sued 15 drug
manufacturers that are seeking to market certain forms of generic prescription or OTC loratadine prior to the expiration of
certain of the Company's U.S. patents, including the compound patents for loratadine and desloratadine. In each case, the
Company has filed suit in federal court seeking a ruling that the applicable Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) or
"paper" New Drug Application submission and proposed marketing of a generic prescription or OTC product constitute willful
infringement of the Company's patents and that the challenge to the patents is without merit. If the Company does not prevail in
those suits, it is reasonably possible that generic prescription or OTC forms of loratadine could enter the market as early as
December 20, 2002.
It is possible that OTC CLARITIN could be introduced into the U.S. market prior to the expiration of the Company's patentsA. s
the Company announced on March 8, 2002, the FDA has accepted for filing supplemental New Drug Applications( sNDAs) to
switch all indications and market all formulations of the CLARITIN brand of nonsedating antihistamine as OTC productsT. he
applications have been assigned a "standard review" by FDA, with a targeted action date of November 28, 2002. The Company
also reported that, as part of a previously scheduled meeting on April 22-23, 2002, the FDA's Nonprescription Drug Advisory
Committee will consider, among other scheduled items, whether loratadine can be appropriately labeled to treat chronic
idiopathic urticaria (CIU) in an OTC setting.
Management believes that either the introduction of generic prescription or OTC loratadine or OTC CLARITIN in the U.S. market
would likely have a rapid, sharp and material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations beginning at the occurrence
of such an event and extending for an indeterminate period of time thereafter. That effect on the Company's results of operations
may be mitigated if the Company is successful in its patent litigation described in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this Form 10-K.
Worldwide, the Company's products are sold under trademarks. Trademarks are considered in the aggregate to be of material
importance to the business and are protected by registration or common law in the United States and most other markets where
the products are sold.
Raw materials essential to the Company are available in adequate quantities from a number of potential suppliers. Energy is
expected to be available to the Company in sufficient quantities to meet operating requirements.
Seasonal patterns do not have a pronounced effect on the consolidated operations of the Company.
During 2001, 2000 and 1999, 16 percent, 13 percent and 12 percent, respectively, of consolidated net sales were made to
McKesson Corporation, a major pharmaceutical and health care products distributor. Also, during 2001, 2000 and 1999, 12
percent, 13 percent and 12 percent, respectively, of consolidated net sales were made to AmerisourceBergen Corporation, a
major pharmaceutical and health care products distributor. Substantially all of these sales were in the United States.
Foreign Operations
Foreign activities are carried out primarily through wholly-owned subsidiaries wherever market potential is adequate and
circumstances permit. In addition, the Company is represented in some markets through licensees or other distribution
arrangements. There are approximately 16,000 employees outside the United States.
Foreign operations are subject to certain risks, which are inherent in conducting business overseas. These risks include
possible nationalization, expropriation, importation limitations, pricing restrictions, and other restrictive governmental actions or
economic destabilization. Also, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can impact the Company's consolidated financial
results. For additional information on foreign operations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations and
Financial Condition" and "Segment Information" in the Company's 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated
herein by reference.
Research and Development
The Company's research activities are primarily aimed at discovering and developing new and enhanced prescription products
of medical and commercial significance. Company sponsored research and development expenditures were $1,312 million,
$1,333 million and $1,191 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Research expenditures represented approximately 13
percent of consolidated net sales in 2001, approximately 14 percent of consolidated net sales in 2000 and approximately 13
percent of consolidated net sales in 1999.
The Company's research activities are concentrated in the therapeutic areas of allergic and inflammatory disorders, infectious
diseases, oncology, cardiovascular diseases, and central nervous system disorders. The Company also has substantial efforts
directed toward biotechnology, gene therapy and immunology. Research activities include expenditures for both internal
research efforts and research collaborations with various partners.
While several pharmaceutical compounds are in varying stages of development, it cannot be predicted when or if these
compounds will become available for commercial sale. Among the products that are awaiting FDA approval as of March 28,
2002 (the last day prior to printing this report) are ZETIA (ezetimibe) tablets, a cardiovascular product being developed by the
Merck/Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals joint venture, and CLARINEX D and ASMANEX (mometasone furoate),
allergy/respiratory products. Also, CLARITIN has been filed for marketing approval in Japan, and as noted above in this Item 1,the Company has filed sNDAs to switch all indications and market all formulations of CLARITIN as OTC products.
Government Regulation
Pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by a number of national, state and local agencies. Of particular
importance is the FDA. It has jurisdiction over all the Company's businesses and administers requirements covering the testing,
approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of the Company's products. The extent of FDA
requirements and/or reviews affects the amount of resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the
United States.
On an ongoing basis, the FDA regulates the facilities and procedures used to manufacture pharmaceutical products in the
United States or for sale in the United States. All products made in such facilities are to be manufactured in accordance with
Good Manufacturing Practices (GMPs) established by the FDAT. he FDA periodically inspects the Company's facilities and
procedures to evaluate compliance.
The FDA has been conducting inspections of the Company's manufacturing facilities in New Jersey and Puerto Rico, and has
issued reports citing deficiencies concerning compliance with current GMPs, primarily relating to production processes, controls
and procedures and is continuing to evaluate the issues raised and information provided by the Company in connection with the
FDA inspections. While the Company has taken extensive measures intended to enhance its manufacturing processes and
controls, the Company notes that the FDA's inspection reports and its own internal reviews indicate that improvements are
required. On December 21, 2001, the Company announced that it is in negotiations with the FDA for a consent decree to
resolve issues involving the Company's compliance with current GMPs at its manufacturing facilities in New Jersey and Puerto
Rico. Although the Company notes that a number of issues are being discussed and that it cannot assure that a negotiated
agreement will be reached or what the terms of that agreement would be, the Company believes that it is probable that a
consent decree will ultimately be entered into with the FDA leading to a payment of $500 million. Any agreement would be
subject to approval by the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey.
Failure to comply with governmental regulations can result in delays in the release of products, delays in the approvals of new
products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the production and sale of
products, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions.
The FDA also regulates the conversion of pharmaceuticals from prescription to over-the-counter (OTC) status. On May 11, 2001,
the FDA held a joint meeting of its Nonprescription Drugs Advisory Committee and its Pulmonary-Allergy Drugs Advisory
Committee to consider a citizens' petition filed with the FDA by a health insurance company requesting that loratadine and two
other antihistamines marketed by other companies be switched from prescription to OTC status. The panel voted 19-4 in a non-
binding recommendation that loratadine has a safety profile acceptable for OTC marketing. The panel also had serious
concerns regarding appropriate OTC labeling. Additional issues on the lack of use studies as well as patient access were also
noted. While the Company is on record with the FDA as opposing the switch of prescription medications to OTC status without
the consent of the company that holds the New Drug Application (NDA), management recognizes that the medical, public policy
and business environment in which it operates is not static. In light of that changing environment, the Company filed sNDAs with
the FDA, which were accepted for filing by the FDA, to switch all indications and market all formulations of the CLARITIN brand
as OTC products. The applications have been assigned a "standard review" by the FDA, with a targeted action date of
November 28, 2002. On April 22-23, 2002, the FDA's Nonprescription Drug Advisory Committee will consider, among other
scheduled items, whether loratadine can be appropriately labeled to treat chronic idiopathic urticaria (CIU) in an OTC setting.
The Company's activities outside the United States are also subject to regulatory requirements governing the testing, approval,
safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of the Company's products. These regulatory requirements vary
from country to country. Whether or not FDA approval or approval of the European Medicines Evaluation Agency has been
obtained for a product, approval of the product by comparable regulatory authorities of countries outside of the United States or
the European Union, as the case may be, must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those countries. The approval
process may be more or less rigorous from country to country and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than
that required in the United States. Approval in one country does not assure that such product will be approved in another country.
In most international markets, the Company operates in an environment of government-mandated, cost-containment programs.
Several governments have placed restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater
use of generic drugs and enacted across-the-board price cuts as methods of cost control.
In recent years, various legislative proposals have been offered in Congress and in many state legislatures that would effect
major changes in the affected health care systems. One such change that could be material to the Company is the possible
addition of an outpatient prescription drug benefit to Medicare. Some states have passed legislation, and further federal and
state legislative and administrative proposals are possible. These could include price or patient reimbursement constraints on
medicines, mandated discounts, supplemental rebates, expansion of existing governmental programs for new patient
populations and restrictions on access to certain products. Similar issues have also arisen in many countries outside of the
United States. It is not possible to predict the outcome of such initiatives and their effect on operations and cash flows cannot be
reasonably estimated.
The Company is also subject to the jurisdiction of various other federal and state regulatory and enforcement departments and
agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human
Services in the United States. The Company is, therefore, subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions
by those organizations. Such actions may result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines,penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies.
Environment
To date, compliance with federal, state and local environmental protection laws has not had a materially adverse effect on the
Company. The Company has made and will continue to make necessary expenditures for environmental protection. Worldwide
capital expenditures during 2001 included approximately $7 million for environmental control purposes. It is anticipated that
continued compliance with such environmental regulations will not significantly affect the Company's financial statements or its
competitive position. For additional information on environmental matters, see "Legal and Environmental Matters" in the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by
reference.
Employees
There were approximately 29,800 people employed by the Company at December 31, 2001.
Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results
(Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995)
This report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company may contain so-called
"forward-looking statements," all of which are subject to risks and uncertainties. One can identify these forward-looking
statements by their use of words such as "expects," "plans," "will," "estimates," "forecasts," "projects," "believes," "anticipates"
and other words of similar meaning. One can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current
facts. These statements are likely to address the Company's growth strategy, financial results, regulatory issues, status of
product approvals, development programs, litigation and investigations. One must carefully consider any such statement and
should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ from the Company's forward-looking statements. These
factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and
some that are not. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed, and actual future results may vary materially. The Company
does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such
factors, they may include the following:
A significant portion of net sales are made to major pharmaceutical and health care products distributors and major retail
chains in the United States. Consequently, net sales and quarterly growth comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in
the buying patterns of major distributors, retail chains and other trade buyers. These fluctuations may result from
seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions or other factors.
Competitive factors, including technological advances attained by competitors, patents granted to competitors, new
products of competitors coming to the market, new indications for competitive products or generic prescription or OTC
competition as the Company's products mature and patents expire on products.
Increased pricing pressure both in the United States and abroad from managed care organizations, institutions and
government agencies and programs. In the United States, among other developments, consolidation among customers
may increase pricing pressures and may result in various customers having greater influence over prescription decisions
through formulary decisions and other policies.
Government laws and regulations (and changes in laws and regulations) affecting domestic and international operations
and the enforcement thereof including, among other laws and regulations, those resulting from healthcare reform initiatives
in the United States at the state and federal level and in other countries, as well as laws and regulations relating to trade,
antitrust, monetary and fiscal policies, taxes, price controls and possible nationalization.
Patent positions can be highly uncertain and patent disputes are not unusual. An adverse result in a patent dispute can
preclude commercialization of products or negatively impact sales of existing products or result in injunctive relief and
payment of financial remedies.
Uncertainties of the FDA approval process and the regulatory approval processes of non-U.S. countries, including, without
limitation, delays in approval of new products.
Failure to meet GMPs established by the FDA and other governmental authorities can result in delays in the release of
products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the production and sale of
products, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions. The resolution of manufacturing issues with the FDA discussed in this
report are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties, including the timing, scope and
duration of a resolution of the manufacturing issues, will depend on the ability of the Company to assure the FDA of the
quality and reliability of its manufacturing systems and controls, and the extent of remedial and prospective obligations
undertaken by the Company.
Difficulties in product development. Pharmaceutical product development is highly uncertain. Products that appear
promising in development may fail to reach market for numerous reasons. They may be found to be ineffective or to have
harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing, they may fail to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, they may
turn out not to be economically feasible because of manufacturing costs or other factors or they may be precluded from
commercialization by the proprietary rights of others.Efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to recalls,
withdrawals or declining sales.
Major products such as CLARITIN, INTRON A, PEG-INTRON, REBETRON Combination Therapy, Rebetol capsules and
NASONEX accounted for a material portion of the Company's 2001 revenues. If any major product were to become
subject to a problem such as loss of patent protection, OTC competition, previously unknown side effects, if a new, more
effective treatment should be introduced; or if the product is discontinued for any reason, the impact on revenues could be
significant. As noted under Item 1, Business, of this Form 10-K, management believes that either the introduction of
generic prescription or OTC loratadine or OTC CLARITIN in the U.S. market would likely have a rapid, sharp and material
adverse effect on the Company's results of operations beginning at the occurrence of such an event and extending for an
indeterminate period of time thereafter. That effect on the Company's results of operations may be mitigated if the
Company is successful in its patent litigation described in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this Form 10-K.
Legal factors, including product liability claims and other litigation, government investigations, patent disputes with
competitors and environmental concerns, any of which could preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect
the profitability of existing products.
Economic factors over which the Company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates.
Changes in tax laws including changes related to taxation of foreign earnings.
Changes in accounting standards promulgated by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board or the Securities and Exchange Commission that are adverse to the Company.
Item 2. Properties
The Company's corporate headquarters is located in Kenilworth, New Jersey. Principal manufacturing facilities are located in
Kenilworth, New Jersey; Miami, Florida; Omaha, Nebraska; Cleveland, Tennessee; Puerto Rico, Argentina, Belgium, Canada,
France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Singapore and Spain.
The Company's principal research facilities are located in Kenilworth and Union, New Jersey; Palo Alto and San Diego,
California; and Elkhorn, Nebraska.
The major portion of properties are owned by the Company. These properties are well maintained, adequately insured and in
good operating condition. The Company's manufacturing facilities have capacities considered appropriate to meet the
Company's needs.
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
Subsidiaries of the Company are defendants in 225 lawsuits involving approximately 250 plaintiffs arising out of the use of
synthetic estrogens by the mothers of the plaintiffs. In virtually all of these lawsuits, many other pharmaceutical companies are
also named defendants. The female plaintiffs claim various injuries, including cancerous or precancerous lesions of the vagina
and cervix and a multiplicity of pregnancy problems. A number of suits involve infants with birth defects born to daughters whose
mother took the drug. The total amount claimed against all defendants in all the suits amounts to more than $1.0 billion. While it
is not possible to precisely predict the outcome of these proceedings, it is management's opinion that it is remote that any
material liability in excess of the amount accrued will be incurred.
The Company is a party to, or otherwise involved in, environmental cleanup actions or proceedings under the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as Superfund) or under equivalent state laws.
These actions or proceedings seek to require the owners or operators of facilities that treated, stored or disposed of hazardous
substances and transporters and generators of such substances to remediate contaminated facilities and/or reimburse the
government or private parties for their cleanup costs. The Company, along with such owners, operators, transporters and
generators, is alleged to be a potentially responsible party (PRP) as an alleged generator of hazardous substances found at
certain facilities. In each proceeding, the government or private litigants allege that any one PRP, including the Company, is
jointly and severally liable for all cleanup requirements and costs. Although joint and several liability is alleged, a PRP's share of
cleanup costs is frequently determined on the basis of several factors, including the type and quantity of hazardous substances;
however, the allocation process varies greatly from facility to facility and may take years to complete. The Company's potential
share of cleanup costs also depends on how many other PRPs are involved in the action or proceeding, insurance coverage,
available indemnity contracts and contribution rights against other PRPs. While it is not possible to predict with certainty the
outcome of any action or proceeding, it is management's opinion that it is remote that any material liability in excess of amounts
accrued will be incurred.
Residents in the vicinity of a publicly owned waste-water treatment plant in Barceloneta, Puerto Rico, have filed two lawsuits
against the plant owner and operator, and numerous companies that discharge into the plant, including a subsidiary of the
Company, for damages and injunctive relief relating to odors allegedly coming from the plant and connecting sewers. One of
these lawsuits is a class action claiming damages of $600 million. Both lawsuits are in the very early stages of discovery and it
is not possible to predict the outcome.The Company is a defendant in numerous antitrust actions commenced (starting in 1993) in state and federal courts by
independent retail pharmacies, chain retail pharmacies and consumers. The plaintiffs allege price discrimination and/or
conspiracy between the Company and other defendants to restrain trade by jointly refusing to sell prescription drugs at
discounted prices to the plaintiffs.
One of the federal cases was a class action on behalf of approximately two-thirds of all retail pharmacies in the United States
and alleged a price-fixing conspiracy. The Company, in February 1996, agreed to settle the federal class action for a total of $22
million, which has been paid in full. The United States District Court in Illinois approved the settlement of the federal class action
in June 1996. In June 1997, the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed all appeals from that settlement, and it is not subject
to further review. The defendants that did not settle the class action proceeded to trial in September 1998. The trial ended in
November 1998 with a directed verdict in the defendants' favor.
In April 1997, certain of the plaintiffs in the federal class action commenced another purported class action in the United States
District Court in Illinois against the Company and the other defendants who settled the previous federal class action. The
complaint alleges that the defendants conspired not to implement the settlement commitments following the settlement
discussed above. The District Court has denied the plaintiffs' motion for a preliminary injunction hearing.
The Company has settled all the state court retailer actions, except one in Alabama. The settlement amounts were not material
to the Company. In June 1999, the Alabama Supreme Court reversed the denial of a motion for judgment on the pleadings in the
Alabama retailer case. The Court held that the Alabama antitrust law did not apply to conspiracies alleged to be in interstate
commerce. Based on that ruling, the Alabama retailer case has been dismissed. Subsequently, the District Attorney for the First
Judicial Circuit filed a complaint on behalf of Alabama consumers under the State's Deceptive Trade Practices Act.
The Federal Court in Illinois recently remanded the cases of those retailers that opted out of the class action back to the District
Courts where they were filed.
Plaintiffs in these antitrust actions generally seek treble damages in an unspecified amount and an injunction against the
allegedly unlawful conduct.
The Company believes all the antitrust actions are without merit and is defending itself vigorously.
In October 1999, the Company received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,
pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, concerning the Company's contracts with pharmacy
benefit managers (PBMs) and managed care organizations to provide disease management services in connection with the
marketing of its pharmaceutical products. It appears that the subpoena was one of a number addressed to industry participants
as part of an inquiry into, among other things, pharmaceutical marketing practices. The government's inquiry has focused on,
among other things, whether the Company's disease management and other marketing programs and arrangements comply
with federal health care laws and whether the value of its disease management programs and other marketing programs and
arrangements should have been included in the calculation of rebates to the government. The Company has been cooperating
with the investigation. In March 2002, the U.S. Attorney's Office began issuing grand jury subpoenas. The grand jury investigation
appears to be focused on one or more transactions with managed care organizations where the government believes the
Company offered or provided deeply discounted pharmaceutical products (known as "nominally priced" products which are
generally excluded from Medicaid rebate calculations), free or discounted disease management services, and other marketing
programs and arrangements that delivered value, in order to place or retain one or more of the Company's major pharmaceutical
products on the managed care organization's formulary. The grand jury appears to be investigating, among other things,
(i) whether the transactions described above and conduct relating thereto violated federal anti-kickback statutes; and (ii) whether
the value of the items and services described above should have been included in the Company's calculation of Medicaid
rebates. It is not possible to predict the outcome of the investigations, which could include the commencement of civil or criminal
proceedings involving fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government
reimbursement programs, nor can the Company predict whether the investigations will affect its marketing practices or sales.
In February 1998, Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Geneva) submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) to the U.S.
FDA seeking to market a generic form of CLARITIN in the United States several years before the expiration of the Company's
patents. Geneva has alleged that certain of the Company's U.S. CLARITIN patents are invalid and unenforceableT. he CLARITIN
patents are material to the Company's business. In March 1998, the Company filed suit in federal court seeking a ruling that
Geneva's ANDA submission constitutes willful infringement of the Company's patents and that its challenge to the Company's
patents is without merit. The Company believes that it should prevail in the suit. However, as with any litigation, there can be no
assurance that the Company will prevail.
During 1999, Copley Pharmaceutical, Inc., Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., Novex Pharma and Zenith Goldline
Pharmaceuticals individually notified the Company that each had submitted an ANDA to the FDA seeking to market certain
generic forms of CLARITIN in the United States before the expiration of certain of the Company's patents, including the
compound patents for loratadine and desloratadine. In 2000, Andrx Pharmaceuticals, L.L.C. (Andrx), Mylan Pharmaceuticals
Inc., ESI Lederle, Inc. (Lederle) and Impax Laboratories, Inc. made similar submissionsI.n 2001, Alpharma USPD Inc., Ranbaxy
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Taro Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., and Genpharm Incorporated have made similar submissions,a nd Andrx
submitted another ANDA to the FDA to market a second formulation of generic CLARITINA. lso in 2001, McNeil Consumer
Healthcare (McNeil) submitted a "paper" New Drug Application ("paper" NDA) under Section 505 (b)(2) of the Federal Food,
Drug and Cosmetic Act seeking to market a generic OTC form of CLARITIN before the expiration of the Company's patentsIn.
2002, Whitehall-Robins Healthcare, a division of American Home Products (Wyeth as of March 11, 2002), made a similar
"paper" NDA submission. Each has alleged that one or more of those patents are invalid and unenforceable. In each case, theCompany has filed suit in federal court seeking a ruling that the applicable ANDA or "paper" NDA submission and proposed
marketing of a generic prescription or OTC product constitute willful infringement of the Company's patents and that the
challenge to the patents is without merit. The Company believes that it should prevail in these suits. However, as with any
litigation, there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail.
The Company is a co-defendant in a litigation commenced in October 2001 by Housey Pharmaceuticals against 11
pharmaceutical companies in which Housey has alleged infringement of several patents relating to laboratory research methods.
The Company believes that it has substantial defenses and will defend itself vigorously. However, as with any litigation, there can
be no assurance that the Company will prevail.
The Company is responding to investigations by the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice and
certain states into certain industry and Company practices regarding average wholesale price (AWP). These investigations
include a Department of Justice review of the merits of a federal action filed by a private entity on behalf of the United States in
the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida, as well as an investigation by the United States Attorney's
Office for the District of Massachusetts, regarding, inter alia, whether the AWP set by pharmaceutical companies for certain
drugs improperly exceeds the average prices paid by dispensers and, as a consequence, results in unlawful inflation of certain
government drug reimbursements that are based on AWP. The U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts is also
investigating whether the Company's sales of a product that was repackaged for sale by a managed care organization should
have been included in the Company's Medicaid best price calculations. In March 2001, the Company received a subpoena from
the Massachusetts Attorney General's office seeking documents concerning the use of AWP and other pricing and/or marketing
practices. The Company is cooperating with these investigations. It is not possible to predict the outcome of these
investigations, which could include the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies.
During the third quarter of 2000, the Company's generic subsidiary, Warrick Pharmaceuticals (Warrick), was sued by the state
of Texas. The lawsuit alleges that Warrick supplied the state with false reports of wholesale prices, which caused the state to pay
Medicaid claims on prescriptions of Warrick's albuterol sulfate solution at a higher than justified level. The state seeks damages
of $54 million against Warrick, including treble damages and penalties. It is not possible to predict the outcome of the litigation,
which could result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies.
In October 2001, the West Virginia Attorney General filed a lawsuit against Warrick alleging that Warrick falsely "inflated" the
AWP for albuterol sulfate solution knowing that the state Medicaid programs and other state programs relied on AWP to pay
providers for the drugs. The complaint alleges that Warrick caused the state to pay excessive reimbursement to the distributors
of the drug. The complaint demands unspecified damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees. The Company
believes that the claims are without merit and will defend itself vigorously. However, as with any litigation, there can be no
assurance that the Company will prevail.
In November 2001, a private plaintiff filed complaints in Arizona state court against the Company and Warrick. These
complaints, which are alleged to be suitable for class action status, allege that the Company and Warrick engaged in a
conspiracy to fraudulently report "fictitious" AWPs regarding prescription pharmaceuticals. The "inflated" AWPs were allegedly
supplied to Medicaid, Medicare and private insurers. These lawsuits seek unspecified damages, including treble damages and
attorneys' fees. The Company believes that the claims are without merit and will defend itself vigorously. However, as with any
litigation, there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail.
In January 2002, the Nevada Attorney General filed a lawsuit against Warrick alleging that Warrick engaged in a scheme to
fraudulently report "fictitious" AWPs for prescription pharmaceuticals that were covered by Medicare and Medicaid, thus inflating
those reimbursements and patients' co-payments. The lawsuit also alleges that Warrick failed to report accurate prices under
the Medicaid Rebate Program and thereby underpaid the Medicaid rebates that it was required to pay to Nevada.T he lawsuit
seeks injunctive relief and unspecified damages, including treble and punitive damages. The Company believes that the claims
are without merit and will defend itself vigorously. However, as with any litigation, there can be no assurance that the Company
will prevail.
In February 2002, the Montana Attorney General filed a lawsuit against the Company and Warrick.N either the Company nor
Warrick have been served. The lawsuit alleges that the defendants reported "inflated" AWPs which were supplied to Medicare,
Medicaid and Montana State agencies. The "inflated" AWPs allegedly caused the state and patients who made co-payments to
overpay for certain drugs. The complaint also alleges that the defendants failed to report accurate prices under the Medicaid
Rebate Program and thereby deprived the state of its proper rebates. The complaint seeks injunctive relief and unspecified
damages, including double damages. The Company believes that the claims are without merit and will defend itself vigorously.
However, as with any litigation, there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail.
On January 25, 2002, Warrick was served with a lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada by the
Twin Cities Bakery Workers Health and Welfare Fund, and another plaintiff. The case alleges to be a class action on behalf of all
direct and indirect "end-payers" for Medicare-covered pharmaceuticals sold by Warrick. The case alleges violations of Section
2 of The Sherman Act, and Federal Rico, Statutory Fraud and Unjust Enrichment laws for alleged overpayments as a result of
"inflated" AWPs and alleged giving of free samples and expecting that the samples would be billed to Medicare and the "end-
payers." The complaint seeks treble and punitive damages and injunctive relief. The Company believes the claims are without
merit and will defend itself vigorously. However, as with any litigation, there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail.
On April 2, 2001, the FTC started an administrative proceeding against the Company, Upsher-Smith, Inc. (Upsher-Smith) and
Lederle. The complaint alleges anti-competitive effects from the settlement of patent lawsuits between the Company and
Lederle, and the Company and Upsher-Smith. The lawsuits that were settled related to generic versions of K-DUR, theCompany's long-acting potassium chloride product, which was the subject of ANDAs filed by Lederle and Upsher-Smith.T he
administrative hearing began in January 2002. The Company believes that its actions have been lawful and proper, and intends
to defend itself vigorously. However, it is not possible to predict the outcome of the proceeding, which could result in the
imposition of injunctive or administrative remedies.
Following the commencement of the FTC administrative proceeding, alleged class action suits were filed on behalf of direct and
indirect purchasers of K-DUR against the Company, Upsher-Smith and Lederle in federal and state courts.T hese suits all allege
essentially the same facts and claim violations of federal and state antitrust laws, as well as other state statutory and/or common
law causes of action. The Company believes that it has substantial defenses and intends to defend itself vigorously.
In January 2000, a jury found that the Company's PRIME PACâ PRRS (Porcine Respiratory and Reproductive Syndrome)
vaccine infringed a patent owned by Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica, Inc. An injunction was issued in August 2000 barring
further sales of the Company's vaccine. The Company's post-trial motions for either a reversal of the jury's verdict or a new trial
were denied in September 2001. The Company has appealed. As with any litigation, there can be no assurance that the
Company will prevail.
On February 15, 2001, the Company stated in a press release that the FDA had been conducting inspections of the Company's
manufacturing facilities in New Jersey and Puerto Rico and had issued reports citing deficiencies concerning compliance with
current Good Manufacturing Practices, primarily relating to production processes, controls and procedures. The next day,
February 16, 2001, a lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against the Company and
certain named officers alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5
promulgated thereunder. Additional lawsuits of the same tenor followed. The plaintiffs in the suits purport to represent classes of
shareholders who purchased shares of Company stock between dates as early as March 2, 2000, and February 15, 2001, the
date of the press release. In April 2001, a lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey
against the Company and certain named officers alleging substantially the same violations of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 as alleged in the putative class actions described above in this paragraph, as well as alleging violations of Section 11 of
the Securities Act of 1933 and failure to disclose information which is the subject matter of the FTC administrative proceeding
described above and purporting to represent a class of shareholders who purchased shares of Company stock between July 25,
2000, and March 30, 2001, the last business day before the Company issued a press release relating to the FTC administrative
proceeding. This complaint and all of the previously filed complaints were consolidated into one action in the United States
District Court for the District of New Jersey, and a lead plaintiff, the Florida State Board of Administration, was appointed by the
Court on July 2, 2001. On October 11, 2001, a consolidated amended complaint was filed, alleging the same violations
described in the second sentence of this paragraph (but not a Section 11 claim) and purporting to represent a class of
shareholders who purchased shares of Company stock from May 9, 2000, through February 15, 2001. The Company has moved
to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint. The Company believes that it has substantial defenses and intends to defend
the consolidated action vigorously.
In addition to the lawsuits described in the immediately preceding paragraph, two lawsuits were filed in the United States District
Court for the District of New Jersey and two lawsuits were filed in New Jersey state court against the Company (as a nominal
defendant) and certain officers, directors and a former director seeking damages on behalf of the Company including
disgorgement of trading profits made by defendants allegedly obtained on the basis of material non-public information. The
complaints in each of those four lawsuits relate to the issues described in the Company's February 15, 2001, press release, and
allege a failure to disclose material information and breach of fiduciary duty by the directors. One of the federal court lawsuits
also includes allegations related to the investigations by the U.S. Attorney's Offices for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and
the District of Massachusetts, the FTC's administrative proceeding against the Company, and the lawsuit by the state of Texas
against Warrick, all of which are described above. Each of these lawsuits is a shareholder derivative action that purports to
assert claims on behalf of the Company, but as to which no demand was made on the Board of Directors and no decision has
been made on whether the Company can or should pursue such claims. In August 2001, the plaintiffs in each of the New Jersey
state court shareholder derivative actions moved to dismiss voluntarily the complaints in those actions, which motions were
granted. The two shareholder derivative actions pending in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey have
been consolidated into one action, which is in its very early stages. This consolidated action is being coordinated for pre-trial
purposes with the consolidated action described in the immediately preceding paragraph. On January 2, 2002, the Corporation
received a demand letter dated December 26, 2001, from a law firm not involved in the derivative actions described above, on
behalf of a shareholder who also is not involved in the derivative actions, demanding that the Board of Directors bring claims on
behalf of the Company based on allegations substantially similar to those alleged in the derivative actions. On January 22, 2002,
the Board of Directors adopted a board resolution establishing an Evaluation Committee, consisting of three directors, to
investigate, review and analyze the facts and circumstances surrounding the allegations made in the demand letter and the
consolidated amended derivative action complaint described above, but reserving to the full Board authority and discretion to
exercise its business judgment in respect of the proper disposition of the demand. The Committee has engaged independent
outside counsel to advise it.
The Company is a party to an arbitration commenced in July 2001 by Biogen, Inc. (Biogen) relating to, among other things,
Biogen's claims that the Company owes U.S. alpha interferon royalty payments to Biogen for a period of time that the Company
does not believe such royalties are owed, and to preempt future royalty disputes. Biogen's claims relate to the Company's sale
of INTRON A and PEG-INTRON. A second arbitration was commenced by Biogen against the Company in August 2001 relating
to Biogen's claim that the Company owed royalties on INTRON A provided without charge or at a reduced charge to indigent
patients participating in SCHERING'S Commitment to Care programI.n October 2001, ICN Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (ICN) also
notified the Company of its intention to begin an alternative resolution dispute proceeding against the Company seeking the
payment of royalties on REBETOL provided by the Company without charge or at a reduced charge to indigent patientsparticipating in SCHERING'S COMMITMENT TO CARE prograTmh.e Company believes that Biogen's claims in both
proceedings and ICN's claims are without merit and will defend itself vigorously. However, as with any arbitration or alternative
dispute proceeding, there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail.
On August 9, 2001, the Prescription Access Litigation (PAL) project, a Boston-based group formed in 2001 to litigate against
drug companies, issued a press release stating that PAL members filed a lawsuit in New Jersey state court against the
Company. In December 2001, the Company was served with an amended complaint in the case. The suit, which PAL purports
to be a class action, alleges, among other things, that the Company's direct-to-consumer advertising falsely depicts the benefits
of CLARITIN in violation of the New Jersey Consumer Fraud Act. The Company believes that the claims are without merit and
will defend itself vigorously. In February 2002, the Company filed a motion to dismiss this case. However, as with any litigation,
there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail.
In December 2001, PAL filed a class action suit in Federal Court in Massachusetts against the Company.T he complaint alleges
that the Company conspired with other drug companies to defraud consumers by reporting fraudulently high AWPs for
prescription medications covered by Medicare. The complaint seeks a declaratory judgment and unspecified damages,
including treble damages. The Company believes that the claims are without merit and will defend itself vigorously. However, as
with any litigation, there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail.
The Company received notice that, in August 2001, Geneva Pharmaceuticals Technology Corp. (Geneva Pharmaceuticals) and
Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, L.L.C. (Three Rivers), and in January 2002, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva), submitted
separate ANDAs with the FDA seeking to market generic forms of 200 mg REBETOL (ribavirin) capsules in the United States
before the expiration of the Company's patents covering ribavirin formulations. Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Three Rivers and Teva
have asserted that they do not infringe the Company's REBETOL patents and/or the patents are invalid.T he REBETOL patents
are material to the Company's business. In September 2001, October 2001 and March 2002, the Company filed suits in federal
court seeking rulings that the ANDA submissions by Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Three Rivers and Teva, respectively, constitute
infringement of the Company's patents and that the challenges to the Company's patents are without merit. The Company
believes that it should prevail in the suits. However, as with any litigation, there can be no assurance that the Company will
prevail.
In October 2001, United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) auditors have asserted, in reports, that the Company is liable for
additional tax for the 1990 through 1992 tax years. The reports allege that two interest rate swaps that the Company entered into
with an unrelated party should be recharacterized as loans from affiliated companies resulting in additional tax on income. The
tax sought by the IRS auditors relating to recharacterization is approximately $195 million, plus penalties and interest for the
period stated above. The Company and its tax advisers believe there is no merit to the IRS' position.T he Company intends to
defend its position vigorously; however, there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail.
The Company is a defendant in a number of purported nationwide or state class action lawsuits in which plaintiffs seek a refund
of the purchase price of the phenylpropanolamine-containing cough/cold remedies, laxatives or recalled albuterol/VANCERIL
inhalers they purchased. Other pharmaceutical manufacturers are co-defendants in some of these lawsuits. In general, plaintiffs
claim that they would not have purchased these products had they known of certain medical risks attendant with their use or
would only have purchased the products at a reduced price had they known these risks. All of these lawsuits are in the early
stages of discovery; plaintiffs' theories for recovery have yet to be legally tested and the Courts have not yet agreed that these
cases should go forward as class actions. A number of lawsuits have also been filed against the Company seeking recovery for
personal injuries or death. In several of these lawsuits punitive damages are claimed. The Company believes that it should
prevail in these suits. However, as with any litigation, there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail.
Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
Not applicable.
Executive Officers of the Registrant
The following information regarding executive officers is included herein in accordance with Part III, Item 10.
Officers are elected to serve for one year and until their successors shall have been duly elected.
Name and Current Position Business Experience Age
Richard Jay Kogan Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive 60
Officer since 1998; President and Chief Executive
Chairman of the Board, Officer
Chief Executive Officer andPresident 1996 - 1998; re-elected to office of
President in 2001
Joseph C. Connors Present position 1996 53
Executive Vice President
and General Counsel
Jack L. Wyszomierski Present position 1996 46
Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer
Geraldine U. Foster Present position 1994 59
Senior Vice President,
Investor Relations and
Corporate Communications
Daniel A. Nichols Present position 1991 61
Senior Vice President,
Taxes
John P. Ryan Present position 1998; 61
Senior Vice President, Vice President - Human Resources
Human Resources Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals
1988 -1998
Name and Current Position Business Experience Age
Roch F. Doliveux Present position 2001; 45
Vice President and President, Schering-Plough
President, Schering-Plough International 2000 - 2001
International Senior Vice President;
Managed Care and
Health Management 1996 - 1999Douglas J. Gingerella Present position 1999; 43
Vice President, Corporate Staff Vice President, Corporate
Audits Audits 1995 -1998
Thomas H. Kelly Present position 1991 52
Vice President and
Controller
Robert S. Lyons Present position 1991 61
Vice President, Corporate
Information Services
E. Kevin Moore Present position 1996 49
Vice President and
Treasurer
Richard W. Zahn Present position 2001; 50
Vice President and President, Schering Laboratories
President, Schering Laboratories 1996 - 2001
Joseph J. LaRosa Present position 2001; 43
Staff Vice President, Staff Vice President, Commercial Law
Secretary and Associate 1999 - 2000; Senior Legal Director
General Counsel 1997 -1999; Legal Director 1995 -1997Part II
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters
The common share dividends, share price data and the approximate number of holders of record as set forth in the Company's
2001 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 6. Selected Financial Data
The Six-Year Selected Financial & Statistical Data as set forth in the Company's 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders is
incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial Condition as set forth in the Company's 2001 Annual
Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
The Market Risk Disclosures as set forth in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial Condition in
the Company's 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the related Statements of Consolidated Income,
Consolidated Shareholders' Equity and Consolidated Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2001, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Independent Auditors' Report of Deloitte & Touche LLP dated February
15, 2002 and unaudited Quarterly Data, as set forth in the Company's 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated
herein by reference.
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
Not applicable.
Part III
Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
The information concerning directors and nominees for directors as set forth in the Company's Proxy Statement for the annual
meeting of shareholders on April 23, 2002 is incorporated herein by reference.
Information required as to executive officers is included in Part I of this filing under the caption "Executive Officers of theRegistrant."
Item 11. Executive Compensation
Executive compensation information as set forth in the Company's Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of shareholders on
April 23, 2002 is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
Information concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management as set forth in the Company's Proxy
Statement for the annual meeting of shareholders on April 23, 2002 is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
Information concerning certain relationships and related transactions as set forth in the Company's Proxy Statement for the
annual meeting of shareholders on April 23, 2002 is incorporated herein by reference.
Part IV
Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K
(a) 1. Financial Statements
The following consolidated financial statements and Independent Auditors' Report, included in the
Company's 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference.
Statements of Consolidated Income for the Years Ended
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999
Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows for the Years Ended
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999
Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2001 and 2000
Statements of Consolidated Shareholders' Equity for the Years
Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent Auditors' Report
(a) 2. Financial Statement Schedules
Page in
Form 10-KIndependent Auditors' Report 33
Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 34
Schedules not included have been omitted because they are not applicable or not required or because the required information
is set forth in the financial statements or the notes thereto. Columns omitted from schedules filed have been omitted because the
information is not applicable.
Financial statements of fifty percent or less owned companies accounted for by the equity method have been omitted because,
considered individually or in the aggregate, they do not constitute a significant subsidiary.
Exhibits
(a) 3.
Exhibit
Number Description
3 (a) A complete copy of the Certificate of Incorporation as amended and currently in effect.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to the Company's Quarterly Report for the
period ended June 30, 1995 on Form 10-Q; Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
Incorporation incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Company's Quarterly Report
for the period ended June 30, 1997 on Form 10-Q; Certificate of Amendment of
Certificate of Incorporation incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Company's
Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 1999 on Form
10-Q, File No. 1-6571.
3 (b) A complete copy of the By-Laws as amended and currently in effect. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4(2) to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3, File
No. 333-853; amendment to By-Laws effective September 22, 1998 incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended
September 30, 1998 on Form 10-Q; amendment to By-Laws effective April 24, 2001
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period
ended March 31, 2001 on form 10-Q; amendment to By-Laws effective December 3,
2001 (filed with this document), File No. 1-6571.
4 (a) Rights Agreement between the Company and the Bank of New York dated June 24,
1997. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the Form 8-A filed by the Company on
June 30, 1997, File No. 1-6571.
4 (b) Indenture dated as of November 1, 1982 between the Company and the Chase
Manhattan Bank, N.A. as Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to the
Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 2-80012.4 (c) Form of Participation Rights Agreement between the Company and the Chase
Manhattan Bank (National Association) as Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.6 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4, Amendment No. 1, File No.
33-65107.
Exhibit Description
Number
10 (a) (i) The Company's Executive Incentive Plan (as amended) and Trust related thereto.*P lan
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period
ended March 31, 1994 on Form 10-Q; Executive Incentive Plan as Amended and
Restated to October 1, 2000 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) (i) to the
Company's Annual Report for 2000 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.
10 (a) (ii) Trust Agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Annual
Report for 1988 on Form 10-K; amendment to Trust Agreement incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended
March 31, 1997 on Form 10-Q; Amended and Restated Defined Contribution Trust
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to the Company's Annual Report for 2000
on Form 10-K , File No. 1-6571.
10 (b) The Company's 1987 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended).*I ncorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(d) to the Company's Annual Report for 1990 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.
10 (c) The Company's 1992 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended).* Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(d) to the Company's Annual Report for 1992 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571;
amendment of December 11, 1995 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the
Company's Annual Report for 1995 on Form 10-K, File No.
1-6571.
10 (d) The Company's 1997 Stock Incentive Plan.*I ncorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to
the Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended September 30, 1997 on Form 10-
Q; Amendment to 1997 Stock Incentive Plan incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 1999 on Form
10-Q, File No. 1-6571.Description
Exhibit
Number
10 (e) (i) Employment agreement between the Company and Richard Jay Kogan (as amended).*
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(ii) to the Company's Annual Report for 1989
on Form 10-K; first amendment incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1994 on Form 10-Q; second
amendment incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(ii) to the Company's Annual
Report for 1994 on Form 10-K; third amendment incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended September 30, 1995 on
Form 10-Q; fourth amendment incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 1998 on Form 10-Q; fifth
amendment incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(ii) to the Company's Annual
Report for 1998 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.
10 (e) (ii) Form of employment agreement between the Company and its executive officers
effective upon a change of control.* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(iv) to the
Company's Annual Report for 1994 on Form 10-K; Form of amendment incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended
September 30, 1999 on Form 10-Q; Forms of amendment effective January 1, 2002
(filed with this document as Exhibits 10(e) (ii) (A) and (B)); Form of employment
agreement between the Company and its executive officers effective upon a change of
control incorporating all prior amendments through January 1, 2002 and for new
agreements effective beginning January 1, 2002 (filed with this document as Exhibit
10(e) (ii) (C)), File no. 1-6571.
10 (e) (iii) Employment agreement between the Company and Raul E. Cesan.* Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(e)(vi) to the Company's Annual Report for 1998 on Form 10-K,
File No. 1-6571.
10 (e) (iv) Employment agreement between the Company and Robert P. Luciano (as amended).*
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(i) to the Company's Annual Report for 1989
on Form 10-K; first amendment incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1994 on Form 10-Q; second
amendment incorporated by reference 10(e)(i) to the Company's Annual Report for
1994 on Form 10-K; third amendment incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 1998 on Form 10-Q, File
No. 1-6571.
Description
Exhibit
Number
10 (e)(v) Agreement between the Company and Robert P. Luciano.* Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(d) to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 1998
on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.10(e)(vi) Supplement to employment agreement effective upon a change of control (described in
Exhibit 10(e)(ii) of this document index) between the Company and Joseph C. Connors
(filed with this document)*, File No. 1-6571.
10(e)(vii) Supplement to employment agreement effective upon a change of control (described in
Exhibit 10(e)(ii) of this document index) between the Company and Jack Wyszomierski
(filed with this document)*, File No. 1-6571.
10(e)(viii) Supplement to employment agreement effective upon a change of control (described in
Exhibit 10(e)(ii) of this document index) between the Company and Richard W. Zahn
(filed with this document)*, File No. 1-6571.
10 (f) Amended and Restated Directors Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust related
thereto.* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company's Quarterly Report
for the period ended September 30, 1999 on Form 10-Q; Trust Agreement incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Annual Report for 1998 on Form 10-K;
amendment to Trust Agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 1997 on Form 10-Q;
Amended and Restated Defined Contribution Trust incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a)(ii) to the Company's Annual Report for 2000 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.
Description
Exhibit
Number
10 (g) Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and Trust related thereto.* Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended
March 31, 1998 on Form 10-Q; Amendment incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)
to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended September 30, 1998 on Form
10-Q, Second Amendment to Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan effective as of
October 1, 2000; incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Company's Annual
Report for 2000 on Form 10-K; Amended and Restated Trust Agreement incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Company's Annual Report for 1998 on Form 10-K,
File No. 1-6571.10 (h) Amended and Restated Directors' Stock Award Plan.* Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(c) to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended September 30,
1999 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.
10 (i) Deferred Compensation Plan.* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended September 30, 1995 on Form 10-Q;
Deferred Compensation Plan as Amended and Restated to October 1, 2000
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(h) to the Company's Annual Report for 2000 on
Form 10-K , File No. 1-6571.
10 (j) Amended and Restated Directors Deferred Stock Equivalency Program.*I ncorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended
September 30, 1999 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.
10 (k) The Company's Form of Split Dollar Agreement and related Collateral Assignment
between the Company and its Executive Officers.* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(l) to the Company's Annual Report for 1997 on Form 10-K; amendments
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Company's Quarterly Report for the
period ended March 31, 1998 on Form
10-Q, File No. 1-6571.
Exhibit Description
Number
10 (l) The Company's Retirement Benefits Equalization Plan, Second Amendment effective
as of October 1, 2000 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Company's
Annual Report for 2000 on Form 10-K.* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the
Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 1998 on Form 10-Q;
amendment incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company's Quarterly
Report for the period ended September 30, 1998 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.
12 Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges (filed with this document).
13 The Financial Section of the Company's 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders.W ith the
exception of those portions of said Annual Report which are specifically incorporated by
reference in this Form 10-K (filed with this document), such report shall not be deemed
filed as part of this Form 10-K.
21 Subsidiaries of the registrant (filed with this document).23 Consents of experts and counsel (filed with this document).
24 Power of attorney (filed with this document).
99 Press releases dated February 15, 2001, April 17, 2001, April 24, 2001, June 22, 2001,
June 27, 2001, June 28, 2001 (2 releases) and July 25, 2001. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibits 99(a) through 99( h) to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended
June 30, 2001 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.
*Compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.
All other exhibits are not applicable. Copies of above exhibits will be furnished upon request.
(b) Reports on Form 8-K.
None
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.
Schering-Plough Corporation
(Registrant)
Date March 29, 2002
By /s/ Thomas H. Kelly
Thomas H. Kelly
Vice President and Controller
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
date indicated.
By /s/ Richard Jay Kogan___________ By _____________*______________
Richard Jay Kogan H. Barclay Morley
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Director
and President; Director
By /s/ Jack L. Wyszomierski ________ By _____________*______________
Jack L. Wyszomierski Carl E. Mundy, Jr.
Executive Vice President and Director
Chief Financial Officer
By /s/ Thomas H. Kelly_____________ By _____________*______________
Thomas H. Kelly Richard de J. Osborne
Vice President and Controller Director
and Principal Accounting Officer
By _____________*______________By _____________*___________ _ Patricia F. Russo
Hans W. Becherer Director
Director
By _____________*___________ _
By _____________*______________ Kathryn C. Turner
Regina E. Herzlinger Director
Director
By _____________*___________ _
By _____________*______________ Robert F. W. van Oordt
David H. Komansky Director
Director
By _____________*___________ _
By _____________*______________ Arthur F. Weinbach
Eugene R. McGrath Director
Director
By _____________*___________ _
By _____________*______________ James Wood
Donald L. Miller Director
Director
*By /s/ Thomas H. Kelly_ _________ Date: _____March 29, 2002______
Thomas H. Kelly
Attorney-in-fact
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
Schering-Plough Corporation, its Directors and Shareholders:
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Schering-Plough Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31,
2001 and 2000, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2001, and have issued our report thereon
dated February 15, 2002; such financial statements and report are included in your 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders and are
incorporated herein by reference. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of Schering-Plough Corporation and
subsidiaries, listed in Item 14. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered
in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information
set forth therein./s/DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Parsippany, New Jersey
February 15, 2002
SCHEDULE II
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999
(Dollars in millions)
Valuation and qualifying accounts deducted from assets to which they apply:
Allowances for accounts receivable:
RESERVE RESERVE RESERVE
FOR DOUBTFUL FOR CASH FOR CLAIMS
ACCOUNTS DISCOUNTS AND OTHER TOTAL
2001
Balance at beginning of year $ 60 $ 29 $ 7 $ 96
Additions:
Charged to costs and
expenses 26 161 20 207
Deductions from reserves (16) (156) (6) (178)
Effects of foreign exchange (2) - - (2)
Balance at end of year $ 68 $ 34 $ 21 $ 123
2000
Balance at beginning of year $ 59 $ 22 $ 11 $ 92
Additions:
Charged to costs and
expenses 11 164 10 185
Deductions from reserves (9) (156) (13) (178)Effects of foreign exchange (1) (1) (1) (3)
Balance at end of year $ 60 $ 29 $ 7 $ 96
1999
Balance at beginning of year $ 51 $ 18 $ 29 $ 98
Additions:
Charged to costs and
expenses 17 146 12 175
Deductions from reserves (8) (142) (30) (180)
Effects of foreign exchange (1) - - (1)
Balance at end of year $ 59 $ 22 $ 11 $ 92