Value through
Innovation
1202
tropeR
launnA
miehlegnI
regnirheoB
2021Financial Highlights
Amounts in million EUR, unless otherwise indicated 2021 2020 Change
Net sales 20,618 19,566 + 5 %
by region
Americas 44 % 45 %
Europe 32 % 30 %
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 24 % 25 %
by business
Human Pharma 74 % 74 %
Animal Health 21 % 21 %
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 4 % 4 %
Other sales 1 % 1 %
Research and development expenses 4,127 3,696 + 12 %
Personnel expenses 5,692 5,587 + 2 %
Average number of employees 52,391 51,944 + 1 %
Operating income 4,705 4,624 + 2 %
Operating income as % of net sales 22.8 % 23.6 %
Group profit 3,406 3,062 + 11 %
Group profit as % of net sales 16.5 % 15.6 %
Group equity 19,331 17,307 + 12 %
Investments in tangible assets 968 1,046 – 7 %
Depreciation of tangible assets 609 602 + 1 %
Top 4 products —
Human Pharma (Net sales 2021)
JARDIANCE®
OFEV®
Family
2,491
3,940
million EUR
million EUR
+ 21.2 %
+ 25.5 %
Summary Report TRAJENTA® / SPIRIVA®
JENTADUETO®
1,548
2021 1,552 million EUR
million EUR
– 13.7 %
+ 2.6%
Top 4 products —
Animal Health (Net sales 2021)
NEXGARD® FRONTLINE®
916 418
million EUR million EUR
+ 13.9 % + 3.0 %
INGELVAC
HEARTGARD® CIRCOFLEX® /
307 FLEXCOMBO®
million EUR 253
– 1.6 % million EUR
– 4.2 %2021
Annual ReportContent
The Core of our Leitbild 01
The Shareholders’ Perspective 02
Key Aspects 2021 06
Corporate Bodies 08
Group Management Report 11
Information about the Group 12
Report on economic position 35
Report on opportunities and risks 45
Report on expected developments 50
Consolidated Financial Statements 53
Overview of selected consolidated companies 54
Consolidated balance sheet 56
Consolidated profit and loss statement 57
Consolidated cash flow statement 58
Statement of changes in group equity 59
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 60
Independent auditor’s report 81
Product Portfolio 87
Human Pharmaceuticals 88
Respiratory Diseases 88
Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases 92
Oncology 98
Diseases of the Central Nervous System 100
Infectious Diseases 100
Animal Health 102
Livestock – Swine 102
Livestock – Cattle/Ruminants 104
Livestock – Poultry 108
Veterinary Public Health (VPH) 110
Companion Animals – Horses 112
Companion Animals – Pets 114Our
Company
Making new and better medicines for humans and animals is at the
heart of what we do. Our mission is to create breakthrough therapies
that change lives. Independent and family-owned, Boehringer Ingelheim
has the freedom to pursue its long-term vision, looking ahead to
identify the health challenges of the future and targeting those areas
of need where we can do the most good.
As a world-leading, research-driven biopharmaceutical company, more
than 52,000 employees create value through innovation daily for our
three business areas: Human Pharma, Animal Health, and Biopharma-
ceutical Contract Manufacturing. In 2021, Boehringer Ingelheim
achieved net sales of 20.6 billion EUR. Our significant investment of
more than 4.1 billion EUR in R&D drives innovation, enabling the next
generation of medicines that save lives and improve quality of life.
We realize more scientific opportunities by embracing the power of
partnership and diversity of experts across the life-science community.
By working together, we accelerate the delivery of the next medical
breakthrough that will transform the lives of patients now, and in
generations to come.2
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
The Shareholders’
Perspective3
Our Company — The Shareholders’ Perspective
2021 was a year in which the pharmaceutical industry was able to demonstrate its contribution
to society. Just 12 months after the WHO’s declaration of a pandemic, we saw the first approvals
of vaccines, and collaborative efforts across companies provided the tools to protect vulnerable
groups.
Importantly, the pharmaceutical industry also maintained the supply of medicines unrelated to
COVID-19 and continued to work on innovative medicines, despite logistical and production
challenges. However, it has been concerning to see that fewer preventive screenings and check-up
examinations were performed as many patients avoided visiting medical centers.
Boehringer Ingelheim has invested substantially in mitigating the effects of the pandemic on
patients, employees, partners, and the business. This allowed medicines to continue to be available
for patients and animals, despite COVID-19-related supply challenges. At the same time,
the company showed significant progress pursing its ambition of developing breakthrough
therapies for humans and animals.
2021 has been a successful year. Our employees have shown true agility in facing these
challenges, and they continue to do extraordinary things under difficult circumstances to ensure
the supply of much-needed medicines to humans and animals. By advancing medical progress,
continuously seeking solutions that target areas of unmet medical need, people at Boehringer
Ingelheim are the key to strengthening our long-term competitiveness. On behalf of the
Shareholders’ Committee, I would like to thank them and everyone who supported us from
outside of Boehringer Ingelheim for their extraordinary commitment.
signed by
Christian Boehringer
Chairman of the Shareholders’ CommitteeThe Board of
Managing Directors
Michel Pairet Carinne BrouillonHubertus von Baumbach Michael Schmelmer Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok6
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Key Aspects 2021
Our purpose to transform lives has been our driving force for decades, and 2021 was no excep-
tion. We were very successful in delivering on this promise last year, thus improving the lives
of many patients, humans and animals alike. This led to a very gratifying performance of
our organization, across all business areas. While we were able to manage the effects of the
COVID-19 pandemic on our operations well, the pandemic has shown us how important
pharmaceutical research is for medical progress and societal safety.
We see innovation as the key driver to transform lives and continued to increase our
investments in research and development in 2021. Our long-term commitment to innovating
for unmet medical needs is proving its value: We have a strong pipeline with more than
100 promising projects at all stages of clinical and preclinical development. The three break-
through therapy designations granted to us by the US FDA in 2021 are testament to our strate-
gy being the right one; a fourth breakthrough therapy designation followed in February 2022.
Enabled by the high engagement of our employees and the support of a broad network of
partners, all three business units recorded profitable growth last year. In Human Pharma,
the acceleration of our portfolio continued in 2021. We received priority review for an immu-
nology medication and fast track designation for a treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease. Our innovative medications also showed growth, led by JARDIANCE® and OFEV®,
which treatments reached over seven million people worldwide.7
Our Company — Key Aspects 2021
Animal Health has had a good year, with sales up in a competitive market. Like in Human
Pharma, our focus lies on researching and developing products that transform the lives of
animals. We are strengthening our capabilities and increasing our investments to grow
our pipeline of products for livestock and companion animals. Meanwhile, we continue to
optimize and build a strong base for global research, production, and marketing.
In Vienna, Austria, we inaugurated two additional facilities to our biopharmaceutical production
network, which significantly increases our production capacity in mammalian and bacteria-
based technology. These milestone investments allow us to meet both growing internal pipeline
demand, as well as production demand from our customers, whom we are strongly committed
to through our BioXcellence brand.
Last year, we celebrated the 10-year anniversary of our Making More Health social entrepreneurs
initiative, as well as our More Green environmental footprint program. Seeing the impact
of how our sustainable development activities help improve the environment and the lives of
humans and animals, we decided to step up our investment and broaden our commitment.
Under a focused umbrella, Sustainable Development – For Generations, we are now bringing
19 global sustainability initiatives together across human and animal health, communities and
the environment.
A decisive success factor in 2021 has been the personal engagement of each individual
employee. Everyone has contributed to our shared purpose of transforming the lives of humans
and animals. The fact that we have managed to do this during a second year of the pandemic,
fills us with great gratitude towards them, as well as to all our partners.
signed by signed by signed by
Hubertus von Baumbach Carinne Brouillon Michel Pairet
signed by signed by
Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok Michael Schmelmer8
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Corporate Bodies
Shareholders’ Committee
Christian Boehringer
Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee
Christoph Boehringer
Erich von Baumbach
Isabel Boehringer
Dr. Mathias Boehringer
Prof. Dr. Dr. Andreas Barner9
Our Company — Corporate Bodies
Board of Managing Directors Advisory Board
Hubertus von Baumbach Dr. Nikolaus von Bomhard
Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Chairman of the Advisory Board
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
Carinne Knoche-Brouillon Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG
Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
Human Pharma Dr. Hagen Duenbostel
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) KWS SE
Dr. Michel Pairet
Member of the Board of Managing Directors, Dr. Frank Mastiaux
Innovation Chief Executive Officer
EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG
Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok
Member of the Board of Managing Directors, Jan Rinnert
Animal Health Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors, CEO
Heraeus Holding GmbH
Michael Schmelmer
Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
Finance & Group FunctionsDiabetes mellitus: island of Langerhans
in the human pancreasGroup
Management
Report
12 Information about the Group
12 The Group’s business model
14 Research and development
25 Production
28 Employee reporting
30 Sustainable Development — For Generations
35 Report on economic position
35 Macroeconomic environment
36 Earnings position
39 Development of the businesses
42 Financial position
43 Net assets position
45 Report on opportunities and risks
45 Opportunities and risk management
45 Individual risks
49 Overall statement on the risk situation
50 Report on expected developments
tropeR
tnemeganaM
puorG
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP12
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Group Management
Report
Information about the Group
The Group’s business model
Boehringer Ingelheim develops breakthrough therapies that transform lives, today and for ge­
nerations to come. Independent and family­owned, we pursue our long­term vision to identify
tomorrow’s challenges, seeking for solutions that target areas of unmet medical need. This is
captured in our purpose Transforming Lives for Generations, which inspires over 52,000 of us
to make a significant difference to human and animal lives. Boehringer Ingelheim has stood for
innovation for over 135 years. We are among the world’s 20 leading companies in this sector
and one of Germany’s most research­focused companies.
The Human Pharma business is the mainstay of our activities and accounts for a 74 % share of
overall sales. This business area is underpinned by an innovative portfolio, and in many cases
its products are standard treatments in medicine. Our research focuses on cardiovascular and
metabolic diseases, oncology, respiratory diseases, immunology, diseases of the central nervous
system (CNS) and retinal health.
JARDIANCE® with JARDIANCE®, a medicine for treatment of type 2 diabetes, which also reduces the risk of car­
two new indications diovascular diseases for type 2 diabetics with pre­existing cardiovascular conditions, was the
in heart failure Group’s biggest selling Human Pharma product for the third consecutive year. In addition, in
2021, the US public health authority, the FDA, awarded JARDIANCE® a Breakthrough Therapy
Designation (BTD) for extended use in the treatment of heart failure. Moreover, this medicine
was awarded a new indication through the EU’s approval of its use for the treatment of heart
failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) and a first approval in Paraguay for the treatment
of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). OFEV®, which is used for the treatment
of the rare respiratory disease idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and increasingly also in a
Net sales by business
Human Pharma
74 % 15,294 million EUR
Animal Health
Group 21 % 4,295 million EUR
20,618
Biopharmaceutical
million EUR
Contract Manufacturing
4 % 917 million EUR
Other sales
1 % 112 million EUR13
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
Net sales by region
in million EUR
9,147 8,889
6,554
5,879
4,917 4,798
2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
Americas Europe Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA)
further indication – systemic sclerosis with interstitial lung disease (SSc-ILD) – registered strong
growth. Three other products also played a significant role in Boehringer Ingelheim’s success:
SPIRIVA®, which is used for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
as well as asthma, TRAJENTA®, which is used for treatment of type 2 diabetes, and PRADAXA®,
which is used to prevent strokes in patients with atrial fibrillation and for the prevention and
treatment of thromboembolic disorders.
In its Animal Health business, Boehringer Ingelheim is a significant provider of vaccines and
therapeutics. Our portfolio includes products for pets and horses as well as livestock: swine, ru-
minants and poultry. Our core brands NEXGARD®, followed by FRONTLINE® and HEARTGARD®,
are the foundations of our success in the pets segment. In the swine segment, the established
swine vaccine INGELVAC CIRCOFLEX®, which is used to treat porcine circovirus type 2, is an
important component of the company’s product portfolio.
Our biopharmaceutical activities comprise the manufacture of our own human pharmaceutical
products (such as ACTILYSE®, METALYSE® and PRAXBIND®) and also – as one of the world’s
leading providers – process development and commercial production of biopharmaceuticals for
third-party industrial customers.
Other sales mainly comprise discontinued operations.
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP14
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
In the 2021 financial year, we achieved the majority of our sales in the Americas (44 %) and
Europe (32 %) regions. The Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) region includes countries such as China
and is of strategic significance for the Group’s future development, making up 24 % of its sales.
Research and development
Our goal is to research and develop innovative medicines and therapies for the treatment of
diseases for which there are as yet no satisfactory treatments available. Our major emphasis is
on the development of medicines and therapies to prevent, detect, and treat chronic diseases.
We aim to make a relevant contribution in areas where the need for treatment is high, in the
human pharmaceuticals segment as well as in the field of animal health.
More than In our global research network, we employed an average of 10,109 people in 2021. We are
4 billion EUR present in nine countries, with central facilities in Germany (Biberach and Ingelheim am Rhein),
invested in R&D the USA (Ridgefield, Connecticut; Duluth, Georgia; and St. Joseph, Missouri), Austria (Vienna),
Japan (Kobe), and France (Lyon) as well as China (Shanghai). Through our activities here we
are continuing to expand and renew our existing product portfolio, in order to safeguard the
Group’s organic long-term growth. Accordingly, we have considerably increased our research
and development (R&D) expenses in recent years – in the past three years, their growth has
even outpaced our revenue trend. A total of around 4.1 billion EUR was invested in the research
and development of new medicines. This is above the level in 2020 and corresponds to around
20.0 % of the Group’s net sales in 2021 (2020: 18.9 %). Our research and development expenses
in Human Pharma amounted to 3.7 billion EUR.
Research and development
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Expenses in million EUR 4,127 3,696 3,462 3,164 3,078
– as % of net sales 20.0 18.9 18.2 18.1 17.0
Human Pharma expenses in million EUR 3,710 3,283 3,042 2,780 2,714
– as % of Human Pharma net sales 24.3 22.8 21.8 22.1 21.5
Animal Health expenses in million EUR 416 412 419 384 357
– as % of Animal Health net sales 9.7 10.0 10.4 9.7 9.2
Average number of employees 10,109 9,504 9,154 8,552 8,589
Investments in tangible assets in million EUR
(without investments in infrastructure) 242 181 183 136 7115
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
In our research, we rely on long-established relationships with academic and public research
institutions, biotech companies, and other pharmaceutical companies. In the scientific field,
we are collaborating in over 150 projects with more than 120 academic institutions spanning
three continents. We are expanding our R&D portfolio through supplementary cooperation and
license agreements as well as acquisitions. While the company’s own research activities are
highly productive and competitive, in Human Pharma we are aiming to source at least 30 % of
all new molecules in our pipeline through acquisitions from third parties. Our high scientific
standards, the business development relationships which we have forged over time, and the
early investments made by the Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund play a key role in our success.
In 2021, Boehringer Ingelheim confirmed its attractiveness as a partner through new acqui- Innovation network
sitions and partnerships. In our Human Pharma business, we completed our acquisition of expanded
NBE-Therapeutics AG at the start of the year. The Swiss biotech company supplements our
research activities through an innovative platform for the development of an antibody-drug con-
jugate pipeline. We also completed our acquisition of contract manufacturer Labor Dr. Merk &
Kollegen GmbH. This company was subsequently renamed to Boehringer Ingelheim Therapeutics
GmbH. It is an important component of our research activities in the field of immuno-oncology.
We further strengthened our activities in the field of oncology – which we have significantly
stepped up over the past few years – through our acquisition of Abexxa Biologics, Inc. in Sep-
tember 2021. The research collaboration, established in 2016, aims at developing new antibodies
targeting cancer-specific proteins. We also expanded our portfolio of partnerships in the past
financial year: We are now working with the well-known Lieber Institute for Brain Develop-
ment in researching new methods for treating neuropsychiatric diseases. We also entered into a
collaboration with the Twist Bioscience Corporation which is headquartered in San Francisco.
The collaboration objective is to utilize Twist’s proprietary antibody library to identify potential
antibody candidates in various therapeutic areas.
We have also established long-term partnerships in our Animal Health business. PetMedix Ltd.
is a strong partner for antibody-based therapies for pets. The British company has a proprietary,
innovative platform which enables the rapid development of antibodies. Our long-term co-
operation with Lifebit Biotech Ltd., a provider of biomedical data analyses, aims to utilize an AI
platform in order to more rapidly identify global outbreaks of infectious diseases and to report
these at an earlier stage.
We are pursuing basic research through a three-year cooperation agreement with Google in the
field of quantum computing. As part of our digital transformation strategy, this partnership aims
to harness the computing power of this new technology in the service of Boehringer Ingelheim’s
research and development and thus to pursue innovation in a more rapid and, above all, more
precise manner, while at the same time conserving resources.
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP16
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
R&D sites
18
10 12 1114
21 13 20
22
19
16 17
15
8
1 23
9 5 2 7
3 4 6 2 24 5 26
AH ANIMAL HEALTH
HP HUMAN PHARMA
BIX BI X DIGITAL LAB
Americas Europe Asia
USA Belgium China
1. Ames, Iowa (AH) 10. Evergem (AH) 23. Beijing (AH)
2. Athens, Georgia (AH) 24. Shanghai (AH, BI X)
Germany
3. Colbert, Georgia (AH) 25. Taizhou (AH)
11. Biberach (HP)
4. D uluth, Georgia (AH)
12. Ingelheim am Rhein (AH, HP, BI X) Japan
5. F ulton, Missouri (AH)
13. K atharinenhof-Rohrdorf (AH) 26. Kobe (HP)
6. Gainesville , Georgia (AH)
14. Ochsenhausen (HP)
7. N orth Brunswick, New Jersey (AH)
8. Ridgefield, Connecticut (HP) France
9. S t. Joseph, Missouri (AH) 15. Lyon – Boreal (AH)
16. Lyon – Porte des Alpes (AH)
17. Saint-Vulbas (AH)
Netherlands
18. L elystad (AH)
Austria
19. Innsbruck (HP)
20. Vienna (HP)
Switzerland
21. Basel (HP)
22. Geneva (HP)17
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
Our digital laboratory, BI X, focused in 2021 on establishing its new facility in Shanghai as
well as building new capabilities for developing and approving medical software products. The
strategy is for BI X to become a center of excellence for developing medical software products
throughout our company. As well as the above-mentioned structural development of BI X as
an organization, BI X also focused on solutions for doctors and patients in our Human Pharma
business in its development of digital products in 2021. For instance, GUARD is a system which
helps general practitioners to make the best possible treatment decision for type 2 diabetes
patients, based on medical guidelines.
Since 2010, the Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund has driven innovation through its strategic
investments in young companies which are carrying out research into early-stage science and
technology. Our Venture Fund invests in biotech start-up companies with innovative concepts
and technologies that have the potential to provide ground-breaking new therapeutic platforms.
The Venture Fund also founds companies when it identifies promising research projects in uni-
versities and academic institutions. In 2021, we established a Venture Fund Asia alongside our
existing venture funds in Germany and the USA.
The Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP) in Vienna is a biomedical research insti-
tute which, as a wholly owned Group company, is funded by Boehringer Ingelheim. With more
than 200 scientists from approximately 40 countries, the IMP conducts research into molecular
and cellular mechanisms that form the basis of complex biological life processes as well as
human diseases. The IMP is one of the leading institutions of its kind: As of late 2021, ten of its
15 group leaders had received at least one of the prestigious grants awarded by the European
Research Council (ERC). With a success rate of 58 % in its ERC applications in the period from
2014 to 2018, the IMP was ranked third among 172 European research institutes and universi-
ties in 2020. Six of its 15 group leaders have been elected full members of the European Molec-
ular Biology Organization (EMBO).
With its open innovation platform opnMe.com, Boehringer Ingelheim is contributing to the
process of scientific collaboration in the pharmaceutical world: Around 57 molecules in the
preclinical stage are currently being made available to academic researchers around the world
free-of-charge. These molecules have already enabled new scientific findings, e.g., in the field
of oncology.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s R&D activities – the preclinical as well as clinical research and develop-
ment – are the basis for our sustainable success. The Group’s positive business development
over the past years has been underpinned by an organic process of renewing its portfolio, based
on its own research and development activities. In-house R&D – supplemented by external
cooperation and partnerships – will also continue to be a top priority in the future. Our high
commitment to innovation was confirmed last year by means of three Breakthrough Therapy
Designations granted by the FDA: In May 2021, a BTD was issued for our glycine transporter
type 1 inhibitor (Gly-T1) BI 425809 as a contribution to research into the treatment of cognitive
impairment induced by schizophrenia. In the same month, spesolimab received BTD classi-
fication, following its orphan drug designation in 2020. Spesolimab is used for treating the
rare inflammatory disease generalized pustular psoriasis (GPP). In addition, JARDIANCE® was
awarded a BTD in connection with its extended use for the treatment of patients with heart
failure.
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP18
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Human Pharma
More than 60 new The promise in 2021 in the Human Pharma business and R&D was to pioneer therapies that
active substances in transform the lives of patients significantly. We made progress in our focus areas such as cardio­
our Human Pharma vascular and metabolic diseases, oncology, respiratory diseases, immunology, diseases of the
portfolio central nervous system (CNS), and retinal health.
In 2021, the Human Pharma portfolio included 64 compounds whose development happened
in around 250 clinical trials in more than 100 projects.
Development pipeline end of 2021
Cardiometabolic diseases Phase
> Metabolic modulator * Phase I
> Angiopoietin antibody Phase I
> Food intake regulator * Phase I
Hemodynamic modulator 1 Phase I
Hemodynamic modulator 2 Phase I
Transcient receptor potential channel inhibitor * Phase I
> BI 456906 *
GLP1/GCGR agonist | NASH Phase II
BI 456906*
GLP1/GCGR agonist* | Obesity Phase II
> BI 685509
Hemodynamic modulator | CKD Phase II
> Tenecteplase (China)
Tissue Plasminogen Activator | AIS Phase III
Empagliflozin / New indication
SGLT2 inhibitor | CKD Phase III
> Empagliflozin / New indication **
SGLT2 inhibitor | HF post MI Phase III
> Empagliflozin / New indication **
SGLT2 inhibitor | CHF Registration
Oncology Phase
> B7-H6/CD3 T-cell engager * Phase I
DLL3/CD3 T-cell engager * Phase I
> CD137/FAP antagonist * Phase I
Ezabenlimab (PD-1 antibody) Phase I
> HER2 exon20 inhibitor Phase I
KISIMA® cancer vaccine* Phase I
> KRAS (G12C) inhibitor * Phase I
LRP 5/6 antagonist* Phase I
MDM2-p53 antagonist* Phase I
MEK inhibitor * Phase I
> ROR1 ADC * Phase I
SIRP1α antagonist * Phase I
SOS1::KRAS inhibitor * Phase I
STING agonist Phase I
TRAILR2/CDH17 antibody Phase I19
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
Development pipeline end of 2021 (continued)
Respiratory diseases Phase
Cysteine protease inhibitor * Phase I
> BI 1015550
Anti-fibrotic | IPF Phase II
Immunology Phase
> BI 706321
Kinase inhibitor | CD Phase II
Spesolimab (BI 655130)
IL36R antibody | PPP Phase II
Spesolimab (BI 655130)
IL36R antibody | CD Phase II
> Spesolimab (BI 655130)
IL36R antibody | HS Phase II
Spesolimab (BI 655130)
IL36R-antibody | GPP Registration
Central nervous system diseases Phase
Phosphodiesterase inhibitor * Phase I
Digital therapy * Phase I
BI 1358894 *
TRPC 4/5 inhibitor | MDD Phase II
BI 1358894 *
TRCP 4/5 inhibitor | BoPD Phase II
BI 425809
GlyT1 inhibitor | CIAS Phase III
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP20
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Development pipeline end of 2021 (continued)
Retinal diseases Phase
> Ischemia modulator Phase I
Neuronal damage modulator Phase I
> BI 836880 * Phase II
VEGF/Ang-2 antibody | wAMD
> BI 764524
Ischemia modulator | DMI Phase II
COVID-19 Phase
> Alteplase
TPA | Cov-19 iARDS Phase III
Indication abbreviations:
AIS Acute Ischemic Stroke Cov-19 COVID-19 induced acute mBC Metastatic breast cancer
AtD Atopic Dermatitis iARDS respiratory distress syndrome MDD Major depressive disorder
BoPD Borderline personality disorder DMI Diabetic macular ischemia MI Myocardial infarction
CD Crohn’s disease GPP Generalized pustular psoriasis NASH Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
CHF Congestive heart failure HF Heart failure PPP Palmoplantar pustulosis
CIAS C ognitive impairment associated HS Hidradentis Suppurtiva TPA Tissue-type Plasminogen Activator
with schizophrenia IPF Idiopathis pulmonary fibrosis wAMD Moisture of age-related macular
CKD Chronic kidney disease degeneration
* Partnered projects or acquired assets
** Study complete, submissions ongoing
> Key pipeline advances (Dec 2020 – Dec 2021)
Cardiometabolic diseases
In 2021, we reported positive results of the EMPEROR-Preserved Phase III trial in adults with
heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, with and without diabetes. Based on this, the
US FDA granted JARDIANCE® the status Breakthrough Therapy to reduce the risk of cardiovascu-
lar death and hospitalization for heart failure in adults with heart failure and preserved ejection
fraction. In addition, we announced positive results of the EMPULSE trial in adults who are in
hospital for acute heart failure.
In 2021, we also advanced the GLP-1/glucagon dual agonist, which was already being inves-
tigated in a Phase II study for individuals with diabetes, to Phase II clinical trials in adults liv-
ing with obesity and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). In addition, we received Fast Track
Designation from the US FDA for adults with NASH.
Oncology
Cancer is a disease that devastates not only the people diagnosed with it but also their loved
ones. In partnership with the wider community, we support awareness, education, improved
diagnosis, and care for patients with cancer. We work with patients throughout the development
process and beyond to ensure our new treatments make a meaningful difference and reach the
patients faster who need them the most. We are advancing a unique pipeline of cancer cell di-
rected agents, immuno-oncology therapies, and combination approaches to help win the fight
against cancer.21
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
Respiratory diseases
Research and development of new therapeutic options for people with respiratory diseases is
another focus for Boehringer Ingelheim. Since 2014, OFEV® (nintedanib) has been a treatment
option for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) to slow down the decline in lung function. In
2020, a breakthrough in pulmonary fibrosis therapy was achieved leading to two new indications
in systemic sclerosis-associated interstitial lung disease (SSc-ILD) and other chronic fibrosing
interstitial lung diseases with a progressive phenotype (PF-ILD) building the foundation for ap-
provals in further countries in 2021. OFEV® now is approved as a treatment for IPF in more than
80 countries, in more than 70 countries for SSc-ILD, and in more than 60 countries for PF-ILD.
In almost all countries it is the first and only approved treatment option for SSc-ILD und PF-ILD.
The ongoing open-label extension trials SENSCIS™-ON and INBUILD™-ON will provide data on
longtime safety and efficacy of nintedanib in SSc-ILD and PF-ILD. Additionally, the InPedILD™
study is investigating the dosing and safety profile of nintedanib in children and adolescents.
Despite these advances in therapy, there is still a very high unmet therapeutic need in fibrosing
pulmonary diseases. Therefore, we are investigating the safety and tolerability of BI 1015550 in
patients with IPF in a clinical trial which is making good progress.
Immunology
Immunological diseases greatly impact the lives of people living with it emotionally and physi-
cally. Boehringer Ingelheim is dedicated to discovering and developing first-of-their-kind thera-
pies for these serious inflammatory diseases. With a deep understanding of molecular pathways,
we are pioneering scientific breakthroughs that target, repair, and prevent inflammatory diseases
of the skin, gut, and joints. Spesolimab is the most advanced investigational compound in
Boehringer Ingelheim’s immunology pipeline. In 2021, we filed for marketing authorization with
the FDA, EMA, Chinese and Japanese authorities for treating patients with a flare of Generalized
Pustular Psoriasis. The filing is based on positive Phase II data from our EFFISAYIL-1 trial. In
addition, spesolimab has been granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation in China and USA.
Central nervous system
At Boehringer Ingelheim, we are redefining mental health to enable people to thrive. A decade
ago, Boehringer Ingelheim embarked on a research domain criteria (RDoC) inspired approach
where we link behavior to the underlying neurobiology to develop targeted therapies that can
ease the burden of these conditions, not just the symptoms. One example of this approach is
BI 1358894 that we currently further investigate in clinical Phase II trials in people living with
borderline personality and major depressive disorder. In 2021, Boehringer Ingelheim initiat-
ed the innovative CONNEX Phase III clinical trial for the treatment of Cognitive Impairment
Associated with Schizophrenia (CIAS). Based on a successful Phase II trial in the CIAS, the
US FDA has granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation for BI 425809, a novel glycine transport-
er-1 (GlyT1) inhibitor for this indication.
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP22
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Retinal diseases
Retinal diseases such as age-related macular degeneration are the leading cause for legal blind-
ness in the developed world. Although current therapies for some retinal diseases exist, they
have limited effectiveness in the real world, and significant unmet treatment needs still exist.
In 2021, Boehringer Ingelheim continued developing and advancing the retinal health pipeline.
Clinical development of several new compounds was started, with the potential to treat wet
age-related macular degeneration and geographic atrophy. Boehringer Ingelheim also transi-
tioned a potential treatment for diabetic macular ischemia (DMI) to a Phase II trial. The work
of our scientists is complemented by collaborations with academic and patient organizations,
alongside partnerships with biotech companies.
COVID-19
As a research-driven biopharmaceutical company, we utilize our different areas of expertise to
find medical treatments for COVID-19. In 2020, we initiated three programs to develop new
therapy options. We are thus fully concentrating our efforts in this area on the development of
alteplase as a potential treatment for COVID-19 patients with severe breathing problems, called
acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Currently, the compound is being investigated in
the Phase III part of the TRISTARDS Phase II/III study. These two other programs were discon-
tinued in 2021: the development of BI 764198 for patients hospitalized with COVID-19 with
respiratory complications due to the lack of efficacy and the BI 767551 SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing
antibody due to the lack of coverage for the delta variant.23
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
The following table shows the relevant changes in current clinical studies (Phase III):
Clinical trial Phase Changes in 2021
EMPEROR-Preserved (NCT0357951), a Phase III Phase III Study completed, primary endpoint met and
randomized, double-blind trial investigating once published in New England Journal of Medicine.
daily empagliflozin compared with placebo in Empagliflozin demonstrated a 21 percent re-
adults with chronic heart failure and preserved duction in the combined risk of cardiovascular
ejection fraction, both with and without diabetes, death and hospitalization for heart failure in
who are receiving current standard of care. adults with heart failure and preserved ejection
fraction. Empagliflozin also reduced first and
recurrent hospitalizations for heart failure by
27 percent and significantly slowed kidney
function decline.
EMPULSE (NCT04157751), a multicenter, ran- Phase III Study completed, primary endpoint met. In the
domized, double-blind, 90-day superiority trial to EMPULSE Phase III study, Empagliflozin shows
evaluate the effect on clinical benefit, safety, and a significant clinical benefit in adults stabilized
tolerability of once daily oral Empagliflozin 10 mg after acute heart failure in the hospital. Adults
compared to placebo, initiated in patients hospital- hospitalized for acute heart failure were 36 per-
ized for acute heart failure (de novo or decompen- cent more likely to experience clinical benefit
sated chronic HF) who have been stabilized. when treated with Empagliflozin than with pla-
cebo. The benefit was consistent in people with
new or existing heart failure, regardless of the
ejection fraction or diabetes status.
EFFISAYIL™ 1 (NCT03782792) was a 12-week Phase II Study completed and primary endpoint met.
Phase II trial investigating patients with a GPP Published in New England Journal of Medicine.
flare (N=53). Patient were randomized 2:1 and were Data showed that spesolimab, a novel IL-36
treated intravenously with either 900 mg of antibody treatment, was effective in rapidly
Spesolimab or placebo. The primary endpoint was treating adult patients with generalized
a GPP Physician Global Assessment (GPPGA) pus- pustular psoriasis (GPP) experiencing a flare.
tulation subscore of 0 (no visible pustules) at week
one. The key secondary endpoint was a GPPGA
score of 0/1 (clear/almost clear skin) at week one.
CONNEX is a Phase III clinical trial program Phase III Start of Phase III.
designed to assess the safety and efficacy of
BI 425809 for improving cognition in adults with
schizophrenia. The program is comprised of three
clinical trials, which are Phase III randomized,
double-blind, placebo-controlled parallel group
trials, to examine the efficacy and safety of
BI 425809 once daily over a 26-week treatment
period in patients with schizophrenia.
TRISTARDS (NCT04640194) is a seamless, Phase III Start of Phase III.
open-label, randomized, parallel-group Phase IIb/
III trial which evaluates the efficacy and safety of
daily intravenous alteplase for up to five days on
top of best available medical management (stand-
ard of care) compared with best available medical
management alone, in adults with COVID-19 Acute
Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). Primary
objective of the trial is the time to clinical improve-
ment or hospital discharge.
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP24
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Animal Health
In the area of Animal Health, Boehringer Ingelheim concentrates on the discovery and devel-
opment of treatments and preventive therapies in areas where the medical need is unmet and
where our efforts will have the greatest impact – such as targeted therapeutics for oncology and
immunology, new chemical entities and new methods of control to counter resistance in par-
asites, as well as new tools and technologies to improve the prevention of infectious diseases.
The current portfolio includes innovative vaccines and antiparasitics for the protection of live-
stock and pets, as well as pharmaceutical products for the treatment of chronic diseases. Our
research increasingly incorporates new approaches and technologies such as the use of stem
cells and monoclonal antibodies.
Our innovation strategy is built on a scientific approach to the investigation of the causes and
mechanisms of diseases across multiple species – including animals and humans – leading to the
discovery of new ways to mitigate those causes or intervene in the disease process. This broad
approach enables us to work in close cooperation with our Human Pharma colleagues as well as
with external partners in areas outside Animal Health. In our three strategic areas of infectious
disease, noninfectious disease, and parasiticides, we use this strategy to target solutions that
can be broadly applied across species:
• Infectious disease (e.g., vaccines): Focus on areas of innovation, such as mucosal immunity,
bacterial disease, and transboundary and emerging diseases.
• Non-infectious disease (e.g., therapeutics): Focus on collaboration with Human Pharma and
grow our capabilities in key technologies through targeted external partnerships.
• Parasiticides: Focus on maintaining our leadership through acceleration of key discovery and
development programs for new molecules and investment in innovative technologies for the
long term, including solutions that address sustainability.
Our 18 research and development sites are organized into six regional innovation centers located
in the USA, Europe, and China. This organization supports the global innovation strategy by en-
suring the concentration of critical mass and expertise needed to deliver therapies to customers
in our key geographies. Specific sites within each region serve as a focus for competencies in
particular segments of our overall strategy. Our footprint strengthens local execution and facil-
itates regional external networks and partnerships.
Synergies through A key strategic advantage for Boehringer Ingelheim is that we retain both Human Pharma
collaboration of and Animal Health divisions. By exploiting the synergies between them, we have already suc-
Human Pharma and cessfully introduced such products as VETMEDIN®, SEMINTRA®, METACAM®, and ASERVO®
Animal Health EQUIHALER®. With additional promising compounds in our pipeline, we expect further innova-
tion through this connection, particularly in the area of therapeutics.
External partnerships also play a key role. This is demonstrated by the integration of Global
Stem cell Technology NV (later renamed Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary Medicine Belgium), a
company specialized in stem cell therapies for orthopedic and immunological animal diseases,
already acquired in 2020. The cooperation led to the first stem cell-based animal health product,
ARTI-CELL® FORTE, which was approved by the European Commission. In 2021, we initiated a
number of new strategic partnerships, including a partnership with PetMedix, whose platform
generates canine therapeutic antibodies for use in developing therapies for immune-mediated
conditions such as cancer, allergy, and arthritis. We also are partnering with Lifebit to aid in
detecting and early reporting of global infectious disease outbreaks through their AI platform.
Furthermore, we continue our work with key research institutions such as the Friedrich-Loeffler-
Institut, the Pirbright Institute, and Oxford University Innovation to develop more effective ap-
proaches to prevent African Swine Fever, which threatens the swine industry worldwide.25
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
In 2021, we initiated more than 500 research, development and clinical studies worldwide and
were awarded more than 126 product authorizations. New regulatory approvals in 2021 in-
clude NEXGARD® COMBO in the EU and Canada, which extends one of our flagship parasiticide
brands to cats, and NEXGARD® SPECTRA in Brazil – a new market for this broad spectrum
product that treats both endo- and ectoparasites. In the USA we received approval for FLEX
PARVOPRRS®, a combination vaccine effective against reproductive failure caused by the two
most common viral causes of porcine reproductive failure globally. Obtaining approvals for new
products and new areas of application and expanding the geographic scope of our sales activ-
ities for existing products are additional important aspects of our research and development
activities which help us to create value through innovation.
Production
Human Pharma
In the Human Pharma business, our globally active production facilities are responsible for the
steady supply of top-quality medicines for patients. The ongoing development of the company’s
internal production facilities and our strategic cooperation with external manufacturers have es-
tablished a modern, flexible market supply network which encompasses the entire value chain,
from suppliers of starting materials to worldwide logistics and the distribution of finished phar-
maceutical products. Boehringer Ingelheim’s production facilities concentrate on products that
are strategically important for the company, as well as on state-of-the-art manufacturing tech-
nologies. At the same time, partnerships with external manufacturers add specialist technolo-
gies to our production network that are not available in-house. They also expand the production
capacity of standard technologies for products which have very high capacity requirements or
are already far advanced in terms of their life cycle.
In the 2021 financial year, this global network included Boehringer Ingelheim’s own plants in
nine countries. The Group has four biopharmaceuticals facilities. It also has two facilities for
the manufacture of pharmaceutical active substances and one that produces medical devices.
Finished pharmaceutical products are manufactured at eight facilities. In the past year, which
was once again characterized by unusual logistical challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic,
Boehringer Ingelheim was able to ensure a steady supply of medicines for patients. This was
possible thanks to the establishment of key manufacturing steps and technologies at multiple
facilities and by further strengthening the resilience concept for every link in the supply chain.
The progressing digitalization of our production network and overall supply chain in 2021 played
a key role in ongoing development measures to ensure the security of supply. The ongoing im-
plementation of the Group’s supply chain strategy optimizes the value chain management from
the supplier to the customer (“end-to-end”). The use of digital and automated processes and
technologies enables a high level of transparency and efficient management of the global pro-
duction network supply chain.
Delivery capacity and patient care are top priorities for Boehringer Ingelheim. The company con-
sistently makes important investments in the development and transformation of production
capacities in our chemical and pharmaceutical network. At our Ingelheim am Rhein headquar-
ters, we made a key investment in a flexible plant for the industrialization of newly developed
medicines and their initial market supply. We made progress with the expansion of production
technologies and capacities for pharmaceutical active substances at our Fornovo (Italy) facility,
pharmaceutical bulk drugs at our Sant Cugat (Spain) facility, and for finished pharmaceutical
products at our Koropi (Greece) and Yamagata (Japan) facilities to ensure the supply of anti-
diabetic products (JARDIANCE® in particular) as well as pipeline products. The opening of our
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP26
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Production facilities
11
13
18 10 14
12
21
15
20
16 19
22
17 27
7 9 6 24
23
8 25
3 4 5
26
AH Animal Health
2
HP Human Pharma
1 28
Bio Biopharmaceutical
Contract Manufacturing
Americas Europe Asia/Oceania
Brazil Belgium Great Britain China
1. Itapecerica (HP) 10. Evergem (AH) 18. Pirbright (AH) 23. Nanchang (AH)
2. Paulínia (AH) 24. Shanghai (HP, Bio)
Denmark Italy
25. Taizhou (AH)
Mexico 11. Kalundborg (AH) 19. Fornovo (HP)
3. G uadalajara (AH) 20. Noventa (AH) Indonesia
Germany
4. Xochimilco (HP) 26. Bogor (HP)
12. Biberach (Bio) Austria
Puerto Rico 13. Dortmund (HP) 21. Vienna (Bio) Japan
5. Barceloneta (AH) 14. Ingelheim am Rhein (HP) 27. Yamagata (HP)
Spain
USA France 22. Sant Cugat (HP) New Zealand
6. Athens, Georgia (AH) 15. Lyon (AH)* 28. Auckland (AH)
7. Fremont, California (Bio) 16. Toulouse (AH)
8. Gainesville, Georgia (AH)
9. St. Joseph, Missouri (AH) Greece
17. Koropi (HP)
* Grand Lyon Industrial Biologic Center (LPA St. Priest, Lentilly, Jonage)27
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
biopharmaceutical large-scale cell culture production building at our Vienna facility represented
a milestone in the expansion of our capacities in our network for newly developed products.
Together with other production facilities in our global biopharmaceutical network, it covers,
among other activities, the increased demand for ACTILYSE® and METALYSE®.
Animal Health
In 2021, Animal Health products were manufactured in a network of 15 production facilities in 15
eleven countries. In addition to the company’s own facilities, in 2021 around 110 contract man-
ufacturers turned out medicines for Boehringer Ingelheim. The company’s product comprises
vaccines, pharmaceutical products and nutraceuticals. These traditional medicines are supple- Animal Health
mented with diagnostic products as well as monitoring solutions, including digital applications production facilities
which are used for livestock monitoring or which link livestock owners with veterinarians. Opti- in eleven countries
mization of the company’s production network continues and remains a priority, with the goal
of ensuring a reliable, efficient supply of all its products.
In 2021, Boehringer Ingelheim invested in capacity expansion for the strongest revenue con-
tributor, NEXGARD®, at its Barceloneta (Puerto Rico) facility; in the expansion of small animal
vaccine production at the company’s facility in Athens (Georgia, USA); in the expansion of
vaccine capacity in Lyon (France) and St. Joseph (Missouri, USA); and in capacity expansion
for foot-and-mouth disease vaccines in Jonage (France) as well as the expansion of its pharma-
ceutical manufacturing capacities in Toulouse (France). It also invested in the development of
modern technologies for the manufacture of our products.
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing
Boehringer Ingelheim pursues its biopharmaceutical activities at its facilities in Biberach One of the leading
(Germany), Vienna (Austria), Fremont (California, USA), and Shanghai (China). They comprise Biopharma provid-
the manufacture of own-brand marketable products (such as ACTILYSE®, METALYSE®, and ers for industrial
PRAXBIND®), the manufacture of biopharmaceuticals for clinical testing of pipeline products and customers
– as one of the world’s leading companies – process development, launch preparation, and com-
mercial production of biopharmaceuticals for third-party industrial customers. Twelve of the top
20 pharmaceutical companies and innovative biotech firms are clients of our Biopharmaceutical
Contract Manufacturing business. Boehringer Ingelheim covers the entire biopharmaceutical value
chain, from development of the production cell (mammalian cells as well as microorganisms) and
the production process, to the manufacture of the active substance and the finished pharmaceu-
tical product, to product launch and global market supply.
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP28
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Capacity utilization of the established network’s industrial-scale production facilities remained
at a very high level in 2021. At our Biberach facility, the optimized production process was suc-
cessfully demonstrated in a bioequivalence study along with ramped-up production to meet the
growing market demand for ACTILYSE®. To achieve a rapid increase in production volumes, we
initiated the transfer of the optimized process to our new large-scale cell culture plant in Vienna.
By way of support for the process of submission to the authorities in the EU, the USA, and Japan,
Biberach launched preparatory activities for Boehringer Ingelheim’s IL36R monoclonal antibody
spesolimab which is expected to be introduced to the market in 2022. Our microbial production
facility at our Vienna site was approved for a further customer product, a carrier protein for vac-
cines; our microbial product portfolio has thus increased to 18 biopharmaceuticals. Despite the
challenging external conditions associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, our cell culture plants
in Biberach, Shanghai, and Fremont and our microbial production in Vienna continued to man-
ufacture and deliver biopharmaceuticals for patients worldwide without incurring interruptions.
The expansion of our cell technology capacity at our Vienna facility was completed in the past
year. The local authority authorized its commissioning in compliance with good manufacturing
practices (GMP) halfway through the year. Transfer and production activities are currently un-
derway.
Also at our Vienna facility, we completed our microbial expansion project for the production of
a recombinant vaccine in 2021. In view of the growing global importance of biotechnologically
produced active substances and the significant increase in the number of internal development
projects in our own portfolio, these two projects are both of key strategic relevance.
In 2021, our Shanghai facility focused on the market supply of an immuno-oncological antibody
for a Chinese customer’s cancer therapy. We also further expanded our customer and product
portfolio at our facility in Shanghai (China), and filed for this facility’s approval for the US mar-
ket. Its activities focus on the supply of innovative medicines for patients through Chinese
and multinational biopharmaceutical companies. Customers greatly benefit from the fact that
Boehringer Ingelheim, as a contract development manufacturing organization, is able to cover
the entire value chain from a single source and has long-term experience and technical expertise
in the preparation of product launches and market supply.
Employee reporting
In 2021, Boehringer Ingelheim employed 52,391 people on average worldwide. This represents
an increase of +0.9 % over the previous year.
Average number of employees by region
2021 2020
Americas 13,187 13,176
Europe 28,266 27,379
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 10,938 11,389
52,391 51,94429
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
Our committed employees, who identify with our company’s aims and appreciate the respectful
work climate at Boehringer Ingelheim, are a major success factor driving our Group’s positive
growth. With their high level of personal commitment, they help us to fulfill our joint promise
of ensuring the supply of vital medicines. This holds particularly true during the worldwide pan-
demic. Our annual global employee survey provides us with relevant feedback which enables us
to continuously improve our work environment.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s success is based on innovation as well as its presence in 80 countries.
The global nature of our value chain, the international nature of our clientele, and the stringent
and greatly varying requirements of national regulators demand great flexibility of our organiza-
tion as a whole. We are convinced that relationships based on trust as well as mutual openness,
respect, and empathy are values that make us strong and competitive. Diversity of thought and
a spirit of inclusion in our relationships with one another promote a capacity for innovation in
every area of our business.
In addition to competitive salaries, Boehringer Ingelheim offers other benefits to its employ-
ees. These benefits include a range of company pension plans, flexible and home-based work
options, and numerous health-related benefits. Our human resources department is respon-
sible for promoting a wide range of opportunities for innovation at work – which is a signifi-
cant aspect of our corporate strategy – and for helping our employees to nurture their personal
strengths while developing as individuals. In order to be best prepared for the challenges ahead,
we emphasize the acquisition of technical expertise as part of a comprehensive qualification
system.
Vocational training has always been of major importance to Boehringer Ingelheim. The company
provides young people with career entry opportunities. At the same time, we also retain a talented
and well-qualified workforce of young professionals in times of demographic change. However,
at our company, vocational training does not just mean passing on expertise. We emphasize
getting to know one another and enable young professionals to experience the many aspects
of our company and our values. We achieve this goal by means of hybrid learning and teaching.
On average, 749 young people worldwide were enrolled in Boehringer Ingelheim’s vocational
training program in 2021. At Boehringer Ingelheim’s German facilities alone, 201 young people
started their careers in 28 different scientific, technical, and commercial fields, through training
and dual-study courses. The selection of training and dual-study courses is closely coordinated
with our disciplines to ensure that the curricula and training programs meet our needs.
One of the company’s important aims is to strengthen the appeal of Boehringer Ingelheim as Boehringer
an employer for our current and future employees. In 2021, Boehringer Ingelheim once again Ingelheim
won recognition as a top employer from the auditors of the international independent Top recognized as
Employers Institute. Awards in 27 countries and three regions not only represent an increase “Global Top
of nine awards compared to the previous year, but also mean that Boehringer Ingelheim is, for Employer”
the first time, a “Global Top Employer.” Of the approximately 1,600 companies which received
awards, only 16 were awarded this distinction worldwide. In addition to Germany, Boehringer
Ingelheim was also granted this distinction in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Brazil, Chile,
China, Colombia, Ecuador, Hungary, Indonesia, Italy, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, New
Zealand, the Philippines, Poland, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea, Spain,
Thailand, the United Kingdom, and Vietnam.
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP30
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Sustainable Development — For Generations
Sustainable Sustainability has been firmly anchored in our corporate philosophy since Boehringer Ingelheim’s
Development as founding in 1885. Our understanding and awareness of sustainability has continuously devel-
part of our strategy oped over the generations and influences our decision-making and actions. We have also learned
from the global pandemic. This has made it obvious how imperative a holistic approach is to
address the intertwined connection between humans, animals, and the environment.
With our focus on human and animal health, Boehringer Ingelheim is well positioned to provide
a relevant contribution to a healthier and more sustainable future. In 2021, we updated our sus-
tainability strategy, entitled “Sustainable Development – For Generations.” In the process, the
focus was on the following: the definition of designated impact areas, a stronger usage of syn-
ergies, and unifying our company’s global collaborative network as well as ensuring alignment
with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The strategy is based on the following three pillars:
MORE HEALTH – For People and Animals
MORE POTENTIAL – For Communities and Our People
MORE GREEN – For Our Planet
Boehringer Ingelheim aims to achieve the following concrete measurable goals by 2030:
MORE HEALTH: Expanding access to healthcare for an additional 50 million people in vulnerable
communities, investing 35 billion EUR in health innovation and research to tackle non-
communicable diseases and an additional 250 million EUR in partnerships to combat emerg-
ing infectious diseases.
MORE POTENTIAL: Our aim is to positively impact 50 million people in vulnerable communities
by empowering and supporting our employees, partners, and innovative social entrepreneurs.
MORE GREEN: We will become carbon-neutral in our company operations by 2030 (Scope 1
and 2). We will also significantly reduce the resource footprint across the value chain in the
same period, despite our growing business activities.31
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
MORE HEALTH — For People and Animals
MORE HEALTH follows our ambition to develop better therapies and enable better solutions for MORE HEALTH
global healthcare challenges. The pillar includes a number of projects and initiatives, reflecting Focus on the
the diversity of our patients and the expertise of our partners. These include: health of people
and animals
Access to Healthcare
The “Access to Healthcare” initiative seeks to improve the healthcare in vulnerable communi-
ties, starting with availability of medicines to access to safe and effective prevention and care.
We have achieved several milestones, for example:
• Expanding access to healthcare in less developed regions through the UN Defeat-NCD
Partnership.
• We have launched a joint initiative with “PharmAccess” as part of our “In Reach Africa”
program in Kenya. Mobile technology improves awareness of hypertension and diabetes and
lowers barriers to access.
• The “Pathway” project fund launched in Canada in 2021 intends to improve the lives of
20,000 members of indigenous communities. Above all, the project will address the exces-
sive prevalence of certain non-communicable diseases in these communities.
• A pilot program was launched in Pakistan in 2021 in collaboration with the World Organi-
zation of Animal Health, which supports the elimination of rabies by donating the animal
vaccine RABISIN® and dog identification collars.
Angels
The “Angels” initiative was established in 2016 to improve stroke care worldwide. In 2021, ad-
ditionally around 2,000 clinics, 26 countries, and 27,000 doctors and nurses joined this contin-
uously growing network. It now includes over 72,300 healthcare professionals and 6,300 clinics
in 145 countries and helps ensure that all patients are treated in line with defined standards.
The A ngels Initiative was featured in the Access To Medicine Report 2021 as a “best practice”
example of capacity building and was distinguished with the World Stroke Organization’s Stroke
Service Award.
LastMile
South of the Sahara, smallholder farmers in Africa often lack access to veterinary treatment. The
joint initiative “LastMile” aims to achieve a long-term, sustained improvement in the availability
of veterinary products and services. This project was launched in Kenya in 2018 and has since
expanded to Cameroon, Nigeria, Mali, Burkina Faso, and Ethiopia. Currently, 22 LastMile Live-
stock Service Providers (LLSPs) are working in the field. In 2021, relevant veterinary medicine
and farm management modules were added to the LLSP training programs, and four new prod-
ucts were included in the product portfolio. Subsequently, a total of 55 products have now been
included. In total, LastMile has assisted many farmers and provided numerous animal trader
visits and veterinarian visits.
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP32
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
MORE POTENTIAL — For Communities and Our People
MORE POTENTIAL MORE POTENTIAL is focused on providing not only safe, but also the best possible conditions
Focus on people and in order for people at Boehringer Ingelheim, in our communities, and at our partners to reach
communities their full potential.
BE SAFE
Through the “BE SAFE” program, which was established in 2010, we place a particular emphasis
on ensuring a safe workplaces for our employees and partners. We are therefore continuously
reviewing and optimizing our work and safety culture and strive to maintain our employees’
long-term good health by preventing accidents, incidents, and occupational health risks. In
2021, Boehringer Ingelheim became an official partner of the EU-OSHA “Healthy Workplaces
Lighten the Load 2020-2022” campaign to prevent work-related musculoskeletal disorders
(MSDs). In addition, in the spring the internal campaign “Shed a Light” was launched to raise
awareness on mental health issues in the workplace and encourage employees to speak up and
address this.
Diversity & Inclusion
Through our core values of empathy, respect, passion, and trust, we foster a diverse, collabo-
rative, open, and inclusive work environment, which is key for innovation, value creation, and
sustainable growth. Boehringer Ingelheim is convinced that valuing diversity is not only the right
thing to do for our people and communities, but also the smart thing to do for our business,
since it helps us to understand and fulfill the different needs and requirements of our patients,
customers, and partners around the globe. In 2021, we continued our focus on awareness and
education. This included updating training programs on topics such as unconscious bias and
inclusive behavior.
Human Rights
Boehringer Ingelheim is continuously stepping up efforts in the areas of human rights and
ethics. The approach is aligned with the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and
Human Rights. Subsequently, our Human Rights Policy is an integral component of our guide-
lines for cooperation with external partners, e.g., in the code of conduct.
Making More Health
In 2010, Boehringer Ingelheim and Ashoka, the world’s largest network of social entrepreneurs,
jointly established the “Making More Health” (MMH) initiative. This long-term partnership fo-
cuses on enabling innovative solutions to tackle complex healthcare challenges for people,
animals, and their communities. This approach links interdependent issues such as economic
development, infrastructure, education, culture, and healthcare issues. It emphasizes collabora-
tion with communities as equal partners and engages Boehringer Ingelheim employees to share
their knowledge and skills. Highlights include:
• Social innovation: To date, over 120 innovators worldwide working in the areas of human
and animal health have been supported.
• Community activation: Since 2014, programs have been initiated in India, Kenya, Nigeria,
and Ghana which have already impacted 150,000 lives and proven to be game changers. This
includes clean water and hygiene projects, implementing innovative farming models, and
providing animal health and business skills training courses as well as inclusion programs
for marginalized community groups, such as people with albinism.33
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
• Cross-sector collaboration: “Making More Health” emphasizes a “win-win” collaborative
approach to bridge the gap between business and society. One such initiative is the “Busi-
ness Accelerator” funding program. The initiative provides funding and expertise to support
social start-ups in Sub-Saharan Africa, enabling them to scale up and sustain their business
models. Many of these social enterprises have now progressed to a stage where more sub-
stantial funding is necessary.
Subsequently, the new initiative “Boehringer Ingelheim Social Engagement” was launched in
2021 with an investment of 50 million EUR to offer in addition to corporate donations alterna-
tive financing opportunities for social entrepreneurs. This includes, for example, the provision
of subordinate loans, whose terms and conditions would be adjusted to the local needs and
requirements of the social enterprises.
Also in 2021, the “MMH Connect” IT platform was launched, which aims to enable and match
20,000 Boehringer Ingelheim employees to support effective and innovative partnerships with
social enterprises by 2030, where they will be able to contribute their skills while also develop-
ing as individuals.
The “Making More Health Together 2021” convention, a two-day virtual event, brought together
over 1,800 participants from across academia and the non-profit, industry and political sectors.
In more than 40 interactive sessions, the participants discussed how to resolve the world’s most
pressing health-related issues.
MORE GREEN — For Our Planet
A healthy planet is a prerequisite for healthy people, animals, and communities. Environmental MORE GREEN
challenges should not be seen in isolation, as they have tangible effects on the health of whole Focus on the
societies. The sustainable use of natural resources and the promotion of a strong environmental environment
awareness are subsequently key components of our environmental sustainability program, in
order to help protect the health of current and future generations and safeguard their prospects
for a healthy future.
The MORE GREEN Fund supports internal projects in the areas of decarbonization, water
management, and the circular economy and has already provided funding for approximately
40 new environmental projects worldwide since 2020. Boehringer Ingelheim pays particular
attention to ecological aspects in its major projects and has set aside an additional 130 mil-
lion EUR for this purpose.
In 2021, Boehringer Ingelheim was the first pharmaceutical company in the EU to receive the
“GreenCanteen” certification for the sustainable catering concept at the Ingelheim headquarters.
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP34
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Carbon Footprint
We are continuously working on reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, having committed to
becoming carbon-neutral in our operations (Scope 1 and 2) by 2030, using 100 % renewable
electricity and continuing to make substantial investments in sustainable technology. One of
the tools used in this process is the introduction of an internal carbon price of 100 EUR per ton
to create an additional economic incentive for green innovation. Further recent examples of our
activities include:
• The construction of a new biomass power plant in Ingelheim.
• The transition to renewable electricity solutions at numerous locations, including sites in
Germany, Austria, Spain and the USA. Since 2020, the company’s share of renewable elec-
tricity purchased worldwide has increased from 30 % to over 50 %.
• The certification of carbon neutrality for the sites Dortmund and Sant Cugat.
• Our partnership with ClimateSeed supports biodiversity and protects drinking water by
offsetting carbon emissions through, among others, reforestation projects in Africa, India,
Indonesia, and Germany.
Resource Use
Circular economy aspects are implemented in stages of the value chain to minimize waste and
to apply eco-design and green chemistry concepts in new products. Through continuous opti-
mization measures, we have reduced our annual volume of waste to landfills and resource use
since 2010. We are thus optimizing the environmental footprint of future Boehringer Ingelheim
products.
Water Stewardship
Access to clean water has a major impact on social and cultural justice, environmental sus-
tainability, and the local economy. For this reason, Boehringer Ingelheim implements programs
related to water and related risks at all production sites. Sites in established water scarcity
areas implement a recognized “Water Stewardship” program, such as that of the “Alliance for
Water Stewardship” (AWS). In 2021, the AWS certification of our Promeco production facility in
Xochimilco (Mexico) was renewed and the AWS certification process for our production facility
in Fremont (California, USA) was initiated.
Furthermore, we have evaluated the wastewater at the production sites regarding possible
residues of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) and other trace substances. On this basis,
“Clean Water” initiative ensures that traces of pharmaceuticals in wastewater remain signifi-
cantly below any effect level. The initiative also works with industrial networks and suppliers to
cover the entire value chain.
In this context, Boehringer Ingelheim finances joint projects with “Making More Health” in Kenya,
which aim to improve access to clean water.35
Group Management Report — Report on economic position
Report on economic position
Macroeconomic environment
World economic output recovered in 2021 following its COVID-19-related collapse in 2020.
According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the global economy grew by + 5.9 %. In the
first six months of the year, many economies experienced an upswing due to the easing of the
measures which had been introduced in order to contain the pandemic and on account of the
increased level of consumer demand. This growth slowed in the second half of the year due to
factors including industrial enterprises’ continuing global supply and capacity bottlenecks as
well as rising commodity prices and freight costs. The trade policy situation between the USA
and China remained tense. There was a further increase in tensions in 2021, which was reflect-
ed in factors such as increased import duties. Also the conflict between Russia and Ukraine is
closely monitored. There were also signs of rising inflation.
Unlike other sectors, pharmaceutical markets tend to be shaped by long-term economic output Growing Human
and, in particular, by societies’ demographic trends. Their performance is also influenced by the Pharma market
continuous global improvement in access to healthcare. The global pharmaceutical market – not allowed increased
including COVID-19 vaccines – thus increased to 1.3 trillion USD in the past year. This corre- investment in R&D
sponds to a + 5 % average annual rate of growth over the past five years (source: IQVIA). How-
ever, developing countries’ growth contribution decreased relative to the situation at the start
of this decade. In the pharmaceutical industry, social distancing measures resulted in delays in
clinical studies and thus impacted the schedules of research activities or had to be compensat-
ed by additional costs where possible. Largely stable core business by comparison with other
industries allowed pharmaceutical companies to remain a key driver of investment in research
and development, including in the fight against the SARS-CoV-2 virus.
In 2021, healthcare systems around the globe were further pressured by the COVID-19 pandem-
ic, the burden of chronic diseases, aging populations, and increased budget pressure. In order
to address these challenges, governments and healthcare authorities are expanding the use
of cost-containment actions including mandatory price reductions, external reference pricing,
lengthy as well as complex negotiation processes which delays access to innovative new med-
icines. Also the patient is increasingly involved in the cost for treatments, by different forms of
co-payments. Such measures are increasingly putting pressure on the pharmaceutical com-
panies and thus might limit their future ability to invest in the development of new treatment
options and to improve access to innovative medicines. The pharmaceutical industry is working
together with governments and healthcare authorities to address these challenges and thus to
maintain and improve sustainable patient access, to reduce access delays and continuously
bring innovation to the patients. An important prerequisite for achieving this objective remains
a reliable legal framework that promotes innovation and ensures the protection of intellectual
property.
The animal health market – consisting of the pet and livestock segments – continued its pos- Animal health
itive growth trend in 2021. This mainly reflects population growth, many people’s rising living market continues
standards in the emerging markets and animals’ improved life expectancy due to continuous positive growth
advances in veterinary care. In the pet segment, pets’ growing popularity due to the COVID-19 trend
pandemic prompted an increased level of demand for products. The livestock segment is bene-
fiting from growing demand for animal products. The increasing prevalence of zoonoses (infec-
tious diseases which are transmissible from animals to humans and from humans to animals)
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP36
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
is reinforcing the importance of the animal health industry. In general, consolidation through
mergers on both the supplier and customer sides is ongoing. This is resulting in increased com-
petition. In the future, growth in the Animal Health business will largely be driven by therapeutic
innovation. In order to grow with the market, investments need to be continuous, sustainable,
and competitive.
In 2022, according to the IMF, the global economy will grow by 4.9 %. The advanced economies
which have broad access to COVID-19 vaccines are expected to have made up for their pandem-
ic-related decline in economic output by the end of 2022. Moreover, there are many different
scenarios with regard to the inflation trend and when inflation might return to a pre-pandemic
level. However, according to the IMF there are also a large number of risks associated with world
economic growth: Vaccine-resistant mutations of the COVID-19 pathogen and uneven access to
vaccines are resulting in increasing gaps between developing countries, emerging markets, and
the advanced economies. In addition, ongoing climate change is increasing the risk of natural
disasters and thus of the related health and economic impacts.
Currency trends
Boehringer Ingelheim’s global presence means that currency trends influence its revenue fig-
ures. The US dollar (USD), the Japanese yen (JPY) and the Chinese renminbi (CNY) are particu-
larly worthy of note here. Following a low of 1.22 EUR/USD (January) at the start of the year, the
US dollar had reached a high of 1.13 EUR/USD (December) by the end of the year. The Japanese
yen fluctuated between a high of 126.31 EUR/JPY (January) and a low of 132.63 EUR/JPY (June).
At the start of the year, the Chinese renminbi was at a low of 7.87 EUR/CNY (January) and had
reached a high of 7.20 EUR/CNY by the end of the year (December). Significant transactional
currency risks are hedged through suitable currency instruments.
Currency development
Effect on net sales
Average rate — basis: 1 EUR 2021 2020 (in million EUR)
US dollar 1.18 1.14 – 268
Japanese yen 129.86 121.78 – 92
Chinese renminbi 7.63 7.87 + 33
Earnings position
A stable and competitive earnings position and solid financing guarantee Boehringer
Ingelheim’s independence and are therefore central to our activities. It is on this basis that we
pursue our guiding principle of “Value through Innovation” and contribute to improvements in
human and animal health by means of innovative therapies.37
Group Management Report — Report on economic position
Boehringer Ingelheim’s positive growth trend remained intact in 2021. We recorded net sales of 20.6
20,618 million EUR, which represents a + 5.4 % increase relative to the previous year’s net sales
figure of 19,566 million EUR. Exchange rate effects adversely affected the sales trend in 2021.
Adjusted for these effects, the Group achieved a growth rate of + 7.5 %. billion EUR in net sales
We achieved sales growth in every region. As in previous years, with sales of 9,147 million EUR Growth in all
and a 44 % share of overall sales the Americas region was Boehringer Ingelheim’s key sales regions
market and grew by + 2.9 % (currency-adjusted + 6.6 %). The Europe region registered the strong-
est level of sales growth in the past financial year, with a rate of + 11.5 % (currency-adjusted
+ 11.3 %). Its sales volume amounted to 6,554 million EUR, which represents a 32 % share of
Group sales. This positive trend was mainly driven by the global licensing business which is
allocated to this region, as well as in the markets in Germany, Spain, the United Kingdom, and
the countries of Eastern Europe. In our Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) region, sales increased by
+ 2.5 % (currency-adjusted + 4.3 %) to 4,917 million EUR. Especially due to institutional price
adjustments in a core market and, to some degree, the continuing effects of the COVID-19
pandemic on the course of business, the AAA region was unable to emulate the growth rates
which it had registered in previous years.
Net sales by region (in million EUR)
currency-
2021 2020 Change adjusted
Americas 9,147 8,889 + 2.9 % + 6.6 %
Europe 6,554 5,879 + 11.5 % + 11.3 %
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 4,917 4,798 + 2.5 % + 4.3 %
In our Human Pharma business, in 2021, we once again made our products available to more pa-
tients thanks to new approvals in additional countries; we also further strengthened established
products. These include the products of the JARDIANCE® family and OFEV® especially. Global
licensing business also provided a significant growth contribution. Our R&D pipeline is devel-
oping positively. Important milestones were reached here in 2021. Our Animal Health business
grew in 2021, particularly in our pet segment. In our Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing
business, the commissioning of our large-scale cell culture plant in Vienna was a key milestone
for us and a highlight of the 2021 financial year.
Key figures (in million EUR)
2021 2020 Change
Net sales 20,618 19,566 + 5.4 %
Operating income 4,705 4,624 + 1.8 %
Return on net sales 22.8 % 23.6 %
Income before taxes 4,368 4,305 + 1.5 %
Income after taxes 3,406 3,062 + 11.2 %
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP38
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
The materials ratio (taking into consideration the change in inventory) rose slightly to 13.5 %
(2020: 12.9 %). Personnel expenses increased by + 1.9 %, primarily due to the additional
employees hired in the areas of research, development, medicine, and biopharmaceutical med-
icine production, which are of strategic significance for Boehringer Ingelheim.
Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets in 2021 were – 242 mil-
lion EUR lower compared with the previous year. This was particularly attributable to a high vol-
ume of impairment losses on intangible assets in the 2020 financial year. On the other hand, the
continuing high level of investment activity and acquisitions resulted in increased amortization
of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets.
We achieved growth in all of our businesses in the 2021 financial year, and our operating in-
come increased to 4,705 million EUR. The positive sales trend for our businesses enables us
to make long-term investments in research and development – we increased our research and
development expenditure as a percentage of net sales to 20.0 % in the 2021 financial year. Our
return on sales fell to + 22.8 % (2020: + 23.6 %). This was due to higher prices on our procurement
markets, our increased number of employees in strategically important areas, and our invest-
ments. Financial income and holding income were both influenced by one-off effects. While the
previous year’s holding income had included the profit from the sale of an investment and was
thus lower in 2021 for this reason especially, financial income improved, in particular, due to
the new method which was introduced in 2021 for the measurement of long-term obligations.
Income before taxes therefore rose particularly due to the higher operating income.
Income after taxes was likewise higher than in the previous year. This reflected the improved
pre-tax profit as well as lower income taxes. It must be noted in this regard that, under the pro-
visions of German commercial law, shareholders’ personal taxes arising from Group business
activities may not be recognized as tax expenses. Instead, these taxes are presented as part of
withdrawals from Group equity. When taking this specificity into account, the actual tax ratio is
markedly higher than the figure shown in the profit and loss statement.
3.4
Despite challenging market conditions in some business areas and the heightened cost pres-
sure, Boehringer Ingelheim registered a positive performance in the 2021 financial year. Fol-
billion EUR lowing a Group profit of 3,062 million EUR in the previous year, in 2021, this figure rose by
Group profit + 344 million EUR to 3,406 million EUR.39
Group Management Report — Report on economic position
Development of the businesses
In the past year, Boehringer Ingelheim’s activities were divided into the Human Pharma, Animal
Health, and Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing businesses.
Net sales by business (in million EUR)
currency-
2021 2020 Change adjusted
Human Pharma 15,294 14,415 + 6.1 % + 8.4 %
Animal Health 4,295 4,121 + 4.2 % + 6.2 %
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 917 837 + 9.6 % + 9.5 %
Other sales 33 33 + 0.0 % + 1.2 %
Discontinued operations 79 160 – 50.6 % – 49.2 %
Human Pharma
The Human Pharma business is the mainstay of Boehringer Ingelheim’s activities and accounts
for a 74 % share of the Group’s net sales. Sales in our Human Pharma business increased by
+ 6.1 % (currency-adjusted + 8.4 %) in the 2021 financial year to 15,294 million EUR. This growth
was mainly driven by the established products of the JARDIANCE® family as well as OFEV®. The
growing volume of licensing business – in particular SKYRIZI® which we have licensed to AbbVie,
which is responsible for the marketing of this product – also made a key contribution to the
positive development of our Human Pharma business.
Human Pharma: Net sales Top 5 products (in million EUR)
currency-
2021 2020 Change adjusted
JARDIANCE® Family 3,940 3,140 + 25.5 % + 28.6 %
OFEV® 2,491 2,055 + 21.2 % + 25.4 %
TRAJENTA® / JENTADUETO® 1,552 1,512 + 2.6 % + 5.1 %
SPIRIVA® 1,548 1,793 – 13.7 % – 11.9 %
PRADAXA® 1,318 1,492 – 11.7 % – 10.3 %
The strongest revenue contributor in 2021 was JARDIANCE®, which is used to treat type 2 JARDIANCE® and
diabetes. The JARDIANCE® family generated net sales of 3,940 million EUR, which was thus OFEV® drive growth
+ 25.5 % (currency-adjusted + 28.6 %) higher than in the previous year.
OFEV®, Boehringer Ingelheim’s second biggest-selling product in 2021, is mainly used to treat
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and two additional indications, SSc-ILD and PF-ILD. OFEV®
recorded net sales of 2,491 million EUR and thus achieved a growth rate of + 21.2 % (currency-
adjusted + 25.4 %).
Unlike in the previous year, TRAJENTA® and JENTADUETO® – which are used to treat type 2
diabetes – returned to sales growth. Sales increased by + 2.6 % (currency-adjusted + 5.1 %) in
2021 to 1,552 million EUR.
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP40
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
SPIRIVA®, which is used for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD),
registered declining sales figures. This reflects the stage that this product has now reached in
its life cycle. In line with expectations, the net sales volume of 1,548 million EUR in 2021 was
– 13.7 % (currency-adjusted – 11.9 %) lower than in the previous year.
Sales of the anticoagulant PRADAXA® fell by – 11.7 % (currency-adjusted – 10.3 %) year-over-
year. However, with a sales volume of 1,318 million EUR PRADAXA remained one of Boehringer
Ingelheim’s five biggest-selling medicines in the 2021 financial year.
Sales growth of + 136.3 % (currency-adjusted likewise + 136.3 %) was registered for the licensing
income provided by SKYRIZI®. This product, which is marketed globally by our partner AbbVie, is
based on risankizumab, a medication for treatment of plaque psoriasis which was mainly devel-
oped by Boehringer Ingelheim. In 2021, this medicine was also approved in several markets for
the treatment of Crohn’s disease and psoriasis arthritis. The sales volume in the 2021 financial
year thus also reflects related one-off milestone payments.
The Human Pharma business achieved growth in every region year-over-year. In terms of the
regional distribution of this revenue, the USA remained our strongest revenue contributor, with
a growth rate of + 2.1 % (currency-adjusted + 5.9 %) to 5,777 million EUR. This represents an
almost 38 % share of the Human Pharma business’s overall sales volume.
We achieved net sales of 5,221 million EUR in our EUCAN region (Europe, Canada, Australia,
and New Zealand) in 2021, a growth rate of + 13.9 % (currency-adjusted + 13.2 %). The EUCAN
region thus once again gained in importance, with a 34 % share of sales (+ 2 % points higher
than in the previous year).
The company’s emerging markets also registered an improved volume of sales in the past finan-
cial year, with a growth rate of + 4.2 % (currency-adjusted + 5.9 %). Overall, sales in these coun-
tries rose to 2,959 million EUR. However, single-digit growth in the emerging markets fell short
of our expectations. The Chinese market was particularly challenging. Sales fell here by – 4.5 %
(currency-adjusted – 7.3 %) due to the inclusion of core products in the country’s national reim-
bursement drug list and the use of volume-based procurement mechanisms.
Japan accounted for almost 9 % of total net sales in the Human Pharma business. Sales here
rose by + 0.5 % (currency-adjusted + 7.1 %) to 1,337 million EUR.
Human Pharma: Net sales by region (in million EUR)
currency-
2021 2020 Change adjusted
USA 5,777 5,658 + 2.1 % + 5.9 %
EUCAN 5,221 4,585 + 13.9 % + 13.2 %
Emerging Markets 2,959 2,841 + 4.2 % + 5.9 %
Japan 1,337 1,331 + 0.5 % + 7.1 %
Animal Health
In the past financial year, the Animal Health business achieved net sales totaling 4,295 mil-
lion EUR and thus provided almost 21 % of the Group’s sales. Animal Health increased its sales
volume by + 4.2 % (currency-adjusted + 6.2 %) and thus stepped up its pace of growth relative to
the previous year. This growth was driven by the pet segment.41
Group Management Report — Report on economic position
Animal Health: Net sales Top 4 products (in million EUR)
currency-
2021 2020 Change adjusted
NEXGARD® 916 804 + 13.9 % + 16.6 %
FRONTLINE® 418 406 + 3.0 % + 4.8 %
HEARTGARD® 307 312 – 1.6 % + 1.4 %
INGELVAC CIRCOFLEX® / FLEXCOMBO® 253 264 – 4.2 % – 2.7 %
This segment accounts for the biggest-selling medicines in our Animal Health business: The an- Pet segment
tiparasitics NEXGARD® and FRONTLINE® registered growth rates of + 13.9 % (currency-adjusted drives growth
+ 16.6 %) and + 3.0 % (currency-adjusted + 4.8 %) in 2021. In the past year, NEXGARD® achieved
a sales volume of 916 million EUR and thus remained the biggest-selling product in our Animal
Health portfolio. FRONTLINE® was our second-biggest seller, with a revenue of 418 million EUR.
The medicine HEARTGARD® suffered a – 1.6 % decline (currency-adjusted + 1.4 %) in sales in the
past financial year. This product is used to prevent heartworm disease. It contributed 307 mil-
lion EUR to the Animal Health business’ sales volume.
Our swine vaccine INGELVAC CIRCOFLEX® also registered a declining sales volume in 2021:
revenue fell by – 4.2 % (currency-adjusted – 2.7 %) to 253 million EUR – not least due to the
continuing challenges associated with African swine fever in key markets.
In our Animal Health business, we surpassed the previous year’s sales volume in every region.
In the USA, we achieved currency-adjusted growth of + 3.9 % and registered a positive course
of business in the 2021 financial year, particularly in our pet segment including horses. This
compensated for a slightly lower sales figure in the swine segment.
The EUCAN region likewise registered strong sales growth in the pet segment. On the other
hand, growth in the swine and poultry segments failed to match our expectations. Overall sales
growth in the EUCAN region amounted to + 8.1 % (currency-adjusted + 7.0 %).
The TCM region (The Chinese Market) improved its sales volume by + 17.1 % (currency-adjusted
+ 15.1 %) year-over-year. This growth was mainly driven by the swine segment.
The ALAMEA (Asia, Latin America, Middle East, Africa) region registered sales growth of + 2.5 %
(currency-adjusted + 6.6 %). Sales in the pet segment were higher than those in the livestock
segment.
Animal Health: Net sales by region (in million EUR)
currency-
2021 2020 Change adjusted
USA 1,819 1,815 + 0.2 % + 3.9 %
EUCAN 1,345 1,244 + 8.1 % + 7.0 %
ALAMEA 789 770 + 2.5 % + 6.6 %
TCM 342 292 + 17.1 % + 15.1 %
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP42
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing
Continued strong In the Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing business, revenue was + 9.6 % (currency-
growth in the adjusted + 9.5 %) higher than in the previous year due to strong demand for our business
Biopharmaceutical partners’ market products. The order situation for the entire business has developed positively,
Contract resulting in a high level of capacity utilization.
Manufacturing
Other sales/discontinued operations
Under discontinued operations we aggregate activities of minor strategic importance for
Boehringer Ingelheim. Net sales decreased as expected.
Financial position
Boehringer Ingelheim’s financial management strategy aims to safeguard the company’s financ-
ing by means of its operating cash flow as far as possible, to minimize financial risks, and to
optimize the cost of capital.
Cash inflow from operating activities amounted to + 3,846 million EUR and is attributable to the
positive business performance in the 2021 financial year. It was – 117 million EUR lower than
in the previous year (2020: + 3,963 million EUR), mainly due to an increase of receivables and
higher tax payments.
(in million EUR) 2021
Financial funds as of 1.1. 6,105
Cash flow from operating activities 3,846
Cash flow from investing activities – 6,002
Cash flow from financing activities – 1,499
Change in financial funds from cash relevant transactions – 3,655
Change in financial funds due to exchange rate movements and valuation adjustments 96
Financial funds as of 31.12. 2,546
Cash outflow from investment activities increased significantly to – 6,002 million EUR (2020:
– 326 million EUR). In the 2021 financial year, cash holdings and funds previously invested in
current assets were invested in long-term securities. In addition, the previous year included
one-off payments from share and business divestitures.
High capital Further milestones were achieved in the context of the large investments in tangible assets
expenditure volume in 2021. The expansion of the production facilities in Vienna (Austria) for Biopharmaceutical
to enable business Contract Manufacturing was successfully completed. In 2021, more than 150 million EUR were
development invested again at the Vienna site. In Germany, the construction of the Biological Development
Center (BDC) and the expansion of the research site in Biberach were further promoted last
year. The investments amounted to around 115 million EUR, supplementing a number of high
investments in Boehringer Ingelheim’s global research and development network.43
Group Management Report — Report on economic position
In Animal Health, Boehringer Ingelheim invests in a new antigen production center in Jonage
(France) for Veterinary Public Health in response to the growing demand for medicines to treat
foot-and-mouth and bluetongue disease. The total investment for this project is over 230 mil-
lion EUR, of which approximately 60 million EUR were paid in the past financial year.
Cash outflow from financing activities in the amount of – 1,499 million EUR mainly comp rises
tax refunds for shareholders’ personal taxes associated with the Group’s activities. These
amounts are not to be reported in the Group’s tax expense due to commercial law regulations.
Overall, after taking into consideration changes due to exchange rate movements and valua-
tion-related changes, the Group’s financial funds decreased by a total of – 3,559 million EUR to
2,546 million EUR as of December 31, 2021, in particular due to the transfer of cash and short-
term securities to long-term financial assets.
Net assets position
(in million EUR) 31.12.2021 31.12.2020 Change Change in %
Assets
Intangible and tangible assets 10,113 9,345 768
Financial assets 12,964 8,553 4,411
Fixed assets 23,077 17,898 5,179 + 28.9 %
Inventories 4,237 3,863 374
Trade accounts receivable 5,178 4,302 876
Other receivables and other current assets 1,407 950 457
Securities 250 1,499 – 1,249
Cash and cash equivalents 2,296 4,606 – 2,310
Current assets 13,368 15,220 – 1,852 – 12.2 %
Other assets 4,174 3,769 405
Total assets 40,619 36,887 3,732 + 10.1 %
Equity and liabilities
Group equity 19,331 17,307 2,024 + 11.7 %
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 6,190 5,581 609
Tax provisions and other provisions 10,765 9,739 1,026
Accounts payable and loans 2,224 1,912 312
- thereof residual term over 1 year: 85 77 8
Liabilities 19,179 17,232 1,947 + 11.3 %
Other liabilities and difference from capital
consolidation 2,109 2,348 – 239
Total equity and liabilities 40,619 36,887 3,732 + 10.1 %
As of December 31, 2021, Boehringer Ingelheim’s total assets amounted to 40,619 million EUR,
an increase of + 3,732 million EUR as compared with the previous year. This increase was mainly
attributable to investments in tangible assets and acquisitions, as well as to the positive cash
flow of the financial year. Inventories and receivables also rose. Moreover, positive currency
effects have increased all balance sheet items.
Intangible and tangible fixed assets increased due to acquisitions and the continuously high
volume of capital expenditure in the strategic expansion of the company’s business, including
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP44
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
in Human Pharma research in Germany, Biopharmaceuticals in Vienna (Austria) and Fremont
(California, USA), and Animal Health in France. In addition, positive currency effects have in-
creased the volume of fixed assets. Funds which were previously held as cash or invested in
short-term investments were invested in long-term securities. Together with the investment of
further funds resulting from cash flow over the course of the financial year in long-term secu-
rities and investments, this significantly increased the volume of long-term financial assets.
Working capital (inventories and receivables) rose due to the increased production costs as a
result of higher price levels on the procurement markets, the buildup of safety stocks for Bio-
pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing and Animal Health as well as positive currency effects.
Moreover, trade accounts receivable rose in the USA as of the reporting date due to an increased
volume of receivables from wholesalers, and in Germany due to an increase in the volume of
receivables arising from license agreements. The rise in other receivables and other assets re-
sulted from increased tax prepayments and sales tax receivables in Germany, Mexico, and the
USA in particular. Other assets increased due to higher deferred tax assets resulting from tem-
porary differences between the valuations in the consolidated companies’ tax balance sheets
and the valuations in the consolidated balance sheet (for pension provisions especially) as well
as the positive market trend for plan assets for pensions and similar obligations. This item also
increased due to currency effects.
19.3
Equity amounted to 19,331 million EUR as of December 31, 2021. The equity ratio improved to
around 48 % (December 31, 2020: 47 %) in spite of the higher balance sheet total. In addition to
billion EUR equity, the pension provisions and long-term liabilities are also available to the Group as capital
equity in the long term. These three items totaled 25,606 million EUR as of December 31, 2021, repre-
senting a 63 % share of total assets. Consequently, as in previous years, long-term disposable
48
capital continues to cover all intangible and tangible fixed assets as well as working capital.
%
equity ratio Pension provisions rose in Germany in particular due to a further decline in the discount rate
as well as currency effects. The increase in other provisions correlates to the change in the level
of revenue, since this includes provisions for discounts in the USA, for commissions and for
royalty payments. In addition, positive currency effects resulted in higher tax provisions and
other provisions. The volume of liabilities has risen due to increased debt financing in Brazil,
Greece, and China, advance payments by customers in the Biopharmaceutical Contract Man-
ufacturing business, liabilities to shareholders, and positive currency effects. Other liabilities
have declined, mainly due to the release of the difference arising from capital consolidation as
well as deferred income.
The net assets position likewise reflects Boehringer Ingelheim’s positive development in the
2021 financial year. Boehringer Ingelheim remains a soundly financed company, making con-
siderable capital expenditure in the development of its business and research activities in order
to ensure its long-term growth and thus its independence.45
Group Management Report — Report on opportunities and risks
Report on opportunities and risks
Opportunities and risk management
When assessing the risks in the context of holistic opportunities and risk management, we also
endeavor to take into account the resulting opportunities.
Opportunity management is based on the strategies and objectives of the company and of indi-
vidual businesses and operating business units and is an integral part of the Group-wide plan-
ning and management systems. Those responsible for the businesses and functions bear direct
responsibility for the early and systematic identification, analysis, and use of opportunities.
For Boehringer Ingelheim as a research-driven biopharmaceutical company, its current research
and development activities are naturally considered an opportunity. Relevant projects have al-
ready been outlined in the research and development chapter. We also consider digitalization to
be an opportunity and see new technological possibilities in the areas of research and (particu-
larly clinical) development, as well as in the support of patients during therapy. In the current
COVID-19 pandemic, we are giving greater priority to this opportunity for digitalization in many
different areas, but especially in sales and administration.
The aim of the risk management system implemented at Boehringer Ingelheim is to identi-
fy business-specific risks as early as possible (particularly risks that jeopardize the continued
existence of the company), to assess them, and to reduce them to a reasonable level by means
of suitable measures. The persons responsible for the key businesses and functions are also
included in the process of calculating and assessing risks. The Group-wide risk and information
system ensures that all identified risks are analyzed and assessed carefully. Following appropri-
ate classification, adequate risk management measures are initiated and their implementation
is consistently monitored.
In the year under review, internal auditing performed targeted routine audits as well as extraordi-
nary audits around the world. In addition to adherence to legal requirements and internal Group
guidelines, the main focal points were the functionality of systems, the effectiveness of internal
controls for the prevention of loss of assets, and the efficiency of structures and processes.
Corresponding adjustments or optimizations were initiated as necessary.
Individual risks
The key risks which Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to are broken down into the following
specific categories: financial risks, legal risks, information technology risks, production and
environmental risks, personnel risks, and sector-specific risks.
Risks are identified below as being “concrete” when they appear to be controllable by means of
specific management procedures. The term “abstract” is used in the case of risks that cannot
be completely controlled, even by means of targeted management procedures, regardless of the
probability of their occurrence.
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP46
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Financial risks
Relevant financial risks are themselves broken down as follows: currency risks, geopolitical
risks, credit and country- specific risks as well as financial investment and shareholding risks.
Currency risks
The global orientation of our business activities is subject to risks and opportunities due to ex-
change rate volatility in relation to the US dollar and the Japanese yen above all – but also with
regard to emerging markets’ currencies, especially the Chinese renminbi. The Group monitors
and quantifies these risks at regular intervals, making them predictable for future business by
means of relevant hedging strategies and appropriate financial instruments, such as forward
exchange contracts. The resultant risks are subsequently designated as being concrete and con-
trollable and therefore limited.
Geopolitical risks
The business of Boehringer Ingelheim as a global company can be adversely affected by geo-
political developments. Significant risks may arise, for example, from geopolitical tensions or
from changing economic and political conditions, which may have an impact on production
sites and on sales markets. Global geopolitical developments are under constant observation
by Boehringer Ingelheim, in order to be able to take appropriate measures at an early stage to
address these abstract and low risks and to maintain a successful global business.
Credit and country -specific risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to various credit and country-specific risks as a result of its
international business activities. From the portfolio of trade accounts receivable and trade ac-
counts payable, we have not identified any extraordinary risks for the Group beyond the usual
level in the industry since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, also compared with previous
years. The same applies to possible default risks for receivables, which are largely hedged against
economic and political risks. We will continue to carefully track credit and country-specific risks,
so as to be in a position to respond to negative changes in a timely manner. These risks, which
we consider moderate, are therefore regarded as concrete.
Financial investment and shareholding risks
The Group pursues a conservative investment strategy in its management of its financial assets.
Its primary objective is the long-term preservation of their real value. This is reflected in the
orientation of our portfolio, which mainly comprises money market and bond investments. This
results in a concrete, controllable, and limited level of risk for most of our financial investments.
The net book value of some of the strategic investments in related companies is affected by
market and business circumstances, which leads to a higher level of volatility in the fair market
value. All specific risks have been covered by respective impairments in the consolidated finan-
cial statements.47
Group Management Report — Report on opportunities and risks
Legal risks
The business activities of the Group are exposed to legal risks. A distinction is made between
regulatory, liability, and patent protection risks.
Regulatory risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to risks arising from legal disputes and proceedings as well as
official investigations. As the legal or administrative decisions in ongoing or future proceedings
cannot be predicted, we regard the resultant risks as being abstract and high.
Liability risks
The marketing and sale of pharmaceuticals are exposed to a potential product liability risk.
Boehringer Ingelheim currently has product liability insurance for the company’s risk profile.
There is absolutely no guarantee, however, that this insurance coverage can be maintained at
reasonable cost and acceptable conditions, or that it is sufficient to protect Boehringer Ingelheim
against a claim or loss, or against all potential claims or losses. In case it is foreseeable that the
product liability insurance does not cover or only partially covers a specific liability risk, the
remaining risk exposure has been covered by a provision. We therefore see a moderate risk for
the Group here.
Furthermore, product liability claims could tie up substantial financial resources and manage-
ment capacity and be detrimental to the company’s image in the event that the market considers
the product to be unsafe or ineffective as a result of unexpected side effects. We see this as an
abstract and moderate risk.
Patent protection risks
Protection of innovations through trademark and patent rights is of particular importance to
Boehringer Ingelheim as a research-driven biopharmaceutical company. These commercial pro-
tective rights are increasingly the target of attacks and breaches. We have taken the necessary
precautions to allow us to detect threats at an early stage and, by commencing appropriate
countermeasures, defend our legal position using all legal means available to us so that these
factors are regarded as concrete and moderate risks.
Information technology risks
Boehringer Ingelheim uses globally networked IT systems in core areas of its operations for busi-
ness and production processes as well as internal and external communication. It also makes
use of cloud-based third-party systems and services. These systems are used to process, store,
and transmit confidential and personal data. The availability, integrity, and confidentiality of
these systems and the data processed are thus highly significant.
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP48
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
External cyberattacks or any manipulation of systems may result in the loss of information and
expertise as well as temporary interruptions to business and production processes. This risk is
considered to be high and concrete in view of the continuously evolving global environment and
the growing frequency of cyberattacks.
The COVID-19 pandemic has elevated the risk of such threats and attacks, since people are in-
creasingly working from home and employees thus have access to sensitive data via less secure
IT environments.
Boehringer Ingelheim is countering this risk by means of continuous IT process analysis and
improvements as well as further preventive and reactive measures. This helps to identify and
ward off current threats and to minimize potential damage.
Production and environmental risks
Our quality management system and compliance processes are continuously optimized in close
cooperation with the relevant authorities in order to ensure compliance with cGMP standards
(current good manufacturing practices). Risks in this area continue to be of high significance
to the Group and are classified as abstract. Boehringer Ingelheim implemented risk-mitigating
measures in the past year in order to counter COVID-19-specific threats to its production activ-
ities. These include the physical segregation of production teams when possible, the obligation
to wear a mask, an increase in the supply of disinfectants, and in-house initiatives for testing the
COVID-19 status of employees. In order to protect facility-based functions, employees whose
presence is not site-dependent were asked to work from home.
In order to ensure the supply of our products to the market, we have implemented measures
that guarantee reliable and high-quality supplies for internal and external customers. In addi-
tion to supplier management on the procurement side, this also involves building up internal
standby capacities. Overall, this represents a concrete and moderate risk.
Risks in the areas of the environment, health, safety, and sustainability (EHS&S) are preemptive-
ly minimized by ensuring global adherence to our high safety standards. Appropriate emergency
plans have been drawn up for possible incidents of any kind and are practiced and subjected to
comprehensive quality testing at regular intervals. As a result of these measures, these risks are
classed as concrete and limited.
Personnel risks
Boehringer Ingelheim, as other companies, is exposed to demographic change and the resultant
risk of being affected by a lack of appropriately qualified personnel. This potential risk can have
a substantial impact on the company’s business activities. It has therefore been included in the
long-term planning process for many years and has gained strategic significance as a result.49
Group Management Report — Report on opportunities and risks
Boehringer Ingelheim counters the risk by means of a comprehensive personnel concept. In the
context of global personnel management, this also presents the Group with opportunities. Re-
gardless of their ethnic background, gender, or religion, we offer all of our company’s employees
development opportunities based on their professional abilities, social skills, personal aptitudes,
and willingness to take on responsibility in accordance with the needs of the company. In view of
the measures described above, the risk is regarded as concrete and moderate.
Boehringer Ingelheim is likewise exposed to human resources risks as a result of the COVID-19
pandemic. If the pathogen were to spread, this would have a significant impact both in and
outside of our production activities. The company is therefore closely monitoring the situation
in the vicinity of its sites. It also emphasizes working from home, using digital applications
rather than in-person meetings, and curbing employee travel to a large extent. In view of these
measures, this is considered to be a concrete and moderate risk.
Industry-specific risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is subject to the industry-specific business risks of the pharmaceutical
industry. These risks have partly materialized in the past financial year and are becoming in-
creasingly important for Boehringer Ingelheim due to their effects. They continue to be classed
as abstract and high. In addition to the loss of exclusivity of products established on the market
and risks associated with the development and registration of new medicines, these risks in-
creasingly include changing and restrictive requirements relating to pricing and reimbursement
on many sales markets. Frequently, the prices of pharmaceutical products are subject not only
to state monitoring and regulation, but also to price pressure from cheaper generic drugs which
is induced by state reimbursement systems. Boehringer Ingelheim is keeping a close eye on
the various changes in its sales markets and takes appropriate measures in response to current
developments.
Overall statement on the risk situation
From a current perspective, we are not aware of any risks that alone or in conjunction with other
risks could lead to a lasting impairment of the company’s assets or financial or earnings posi-
tion and could jeopardize the continued existence of Boehringer Ingelheim.
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP50
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Report on expected developments
Boehringer Ingelheim can look back on a successful 2021 financial year in which we surpassed
our ambitious targets, both in terms of absolute figures and our contribution to the well-being
of patients, pets, and livestock. Despite the volatile global economic situation, we were able to
ensure the company’s sustainable development and profitable growth.
The continuing COVID-19 pandemic, fragile global supply chains, general inflation trend, and
a more difficult industry environment mean that we will continue to face challenges in 2022.
However, the uncertainty of the past two years – in the context of a global pandemic – would ap-
pear to be gradually giving way to more predictable challenges and opportunities. We therefore
have an optimistic view of the ongoing volatility, even if it remains difficult to make forecasts
for the coming financial year.
In 2022, we expect to see ongoing global economic recovery, and we assume that the vaccines
and medicines already approved, plus other therapies currently undergoing the approval pro-
cess, will help to curb the COVID-19 pandemic. On the strength of our experience of the past
few years and the measures which we have implemented, we are confident that we will be able
to handle any temporary setbacks without encountering any substantial supply problems.
The largest source of uncertainty over the next five years will be the potential impact of economic
factors on governments’ budget planning and whether this will affect policymaking in terms of
expenditure on healthcare and medicines. Assuming that it is possible to curb the C OVID-19
pandemic, we expect to see moderate market growth for prescription pharmaceuticals. How-
ever, we are also witnessing growing global institutional efforts to bring down the prices of
medicines. In view of this trend, financial flexibility remains critical for us, in order to ensure
long-term growth and innovation.
In our Animal Health business, following strong market growth in 2021, we now expect to see
a normalization of the market growth trend in the new financial year. Research and innovation
will play a particularly important role here. Together with our business partners, we intend to
continue to provide our customers with innovative solutions. The development of the African
swine fever situation will remain a critical factor in 2022. Our priorities in our Biopharmaceu-
ticals business are supplying the market with our own products and contract manufacturing
for our business partners. The increasing level of capacity utilization of our new large-scale cell
culture plant in Vienna will be another core area of focus in 2022.
For 2022, we expect Boehringer Ingelheim to achieve a slight year-on-year increase in net sales
on a comparable basis (adjusted for currency and extraordinary effects).
Our consistently high R&D expenditure, which once again increased in 2021, is in line with our
strategic focus on continuing to drive growth and the flow of new products. In 2021, we once
again achieved our goal of obtaining some of our R&D through external innovation and part-
nerships. We will continue to actively pursue this strategy in 2022. We invest in our own and
external R&D after close investigation of the therapeutic benefit and the associated prospects
for success. The flow of innovative medicines in our research and development pipeline shows
short-, medium-, and long-term growth potential. We expect to see a further increase in R&D
investments in new medicines in 2022, and intend to reach new milestones in research and
development as well as individual market approvals.51
Group Management Report — Report on expected developments
In addition to patent expiry and attacks on patents, the major challenges facing the
research-driven pharmaceutical industry are the increasing amount of investment in R&D as
well as bigger hurdles and increased costs associated with product approvals. Also of particular
note is the previously mentioned growing cost pressure in healthcare systems. In the last two
years of the pandemic, research-driven pharmaceutical companies displayed an unprecedented
level of networking and energy to develop solutions extremely quickly, thus proving the societal
value of research and innovation, with the support of policymakers. Additional concrete steps
are needed so that the contribution of pharmaceutical companies to the increased efficiency
of the overall healthcare system is remunerated appropriately. Animal health research likewise
requires major investments in both preventive research and diagnostic options.
In conjunction with the long planning and development cycles for new products, growing public
cost pressure means that business is less predictable. It requires us to quickly recognize and
seize opportunities in both Human Pharma and Animal Health on the one hand, while contin-
uously monitoring and adjusting costs and strategies on the other. In 2021, we implemented
measures in all our business areas to accelerate the speed of our response to changes, to reduce
the complexity of the organization, and to optimize the cost base. In this way, we are creating
potential for capital expenditure and securing the company’s long-term success.
For 2022, we expect Boehringer Ingelheim to achieve slightly lower operating income due to our
increased level of investment in research and development on a comparable basis (adjusted for
currency and extraordinary effects).
As a family-owned company, Boehringer Ingelheim’s primary aim remains the creation of “Value
through Innovation”. This safeguards our competitiveness and our long-term entrepreneurial
independence. We are confident that we will achieve our ambitious targets in all of our business
areas, thanks to our great innovative strength which rests on a comprehensive portfolio of pro-
spective products, our global presence, and the support of our highly qualified and motivated
employees. We remain committed to our “Ambition 2025” for our company as a whole. We will
research and develop innovative products in human and veterinary medicine and bring them
to the market in areas of high medical need, and we will break new ground with therapeutic
approaches. The aim of our endeavors is to make new medicines available to both humans and
animals so they can be treated more effectively with new therapies.
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorPNeuronal cells and connections in the
human brainConsolidated
Financial
Statements
54 O verview of selected
consolidated companies
56 Consolidated balance sheet
57 Consolidated profit and loss statement
58 Consolidated cash flow statement
59 Statement of changes in group equity
60 N otes to the consolidated financial
statements
81 Independent auditor’s report
stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
oiloftroP
tcudorP54
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Overview of selected
consolidated companies
C.H. Boehringer Sohn
AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim
Vetmedica GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Argentina D Italy D P Taiwan D Germany D P R
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Corporate
Argentina S.A., Buenos Aires Italia S.p.A., Milan Taiwan Co., Ltd., Taipei Center GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Australia D Japan D R Thailand D Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma
Australia Pty. Ltd., North Ryde Japan Co., Ltd., Tokyo (Thailand) Limited, Bangkok
GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim microParts
Belgium D P R Mexico D P USA D P R
GmbH, Dortmund
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund
Belgium S.A., Brussels México S.A. de C.V., Mexico City USA, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary Boehringer Ingelheim
Medicine Belgium, Evergem Netherlands D R Vietnam D Biopharmaceuticals GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Vietnam Ltd.,
Brazil D P Netherlands B.V., Alkmaar Ho Chi Minh City Boehringer Ingelheim
Middle East & Africa GmbH,
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Ingelheim am Rhein
do Brasil Ltda., São Paulo New Zealand D P
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Canada D New Zealand Limited, Auckland
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Canada Inc., Burlington Philippines D
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
China D P R Philippines, Inc., Makati City
Nanchang Boehringer Ingelheim
Animal Health Co., Ltd., Nanchang Puerto Rico P
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Health (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.,
Puerto Rico LLC, Barceloneta
Shanghai
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal
South Africa D
Health Operations (China) Co., Ltd.,
Taizhou Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica South Africa Pty Ltd., Midrand,
(China) Co., Ltd., Taizhou Gauteng
Denmark D P South Korea D
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Denmark A/S, Copenhagen Korea Ltd., Seoul
France D P R Spain D
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
France, Lyon España, S.A., Barcelona
Great Britain D P
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
UK Limited, Bracknell
D Distribution
P Production
R Research and development55
Consolidated Financial Statements — Overview of selected consolidated companies
C.H. Boehringer Sohn
Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim
International GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Argentina D Denmark D Japan D P R Serbia D
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Boehringer Ingelheim Danmark A/S, Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim Co., Boehringer Ingelheim Serbia DOO
Buenos Aires Copenhagen Ltd., Tokyo Beograd, Belgrade
Boehringer Ingelheim Seiyaku,
Australia D Ecuador D Yamagata South Africa D
Boehringer Ingelheim Pty. Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim Del Ecuador Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals
North Ryde Cia. Ltda., Quito Mexico D P (Proprietary) Ltd., Midrand, Gauteng
Boehringer Ingelheim Mexico S.A. de
Austria D P R Finland D C.V., Mexico City South Korea D
Boehringer Ingelheim RCV Boehringer Ingelheim Finland Ky, Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica S.A. Boehringer Ingelheim Korea Ltd.,
GmbH & Co. KG, Vienna Espoo de C.V., Guadalajara Seoul
Boehringer Ingelheim Promeco S.A.
Forschungsinstitut für molekulare
de C.V., Mexico City
Pathologie Gesellschaft mbH, Vienna France D Spain D P
ViraTherapeutics GmbH, Rum Boehringer Ingelheim France S.A.S., Netherlands D Boehringer Ingelheim España S.A.,
Paris Barcelona
Belgium D Boehringer Ingelheim B.V., Alkmaar
SCS Boehringer Ingelheim Comm.V., Germany R Sweden D
Brussels Boehringer Ingelheim New Zealand D Boehringer Ingelheim Aktiebolag,
Therapeutics GmbH, Ochsenhausen Boehringer Ingelheim (N.Z.) Ltd., Stockholm
Brazil D P Auckland
Boehringer Ingelheim do Brasíl Great Britain D Switzerland D R
Química e Farmaceutica Ltda., Boehringer Ingelheim Ltd., Norway D Boehringer Ingelheim (Schweiz)
São Paulo Bracknell Boehringer Ingelheim Norway KS, GmbH, Basel
Asker
NBE-Therapeutics AG, Basel
Canada D Greece D P Amal Therapeutics S.A., Geneva
Peru D
Boehringer Ingelheim (Canada) Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim Ellas Single
Toronto Member S.A., Athens Boehringer Ingelheim Peru S.A.C., Taiwan D
Lima
Boehringer Ingelheim Taiwan Ltd.,
Chile D Hong Kong D Taipei
Philippines D
Boehringer Ingelheim Ltda., Boehringer Ingelheim (Hong Kong)
Santiago de Chile Ltd., Hong Kong Boehringer Ingelheim (Philippines), Thailand D
Inc., Manila
Boehringer Ingelheim (Thai) Ltd.,
China D P India D Bangkok
Poland D
Boehringer Ingelheim Shanghai Boehringer Ingelheim India Private
Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd., Shanghai Ltd., Mumbai Boehringer Ingelheim Sp. z o.o., Turkey D
Boehringer Ingelheim Warsaw
Boehringer Ingelheim Ilaç Ticaret
Biopharmaceuticals (China) Co., Ltd., Indonesia D P A.S., Istanbul
Shanghai Portugal D
PT Boehringer Ingelheim Indonesia,
Boehringer Ingelheim (China) Jakarta Boehringer Ingelheim Portugal, LDA, USA D P R
Investment Co., Ltd., Shanghai Lisbon
BI X E-Health Technology (Shanghai) Boehringer Ingelheim
Co., Ltd., Shanghai Isr Ba oe el hringer Ingelheim Israel Ltd., D Russia D P Wh ila mrm ina gc te ou nt , i Dca el ls a, w In ac re.,
Colombia D Tel Aviv OOO Boehringer Ingelheim, Moscow Boehringer Ingelheim Fremont, Inc.,
Wilmington, Delaware
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Italy D P Saudi Arabia D Boehringer Ingelheim USA
Santa Fé de Bogotá Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware
Boehringer Ingelheim Italia S.p.A., Boehringer Ingelheim Saudi Arabia
Czech Republic D Milan Trading, Riyadh Vietnam D
Bidachem S.p.A., Fornovo S. Giovanni
Boehringer Ingelheim, spol. s.r.o., Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Prague Vietnam Limited Liability Company,
Ho Chi Minh City
oiloftroP
tcudorP56
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Consolidated balance sheet
Assets (in million EUR) Notes 1) 31.12.2021 31.12.2020
Intangible assets (3.1) 4,624 4,295
Tangible assets (3.2) 5,489 5,050
Financial assets (3.3) 12,964 8,553
Fixed assets 23,077 17,898
Inventories (3.4) 4,237 3,863
Accounts receivable and other assets (3.5) 6,585 5,252
Securities 250 1,499
Cash and cash equivalents 2,296 4,606
Current assets 13,368 15,220
Prepaid expenses 342 330
Deferred tax assets 3,543 3,194
Exceeding amount of plan assets 289 245
Total assets 40,619 36,887
Equity and liabilities (in million EUR) Notes 1) 31.12.2021 31.12.2020
Shareholders’ capital 178 178
Group reserves 19,479 17,672
Balance sheet currency conversion difference – 327 – 544
Equity attributable to the parent company 19,330 17,306
Non-controlling interests 1 1
Group equity 19,331 17,307
Difference from capital consolidation 1,159 1,283
Provisions (3.6) 16,955 15,320
Accounts payable and loans (3.7) 2,224 1,912
Liabilities 19,179 17,232
Deferred income 319 385
Deferred tax liabillities 631 680
Total equity and liabilities 40,619 36,887
1) For explanations, see relevant section in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.57
Consolidated Financial Statements — Consolidated balance sheet | Consolidated profit and loss statement
Consolidated profit and
loss statement
(in million EUR) Notes 1) 2021 2020
Net sales (4.1) 20,618 19,566
Changes in finished goods and work in process 240 328
Other own work capitalized 11 2
Other operating income (4.2) 2,726 3,358
Total revenues 23,595 23,254
Cost of materials (4.3) – 2,826 – 2,567
Personnel expenses (4.4) – 5,692 – 5,587
Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets (4.5) – 1,134 – 1,376
Other operating expenses (4.6) – 9,238 – 9,100
Operating income 4,705 4,624
Financial income (4.7) – 337 – 523
Holding income (4.8) 0 204
Income before taxes 4,368 4,305
Income taxes 2) (4.9) – 962 – 1,243
Income after taxes 3,406 3,062
Net income (4.10) 3,406 3,062
Non-controlling interests 0 0
Group profit 3,406 3,062
1) For explanations, see relevant section in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
2) Due to legal requirements, the shareholders’ personal taxes arising from group business activities are shown as withdrawals from the group reserves.
oiloftroP
tcudorP58
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Consolidated cash flow
statement
(in million EUR) 2021
Income after taxes (including non-controlling interests) 3,406
Amortization, depreciation, write-downs and reversal of write-downs of intangible, tangible and financial assets 1,144
Change in provisions for pensions and similar obligations (including change of plan assets) 578
Change in other provisions 608
Other non-cash income and expenses – 111
Gain from disposals of consolidated companies – 26
Gains / losses from disposals of fixed assets – 40
Grants received – 16
Change in inventories – 336
Change in accounts receivable and other assets not related to investing or financing activities – 915
Change in accounts payable and other liabilities not related to investing or financing activities 78
Interest income / interest expenses 39
Other income from investments – 3
Income / expenses from income taxes 962
Income taxes paid – 1,522
Cash flow from operating activities 3,846
Payments to acquire intangible fixed assets – 175
Payments to acquire tangible fixed assets – 968
Payments to acquire financial fixed assets – 4,469
Payments to acquire plan assets – 21
Payments relating to purchase price adjustments of consolidated entities – 40
Investments in consolidated companies – 487
Proceeds from disposals of intangible fixed assets 3
Proceeds from disposals of tangible fixed assets 54
Proceeds from disposals of financial fixed assets 41
Proceeds from disposals of consolidated entities 43
Interest received 14
Income from dividends 3
Cash flow from investing activities – 6,00259
Consolidated Financial Statements — Consolidated cash flow statement | Statement of changes in group equity
Consolidated cash flow statement (continued)
(in million EUR) 2021
Cash receipts from grants 16
Interest paid – 34
Cash receipts from shareholders of the parent company 4
Cash payments to shareholders of the parent company 1) – 1,531
Proceeds from loans 110
Cash repayments of loans – 64
Cash flow from financing activities – 1,499
Change in financial funds from cash relevant transactions – 3,655
Change in financial funds due to exchange rate movements and valuation adjustments 96
Financial funds 2) as of 1.1. 6,105
Financial funds 2) as of 31.12. 2,546
1) This line mainly contains the shareholders’ personal taxes arising from group business activities,
which according to legal requirements are not included in the Group’s tax expenses.
2) Cash and cash equivalents and securities within current assets.
(+) = source of funds, (–) = use of funds
Statement of changes
in group equity
Balance sheet Equity
currency attributable Non-
Shareholders’ Group conversion to the parent controlling
(in million EUR) capital 1) reserves 2) difference company interests Group equity
Balance as of 31.12.2019 178 14,709 – 207 14,680 1 14,681
Withdrawals 0 – 99 0 – 99 0 – 99
Net income 0 3,062 0 3,062 0 3,062
Currency effects 0 0 – 337 – 337 0 – 337
Balance as of 31.12.2020 178 17,672 – 544 17,306 1 17,307
Withdrawals 0 – 1,588 0 – 1,588 0 – 1,588
Net income 0 3,406 0 3,406 0 3,406
Reduction from recognition of deferred
tax liabilities recognized directly in equity 0 – 11 0 – 11 0 – 11
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 5 5 0 5
Currency effects 0 0 212 212 0 212
Balance as of 31.12.2021 178 19,479 – 327 19,330 1 19,331
1) The shareholders’ capital consists of the equity of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG and C.H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG.
The shareholders’ capital consists only of the limited partner’s capital contribution.
2) The shareholders’ personal taxes arising from group business activities are shown as withdrawals from the group reserves.
oiloftroP
tcudorP60
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Notes to the consolidated
f inancial statements
1 Principles and methods
1.1 General principles
The consolidated financial statements of Boehringer Ingelheim for the 2021 financial year were prepared in accordance
with Section 264a of the German Commercial Code (HGB), in line with the legal requirements to prepare consolidated
financial statements under Section 290 et seq. HGB.
In accordance with Section 297 (1) HGB, the consolidated financial statements consist of the consolidated balance
sheet, the consolidated profit and loss statement, the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the consolidated
cash flow statement, and the statement of changes in equity.
The consolidated financial statements were prepared in euros in accordance with Section 298 (1) in conjunction with
Section 244 HGB.
To improve the clarity and transparency of the consolidated financial statements, subtotals have been added in the con­
solidated profit and loss statement; furthermore, individual items of the consolidated balance sheet and the c onsolidated
profit and loss statement have been combined. These items are presented and explained separately in the notes. The
additional disclosures required for the individual items can also be found in the notes.
1.2 Registry information
The parent company is registered under the name C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, with its headquarters in Ingelheim
am Rhein, in the commercial register of Mainz district court under the number HRA 21732.
1.3 Information on the group of consolidated companies
The parent company of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein.
Boehringer AG, Ingelheim am Rhein, is the sole unlimited partner of this company.
The Boehringer Ingelheim Group consists of a total of 180 affiliated companies in Germany and abroad. 151 sub­
sidiaries have been included in the consolidated financial statements of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG under full
cons olidation rules. C.H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG is a special purpose entity in which
C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG bears a majority of the risks and opportunities in economic terms. C.H. Boehringer
Sohn AG & Co. KG holds a majority of the voting rights in the other subsidiaries, either directly or indirectly.61
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated f inancial statements
In accordance with Section 296 (2) HGB, 26 subsidiaries were not included in the consolidation in the reporting year, as
they are individually and collectively insignificant to the Group’s net assets, financial, and earnings position. The total
amount of the sales, equity, and net income for the year of the subsidiaries not included in consolidation accounts for
less than one percent of the aggregated Group financial statements totals. For two further subsidiaries there are ongoing
restrictions on control due to the terms of the articles of association. In accordance with Section 296 (1) No. 1 HGB,
these companies were not consolidated either.
The total number of subsidiaries increased by four compared to the previous year:
• Nine companies were acquired.
• Two companies lost their separate legal identities by merger.
• Two affiliated companies were liquidated.
• One affiliated company was sold.
The following subsidiaries were exempted from the reporting and disclosure obligations of Section 264 (3) HGB:
• Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Europe GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Finanzierungs GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Secura Versicherungsvermittlungs GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Grundstücks-GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim R&D Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health France Participations GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim FinanzInvest GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
The following subsidiaries were exempted from the reporting and disclosure obligations of Section 264b HGB:
• C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
• C.H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary Research Center GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim participates in one joint venture, which has not been included in the consolidated financial state-
ments using either the proportionate method or the equity method, since it is not material. Furthermore, Boehringer
Ingelheim holds an interest in 19 associated companies, which have not been accounted for using the equity method
either due to their lack of significance. The resulting effect on the Group’s total assets and net income is less than
one percent.
oiloftroP
tcudorP62
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
1.4 Consolidation methods
For inventories and fixed assets, receivables, liabilities, and income and expense items, transactions between the com-
panies included in consolidation were eliminated as part of debt consolidation procedures in accordance with Section
303 HGB, procedures to eliminate intercompany profits in accordance with Section 304 HGB and income and expenses
consolidation procedures in accordance with Section 305 HGB.
The revaluation method was applied when including subsidiaries in the consolidation for the first time in accordance
with Section 301 HGB. Companies were included in the consolidation for the first time on the date on which the com-
pany became a subsidiary.
The book value of the shares held by the parent company was offset against the corresponding equity of the subsidiary.
Equity was carried at the amount of the fair value of the assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses, deferred income, and special
reserves included in the consolidated financial statements as of the time of consolidation. Any remaining positive bal-
ance was recorded as goodwill; any remaining negative balance was recorded as a difference from capital consolidation.
1.5 Currency translation
Assets and liabilities resulting from foreign currency transactions were translated using the average spot exchange rate
as of the balance sheet date. The realization principle (Section 298 (1) in conjunction with Section 252 (1) No. 4 half-
sentence 2 HGB) and the historical cost principle (Section 298 (1) in conjunction with Section 253 (1) sentence 1 HGB)
were applied to items with a remaining term of more than one year.
In these consolidated financial statements, the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries domiciled in a state outside
the eurozone that are denominated in a foreign currency have been converted into euros using the modified closing rate
method, in accordance with Section 308a HGB.
Using the modified closing rate method, the asset and liability items of the annual financial statements prepared in
foreign currency were translated into euros using the average spot exchange rate as of the balance sheet date, with the
exception of equity, which was translated using the historical rate. Items included in the profit and loss statement were
translated into euros using the annual average rate. The resulting translation differences were reported within consoli-
dated equity below the reserves in “Balance sheet currency conversion difference”.
The exchange rates for the Group’s most important currencies changed as follows during the reporting year (basis:
1 EUR):
Spot rate Average rate
31.12.2021 31.12.2020 2021 2020
US dollar 1.13 1.23 1.18 1.14
Japanese yen 130.38 126.49 129.86 121.78
Chinese renminbi 7.19 8.02 7.63 7.8763
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated f inancial statements
2 Accounting policies
2.1 Fixed assets
Acquired tangible and intangible assets are carried at cost, less scheduled straight-line amortization and depreciation
determined under consideration of the technical and economic circumstances. This is based on the following useful lives:
Goodwill 10 years
Other intangible assets 2 to 19 years
Buildings 20 years
Technical facilities and machines 10 years
Other facilities, operating equipment 3 to 10 years
Only straight-line depreciation and amortization are used in the consolidated financial statements. Additional write-
downs are recorded to reflect impairments when the value of assets has been considered permanently impaired.
Manufacturing costs include materials and labor manufacturing costs, an appropriate portion of materials and labor
overheads, and the depreciation of fixed assets (to the extent caused by production). Manufacturing costs do not include
financing costs.
All capitalized intangible assets have finite useful lives.
In the current financial year, goodwill increased overall by 445 million EUR due to the acquisition of three companies. Of
this amount, 384 million EUR related to the acquisition of NBE Therapeutics S.A.
Financial assets primarily include investment securities, shareholder rights, and loans and were carried at the lower of
cost or fair market value, if impaired. In the event that the reasons for the impairment losses recognized in previous
financial years were no longer applicable, corresponding reversals were recorded.
2.2 Current assets, prepaid expenses, deferred income, and exceeding amount of
plan assets
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or fair market value.
Raw materials, consumables, and supplies are capitalized at the lower of average acquisition prices or fair market value
on the balance sheet date.
Finished goods and work in progress are measured at manufacturing cost on the basis of individual calculations, taking
into account the directly attributable costs of materials, direct labor costs, special direct costs, an appropriate share of
material and production overhead costs, and production-related depreciation.
oiloftroP
tcudorP64
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Goods for resale are valued at the lower of either acquisition cost or fair market value.
All identifiable risks in inventories arising from above-average storage periods, diminished marketability, and lower
replacement costs were taken into account by recording appropriate valuation adjustments.
Inventories are valued loss-free – that is, deductions were made from the expected sales prices to reflect costs yet to be
incurred.
Receivables and other assets were recognized at cost less allowances for specific risks and general credit risk. Low-
interest or non-interest-bearing receivables with a term of more than one year were discounted.
Securities classified as current assets solely include other securities and have been recognized at the lower of cost or the
fair market value / the stock market price as of the reporting date.
Cash and cash equivalents, consisting of cash, balances at banks, and checks, were recognized at the lower of cost or
fair market value.
Prepaid expenses recorded in accordance with Section 250 (1) HGB include expenses paid in advance in respect of a
defined period of time after the balance sheet date.
Deferred income recorded in accordance with Section 250 (2) HGB includes proceeds that represent income in respect
of a defined period of time after the balance sheet date.
The fair market value of pension plan assets and the corresponding present value of pension obligations have been offset
according to German GAAP. The exceeding amount of plan assets has been capitalized separately.
2.3 Group reserves
Group reserves include the retained earnings of the consolidated subsidiaries from prior and current years and consoli-
dation entries that affect earnings.
2.4 Difference from capital consolidation
The difference from capital consolidation reported on December 31, 2021 was primarily a result of the business swap
of Boehringer Ingelheim’s consumer healthcare business and Sanofi’s animal health business, which was completed on
January 1, 2017. This resulted in a difference from capital consolidation of 1,986 million EUR. The difference is amor-
tized over an estimated period of 15 years. The remaining balance of the difference amounted to 1,159 million EUR as
of December 31, 2021.
The difference from capital consolidation was primarily influenced by the current year release of 118 million EUR.
Furthermore, the difference from capital consolidation decreased by a further 6 million EUR due to the sale of the
US company Newport Laboratories Inc. The income from the release of the difference arising from capital consolidation
is included in other operating income. The release is made corresponding to the amortization of those assets of the
acquired company identified in the purchase price allocation and not previously recognized in that company’s balance
sheet.65
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated f inancial statements
2.5 Provisions
Tax provisions and other provisions include all uncertain liabilities and expected losses from executory contracts. They
were carried at the amount required to settle the obligation based on reasonable prudent commercial judgment (that is,
including future cost and price increases). Provisions with a remaining maturity of more than one year were discounted
using the matched-term, average market interest rate. In the case of pension provisions this interest rate results from the
average market interest rate over the last ten years and in the case of other provisions from the average market interest
rate over the last seven years (in accordance with the “Rückstellungsabzinsungsverordnung”, German Regulation on the
Discounting of Provisions).
Since environmental protection measures are in some cases expected to result in an permanent burden, the relevant pro-
visions have been calculated on the basis of a perpetual annuity, while taking into consideration cost and price increases
as well as interest effects. The valuation method was adjusted in the year under review, since the method previously used
no longer gives a true and fair view of the net assets and earnings position of the group under consideration of declining
interest rates and rising inflation rates. Instead of the average rate of change in the consumer price index over the past
ten years, the current costs are now adjusted for inflation on the basis of the average rate of change in the producer
price index for industrial products since the introduction of the euro in 2002. The ultimate forward rate (UFR) provided
by the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) is now used for discounting, instead of the
seven-year average interest rate over a term of 50 years, in accordance with the “Rückstellungsabzinsungsverordnung”
(German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions). The effects of this valuation adjustment on the balance sheet and
profit and loss statement are explained in note 3.6.
2.6 Accounts payable
Accounts payable and loans were recognized at settlement amount.
2.7 Deferred taxes
To calculate deferred taxes arising from temporary or quasi-permanent differences between the carrying amounts of
assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses, and deferred income in the commercial balance sheet and their carrying amounts
for tax purposes or tax loss carryforwards, the amounts of the resulting tax benefits and expenses at the time that the
differences will reverse were measured using tax rates specific to the respective consolidated company (4 % – 35 %). De-
ferred tax balances are not discounted. Differences due to consolidation measures in accordance with Sections 300 to
305 HGB were also measured using the company-specific tax rates applicable at the time of the expected reversal of the
difference. Deferred tax assets on loss carryforwards were taken into account if it is likely that they will be used within
the next five years.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities were reported without offsetting.
oiloftroP
tcudorP66
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
3 Notes to the consolidated balance sheet
3.1 Intangible assets
Acquired
concessions / Advance
(in million EUR) similar rights Goodwill payments Total
Acquisition / manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2020 7,116 86 12 7,214
Currency conversion difference – 276 0 0 – 276
Changes in consolidated companies 99 84 0 183
Additions 162 0 8 170
Disposals – 116 0 0 – 116
Reclassifications 15 0 – 11 4
Balance as of 31.12.2020 7,000 170 9 7,179
Currency conversion difference 244 2 0 246
Changes in consolidated companies 70 445 0 515
Additions 168 0 7 175
Disposals – 69 0 0 – 69
Reclassifications 9 0 – 9 0
Balance as of 31.12.2021 7,422 617 7 8,046
Accumulated amortization
Balance as of 1.1.2020 2,323 9 0 2,332
Currency conversion difference – 110 0 0 – 110
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0
Additions 762 12 0 774
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals – 116 0 0 – 116
Reclassifications 4 0 0 4
Balance as of 31.12.2020 2,863 21 0 2,884
Currency conversion difference 104 0 0 104
Changes in consolidated companies – 23 0 0 – 23
Additions 469 56 0 525
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals – 68 0 0 – 68
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2021 3,345 77 0 3,422
Book value as of 31.12.2020 4,137 149 9 4,295
Book value as of 31.12.2021 4,077 540 7 4,62467
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated f inancial statements
3.2 Tangible assets
Other Advance
Technical facilities / payments /
Land and facilities and operating construction
(in million EUR) buildings machines equipment in progress Total
Acquisition / manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2020 4,082 4,065 2,370 1,296 11,813
Currency conversion difference – 156 – 95 – 66 – 25 – 342
Changes in consolidated companies 0 1 0 0 1
Additions 57 69 129 791 1,046
Disposals – 34 – 63 – 83 – 1 – 181
Reclassifications 158 30 113 – 305 – 4
Balance as of 31.12.2020 4,107 4,007 2,463 1,756 12,333
Currency conversion difference 150 126 75 17 368
Changes in consolidated companies – 6 – 5 7 0 – 4
Additions 68 119 226 555 968
Disposals – 64 – 70 – 133 – 1 – 268
Reclassifications 268 364 477 – 1,109 0
Balance as of 31.12.2021 4,523 4,541 3,115 1,218 13,397
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1.1.2020 2,337 2,909 1,813 0 7,059
Currency conversion difference – 94 – 63 – 48 0 – 205
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 184 228 190 0 602
Write-ups 0 0 0 0 0
Disposals – 31 – 59 – 79 0 – 169
Reclassifications 12 – 45 29 0 – 4
Balance as of 31.12.2020 2,408 2,970 1,905 0 7,283
Currency conversion difference 100 105 62 0 267
Changes in consolidated companies – 2 – 3 4 0 – 1
Additions 161 224 224 0 609
Write-ups 0 – 1 0 0 – 1
Disposals – 56 – 66 – 127 0 – 249
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2021 2,611 3,229 2,068 0 7,908
Book value as of 31.12.2020 1,699 1,037 558 1,756 5,050
Book value as of 31.12.2021 1,912 1,312 1,047 1,218 5,489
oiloftroP
tcudorP68
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
3.3 Financial assets
Investments Loans to Investments Loans to
in affiliated affiliated in related related Investment
(in million EUR) companies companies companies companies securities Other loans Total
Acquisition / manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2020 6 0 954 4 8,191 35 9,190
Currency conversion difference 0 0 – 3 0 – 1 – 1 – 5
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 227 1 33 4 265
Disposals 0 0 – 838 0 – 27 – 8 – 873
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2020 6 0 340 5 8,196 30 8,577
Currency conversion difference 1 0 4 0 1 1 7
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 – 15 0 0 0 – 15
Additions 15 0 68 0 4,374 12 4,469
Disposals 0 0 – 11 – 3 – 21 – 8 – 43
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 7 – 7 0
Balance as of 31.12.2021 22 0 386 2 12,557 28 12,995
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1.1.2020 0 0 16 0 9 3 28
Currency conversion difference 0 0 – 1 0 – 1 0 – 2
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 3 0 0 0 3
Write-ups 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Disposals 0 0 – 5 0 0 0 – 5
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2020 0 0 13 0 8 3 24
Currency conversion difference 0 0 1 0 0 0 1
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 6 2 4 0 12
Write-ups 0 0 – 1 0 0 0 – 1
Disposals 0 0 – 3 0 0 – 2 – 5
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2021 0 0 16 2 12 1 31
Book value as of 31.12.2020 6 0 327 5 8,188 27 8,553
Book value as of 31.12.2021 22 0 370 0 12,545 27 12,964
As in the previous year, the “Other loans” item does not include any loans to shareholders.69
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated f inancial statements
3.4 Inventories
(in million EUR) 31.12.2021 31.12.2020
Raw materials and supplies 941 811
Unfinished goods 2,059 1,891
Finished goods and goods for resale 1,225 1,152
Advance payments to suppliers 12 9
4,237 3,863
3.5 Accounts receivable and other assets
Residual term Residual term
(in million EUR) 31.12.2021 over 1 year 31.12.2020 over 1 year
Trade accounts receivable 5,178 5 4,302 7
Receivables from affiliated companies 42 0 21 0
Receivables from related companies 24 0 21 0
Other assets 1,341 290 908 161
6,585 295 5,252 168
The “Other assets” item includes receivables from shareholders of 5 million EUR (previous year: 23 million EUR).
Receivables from affiliated companies almost exclusively consist of receivables from loans.
Receivables from related companies primarily consist of trade accounts receivable.
3.6 Provisions
(in million EUR) 31.12.2021 31.12.2020
Pension provisions and similar obligations 6,190 5,581
Tax provisions 1,772 1,746
Other provisions 8,993 7,993
16,955 15,320
oiloftroP
tcudorP70
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations
The provisions for pensions and similar obligations were determined on the basis of actuarial calculations using the
projected unit credit method, taking into account future adjustments in salaries and pensions.
In addition to local biometric data (in Germany, for example, 2018 G mortality tables published by Prof. Dr. Klaus Heubeck
which have been adjusted for Group-specific death probabilities and invalidity rates), pension obligations in the signifi-
cant countries were calculated on the basis of the following actuarial parameters:
(in % as of December 31, 2021) Germany USA
Discount rate 1.87 3.50
Salary increase 3.50 4.90
Pension increase 1.88 0.00
Discount rates were determined by reference to average market rates for 15-year maturities in accordance with the
German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions of March 11, 2016. The interest rates used to discount significant
foreign pension obligations (USA) were determined with comparable parameters, in line with the German Regulation on
the Discounting of Provisions of March 11, 2016.
The difference calculated in accordance with Section 253 (6) HGB amounts to 634 million EUR (previous year:
803 million EUR).
The plan assets intended solely to cover pension and similar obligations that are unavailable to all other creditors (plan
assets as defined in Section 246 (2) sentence 2 HGB) were measured at fair market value, which is essentially derived
from stock market prices, and offset against the underlying pension and similar obligations. The fair market value of the
plan assets on the balance sheet date was 2,189 million EUR. The related amount of pension obligations and similar
obligations was 8,090 million EUR.
Tax provisions
The tax provisions also include provisions for double taxation risks, which have resulted following the implementation of
the action plans of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) as part of their international
initiative known as the “Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting” (BEPS).71
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated f inancial statements
Other provisions
Other provisions mainly include provisions for discounts and guarantees, personnel-related provisions, provisions for
outstanding invoices, provisions for litigation, legal claims, compensation for damages, and environmental provisions.
Please refer to our comments on the impacts of the change of valuation method on environmental provisions in note 2.5.
The use of the new method has resulted in a 195 million EUR reduction in the related provisions as of December 31,
2021 – relative to the situation as of December 31, 2020. This reduced operating income in the past financial year by
42 million EUR as a one-off effect, while financial income increased by 237 million EUR.
3.7 Accounts payable
Residual term Residual term
less than thereof over less than
(in million EUR) 1 year over 1 year 5 years 31.12.2021 31.12.2020 1 year
Bank loans 308 4 0 312 251 243
Other accounts payable 1,831 81 37 1,912 1,661 1,592
thereof:
– Trade accounts payable 963 2 0 965 928 924
– Advance payments received 267 21 10 288 219 196
– Accounts payable
to affiliated companies 6 5 5 11 8 3
– Accounts payable
to related companies 1 0 0 1 0 0
– Other liabilities * 594 53 22 647 506 469
2,139 85 37 2,224 1,912 1,835
* thereof:
– from taxes (in million EUR) 243 201
– social security liabilities (in million EUR) 29 29
As in the previous year, there were no liabilities secured by mortgages or similar collateral rights on the balance sheet
date.
At the end of the year, there were liabilities to shareholders of 204 million EUR (previous year: 163 million EUR). These
are presented within the “Other liabilities” item.
Accounts payable to affiliated companies include loans amounting to 4 million EUR (previous year: 4 million EUR) and
trade accounts payable amounting to 7 million EUR (previous year: 4 million EUR).
oiloftroP
tcudorP72
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
4 N otes to the consolidated profit and loss
statement
The structure of the consolidated profit and loss statement is based on the total cost format. Other taxes are included in
other operating expenses.
4.1 Net sales
by business (in million EUR) 2021 2020
Human Pharma 15,294 14,415
Animal Health 4,295 4,121
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 917 837
Other sales 33 33
Discontinued operations 79 160
20,618 19,566
by region (in million EUR) 2021 2020
Americas 9,147 8,889
Europe 6,554 5,879
Asia / Australia / Africa (AAA) 4,917 4,798
20,618 19,566
4.2 Other operating income
Other operating income includes income from currency translation of 1,746 million EUR (previous year: 1,964 million EUR).
4.3 Cost of materials
(in million EUR) 2021 2020
Costs of raw material, supplies, and goods for resale 2,164 2,005
Expenditure on services 662 562
2,826 2,56773
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated f inancial statements
4.4 Personnel expenses
(in million EUR) 2021 2020
Wages and salaries 4,668 4,586
Social benefits and retirement benefits 1,024 1,001
thereof: retirement benefits 228 261
5,692 5,587
Interest effects of the measurement of the provisions for pensions and similar obligations are shown under financial
income.
Average headcount 2021 2020
Production 17,373 16,940
Marketing and sales 17,560 18,468
Research and development 10,109 9,504
Administration 6,600 6,310
Apprentices 749 722
52,391 51,944
4.5 Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets
Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets include impairment losses of 33 million EUR
(previous year: 369 million EUR).
4.6 Other operating expenses
Other operating expenses include expenses from currency translation of 1,765 million EUR (previous year: 2,150 mil-
lion EUR).
In addition, other items included in operating expenses are mainly the charges made to record provisions for third-party
services for research, development, medicine and marketing purposes, administrative expenses, fees and contributions,
commissions, rent, freight, and expenses for repairs carried out by third parties as well as legal risks and restructuring.
oiloftroP
tcudorP74
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
4.7 Financial income
(in million EUR) 2021 2020
Interest expenses and similar expenses – 430 – 559
Amortization of and loss on disposal of financial fixed assets and short­term investments – 5 – 7
Income from other investment securities and from long­term loans 83 12
Other interest income and similar income 15 31
– 337 – 523
The “Interest expenses and similar expenses” item includes the interest result from provisions for pensions and similar
obligations and other provisions in the amount of 377 million EUR (previous year: 499 million EUR) as well as other
interest expenses and similar expenses in the amount of 53 million EUR (previous year: 60 million EUR).
Gains and losses from plan assets and interest expense relating to pension and similar obligations were offset in accor­
dance with Section 246 (2) sentence 2 HGB. In total, 86 million EUR in earnings from plan assets and 682 million EUR in
interest expense relating to pension and similar obligations are included under “Interest expenses and similar expenses”.
4.8 Holding income
(in million EUR) 2021 2020
Write­downs of financial assets — 8 — 3
Write­ups of financial assets 1 0
Income from related companies 7 207
thereof: from disposal of related companies 3 194
0 204
4.9 Income taxes
(in million EUR) 2021 2020
Current income taxes 1,308 1,529
Deferred taxes – 346 – 286
962 1,243
Current income taxes primarily include the corporation and trade tax expenses of the consolidated companies.75
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated f inancial statements
The total balance of deferred tax assets as of the balance sheet date amounted to 3,543 million EUR (previous year:
3,194 million EUR). Deferred tax assets primarily arise on the difference between the carrying amounts of provisions for
pension obligations and for discounts, tax goodwill, intangible assets, inventories, and tangible assets. Deferred tax lia-
bilities of 631 million EUR (previous year: 680 million EUR) were recorded. These primarily relate to differences between
the carrying amounts of intangible assets, tangible assets, inventories, and provisions.
4.10 Net income
The net income for 2021 was positively influenced by non-period income (primarily from the reversal of other provisions)
of 609 million EUR (previous year: 634 million EUR) and was negatively influenced by non-period expenses (in particular
additional expenses related to other provisions) of 281 million EUR (previous year: 226 million EUR).
5 Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement
The consolidated cash flow statement shows the changes in financial funds of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group resulting
from cash inflows and outflows in the reporting year. Financial funds contain cash and cash equivalents as well as secu-
rities which can be converted into cash in the short-term.
The changes in the balance sheet items of the affiliated companies included were translated using average rates for the
year. As on the balance sheet, financial funds are carried at the spot rate. The effect of exchange rate changes on the
financial funds has been shown separately.
The financial funds as of December 31, 2021 comprised the following items:
(in million EUR) 2021
Cash and cash equivalents 2,296
Securities 250
2,546
The financial funds included 15 million EUR in restricted funds as of the balance sheet date.
oiloftroP
tcudorP76
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
6 Other disclosures
6.1 Contingent liabilities
(in million EUR) 2021 2020
Liabilities from guarantees 71 44
Warranties and the granting of securities for third-party liabilities 56 55
127 99
The risk of utilization of these contingent liabilities is assessed as low on account of the good net assets, financial, and
earnings position.
6.2 Other financial commitments and off-balance sheet transactions
(in million EUR) 31.12.2021 31.12.2020
Rental and lease obligations 477 470
Residual other financial commitments 1,265 1,845
1,742 2,315
Within the rental and lease obligations, 17 million EUR (previous year: 23 million EUR) relate to long-term rental agree-
ments with subsidiaries not included in the consolidation.
The purpose of the lease agreements is the lower capital commitment compared to buying property and the absence of
the resale risk. Risks could arise from the term of the lease should it not be possible to continue to utilize the properties
fully. There are no such indications at this time.
The residual other financial commitments include investments with future effects on cash flows of 868 million EUR
(previous year: 1,090 million EUR).
6.3 Derivative financial instruments and valuation units
Due to its extensive international structure, the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is highly dependent on developments in the
world’s currencies and interest rates. To hedge these risks, particularly those emerging from delivery of goods, services,
and financing, currency forwards and options are generally used for currency risks. Interest rate swaps and options are
used for interest rate risks.
The use of derivative financial instruments and the organizational processes are set out in internal guidelines. There is a
strict separation between trading, processing, documentation, and control.77
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated f inancial statements
Risk positions are regularly tracked, analyzed, and measured in a special Group-wide financial report. The positions en-
tered into are periodically reevaluated and monitored. The fair value of the derivative financial instruments is calculated
using generally accepted market valuation methods (currency forwards based on the present value method) taking into
account the market data as of the balance sheet date.
Provisions of 93 million EUR were recognized for currency forwards not included in hedge accounting for which there
was a negative fair value within one currency as of the balance sheet date. In line with the imparity principle, positive fair
values within one currency are not recognized.
On the balance sheet date, the derivative financial instruments not included in hedge accounting valuation units were
as follows:
Nominal value Fair value
(in million EUR) 31.12.2021 31.12.2020 31.12.2021 31.12.2020
Foreign exchange forward contracts 6,923 5,183 – 41 41
To the extent that the requirements for hedge accounting of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with highly
probable forecast transactions in accordance with Section 254 HGB are met, the foreign currency forward exchange
contracts are not recognized in the balance sheet in line with the net hedge presentation method.
The following accounting policies apply to the recognition of valuation units in accordance with Section 254 HGB:
Economic hedges are accounted for in the financial statements by the use of valuation units. The valuation units are
recognized for each foreign currency based on the net amount of highly probable forecasted transactions and currency
forwards that match the forecasted net cash flow in terms of maturity, nominal amount and foreign currency (macro
hedge). The highly probable forecasted transactions (incoming and outgoing payments for planned sales and purchases)
are derived from company planning. Ex-post analysis of planning has shown that the planned transactions are highly
probable.
The opposing changes in value of the hedged item and the hedging instrument are fully offset as the critical terms (ma-
turity, nominal amount, and foreign currency) match. An effective hedge can therefore be assumed both prospectively
and retrospectively. The critical term match method is exclusively used to measure the prospective and retrospective
effectiveness of hedges. Excess amounts under hedging transactions are not included in the valuation units.
oiloftroP
tcudorP78
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
As of December 31, 2021, hedges for highly probable forecasted net cash flows were recognized as follows:
January to December 2022:
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 2,379USD 1,483USD — 51
JPY 712JPY 560JPY 31
AUD 157AUD 112AUD — 3
MXN 123MXN 47MXN — 4
CAD 296CAD 215CAD — 8
GBP 277GBP 115GBP — 2
January to December 2023:
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 1,899USD 1,620USD — 34
JPY 693JPY 489JPY 15
AUD 30AUD 15AUD 0
MXN 21MXN 7MXN 0
CAD 46CAD 30CAD — 1
GBP 103GBP 33GBP — 1
January to December 2024 (USD) and January to May (JPY):
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 1,914USD 708USD — 7
JPY 362JPY 83JPY 1
January to May 2025:
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 954USD 245USD 079
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated f inancial statements
Furthermore, as of December 31, 2021, valuation units for foreign currency receivables were recognized as follows:
Receivables (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
RUB 125RUB 49RUB — 2
As of December 31, 2021, valuation units for foreign currency receivables resulting from loans were recognized as follows:
Receivables (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
CAD 20CAD 20CAD — 1
CHF 7CHF 7CHF 0
CNY 50CNY 50CNY — 2
MXN 313MXN 313MXN — 11
RUB 12RUB 12RUB 0
THB 39THB 39THB — 1
USD 64USD 64USD — 1
The amount of the hedged foreign currency risk correlates to the relative change in the exchange rate between the plan-
ning date and the realization date of the forecasted transactions. If all currencies were to appreciate or depreciate against
the euro by 10.0 %, there would be a foreign currency risk of + / – 1,060 million EUR without hedging.
oiloftroP
tcudorP80
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
6.4 Research and development expenses
(in million EUR) 2021 2020
Research and development expenses 4,127 3,696
Non-capitalized research and development expenses include, among other items, the costs associated with clinical
studies.
6.5 Total auditor fees
Total fees charged to the Group by the auditor for the financial year amounted to 9.2 million EUR. 1.7 million EUR of this
relates to audits of financial statements, 1.1 million EUR to other assurance services, 2.0 million EUR to tax advisory
services and 4.4 million EUR to other services.
6.6 Subsequent events
Since the end of the 2021 financial year, we have not become aware of any events that are of material significance to the
Group or that could lead to a reappraisal of its net assets, financial and earnings position.
6.7 Shareholdings
The list of companies included in the consolidated financial statements and the complete list of shareholdings presented
in accordance with Section 313 (2) HGB are included in the audited consolidated financial statements submitted to the
German Federal Gazette.
Ingelheim am Rhein, March 1, 2022
Boehringer AG
Board of Managing Directors
Hubertus von Baumbach Carinne Knoche-Brouillon Dr. Michel Pairet
Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok Michael Schmelmer81
Consolidated Financial Statements — Independent auditor’s report
Independent auditor’s report
To C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
Qualified Audit Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements and Audit Opinion on the Group Management Report
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein and its
subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2021, the consolidated profit
and loss statement, cash flow statement and statement of changes in group equity for the financial year from 1 January
to 31 December 2021, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including the recognition and measurement
policies presented therein. In addition, we have audited the group management report of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co.
KG for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2021.
In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in the audit,
• except for the effects of the matter described in section “Basis for the Qualified Audit Opinion on the Consolidated
Financial Statements and the Audit Opinion on the Group Management Report” the accompanying consolidated
financial statements comply, in all material respects, with the requirements of German commercial law and give a
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, and financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2021, and of its
financial performance for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2021 in compliance with German Legally
Required Accounting Principles, and
• the accompanying group management report as a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position. In all
material respects, this group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies
with German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development.
Pursuant to Section 322 (3) sentence 1 HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch: German Commercial Code], we declare that, except
for the qualification of the audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements mentioned, our audit has not led to
any reservations relating to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management
report.
Basis for the Qualified Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Audit Opinion on the
Group Management Report
Contrary to Section 314 (1) number 6 letters a) and b) HGB the total remuneration granted to the members and the
former members of the board of managing directors as well as the pension provisions recognized and not recognized
for the former members of the board of managing directors are not disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial
statements.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report in accordance
with Section 317 HGB and in compliance with German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Audits
promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW). Our responsibilities
under those requirements and principles are further described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Consolidated Financial Statements and of the Group Management Report” section of our auditor’s report. We are inde-
pendent of the group entities in accordance with the requirements of German commercial and professional law, and we
have fulfilled our other German professional responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions on the consolidated
financial statements and on the group management report.
oiloftroP
tcudorP82
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Other Information
Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the annual report, with the ex-
ception of the audited consolidated financial statements and group management report and our auditor's report.
Our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report do not cover the other
information, and consequently we do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in so doing, to consider whether
the other information
• is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements, with the group management report audited for
content or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or
• otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Responsibilities of Management for the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Group Management Report
Management is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that comply, in all material re-
spects, with the requirements of German commercial law and that the consolidated financial statements, in compliance
with German Legally Required Accounting Principles, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position,
and financial performance of the Group. In addition, management is responsible for such internal control as they, in
accordance with German Legally Required Accounting Principles, have determined necessary to enable the preparation
of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to con-
tinue as a going concern. They also have the responsibility for disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern.
In addition, they are responsible for financial reporting based on the going concern basis of accounting provided no
actual or legal circumstances conflict therewith.
Furthermore, management is responsible for the preparation of the group management report that, as a whole, provides
an appropriate view of the Group’s position and is, in all material respects, consistent with the consolidated financial
statements, complies with German legal requirements, and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future
development. In addition, management is responsible for such arrangements and measures (systems) as they have
considered necessary to enable the preparation of a group management report that is in accordance with the applicable
German legal requirements, and to be able to provide sufficient appropriate evidence for the assertions in the group
management report.83
Consolidated Financial Statements — Independent auditor’s report
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the Group Management Report
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and whether the group management report as a whole
provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and, in all material respects, is consistent with the consolidated
financial statements and the knowledge obtained in the audit, complies with the German legal requirements and appro­
priately presents the opportunities and risks of future development, as well as to issue an auditor’s report that includes
our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
Section 317 HGB and in compliance with German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Audits pro­
mulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) will always detect a material misstatement. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements and this group
management report.
We exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements and of the group man­
agement report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and
obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a
material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion,
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of
arrangements and measures (systems) relevant to the audit of the group management report in order to design audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effec­
tiveness of these systems.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by management and the reasonableness of estimates made
by management and related disclosures.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast signif­
icant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists,
we are required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial state­
ments and in the group management report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our respective opinions.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future
events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to be able to continue as a going concern.
oiloftroP
tcudorP84
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the dis-
closures, and whether the consolidated financial statements present the underlying transactions and events in a
manner that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position
and financial performance of the Group in compliance with German Legally Required Accounting Principles.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
within the Group to express audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management
report. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely re-
sponsible for our audit opinions.
• Evaluate the consistency of the group management report with the consolidated financial statements, its conformity
with German law, and the view of the Group’s position it provides.
• Perform audit procedures on the prospective information presented by management in the group management re-
port. On the basis of sufficient appropriate audit evidence we evaluate, in particular, the significant assumptions
used by management as a basis for the prospective information, and evaluate the proper derivation of the prospective
information from these assumptions. We do not express a separate opinion on the prospective information and on
the assumptions used as a basis. There is a substantial unavoidable risk that future events will differ materially from
the prospective information.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of
the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during
our audit.
Frankfurt am Main, 1 March 2022
KPMG AG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
[Original German version signed by:]
Kneisel Bernau
Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin
[German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor]85
Consolidated Financial Statements — Independent auditor’s report
oiloftroP
tcudorPBronchial cancer: Several cancer cells with
microvilli being attacked by T-lymphocytes.Product
Portfolio
A Selection
88 Human Pharmaceuticals
88 Respiratory Diseases
92 Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases
98 Oncology
100 Diseases of the Central Nervous System
100 Infectious Diseases
102 Animal Health
102 Livestock — Swine
104 Livestock — Cattle/Ruminants
108 Livestock — Poultry
110 Veterinary Public Health (VPH)
112 Companion Animals — Horses
114 Companion Animals — Pets
oiloftroP
tcudorP88
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Respiratory Diseases
Respiratory diseases are very common. Chronic obstruc- Bronchial asthma
tive pulmonary disease (COPD) and bronchial asthma are
among the most prevalent chronic diseases and a frequent Bronchial asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder of
cause of morbidity and premature deaths worldwide. the airways. The inflammation is accompanied by airway
hyper-responsiveness, which leads to a narrowing of the
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a rare disease which airways and recurrent episodes of wheezing, breathless-
is severely debilitating and ultimately lethal. ness and coughing. These symptoms occur particularly at
night or in the early hours of the morning. It is now known
that asthma can be triggered by genetic and environmental
COPD factors (e.g. allergens and viral infections). Unlike COPD,
asthma can occur very early in childhood; it can also be
COPD is a chronic disease of the lungs that causes cough- present in adolescents or adults. Asthma is often under-
ing, excessive mucus production and dyspnea and ulti- estimated as an easy-to-manage condition. However,
mately destroys the lung tissue. The alveoli and thus gas almost one in two patients with asthma still experience
exchange are the most affected. This leads to a limitation symptoms while receiving maintenance therapy, putting
of airflow, causing shortness of breath and other respira- them at increased risk of potentially life-threatening asthma
tory symptoms. The airflow limitation is only partially exacerbations. In addition, patients often adjust their daily
reversible and usually worsens over time, leading to dis- lives to accommodate their conditions and avoid physical
ability and ultimately to death. Symptoms such as excess exertion in day-to-day activities, which has a negative
cough and breathlessness are the main reasons why COPD impact on quality of life.
is very stressful for patients. Lung emphysema and chronic
bronchitis are the main manifestations of COPD.
COPD is caused by continuous damage to the lungs result-
ing from inhaling pollutants, primarily cigarette smoke.
However, other factors also need to be considered includ-
ing indoor and outdoor air pollution. The course of COPD,
which is a disease that occurs in the second half in a
human’s life, is characterized by an accelerated loss of lung
function compared to normal ageing and by occasional
sudden worsening of symptoms and function referred to as
acute exacerbations. This can lead to a downward spiral of
worsening symptoms and thus further inactivity.89
Product Portfolio — Human Pharmaceuticals
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
Maintenance treatment of patients with COPD
Chronic obstructive SPIRIVA® (including chronic bronchitis and emphysema),
pulmonary disease SPIRIVA® HANDIHALER® maintenance treatment of associated dyspnoea
(COPD) SPIRIVA® RESPIMAT® tiotropium bromide and for prevention of exacerbations.
An add-on maintenance bronchodilator treatment in
patients aged six years and older with severe asthma
who experienced one or more severe asthma exacer-
bations in the past year.*
* S PIRIVA® RESPIMAT® is approved for use in asthma
in the EU, Japan, the USA and many other countries.
The label varies by country. Please refer to the local
Bronchial asthma SPIRIVA® RESPIMAT® tiotropium bromide product information.
Chronic obstructive SPIOLTO® RESPIMAT® Maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction in
pulmonary disease STIOLTO® RESPIMAT® tiotropium bromide, patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD) INSPIOLTO® RESPIMAT® olodaterol hydrochloride (COPD).
Chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease Maintenance treatment of patients with chronic
(COPD) STRIVERDI® RESPIMAT® olodaterol hydrochloride obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
A combination of a short-acting anticholin ergic and
Reversible broncho- beta-adrenergic for the management of reversible
spasms associated bronchospasms associated with obstructive airway
with obstructive airway ipratropium bromide, diseases in patients requiring more than one bron-
diseases COMBIVENT® RESPIMAT® salbutamol, sulphate chodilator.
Chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease
(COPD) Prevention and treatment of shortness of breath in
patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Chronic bronchitis (COPD) and mild to moderate bronchial asthma in
adulthood and childhood as a supplement to beta-
Bronchial asthma ATROVENT® ipratropium bromide agonists in cases of acute asthma.
Prevention and treatment of symptoms in chronic
BERODUAL® obstructive airway disorders with reversible airflow
Chronic obstructive BRONCHODUAL® ipratropium bromide, limitation such as bronchial asthma and especially
airway disorders DUOVENT® fenoterol hydrobromide chronic bronchitis with or without emphysema.
oiloftroP
tcudorP90
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Respiratory Diseases
(continued)
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) When SSc affects the lungs, it can cause interstitial lung
disease (ILD), known as SSc-ILD. It is a key driver of mor-
IPF is a chronic progressive lung disease associated with tality among people with SSc, accounting for approximately
a markedly reduced life span and affecting as many as one third of deaths.
14 – 43 people per 100,000 worldwide. IPF is character-
ized by progressive scarring of lung tissue and a loss of
lung function over time. Development of scarred tissue is Other chronic fibrosing interstitial lung
called fibrosis. Over time, as the tissue thickens and stiff- diseases (ILDs) with a progressive
ens with scarring, the lungs lose their ability to take in and phenotype beyond idiopathic pulmonary
transfer oxygen into the bloodstream, and vital organs do fibrosis (IPF)
not get enough oxygen. As a result, individuals with IPF
experience shortness of breath, even when resting, and Interstitial lung diseases are a heterogeneous group of
often have difficulty coping with the demands of everyday more than 200 mostly rare conditions of the lung that run
life due to their limited physical capacity. the risk of developing pulmonary fibrosis. Fibrosis is a
pathological multiplication of the connective tissue lead-
Acute IPF exacerbations are defined as rapid deteriora- ing to usually chronic and irreversible scarring of the lung
tions of symptoms and lung function within days or weeks. tissue. The course of interstitial lung disease may develop
These events can occur at any point in the course of the into a progressive fibrosing ILD, leading to a decline func-
disease, even at first presentation, and are associated with tion associated with increased morbidity and mortality.
high mortality. All patients with IPF are at risk of acute IPF Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a phenotype of a
exacerbations. chronic fibrosing ILD. The course of the disease and symp-
toms are similar to chronic PF-ILDs, despite the underlying
ILD diagnosis. On average, 18 – 32% of ILD patients will
Systemic sclerosis associated interstitial develop progressive pulmonary fibrosis.
lung disease (SSc-ILD)
Systemic sclerosis (SSc), also known as scleroderma, is a
rare incurable autoimmune disease affecting connective
tissue. The disease is estimated to affect 15 to 24 people
in every 100,000 in Europe and 2.5 million worldwide. SSc
impacts four times as many women as men, and the onset
of the disease typically occurs at a young age – between
25 and 55 years. It can cause scarring (fibrosis) of the skin
as well as major organs such as the heart, lungs, digestive
tract and kidneys and can have life-threatening complica-
tions. Approximately 25% of patients develop significant
pulmonary involvement within three years of diagnosis.91
Product Portfolio — Human Pharmaceuticals
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
Symptomatic treatment of acute asthma attacks.
Prophylaxis of exercise-induced asthma bronchiale.
Symptomatic treatment of allergic and non- allergic
asthma bronchiale and other conditions with
reversible airway narrowing, e.g. chronic obstructive
Bronchial asthma BEROTEC® fenoterol hydrobromide bronchitis.
Bronchial asthma Prophylactic treatment of patients with bronchial
asthma. Prophylaxis and symptomatic treatment of
Allergic rhinitis ALESION® epinastine hydrochloride allergic rhinitis.
Idiopathic pulmonary
fibrosis (IPF)
In more than 80 countries for the treatment of
Systemic sclerosis patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).
associated interstitial
lung disease (SSc-ILD) In more than 70 countries as therapy for SSc-ILD to
slow down the rate of decline in pulmonary function.
Chronic fibrosing
interstitial lung diseases In more than 60 countries for the treatment of other
(ILDs) with a progressive chronic fibrosing interstitial lung diseases (ILDs) with
phenotype OFEV® nintedanib a progressive phenotype beyond IPF.
oiloftroP
tcudorP92
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Cardiovascular and
M etabolic Diseases
Cardiovascular disease (CV), including heart disease and Atrial fibrillation
stroke, is a major global health concern and the leading
cause of death and disability worldwide. Currently, it is Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained heart
responsible for nearly one in three deaths worldwide. One rhythm condition, affecting approximately 2% of the total
key risk factor for developing cardiovascular disease is the population. One in four adults over 40 develops AF in their
presence of diabetes: people with type 2 diabetes are two lifetime. Patients with AF are at higher risk of developing
to four times more likely to develop cardiovascular disease blood clots in their upper left heart chamber, which can
than people without diabetes, and as a result, their life cause a stroke if the clot breaks loose and travels to the
expectancy is up to 12 years shorter. Proper control of brain. AF leads to a five-fold increase in the risk of stroke,
diabetes and other treatable risk factors like heart failure is resulting in up to three million patients worldwide suffering
therefore vital for the prevention of cardiovascular events. AF-related strokes each year. For patients with AF, the risk
of stroke can be reduced by appropriate anticoagulation
therapy.
Stroke
Stroke is the rapidly developing loss of brain functions Prevention and treatment of
caused by a disrupted blood flow to the affected brain venous thromboembolism
tissue. This can be due to ischemia (lack of blood supply)
caused by thrombosis or embolism, or due to bleeding Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is an umbrella term that
(hemorrhagic stroke). As a result, the affected area of the encompasses deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmo-
brain is unable to function and the damage quickly be- nary embolism (PE). DVT occurs when a thrombus (blood
comes permanent, if untreated. A stroke is an acute event clot) forms in a deep vein, most commonly in the leg, and
requiring emergency diagnosis and intervention. World- partially or completely blocks the flow of blood. As the
wide, stroke is one of the leading causes of death and thrombus grows, a portion may break away from the main
long-term disability. clot and travel in the circulatory system to the lungs. The
lodging of a blood clot in the arteries of the lung is called
Symptoms of a transient ischemic attack (TIA) are similar a PE. VTE is a serious disorder with potentially fatal con-
to stroke, but last for only a few minutes or hours and do sequences.
not result in permanent neurological damage. As a TIA
may precede a stroke, emergency medical care and subse- Patients undergoing orthopedic surgery are at consider-
quent preventive treatment may be necessary. able risk of developing DVT, and chronic venous insuffi-
ciency and / or pulmonary hypertension may develop in the
longer term.93
Product Portfolio — Human Pharmaceuticals
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
Prevention of strokes and blood clots in patients with
atrial fibrillation.
Stroke prevention in Primary prevention of venous thrombo- embolic
atrial fibrillation events (VTE) in adults after elective total hip or knee
replacement surgery.
Primary prevention of
venous thromboembolic Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and
events after orthopedic pulmonary embolism (PE), and secondary prevention
surgery of recurrent DVT and PE in adults.
Treatment and secondary PRADAXA® Treatment of venous thromboembolic events (VTE)
prevention of venous PRADAXAR® and prevention of recurrent VTE in pediatric patients
thromboembolic events PRAZAXA® dabigatran etexilate from birth to less than 18 years of age.
PRAXBIND® is a specific reversal agent for dabigatran
and is indicated in adult patients treated with
PRADAXA® (dabigatran etexilate) when rapid reversal
Specific reversal of its anticoagulant effects is required: for emergency
of PRADAXA® surgery / urgent procedures; in life-threatening or
(dabigatran etexilate) PRAXBIND® idarucizumab uncontrolled bleeding.
Treatment of hypertension. For the reduction of the
risk of myocardial infarction (heart attack), stroke or
death from cardiovascular (CV) causes in patients 55
years of age or older at high risk of developing major
CV events who are unable to take ACE inhibitors (US).
For the reduction of cardiovascular morbidity in
patients with manifest atherothrombotic cardiovascu-
Hypertension lar disease (history of coronary heart disease, stroke
or peripheral arterial disease), or patients with type
Cardiovascular morbidity 2 diabetes mellitus with documented target organ
and mortality prevention MICARDIS® telmisartan damage (EU).
Treatment of hypertension alone or with other antihy-
pertensive agents, to lower blood pressure. Lowering
blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal
cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocar-
dial infarctions. Not indicated for initial therapy (US).
MICARDISPLUS® Treatment of essential hypertension.
MICARDIS® PLUS MICARDISPLUS® fixed dose combination is indicat-
MICARDIS® HCT ed in adults whose blood pressure is not adequately
Hypertension CO-MICARDIS® telmisartan, hydrochlorothiazide controlled on telmisartan alone (EU).
oiloftroP
tcudorP94
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Cardiovascular and
M etabolic Diseases
(continued)
To prevent VTE events and their consequences after or­ Acute myocardial infarction
thopedic surgery, patients should receive some kind of
thromboprophylaxis. Patients who have already suffered An acute myocardial infarction, or heart attack, occurs
from VTE require anticoagulant treatment for secondary when a thrombus (blood clot) suddenly prevents blood
prevention of a recurrent thromboembolic event. flow to an area of the heart muscle. Unless the blood flow
is restored quickly, the affected section of heart muscle
becomes permanently damaged. Heart attacks are one of
Reversing anticoagulation the most common causes of death in industrialized coun­
tries.
Anticoagulation therapy offers important benefits for pa­
tients at risk of thromboembolic events. However, even
though rare, there may be situations when rapid reversal
of anticoagulation is medically necessary, e.g. if a patient
taking an anticoagulant is involved in a severe car accident
and needs emergency surgery.
Hypertension and cardiovascular
diseases
Hypertension (high blood pressure) is a chronic disease in
which the blood pressure is chronically elevated. Hyper­
tension is also one of the major risk factors for stroke,
heart attacks, heart failure and chronic renal failure. The
primary goal of antihypertensive treatment is to prevent
such cardiovascular events and to reduce the risk of cardio­
vascular mortality.95
Product Portfolio — Human Pharmaceuticals
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
Treatment of hypertension alone or with other antihy-
pertensive agents. As initial therapy in patients likely
to need multiple antihypertensive agents to achieve
their blood pressure goals (US).
TWYNSTA® Add-on therapy in adult patients with not adequately
MICAMLO® controlled blood pressure on amlodipine, and replace-
MICARDIS® AMLO ment therapy in adult patients receiving telmisartan
Hypertension MICARDIS® DUO telmisartan, amlodipine and amlodipine from separate tablets (EU).
Acute ischemic stroke
Acute myocardial
infarction
Acute massive
pulmonary embolism
Fibrinolytic treatment of acute ischemic stroke, acute
Catheter clearance due ACTILYSE® myocardial infarction, acute massive pulmonary
to thrombotic occlusion ACTILYSE® CATHFLO® alteplase embolism. Fibrinolytic treatment of occluded catheters.
Secondary prevention
of stroke or transient Prevention of stroke following an initial first stroke,
ischemic attacks (TIA) AGGRENOX® dipyridamole, acetylsalicylic acid or transient ischemic attacks (TIA).
Acute myocardial
infarction METALYSE® tenecteplase Fibrinolytic treatment of acute myocardial infarction.
oiloftroP
tcudorP96
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Cardiovascular and
M etabolic Diseases
(continued)
Diabetes, heart failure, and the
cardio- renal-metabolic system
Type 2 diabetes is a chronic, progressive condition asso-
ciated with elevated blood sugar levels. People with type
2 diabetes have a high burden of comorbidities and risk
factors, which include heart failure, kidney disease, hyper-
tension, and obesity. Cardio-renal-metabolic conditions
affect more than one billion people worldwide and are a
leading cause of death.
Heart failure is a progressive, debilitating, and potentially
fatal condition that occurs when the heart cannot sup-
ply adequate circulation to meet the body’s demands for
oxygenated blood, or to do so requires increased blood
volume leading to fluid accumulation (congestion) in the
lungs and peripheral tissues. It is a widespread condition
affecting over 60 million people worldwide and expected
to increase as the population ages.
A collaborative multidisciplinary team approach to op-
timize patient care by coordinating treatment of related
comorbidities, including the use of emerging medications
with broad cardiovascular, renal, and metabolic effects,
can help improve outcomes for people with these serious
chronic conditions.97
Product Portfolio — Human Pharmaceuticals
Indications Brand Names** Active Ingredients
Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus as
an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic
control and to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death
in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and established
cardiovascular disease.*
JARDIANCE® * US indication, December 2016. The label varies by
Type 2 diabetes mellitus JARDIANZ® empagliflozin country. Please refer to the local product information.
Treatment of adults with heart failure with reduced
ejection fraction (with or without type 2 diabetes).*
JARDIANCE® * The label varies by country. Please refer to the local
Heart failure JARDIANZ® empagliflozin product information.
Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus as
an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic
control when treatment with both empagliflozin and
SYNJARDY® metformin is appropriate.*
JARDIANCE DUO®
JARDIANZ DUO® empagliflozin, * US indication, December 2016. The label varies by
Type 2 diabetes mellitus SYNJARDY® XR metformin hydrochloride country. Please refer to the local product information.
Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus as
an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic
control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus when
both empagliflozin and linagliptin are appropriate
treatments.*
GLYXAMBI®
TRADIANCE® empagliflozin, * US indication, March 2015. The label varies by country.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus JARDIANZ DPP® linagliptin Please refer to the local product information.
TRAJENTA® Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus as
TRADJENTA® an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic
TRAZENTA® control, used in mono therapy (if metformin is not tol-
Type 2 diabetes mellitus TRAYENTA® linagliptin erated or contraindicated) or in combination therapy.
JENTADUETO® Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus as
TRAYENTA DUO® an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic
TRAJENTA DUO® control when treatment with metformin does not lead
TRAJENTAMET® to sufficient control or when patients are treated with
Type 2 diabetes mellitus JENTADUETO® XR linagliptin, metformin hydrochloride TRAJENTA® (linagliptin) and metformin.
** Diabetes portfolio in collaboration with Eli Lilly and Company. oiloftroP
tcudorP98
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Oncology
Cancer is a threat to global health. In 2018, an estimated
18 million new cases of cancer were diagnosed worldwide
and 9.6 million people died from cancer, nearly one in six
global deaths (WHO World Cancer Factsheet 2018). The
most common diagnosed cancer types were lung cancer
(nearly 12%), breast cancer (nearly 12%), colorectal cancer
(10%), prostate cancer (7%) and stomach cancer (6%).
Lung cancer
Lung cancer refers to malignant abnormal cell growth in-
side the lung tissue. It is the most common cancer with an
estimated 2.1 million new cases per year worldwide (2018).
Smoking is the primary cause of the disease, contributing to
almost 90% of the cases. Recently, however, the incidence
of lung cancer among non-smokers has increased.
Lung cancer has a poor prognosis, with 1.8 million deaths
per year, representing nearly 20% of all cancer deaths.
Lung cancer symptoms are unspecific so that the disease
may take many years to appear. Late diagnosis in an
advanced stage of the disease results in an often dismal
prognosis, with only 10 – 15% of lung cancer patients
surviving five years or more following diagnosis.
There are different subtypes such as small cell lung c ancer
(SCLC) and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). More
than ten different molecular genetic aberrations (mu-
tations) present in the tumor have been identified. By
focusing on molecular changes that are specific to the
respective subtype of lung cancer, targeted therapies have
become more effective than other treatments. They show
a survival benefit and are at the same time less harmful to
normal cells, thereby reducing side effects.99
Product Portfolio — Human Pharmaceuticals
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
First-line treatment of adult patients with locally
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer
(NSCLC) whose tumors have activating epidermal
growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations.
For the treatment of patients with locally advanced or
Non-small cell lung GIOTRIF® metastatic NSCLC of squamous histology progressing
cancer (NSCLC) GILOTRIF® afatinib on or after platinum-based chemotherapy.
Combination therapy with docetaxel for the treatment
of adult patients with locally advanced, metastatic or
locally recurrent non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
Non-small cell lung of adenocarcinoma tumor histology after first-line
cancer (NSCLC) VARGATEF® nintedanib chemotherapy.
oiloftroP
tcudorP100
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Diseases of the Central
Nervous System
Mental and neurological diseases such as depression and Restless legs syndrome (RLS)
Parkinson’s disease significantly impact patients and their
families and are also a substantial burden to society. RLS is a common neurological disorder characterized by
an uncontrollable urge to move the legs, primarily occur-
ring in the evening and night hours. It is usually accom-
Parkinson’s disease panied by unpleasant and sometimes painful sensations
in the legs as well as disturbed sleep resulting in daytime
Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a degenerative disorder of tiredness or sleepiness. The sensations are felt deep within
the central nervous system. Patients usually notice motor the legs and are described as creeping, crawling or aching.
symptoms like hand shaking (tremor) as their first sign of
the disease, which may progress to include shaking of the
arms, legs or head. Other motor symptoms that may devel-
op over time include stiffness that often results in loss of
facial expression and a gradual slowing or loss of motion,
or “freezing”. About 30 – 40% of patients also suffer from
non-motor symptoms associated with PD, such as depres-
sion and sleep disorders. The primary symptoms are the
result of a lack of the neuro-transmitter dopamine in dis-
tinct areas of the human brain.
Infectious Diseases
HIV infection / AIDS
Acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a set of
symptoms and infections resulting from the damage to the
human immune system caused by the human immunodefi-
ciency virus (HIV). If untreated, infection with HIV progres-
sively reduces the effectiveness of the immune system and
leaves individuals susceptible to opportunistic infections
and tumors. Babies of infected mothers are at risk of get-
ting the virus during pregnancy, childbirth or breastfeeding.101
Product Portfolio — Human Pharmaceuticals
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
SIFROL®
MIRAPEX®
Parkinson’s disease (PD) MIRAPEXIN® Symptomatic treatment of idiopathic P arkinson’s
PEXOLA® pramipexole, disease. It may be used as monotherapy or in com-
Restless legs syndrome MIRAPEX® ER pramipexole dihydrochloride bination with levodopa. Symptomatic treatment of
(RLS) SIFROL® ER monohydrate idiopathic moderate to severe restless legs syndrome.
Short-term treatment of disorders of initiating and
maintaining sleep.
Sleep disorders LENDORMIN® brotizolam Insomnia requiring pharmacological i ntervention.
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
For the combination therapy of HIV-1 infection and
(in several countries) for the prevention of mother-to-
child transmission of HIV-1 in pregnant women who
are not taking antiretroviral therapy at time of labor.
VIRAMUNE® Prolonged release tablets for once-daily dosing within
HIV / AIDS VIRAMUNE XR® nevirapine combination therapy.
Indicated for combination antiretroviral treatment
of HIV-1 infected patients, co- administered with
200 mg of ritonavir, who are treatment-experienced
and infected with HIV-1 strains resistant to more
HIV / AIDS APTIVUS® tipranavir than one protease inhibitor. oiloftroP
tcudorP102
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Livestock — Swine
Infectious respiratory diseases Integrated Health Management (IHM)
INGELVAC CIRCOFLEX® is the first single-dose piglet vac- With FARMERA® and SOUNDTALKS™ we will empower pig
cine for the control of porcine circovirus disease (PCVD). producers, breeders, retailers, and consumers to improve
INGELVAC CIRCOFLEX® contains IMPRANFLEX® adjuvant health, animal welfare, and efficiency by giving insights,
which allows for fresh mixing with INGELVAC MYCOFLEX® predictions, and recommendations through our IHM solu-
to form FLEXCOMBO® with the TwistPak system. Our tions.
INGELVAC® PRRS products are licensed for active immu-
nization against the respiratory and reproductive form of
porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS).
Infectious enteric diseases
ENTERISOL® ILEITIS is the first and only oral live vaccine
against ileitis, globally the most prevalent enteric disease
in swine caused by Lawsonia intracellularis. It is licensed
to improve weight gain and to reduce growth variability
associated with the disease. ENTERISOL® ILEITIS helps
to reduce the total antimicrobial use in pork production.103
Product Portfolio — Animal Health
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
For the active immunization of pigs over the age of
two weeks against porcine circovirus type 2 to reduce
mortality, clinical signs – including weight loss – and
lesions in lymphoid tissues associated with porcine
circovirus diseases (PCVD). In addition, vaccination
has been shown to reduce PCV 2 nasal shedding, viral
Infectious respiratory recombinant vaccine load in blood and lymphoid tissues, and duration of
diseases INGELVAC CIRCOFLEX® (porcine circovirus type 2, PCV2) viremia.
INGELVAC® PRRS MLV Depending on the product, for the active immuniza-
Infectious respiratory INGELVAC PRRSFLEX® EU attenuated live vaccine tion of pigs at various ages against porcine reproduc-
diseases REPROCYC® PRRS EU (PRRS virus type 2, type 1) tive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRS).
For the active immunization of pigs from the age of
Infectious respiratory inactivated vaccine three weeks to reduce lung lesions following infec-
diseases INGELVAC MYCOFLEX® (Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae) tions with Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae.
For the active immunization of pigs from the age of
three weeks against intestinal lesions caused by Law-
sonia intracellularis infection and to reduce growth
Infectious attenuated live vaccine variability and loss of weight gain associated with the
enteric disease ENTERISOL® ILEITIS (Lawsonia intracellularis) disease.
SOUNDTALKS™ is sound monitoring technology that
sound monitors, gateways and detects early symptoms of respiratory distress in
Respiratory diseases SOUNDTALKS™* algorithms swine thanks to its 24/7 monitoring and algorithms.
FARMERA® allows being more efficient, effective, and
mobile app. Digital data manage- proactive by enabling evidence-based decision making
Data capture forms ment and communication platform with real-time information when managing health
and tools FARMERA® for swine production and production in production companies.
* SOUNDTALKS™ is a trademark of SoundTalks, N.V.
oiloftroP
tcudorP104
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Livestock — Cattle / Ruminants
Our cattle / ruminants business is a global leader in anti­
parasitic brands such as IVOMEC®, LONGRANGE® and
EPRINEX®. These world renowned parasiticides treat and
protect grazing animals from the harmful effects of internal
and external parasites.
ZACTRAN® treats cattle with bacterial pneumonia and
sheep with digital dermatitis infections.
BOVELA® is for active immunization of cattle of three
months of age in terms of reproductive infectious diseases.105
Product Portfolio — Animal Health
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
Depending on formulation, the product is for the
Internal and external treatment of nematodes, lice, mites, ticks, flies, lung-
parasites of cattle IVOMEC® ivermectin worms and liver flukes.
The Theraphase® technology used to develop this
formulation of eprinomectin allows a single treatment
to last up to 100-150 days — long enough to break
the parasite life cycle and effectively reduce parasite
burdens on the pasture. LONGRANGE® is effective
in the control of most internal and external parasites
Internal and external of cattle: gastrointestinal roundworms, lungworms,
parasites of cattle LONGRANGE® eprinomectin, long-acting grubs, mites.
Depending on formulation, the product is for the
Internal and external treatment of nematodes, lice, mites, ticks, flies and
parasites of ruminants EPRINEX® eprinomectin lungworms in cattle and sheep.
Depending on species indication (and country of reg-
istration), the product is for the treatment and meta-
Bacterial causes of phylaxis control of respiratory disease in cattle caused
respiratory disease and by key bacteria (Mannheimia, Pasteurella, Histophilus
interdigital dermatitis and Mycoplasma) and footrot disease in sheep caused
(footrot) ZACTRAN® gamithromycin by key bacteria (Fusobacterium and Dichelobacter).
Reduces hyperthermia and minimizes the reduction of
leukocyte count caused by bovine viral diarrhoea virus
(BVDV-1 and BVDV-2); reduces virus shedding and
viremia caused by BVDV-2 and prevents the birth of
Reproductive infectious bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) persistently infected calves caused by transplacental
diseases in cattle BOVELA® types 1 and 2 infection.
oiloftroP
tcudorP106
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Livestock — Cattle / Ruminants
(continued)
Our vaccine PYRAMID®/PRESPONSE® is part of our ex-
panding portfolio of respiratory and reproductive vaccines
to prevent diseases that affect livestock.
METACAM® is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug
(NSAID), helping to minimize losses from inflammation
and tissue damage in animals suffering from disease,
hence addressing the need for maintained profitability and
the concern for farm animal well-being.107
Product Portfolio — Animal Health
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
family of multivalent vaccine combi-
nations including different modified
live viruses: bovine viral diarrhoea The PYRAMID®/PRESPONSE® family of vaccines
(BVD) types 1 and 2, infectious bo- provides broad coverage for BVD types 1 and 2, IBR,
vine rhinotracheitis (IBR), parainflu- BRSV, PI3 and Mannheimia haemolytica with only a
enza 3 (PI3) and bovine respiratory single dose. They contain the MetaStim® * adjuvant
syncytial virus (BRSV), and bacteria: system to enhance the animal’s response for greater
Pasteurella multocida, Mannheimia protection (US and Canada only).
Infectious respiratory haemolytica, L. canicola, L. grippoty-
diseases and reproduc- PYRAMID® phosa, L. hardjo, L. icterohaemmor- * MetaStim® is a registered trademark of
tive disorders in cattle PRESPONSE® rhagiae and L. pomona Zoetis Services LLC
For the treatment of mastitis in lactating cows and
for the control of pain associated with dehorning or
surgery. It is also indicated for use in calves affected
Pain and inflammatory by diarrhoea and in cattle suffering from respiratory
disorders METACAM® meloxicam disease.
oiloftroP
tcudorP108
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Livestock — Poultry
Our poultry vaccine portfolio consists of a significant
range of live, inactivated, and vectored vaccines for broil-
ers, layers, and breeder hens, providing protection against
the most acute viral and bacterial diseases like avian influ-
enza, infectious bronchitis, Newcastle disease, infectious
bursal disease, egg drop syndrome, and avian coryza. This
portfolio of preventive solutions helps producers world-
wide to provide safe, affordable, abundant, and sustainable
high-quality poultry meat and eggs.109
Product Portfolio — Animal Health
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
monovalent or polyvalent attenuated
live and inactivated vaccine contain-
ing antigens for vaccination against
avian influenza, Newcastle disease, For vaccination of healthy chickens against diseases
avian coryza, egg drop syndrome, caused by the included antigens. For the prevention
Various viral and GALLIMUNE® infectious bronchitis, infectious of the most common diseases in broiler chickens and
bacterial diseases in GALLIVAC® bursal disease, avian rhinotracheitis, diseases responsible for losses in egg production in
poultry VOLVAC® salmonella and gallibacterium anatis layers.
serotype 3, live Marek’s disease
Infectious bursal disease vector, live vHVT013-69 recombinant The vaccination of 18- to 19-day-old embryos or one-
(IBD), Marek’s disease virus which contains a gene of IBD day-old chickens is effective against standard and
(MD) and Newcastle dis- VAXXITEK® HVT + IBD virus and, for the trivalent vaccines, variant infectious bursal disease, Marek’s disease, and
ease (ND), or infectious VAXXITEK® HVT + IBD + ND a gene of IBD virus and of ND or ILT for the trivalent vaccines against Newcastle disease
laryngotracheitis (ILT) VAXXITEK® HVT + IBD + ILT viruses (and diluent) or infectious laryngotracheitis.
In broiler chickens from one day of age: active immu-
nization against Newcastle disease to reduce mortality
and clinical signs associated with the disease.
In future layer and future breeder pullets from the age
of four weeks: priming for active immunization against
egg drop caused by Newcastle disease before vacci-
live Newcastle disease virus, nation with an inactivated vaccine (strain Ulster 2C)
Newcastle desease (ND) AVINEW® VG / GA-AVINEW strain prior to the beginning of lay.
PREVEXXION® RN
PREVEXXION® RN+HVT
PREVEXXION® RN+HVT+IBD live herpes virus chimera, The vaccination of 18- to 19-day-old embryos and /
PREVEXXION®RN & serotype 1, strain RN1250 or one-day-old chickens is recommended to protect
Marek’s disease VAXXITEK® HVT+IBD (and diluent) against the very virulent Marek’s disease.
live Marek’s disease vectored virus,
serotype 3, that contains a gene The vaccination of 18- to 19-day-old embryos or one-
Newcastle and Marek’s insert from Newcastle disease (and day-old chickens is effective against Marek’s disease
diseases NEWXXITEK™ HVT + ND diluent) and Newcastle disease.
oiloftroP
tcudorP110
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Veterinary
Public Health (VPH)
We work together with governments and private partners
toward improving control and eradicating diseases such
as foot-and-mouth disease, bluetongue virus and rabies.
Our foot-and-mouth (FMD) vaccines portfolio including
AFTOPOR®, AFTOVAXPUR® and AFTOVAX® provides active
immunization of cattle, sheep or pigs to reduce clinical
signs and mortality following exposure to FMD virus.
RABISIN® is an inactivated vaccine against rabies,
available as a clear colorless suspension for injection.
RABORAL V-RG® is an oral recombinant vaccine that pro-
tects wildlife against rabies.
BTVPUR ALSAP® is a multi-strain vaccine used for active
immunization of sheep and cattle to prevent viremia and
to reduce clinical signs caused by bluetongue virus.111
Product Portfolio — Animal Health
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
AFTOPOR® and AFTOVAXPUR® are highly potent
vaccines with purified antigens, recommended in
endemic or emergency situations. Both have potential
marker properties that allow differentiation between
infected and vaccinated animals (DIVA).
AFTOVAX® is a low-cost and effective vaccine profile
for cattle and sheep, suitable for mass vaccination in
AFTOPOR® endemic situations.
AFTOVAXPUR® mix of inactivated FMD virus
Foot-and-mouth disease AFTOVAX® antigens with the widest range of AFTOVAXPUR® DOE is suitable for emergency situa-
(FMD) AFTOVAXPUR® DOE vaccine strains tions only.
RABISIN® is used for the active immunization of dogs
and cats to reduce mortality and clinical signs due to
rabies infection. Immunity has been demonstrated
one month after vaccination and has been shown to
persist up to the first booster dose, (1 year after primary
vaccination) and up to 3 years following booster
vaccination.
RABORAL V-RG® is an oral rabies recombinant
vaccine that protects wildlife (raccoons, foxes and
Rabisin: inactivated and adjuvanted coyotes) against rabies, thereby reducing the risk of
rabies virus; exposure to rabies for humans and domestic animals.
RABISIN® Raboral V-RG: vaccinia-vectored It is only sold to government agencies conducting
Rabies RABORAL V-RG® rabies vaccine rabies control programs.
Active immunization of sheep to prevent viremia and
to reduce clinical signs caused by bluetongue virus
serotypes 1, 2, 4 and / or 8 (combination of maximum
2 serotypes).
Active immunization of cattle to prevent viremia
caused by bluetongue virus serotypes 1, 2, 4 and / or 8,
and to reduce clinical signs caused by bluetongue virus
serotypes 1, 4 and / or 8 (combination of maximum
2 serotypes).
Onset of immunity has been demonstrated three
weeks (or five weeks in sheep for BTV-2) after the
primary vaccination course for BTV-1, BTV-2 (cattle),
Bluetongue BTVPUR ALSAP® mix of inactivated bluetongue virus BTV-4 and BTV-8 serotypes.
oiloftroP
tcudorP112
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Companion Animals — Horses
Our equine portfolio is highly comprehensive, covering the EQVALAN® DUO/GOLD, ZIMECTERIN® GOLD combines
key aspects of equine health, including parasite control, ivermectin with praziquantel, an ingredient that specifically
vaccination, and the management of chronic diseases. We controls tapeworms.
have a range of flagship and market leading equine prod-
ucts and have recently enhanced our joint disease and ARTI-CELL® FORTE is the world’s first licensed veterinary
respiratory portfolios with the addition of new innovative stem cell product which is a ready-to-use intra-articular
products. We also have a line of nutraceuticals which can injection of chondrogenic induced mesenchymal cells for
be bought without prescription. the treatment of lameness linked to non-infective joint in-
flammation in horses. ARTI-CELL® FORTE is one of the
PRASCEND® is indicated for the treatment of pituitary pars latest additions to the equine portfolio and is available in
intermedia dysfunction (PPID), which is also known as a range of countries within the EU as of 2019.
equine Cushing’s disease. Clinical signs of PPID are hyper-
trichiosis, laminitis, change in body conformation and lack ASERVO® EQUIHALER® is the first inhalation product for
of performance. Treatment with PRASCEND® is life-long. the treatment of severe equine asthma. This product is
a novel glucocorticoid pro-drug (ciclesonide inhalation
VETERA® vaccines are the first US vaccine portfolio to in- solution) delivered in an inhaler specifically designed for
clude multiple convenient combinations of disease pro- use in horses, and implementing the Soft M i s t ™ technology
tection for horses from as young as four months of age. derived from the RESPIMAT® inhalers in human pharma.
The vaccines protect against as many as nine infectious This exciting new introduction gained final authorization
organisms including influenza, herpes, the West Nile virus, and product availability in the EU, US and Canada in 2020;
tetanus and others. This enables customized protection for further approvals in other countries are expected in due
each horse with limited needle injections. course.
GASTROGARD®/ULCERGARD® is indicated for the treat-
ment and prevention of equine gastric ulcers, which is one
of the most common diseases in horses. GASTROGARD®
is supplied in an easy-to-use oral paste form and has been
the first choice for treatment of gastric ulcers since its
launch in 1999. ULCERGARD® in the US is the preventive
of choice for horses with an increased risk of developing
gastric ulcers.
EQVALAN®/ZIMECTERIN® contains ivermectin, a leading
ingredient that controls a wide variety of important inter-
nal parasites, including bots and benzimidazole-resist-
ant small strongyles, in an easy-to-administer oral paste.
EQVALAN®/ZIMECTERIN® is approved for adult horses
and foals as young as six weeks of age.113
Product Portfolio — Animal Health
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
Symptomatic treatment of clinical signs associated
Pituitary pars intermedia with pituitary pars intermedia dysfunction (PPID,
dysfunction (PPID) PRASCEND® pergolide mesylate also known as equine Cushing’s disease).
Eastern, Western and Venezuelan
Combination vaccine encephalomyelitis, tetanus, West Nile For vaccination of healthy horses as an aid in the pre-
against up to nine com- virus, equine herpes virus, equine vention of diseases caused by the included antigens
mon diseases in horses VETERA® influenza viruses (US and Canada only).
For treatment and prevention of gastric ulcers and
GASTROGARD® prevention of recurrence of gastric ulcers in horses
Equine gastric ulcers ULCERGARD® omeprazole and foals four weeks of age and older.
EQVALAN® For treatment and prevention of parasitic infestations
ZIMECTERIN® in horses and donkeys due to large and small stron-
EQVALAN® GOLD gyles, ascarids.
EQVALAN® DUO ivermectin
Internal parasites ZIMECTERIN® GOLD ivermectin, praziquantel GOLD/DUO includes treatment against tapeworms.
For treatment of mild to moderate lameness linked to
non-infective joint inflammation in horses. It contains
Reduction of mild to stem cells which are obtained from equine blood.
moderate recurrent Stem cells can develop into other types of cells. The
lameness associated chondrogenic induced equine stem cells in the active substance (mesenchymal stem
with non-septic joint allogeneic peripheral blood-derived cells) are treated so that they develop into cartilage
inflammation in horses ARTI-CELL® FORTE mesenchymal stem cells cells.
For the alleviation of clinical symptoms of severe
equine asthma characterized by coughing, nasal
discharge, nasal flaring, increased breathing effort
Severe equine asthma ASERVO® EQUIHALER® ciclesonide inhalation solution at rest, or abnormal lung sounds.
oiloftroP
tcudorP114
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Companion Animals — Pets
Our pet portfolio offers diverse solutions for some of the BROADLINE® and the recently launched NEXGARD® COMBO
most important needs of canine and feline health includ- offer cat owners all-in-one convenience providing confi-
ing industry-leading parasiticides, vaccines, pain therapy dence that their cat has the broadest possible protection.
and therapeutics to address major chronic diseases: heart They protect cats against the broadest spectrum of internal
failure, kidney diseases, hypertension, epilepsy, diabetes and external parasites, including fleas, ticks, heartworms,
mellitus, and osteoarthritis. hookworms, roundworms, lungworms, vesical worms, and
tapeworms.
For 25 years, FRONTLINE® has been a leader in flea and
tick control on dogs and cats, and is one of the most trust- Boehringer Ingelheim has the most complete, trusted,
ed brands in animal health.1 FRONTLINE® continues to and proven range of products and services in pain man-
bring innovation to the category, with the recent launch of agement. Choosing this portfolio gives veterinarians the
FRONTLINE® SHIELD in the US, which features repellency freedom to tailor treatment to each patient and provides
and insecticidal efficacy on many disease-carrying flying access to value-added veterinary services.
insects and which decreases the risk of transmission of
vector-borne pathogens.2 METACAM® offers an extensive range of formulations and
indications, making it the complete non-steoridal anti-
NEXGARD® contains the active ingredient afoxolaner inflammatory drug (NSAID) for dogs, cats, and guinea
and was launched in 2014 as the first oral medication to pigs. It enables veterinarians to better achieve their goals
treat both fleas and ticks in dogs. Because of its efficacy in pain management and gives each owner and pet exactly
and palatable, beef-flavored soft chew formulation, the product they need. Ample long-term studies support
NEXGARD® is currently the best-selling pet medication in the product’s safety and efficacy and have led to multiple
the animal health industry.3 indications across diverse species.
NEXGARD SPECTRA® combines the flea and tick efficacy The liquid formulation of METACAM® for dogs makes it
of afoxolaner in NEXGARD® with a broad-spectrum de- easy to titrate to the lowest effective dose while the liquid
worming ingredient, milbemycin oxime, in the same formulation for cats is easy to administer. An improved
beef-flavored chew. NEXGARD SPECTRA® is not only ef- dog administration syringe aimed to achieve better accu-
fective in treating flea, tick and mite infestations, as well as racy was introduced in 2020.
gastrointestinal parasites infections, it also protects dogs
against deadly parasites such as heartworm and lung-
worm.
HEARTGARD® PLUS contains the active ingredients
ivermectin and pyrantel in a soft beef chew. When given
monthly, ivermectin is effective in preventing heartworm
disease. Pyrantel is effective in the treatment and control
of roundworms as well as hookworms. HEARTGARD® 1) Data on file.
2) B abesia canis transmitted by Dermacentor reticulatus ticks, Ehrlichia
was launched in 1987 as the first monthly heartworm
canis transmitted by Rhipicephalus sanguineus ticks, and Leishmania
preventative and is still the best-selling heartworm pre- infantum, transmitted by phlebotmine sandflies.
3) Data on file.
ventative in the world.4 4) Data on file.115
Product Portfolio — Animal Health
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
FRONTLINE PLUS®/FRONTLINE COMBO® is indicated
for the treatment and prevention of flea, tick, and lice
infestations. It also breaks the flea life cycle by pre-
venting the development of flea immature stages.
FRONTLINE® FRONTLINE TRI-ACT®/FRONTECT® and FRONTLINE®
FRONTLINE COMBO® SHIELD are indicated for the treatment and pre-
FRONTLINE PLUS® vention of flea and tick infestations in dogs. They
FRONTLINE TRI-ACT® fipronil also provide repellent activity against mosquitoes,
Antiparasitic: canine / FRONTECT® fipronil, s-methoprene sandflies, and ticks, reducing the risk of transmission
feline external parasites FRONTLINE® SHIELD fipronil, permethrin, pyriproxifen of vector-borne pathogens.
NEXGARD® is a highly palatable beef-flavored chew.
It is indicated for the treatment and prevention of
flea and tick infestations in dogs. It is also indicated
for the prevention of Borrelia burgdorferi infections
Antiparasitic: canine (US), and the treatment of Demodex, Sarcoptes, and
external parasites NEXGARD® afoxolaner Otodectes mite infestations in non-US geographies.
NEXGARD SPECTRA® is delivered in a highly palatable
beef-flavored chew. It is indicated for the treatment
and / or prevention of flea, tick, and mite infestations.
Antiparasitic: canine It also prevents heartworm disease, angiostrongylosis,
internal and external and thelaziosis. It treats hookworm, roundworm, and
parasites NEXGARD SPECTRA® afoxolaner, milbemycin oxime whipworm infestations in dogs.
For use in dogs to prevent canine heartworm disease
by eliminating the tissue stage of heartworm larvae
Antiparasitic: canine for a month (30 days) after infection, and for the treat-
internal parasites HEARTGARD® PLUS ivermectin, pyrantel ment and control of roundworms and hookworms.
Protects cats against the broadest spectrum of
internal and external parasites including adult fleas,
Antiparasitic: feline flea eggs, flea larvae, ticks, heartworms, lungworms,
internal and external fipronil, (s)-methoprene, hookworms, roundworms, vesical worms, and tape-
parasites BROADLINE® eprinomectin, praziquantel worms.
Spot-on formulation containing esafoxolaner to
provide the new generation flea and tick control in
cats. Protects cats against the broadest spectrum of
Antiparasitic: feline internal and external parasites including fleas, ticks,
internal and external esafoxolaner, eprinomectin, ear mites, heartworms, lungworms, hookworms,
parasites NEXGARD® COMBO praziquantel roundworms, vesical worms, and tapeworms.
METACAM® is used to reduce specific types of
Pain and inflammatory post-operative pain and inflammation as well as
diseases METACAM® meloxicam musculoskeletal disorders in dogs and cats.
oiloftroP
tcudorP116
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2021
Companion Animals — Pets
(continued)
PREVICOX® was designed specifically for dogs and is the Since its launch in 2009 PROZINC® has become the proven
most selective veterinary COX-2 inhibitor. PREVICOX® insulin choice for feline patients and their owners for con-
provides safe, sustained pain relief with a fast onset of ac- venient management of feline diabetes. With the approval
tion. Long-term safety and efficacy have been established of PROZINC® for canine patients, we have the opportunity
in large field studies and PREVICOX® has been shown to to become the first-choice solution for successful man-
be more efficacious than competition in acute models of agement of diabetes in both dogs and cats. Large clinical
osteoarthritis. studies in Europe, the US, and Japan have confirmed that
the majority of dogs can be managed with one injection
VETMEDIN® is an inodilator which has become the stan- of PROZINC® insulin per day – a major breakthrough for
dard of care when treating dogs with congestive heart dogs, owners, and veterinarians.
failure caused by dilated cardiomyopathy or valvular in-
sufficiency (mitral and / or tricuspid regurgitation). When Our pet vaccine product portfolio includes the PUREVAX®
used in combination with furosemide, it significantly im- feline vaccines formulated to provide effective protection
proves clinical signs and extends life expectancy in these without the use of adjuvants. For a more cat-friendly
patients. Recent studies have also shown that when used vaccination, PUREVAX® has been launched in reduced
in preclinical asymptomatic cases of either dilated cardio- 0.5 ml volume in 2021 in the US and France.
myopathy in Doberman pinschers or valvular insufficiency, RECOMBITEK® offers a complete line of advanced canine
VETMEDIN® significantly delays the onset of clinical signs vaccines providing targeted protection through recombi-
of congestive heart failure, a first in veterinary cardiology. nant technology, and RABISIN® and IMRAB® provide
trusted vaccines to fight rabies, with decades of proven
SEMINTRA® is the first-ever licensed angiotensin receptor efficacy and safety.
blocker for veterinary use. Specifically designed for cats,
SEMINTRA® is the scientifically advanced treatment in
one simple solution that safely and effectively harnesses
the protective benefits of the cat’s renin-angiotensin-
aldosterone system to protect kidneys and other key organs.
SEMINTRA® is available as 4mg/ml and 10mg/ml oral
solution. SEMINTRA® (4mg/ml) was first launched in 2013
for the reduction of proteinuria associated with chronic
kidney disease in cats. In 2018, SEMINTRA® (10mg/ml)
was launched for the control (US) / treatment (EU) of feline
systemic hypertension. It is the first vet-licensed product
for feline hypertension in the US.117
Product Portfolio — Animal Health
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
For the relief of pain and inflammation associated
Pain and inflammatory with osteoarthritis as well as specific types of
diseases PREVICOX® firocoxib post-operative pain in dogs.
Treatment of canine congestive heart failure originat-
ing from dilated cardiomyopathy or valvular insuffi-
ciency (mitral and / or tricuspid regurgitation).
Treatment of dilated cardiomyopathy in the preclinical
stage (asymptomatic with an increase in left ventricu-
lar end-systolic and end-diastolic diameter)
in Doberman Pinschers.
Treatment of dogs with myxomatous mitral valve
disease (MMVD) in the preclinical stage (asympto-
matic with a systolic mitral murmur and evidence
of increased heart size) to delay the onset of clinical
Congestive heart failure VETMEDIN® pimobendan symptoms of heart failure.
Chronic kidney disease
(CKD) in cats
Management of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and
Hypertension in cats SEMINTRA® telmisartan feline systemic hypertension (US and EU) in cats.
For the treatment of diabetes mellitus in cats and dogs
to achieve reduction of hyperglycemia and improve-
Diabetes PROZINC® protamine zinc ment of associated clinical signs.
feline herpes virus, feline calicivirus,
feline panleukopenia virus, chlamydia PUREVAX® is the only fully adjuvant-free feline
felis, recombinant vectored feline, vaccine range and leverages its innovative canarypox
leukemia virus, recombinant vectored technology for FeLV and rabies. It also offers sustained
Feline vaccines portfolio PUREVAX® rabies virus protection on rabies for up to three years.
recombinant vectored canine,distem-
per virus, canine parvovirus, canine RECOMBITEK® features a complete line of canine
adenovirus type 2, canine parain- vaccines including:
fluenza virus, canine coronavirus,
leptospira Canicola, leptospira RECOMBITEK® lyme: The only vaccine that contains
grippotyphosa, leptospira ictero- OspA in a non-adjuvant formulation.
haemorrhagiae, leptospira Pomona,
Canine vaccines recombinant borrelia burgdorferi, RECOMBITEK® oral bordatella: Effective and safe
portfolio REKOMBITEK®* bordetella bronchiseptica protection made easy.
Sustained rabies protection up to three years after
Rabies vaccines RABISIN® inactivated and adjuvanted first year booster. Consistently high seroconversion
portfolio IMRAB® rabies glycoproteins rate. Rabies protection for six species.
* In the US and others.
oiloftroP
tcudorPC.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
Comparison of balance sheet and
financial data 2012 — 2021
Assets (as of December 31)
in million EUR 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Intangible assets 682 582 592 606 550 5,372 5,120 4,882 4,295 4,624
Tangible assets 3,103 2,887 3,070 3,264 3,045 3,867 4,280 4,754 5,050 5,489
Financial assets 4,222 4,737 5,312 5,933 6,092 5,830 6,058 9,162 8,553 12,964
Fixed assets 8,007 8,206 8,974 9,803 9,687 15,069 15,458 18,798 17,898 23,077
Inventories 2,095 2,083 2,237 2,483 2,610 3,087 3,312 3,563 3,863 4,237
Accounts receivable and other assets (incl. prepaid expenses,
deferred taxes and exceeding amount of plan assets) 4,814 5,131 5,546 6,463 6,837 7,159 7,815 8,924 9,021 10,759
Financial funds 2,374 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005 3,071 4,303 2,195 6,105 2,546
Current and other assets 9,283 10,093 11,077 13,482 16,452 13,317 15,430 14,682 18,989 17,542
Total assets 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 33,480 36,887 40,619
Equity and liabilities (as of December 31)
in million EUR 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Shareholders’ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178
Group reserves (incl. balance sheet currency conversion difference) 4,763 5,619 6,884 7,844 9,296 10,703 10,080 11,781 14,066 15,746
Group profit 1,237 1,324 1,047 1,577 1,853 – 223 2,075 2,721 3,062 3,406
Equity attributable to the parent company 6,178 7,121 8,109 9,599 11,327 10,658 12,333 14,680 17,306 19,330
Non-controlling interests 0 1 2 4 0 – 1 1 1 1 1
Group equity 6,178 7,122 8,111 9,603 11,327 10,657 12,334 14,681 17,307 19,331
Difference from capital consolidation 134 104 91 71 52 1,729 1,511 1,471 1,283 1,159
Provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 7,749 7,817 8,840 10,543 12,233 13,482 14,438 15,172 16,000 17,586
Liabilities (incl. deferred income) 3,229 3,256 3,009 3,068 2,527 2,518 2,605 2,156 2,297 2,543
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred income) 10,978 11,073 11,849 13,611 14,760 16,000 17,043 17,328 18,297 20,129
Total equity and liabilities 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 33,480 36,887 40,619
Summary of selected financial data
in million EUR 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Net sales 14,691 14,065 13,317 14,798 15,850 18,056 17,498 18,997 19,566 20,618
Operating income 1,853 2,114 2,140 2,269 2,872 3,487 3,472 3,782 4,624 4,705
Operating income as % of net sales 12.6 15.0 16.1 15.3 18.1 19.3 19.8 19.9 23.6 22.8
Income after taxes 1,237 1,324 1,046 1,576 1,849 – 229 2,075 2,721 3,062 3,406
Income after taxes as % of net sales 8.4 9.4 7.9 10.7 11.7 – 1.3 11.9 14.3 15.6 16.5
Equity ratio (in %) 35.7 38.9 40.4 41.2 43.3 37.5 39.9 43.8 46.9 47.6
Cash flow from operating activities 2,170 1,819 2,015 2,232 2,888 2,624 2,988 3,344 3,963 3,846
Financial funds 2,374 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005 3,071 4,303 2,195 6,105 2,546
Personnel expenses 4,024 4,071 4,116 4,518 4,570 4,934 5,276 5,367 5,587 5,692
Personnel expenses as % of net sales 27.4 28.9 30.9 30.5 28.8 27.3 30.2 28.3 28.6 27.6
Average number of employees 46,228 47,492 47,743 47,501 45,692 49,610 50,333 51,015 51,944 52,391
Research and development expenses 2,795 2,743 2,654 3,004 3,112 3,078 3,164 3,462 3,696 4,127
R&D as % of net sales 19.0 19.5 19.9 20.3 19.6 17.0 18.1 18.2 18.9 20.0
Investments in tangible assets 562 558 548 591 645 872 950 1,073 1,046 968
Depreciation of tangible assets 793 640 449 475 516 521 552 585 602 609Imprint
Assets (as of December 31)
C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG
in million EUR 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Binger Strasse 173
Intangible assets 682 582 592 606 550 5,372 5,120 4,882 4,295 4,624
55216 Ingelheim am Rhein
Tangible assets 3,103 2,887 3,070 3,264 3,045 3,867 4,280 4,754 5,050 5,489 Germany
Financial assets 4,222 4,737 5,312 5,933 6,092 5,830 6,058 9,162 8,553 12,964 Telephone + 49 6132 77-0
Fax + 49 6132 72-0
Fixed assets 8,007 8,206 8,974 9,803 9,687 15,069 15,458 18,798 17,898 23,077
Inventories 2,095 2,083 2,237 2,483 2,610 3,087 3,312 3,563 3,863 4,237
Contact
Accounts receivable and other assets (incl. prepaid expenses,
Corporate Affairs
deferred taxes and exceeding amount of plan assets) 4,814 5,131 5,546 6,463 6,837 7,159 7,815 8,924 9,021 10,759
Matthias Reinig
Financial funds 2,374 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005 3,071 4,303 2,195 6,105 2,546
press@boehringer-ingelheim.com
Current and other assets 9,283 10,093 11,077 13,482 16,452 13,317 15,430 14,682 18,989 17,542 boehringer-ingelheim.com
Total assets 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 33,480 36,887 40,619
Issued by
Equity and liabilities (as of December 31) C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG
represented by the Board of Managing Directors:
in million EUR 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Hubertus von Baumbach (Chair),
Shareholders’ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 Carinne Brouillon, Dr. Michel Pairet,
Group reserves (incl. balance sheet currency conversion difference) 4,763 5,619 6,884 7,844 9,296 10,703 10,080 11,781 14,066 15,746 Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok, Michael Schmelmer
Group profit 1,237 1,324 1,047 1,577 1,853 – 223 2,075 2,721 3,062 3,406
Concept, design and layout
Equity attributable to the parent company 6,178 7,121 8,109 9,599 11,327 10,658 12,333 14,680 17,306 19,330
3st kommunikation GmbH, Mainz
Non-controlling interests 0 1 2 4 0 – 1 1 1 1 1
www.3st.de
Group equity 6,178 7,122 8,111 9,603 11,327 10,657 12,334 14,681 17,307 19,331
Difference from capital consolidation 134 104 91 71 52 1,729 1,511 1,471 1,283 1,159
Photos
Provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 7,749 7,817 8,840 10,543 12,233 13,482 14,438 15,172 16,000 17,586
Andreas Reeg (pages 2, 4, 5), Lennart Nilsson (pages 10, 86), Getty Images (page 52)
Liabilities (incl. deferred income) 3,229 3,256 3,009 3,068 2,527 2,518 2,605 2,156 2,297 2,543
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred income) 10,978 11,073 11,849 13,611 14,760 16,000 17,043 17,328 18,297 20,129 Printed by
Total equity and liabilities 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 33,480 36,887 40,619 Eberl & Koesel GmbH & Co. KG, Altusried-Krugzell
Summary of selected financial data Copyright
© C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, 2022
in million EUR 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
All rights reserved. No part of this Annual Report 2021 may be reproduced or trans-
Net sales 14,691 14,065 13,317 14,798 15,850 18,056 17,498 18,997 19,566 20,618
mitted in any form or by any means, electronic or photocopy, without permission in
Operating income 1,853 2,114 2,140 2,269 2,872 3,487 3,472 3,782 4,624 4,705 writing from C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG. Figures from third parties used in
Operating income as % of net sales 12.6 15.0 16.1 15.3 18.1 19.3 19.8 19.9 23.6 22.8 the annual report are based on data available at the time the financial statements
were drawn up.
Income after taxes 1,237 1,324 1,046 1,576 1,849 – 229 2,075 2,721 3,062 3,406
Income after taxes as % of net sales 8.4 9.4 7.9 10.7 11.7 – 1.3 11.9 14.3 15.6 16.5
Equity ratio (in %) 35.7 38.9 40.4 41.2 43.3 37.5 39.9 43.8 46.9 47.6
Cash flow from operating activities 2,170 1,819 2,015 2,232 2,888 2,624 2,988 3,344 3,963 3,846
Financial funds 2,374 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005 3,071 4,303 2,195 6,105 2,546
Personnel expenses 4,024 4,071 4,116 4,518 4,570 4,934 5,276 5,367 5,587 5,692
Personnel expenses as % of net sales 27.4 28.9 30.9 30.5 28.8 27.3 30.2 28.3 28.6 27.6
Average number of employees 46,228 47,492 47,743 47,501 45,692 49,610 50,333 51,015 51,944 52,391
Research and development expenses 2,795 2,743 2,654 3,004 3,112 3,078 3,164 3,462 3,696 4,127
R&D as % of net sales 19.0 19.5 19.9 20.3 19.6 17.0 18.1 18.2 18.9 20.0
Investments in tangible assets 562 558 548 591 645 872 950 1,073 1,046 968
With the CO₂ emission certificates we support forest conservation and
Depreciation of tangible assets 793 640 449 475 516 521 552 585 602 609
forest modification in many regions in Germany.boehringer-ingelheim.com
annualreport.boehringer-ingelheim.com
1202
tropeR
launnA
miehlegnI
regnirheoB