B O E H R I N G E R I N G E L H E I M
A N N U A L R E P O R T
2 0 19
Value through Innovationf in a n ci a l h i gh l ig h ts s um m ar y r ep o r t
Amounts in millions of EUR, unless
otherwise indicated 2019 2018 Change
Net sales 18,997 17,498 + 9%
by region
Americas 46% 46%
Europe 30% 30%
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 24% 24%
by business
Human Pharma 74% 72%
SUMMARY REPORT
Animal Health 21% 23%
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 4% 4% 2 019
Discontinued Operations 1% 1%
Research and development expenses 3,462 3,164 + 9%
Personnel expenses 5,367 5,276 + 2%
Average number of employees 51,015 50,333 + 1%
Operating income 3,782 3,472 + 9%
Operating income as % of net sales 19.9% 19.8%
Group profit 2,721 2,075 + 31%
as % of net sales 14.3% 11.9%
Group equity 14,681 12,334 + 19%
Return on Group equity 22.1% 19.5%
Investments in tangible assets 1,073 950 + 13%
Depreciation of tangible assets 585 552 + 6%
Top 4 products — Human Pharma Top 4 products — Animal Health
Net Sales 2019 in million EUR Change Net sales 2019 in million EUR Change
jardiance® 2,152 + 47% nexgard® 740 + 21%
spiriva® 2,058 – 15% frontline® 379 – 5%
trajenta® / jentadueto® 1,559 + 12% heartgard® 318 + 6%
pradaxa® 1,529 + 3% ingelvac circoflex® /
flexcombo® 238 – 22%o v e r v i e w
THE CORE OF OUR LEITBILD
01
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
09
CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
43
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
75OUR COMPANY
Making new and better medicines for humans and animals is at
the heart of what we do. Our mission is to create breakthrough
therapies that change lives. Independent and family-owned,
Boehringer Ingelheim has the freedom to pursue its long-term
vision, looking ahead to identify the health challenges of the
future and targeting those areas of need where we can do the
most good.
As a world-leading, research-driven pharmaceutical company,
more than 51,000 employees create value through innovation
daily for our three business areas: Human Pharma, Animal
Health, and Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing. In 2019,
Boehringer Ingelheim achieved net sales of 19 billion euros.
Our significant investment of almost 3.5 billion euros in R&D
drives innovation, enabling the next generation of medicines
that save lives and improve quality of life.
We realize more scientific opportunities by embracing the power
of partnership and diversity of experts across the life-science
community. By working together, we accelerate the delivery
of the next medical breakthrough that will transform the lives of
patients now, and in generations to come.c o n t e n t
THE CORE OF OUR LEITBILD 01
The Shareholders’ Perspective 02
Key Aspects 2019 06
Corporate bodies 08
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT 09
Information about the Group 10
Report on economic position 27
Report on opportunities and risks 37
Report on expected developments 40
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43
Overview of selected consolidated companies 44
Consolidated balance sheet 46
Consolidated profit and loss statement 47
Cash flow statement 48
Statement of changes in group equity 49
Notes to the consolidated financial s tatements 50
Independent Auditor’s report 71
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO 75
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS 76
Respiratory diseases 76
Cardiovascular and metabolic diseases 80
Oncology 86
Diseases of the central nervous system 88
Infectious diseases 88
ANIMAL HEALTH 90
Livestock – swine 90
Livestock – cattle/ruminants 92
Livestock – poultry 96
Veterinary Public Health (VPH) 98
Companion animals – horse 100
Companion animals – pets 1022
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
THE SHAREHOLDERS’ PERSPECTIVE3
THE SHAREHOLDERS’ PERSPECTIVE
We look back on a successful financial year 2019, in which Boehringer Ingelheim
made another important contribution to human and animal health. Our medicines
have improved the quality of life and given patients more years to live.
This is possible because we have relied on the power of innovation for many decades.
We invest sustainably, continuously, and to an increasing extent. Our innovative
strength is the basis of our company’s independence. To reach patients, we need to
have a competitive offer. We need to fulfil our promise of quality and convince with
the value of our contribution. Over the past few years, we have done this well.
2020 is a special year – for the shareholders as well as the company – and especially
for the many colleagues who are involved in our Making More Health (MMH)
initiative. MMH is celebrating its tenth anniversary this year. Since its foundation,
MMH is making an important contribution to improving healthcare for people
worldwide. C urrently, more than 100 social entrepreneurs are active in the MMH
network in around 40 countries. An impressive record for a young initiative with a
timeless mission.
Our sincere thanks go to all our employees who, together and with great personal
commitment, contributed to the development of Boehringer Ingelheim this past year.
They have laid the foundation for a successful future.
signed by
Christian Boehringer
Chairman of the Shareholders’ CommitteeTHE BOARD OF
MANAGING DIRECTORS
Michel Pairet Carinne BrouillonTHE BOARD OF
MANAGING DIRECTORS
Hubertus von Baumbach Michael Schmelmer Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok6
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
We all learn every day in our personal environment and from the media how great the need for
innovative medicines is. New therapies are urgently needed, whether for common diseases or for
those that are rare and affect the lives or health of only few.
At Boehringer Ingelheim, we have set ourselves the goal of making a decisive contribution to
improving human and animal health. This task inspires and drives us every day.
We focus on diseases for which there is a great medical need due to the lack of therapeutic options.
The outbreaks of African swine fever and COVID-19 remind us that pharmaceutical progress in
human and veterinary medicine continues to be highly important to society. We take advantage of
advances in science that offer new approaches and rely on the strengths we have developed in the
more than 130 years of our company history. In the Human Pharma business, we are working on
over 100 clinical and preclinical research and development projects involving 60 new active ingre-
dients. Last year, ten active ingredients were tested in the clinical environment for the first time.
More than 30 percent of the active ingredients in our pipeline come from collaboration with exter-
nal researchers.
Bridging the gap between industry and science is essential for us. In research, we collaborate on
more than 150 projects with around 120 academic institutions on three continents. For example,
since 1993 we have funded basic biomedical research at the Research Institute of Molecular
Pathology (IMP) in Vienna. The IMP has enjoyed an excellent reputation for decades.
Our drugs help save human lives. For example, it can be assumed that from its launch in 2014,
jardiance® will extend the lives of type 2 diabetes patients treated with it by more than 1.5 million
patient-years, if they continue treatment. Also, actilyse® remains a vital and irreplaceable
medicine for millions of stroke patients worldwide, more than 30 years since its market launch.
Besides the development of innovative active ingredients, the topic of sustainability plays an
increasingly important role in drug development. Last year we launched the reusable respimat®
inhaler for our respiratory products spiriva® and spiolto®. The reusable respimat® should
eliminate 776 metric tons of plastic waste and 14,300 metric tons of CO emissions by 2025.
27
KEY ASPECTS 2019
In the area of animal health, the consequences of African swine fever hit our customers in China
particularly hard. Unfortunately, this is a very insidious virus and the development of a vaccine is
challenging and takes a long time. We are facing this challenge together with our p artners in
China and Europe. On the way to new products, we initiated over 400 clinical trials worldwide
last year and received over 200 product approvals, including for Arti-Cell® Forte in Europe, the
first stem cell-based veterinary therapy for the treatment of lameness in horses.
Boehringer Ingelheim has a strong, yet flexible production network. Within this network, the pro-
duction of medicines in Europe also continues to play an important role. In order to remain com-
petitive in the long term, our current investment program for the expansion of European produc-
tion facilities has a volume of more than one billion euros. This year we will inaugurate a new
production facility for biopharmaceutical products in Vienna. This is the single largest capital
investment ever made by our company. We plan to use the facility both for the production of our
own portfolio and for third party contract manufacturing. An important milestone for our Bio-
pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing was also the first market approval of a biologic produced
by Boehringer Ingelheim in Shanghai for the Chinese market.
2019 was a very successful year in terms of our performance. This enabled us to further
strengthen the basis of our independence and allowed for investments in innovation and R&D for
urgently needed drugs, as well as for capital investments.
We would like to thank our customers for their trust and our partners for their support. Our spe-
cial thanks go to our employees. They laid the foundation for our success this past year and for the
future – often as “pioneers” in their respective fields. Together, we share the goal to make a contri-
bution to human and animal health.
signed by signed by signed by
Hubertus vo n Baumbach Carinne Brouillon Michel Pairet
signe d by signe d by
Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok Michael Schmelmer8
CORPORATE BODIES
Shareholders’ Committee Board of Managing Directors
Christian Boehringer Hubertus von Baumbach
Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors
Christoph Boehringer Carinne Knoche-Brouillon (from 01.01.2020)
Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
Erich von Baumbach jr. Human Pharma
Isabel Boehringer Dr. Joachim Hasenmaier (until 31.12.2019)
Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
Dr. Mathias Boehringer Animal Health
Prof. Dr. Dr. Andreas Barner Allan Hillgrove (until 31.12.2019)
Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
Human Pharma
Advisory Board Dr. Andreas Neumann (until 30.09.2019)
Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
Egbert Appel (until 31.12.2019) Human Resources
Chairman of the Advisory Board
Trustee, Martin Hilti Family Trust Dr. Michel Pairet
President, Hilti Foundation Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
Innovation
Dr. Nikolaus von Bomhard
Chairman of the Advisory Board (from 01.01.2020) Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok (from 01.01.2020)
Chairman of the Supervisory Board Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG Animal Health
Dr. Andreas Kreimeyer Michael Schmelmer
Former member of the Board of Executive Directors Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
and Research Executive Director BASF SE Finance (until 30.09.2019)
Finance & Group Functions (from 01.10.2019)
Dr. Frank Mastiaux (from 01.01.2020)
Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG
Jan Rinnert
Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors, CEO
Heraeus Holding GmbHPAGE 10–41
G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T
Information about the Group 10
The Group’s business model 10
Research & Development 12
Production 20
Sustainability, occupational safety
and environmental protection 22
Employee reporting 24
Social responsibility 25
Report on economic position 27
Macroeconomic environment 27
Earnings position 28
Development of the businesses 30
Financial position 33
Net assets position 35
Report on opportunities and risks 37
Opportunities and risk management 37
Individual risks 37
Overall statement on the risk situation 39
Report on expected developments 40
TROPER
TNEMEGANAM
PUORG10
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP
The Group’s business model
From its foundation 135 years ago, Boehringer Ingelheim has developed into a research-based
pharmaceutical company. Headquartered in Ingelheim am Rhein, Germany, the company has been
family-owned since its founding in 1885 and is among the world’s 20 leading pharmaceutical compa-
nies. The aim of its business activities is to sustainably improve the health and quality of life of humans
and animals. As one of Germany’s most research-intensive companies, Boehringer Ingelheim concen-
trates on researching medicines and offering therapies for diseases for which satisfactory treatment
options are currently unavailable. It provides the entire value chain, from research and development
(R&D) through production and commercialization of its products. At a global level, every day more
than 51,000 employees create value through innovation for the company’s three businesses:
Human Pharma, Animal Health and Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing. In 2019, Boehringer
Ingelheim generated net sales of 19 billion EUR in these businesses.
With a 74% share of overall sales, the Human Pharma business is the core focus of Boehringer Ingelheim’s
activities. Numerous of the company’s own products are already standard treatments in medicine.
jardiance® strongest The Human Pharma business developed positively in the 2019 financial year. For the first time, the
revenue contributor strongest revenue contributor in this segment was jardiance®, a medicine for treatment of type 2 diabetes
for the first time which also reduces the risk of cardiovascular diseases for type 2 diabetics with pre-existing cardi-
ovascular conditions. The following medicines also played a significant role in Boehringer Ingelheim’s
success: spiriva®, for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) as well as
UNmEsTa tSzeArlLösEeS n aBchY G BesUchSäIfNtenE (SinS % ) Group: 18,997 million EUR
4% 1%
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing Other sales
786 million EUR 215 million EUR
21% 74%
Animal Health Human Pharma
4,035 million EUR 13,961 million EUR11
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP
NET SALES BY REGION (IN MILLION EUR)
Europe 5,689 5,316
2019 2018
Asia,
Australia,
Africa
(AAA) 4,478 4,094
2019 2018
Americas 8,830 8,088
2019 2018
asthma, pradaxa®, which is used to prevent strokes in patients with atrial fibrillation and for the pre-
vention and treatment of thromboembolic disorders and trajenta®, which is used for the treatment of
type 2 diabetes. ofev®, which is used for the treatment of the rare, fatal respiratory disease idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and increasingly also in a further indication – systemic sclerosis with intersti-
tial lung disease (SSc-ILD) – likewise provided a significant contribution to the company’s growth.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s Animal Health business is one of the biggest providers of veterinary vaccines
and medicines and has a strong presence in the livestock and pets segments. Mergers on the world
market resulted in further consolidation on the animal health market in 2019. Boehringer Ingelheim is
the market leader in Germany and the second-largest provider at a global level. While net sales
increased in the pets segment, sales plunged in the swine segment in 2019 due to the outbreak of
African swine fever, especially in China. The most significant products in terms of net sales include
the antiparasitics nexgard®, heartgard®, frontline® and the established swine vaccine ingelvac
circoflex®, which is used to treat porcine circovirus type 2.
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing is another important growth area for Boehringer
Ingelheim. Boehringer Ingelheim’s biopharmaceutical activities comprise the manufacture of own-
brand marketable products (such as actilyse®, metalyse® and praxbind®) and – as one of the world’s
leading providers – process development and commercial production of biopharmaceuticals for third-
party industrial customers.
Other sales mainly comprise discontinued operations.
In the 2019 financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim once again achieved the majority of its sales in the
Americas (46%) and Europe (30%) regions. The region of Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) with countries
such as China, which reported a currency-adjusted sales growth of + 21% for the Human Pharma
business, is of strategic s ignificance for the Group’s future development, making up 24% of its sales.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS12
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
Research & Development
In line with its mission statement, Boehringer Ingelheim’s goal is to research and develop innovative
medicines and therapies for the treatment of diseases for which there are as yet no satisfactory treat-
ments available. Its major emphasis is on the development of medicines as well as new approaches
and therapies to prevent, detect and treat chronic diseases. In areas where the need for treatment is
high, we want to make a major contribution in the human pharma business as well as in the field of
animal health.
We have a global research network of 12 countries, with major facilities in Germany (Biberach, Hanover and
Ingelheim), the USA (Ridgefield, Connecticut; Duluth, Georgia and St. Joseph, Missouri), Austria (Vienna),
Japan (Kobe) and France (Lyon). Boehringer Ingelheim continues to explore opportunities for expanding
its existing product portfolio through organic growth, including in cooperation with external partners.
We build on cooperation with academic institutions, biotech companies, public research institutions
and a global research network comprising our own facilities. Moreover, our research activities in the
R&D expenses field of development projects and technologies are supplemented by important cooperation and
increased to license agreements. A key component of Boehringer Ingelheim’s innovation strategy is the supple-
18.2% of net sales mentation of our own broad R&D portfolio with partnerships especially in the scientific area, where
we collaborate over 150 active projects with more than 120 academic institutes spanning three
continents, so as to strengthen the Group’s innovative prowess. In Human Pharma we are aiming for
at least 30% of all new molecules in our pipeline to come from external innovation.
Research and development
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Expenses in million EUR 3,462 3,164 3,078 3,112 3,004
– as % of net sales 18.2 18.1 17.0 19.6 20.3
Human Pharma expenses in million EUR 3,042 2,780 2,714 2,870 2,780
– as % of Human Pharma net sales 21.8 22.1 21.5 23.9 24.8
Animal Health expenses in million EUR 419 384 357 180 164
– as % of Animal Health net sales 10.4 9.7 9.2 12.3 12.0
Average number of employees 9,154 8,552 8,589 8,055 7,895
Investments in tangible assets (without investments in infrastructure)
in million EUR 183 136 71 92 77
In 2019, Boehringer Ingelheim expanded its research network through its purchase of all shares in the
Swiss biotech company Amal Therapeutics SA, which concentrates on cancer immunotherapy and
Research network develops innovative therapeutic cancer vaccines. This acquisition is an important step in strengthening
expanded Boehringer Ingelheim’s position in research into immuno-oncological cancer therapies. Boehringer
Ingelheim also agreed to collaborate with the South Korean pharmaceutical company Yuhan Corpo-
ration in treating non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). The cooperation and license agreement
focuses on therapy for the three main causes of these diseases: steatosis, inflammation and scarring.13
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP
R&D SITES
18 13
14
12
5 15 20
11
3 6 9 1617 19
10 4 8 21 23 27
7 24 26
2 25
Animal Health (AH) 1
Human Pharma (HP) 22 28
AMERICAS EUROPE ASIA / OCEANIA
Brazil Germany Australia
1. Paulínia (AH) 12. Biberach (HP) 22. Sydney (AH)
13. Hanover (AH)
Mexico 14. Ingelheim am Rhein (AH) China
2. G uadalajara / Tateposco (AH) 15. Katharinenhof-Rohrdorf (AH) 23. Beijing (AH)
24. Shanghai (AH)
USA France 25. Taizhou (AH)
3. Ames (AH) 16. Lyon (AH)
4. Athens / Colbert (AH) 17. Saint-Vulbas (AH) Japan
5. D uluth (AH) 26. Kobe (HP)
6. F ulton (AH) The Netherlands 27. Tokyo (AH)
7. Gainesville (AH) 18. Lelystad (AH)
8. N orth Brunswick (AH) New Zealand
9. Ridgefield (HP) Austria 28. Auckland (AH)
10. Saint Joseph (AH) 19. Innsbruck (HP)
11. Sioux Center (AH) 20. Vienna (HP)
Switzerland
21. Geneva (HP)
BI X, Boehringer Ingelheim’s digital laboratory, grew to 51 employees in 2019. In the past year, its agile
development teams transferred several innovative digital products to the company’s businesses. Exam-
ples are the “FARMERA” platform, which helps swine farmers keep their livestock healthy and thus
enhances their productivity, and “SMART”, which employs self-learning algorithms to increase efficiency
on biopharmaceutical production lines.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS14
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
Since 2010, the Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund drives innovation through its strategic invest-
ments in early-stage science and technology. The Venture Fund invests in biotech and start-up compa-
nies with innovative concepts and technologies that have the potential to provide ground-breaking
therapeutic platforms. The Venture Fund also creates companies when it identifies promising research
projects in universities and academic institutions.
At the biomedical research institute IMP in Vienna (Austria), which is largely funded by Boehringer
Ingelheim, more than 200 scientists from 40 countries carry out research on molecular and cellular
mechanisms, which form the basis of complex biological phenomena.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s R&D activities are the basis for the company’s sustainable success. Our innova-
tive capability has played a key role in the Group’s positive business development over the past years.
In-house R&D – supplemented by external cooperation and partnerships – will also continue to be
a top priority in the future.
In the 2019 financial year, we employed an average of 9,154 people at our R&D facilities. A total of almost
3.5 billion EUR was invested in the research and development of new medicines. This is above the level in
2018 and corresponds to around 18.2% of the Group’s net sales in 2019.
Human Pharma
More than 60 new For more than a century, we have been committed to improving the lives of patients. The focus of
substances in our Human Pharma R&D lies on cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, oncology, respiratory diseases,
Human Pharma portfolio immunology, diseases of the central nervous system (CNS) and retinal health.
By the end of 2019, more than 60 new substances were included in our Human Pharma development
portfolio, and in around 100 clinical and preclinical projects we are working on their development and
registration.
A selection of important research and development projects is shown hereinafter.
DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE END OF 2019 PHASE
CARDIOVASCULAR AND METABOLIC DISEASES
GLP1R / GCGR agonist * Phase I
Amylin analog * Phase I
Hemodynamic modulator Phase I
EmpaLinaMet XR (combination of empaglifozin, linagliptin und metformin) ** registration/
approval
Appetite modulator Phase I
Empagliflozin / New indication ** Phase III
SGLT2 inhibitor | T1DM
Empagliflozin / New indication Phase III
SGLT2 inhibitor | CKD
Empagliflozin / New indication Phase III
SGLT2 inhibitor | CHF15
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP
DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE END OF 2019 PHASE
ONCOLOGY
PD-1 antibody Phase I
mRNA vaccine * Phase I
VEGF/Ang-2 antibody * Phase I
LAG 3 antibody Phase I
SMAC-mimetic Phase I
BET inhibitor Phase I
LRP 5/6 inhibitor * Phase I
MDM2-p53 antagonist * Phase I
SIRP1α antagonist * Phase I
SOS1::KRAS inhibitor Phase I
MEK inhibitor * Phase I
Recombinant vaccine * Phase I
Xentuzumab (BI 836845) * Phase II
IGF1/2 antibody | mBC
RESPIRATORY DISEASES
Autotaxin inhibitor * Phase I
Non-receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor * Phase I
Cysteine protease inhibitor * Phase I
Leukocyte protease inhibitor Phase I
Phosphodiesterase inhibitor Phase I
BI 1265162 > Phase II
ENaC inhibitor | CF
Nintedanib / new indication ** > registration/
Triple angiokinase inhibitor | PF-ILD approval
Nintedanib / new indication ** >> registration/
Triple angiokinase inhibitor | SSc-ILD approval
IMMUNOLOGY
Nuclear receptor antagonist Phase I
Epithelial barrier stress modulator Phase I
Receptor serine/threonine kinase inhibitor Phase I
Spesolimab (BI 655130) Phase II
IL36R antibody | GPP
Spesolimab (BI 655130) Phase II
IL36R antibody | PPP
Spesolimab (BI 655130) Phase II
IL36R antibody | AtD
Spesolimab (BI 655130) Phase II
IL36R antibody | Ulcerative colitis
Spesolimab (BI 655130) > Phase II
IL36R antibody | CD (Crohn’s disease)
BI 730357 Phase II
Nuclear receptor antagonist | Psoriasis
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS16
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE END OF 2019 PHASE
CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DISEASES
TRPC 4/5 inhibitor * Phase I
BI 409306 * Phase II
PDE 9 inhibitor | FEP
BI 409306 * Phase II
PDE 9 inhibitor | REX
BI 425809 Phase II
GlyT1 inhibitor | CIAS
BI 425809 Phase II
GlyT1 inhibitor | AD
RETINAL HEALTH
Neuronal damage modulator Phase I
VEGF / Ang-2 antibody * Phase I
BI 1467335 * Phase II
AOC3 inhibitor | Diabetic retinopathy
Indication abbreviations:
AD: Alzheimer’s disease CKD: Chronic kidney disease REX: R eduction of relapse
AtD: Atopic dermatitis FEP: First episode psychosis in schizophrenia
CD: Crohn's disease GPP: Generalized pustular psoriasis SSc-ILD: S ystemic sclerosis-
associated interstitial
CF: Cystic fibrosis mBC: Metastatic breast cancer
lung disease
CHF: Congestive heart failure PF-ILD: P rogressive fibrosing
T1DM: Type 1 diabetes mellitus
CIAS: C ognitive impairment interstitial lung disease
in schizophrenia PPP: Palmoplantar pustulosis
* Partnered projects or acquired assets.
** Study complete, submissions ongoing.
> Key pipeline advances (April–December 2019).
>> Now approved in the US for systemic sclerosis-associated ILD.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s therapeutic area of cardiovascular and metabolic diseases contains some of
the company’s core products. Within the diabetes portfolio and the alliance with Eli Lilly important
research data were published in 2019.
Heart failure is a progressive, debilitating and potentially fatal condition and the leading cause of hospi-
talization in Europe and the US. About half of people with heart failure are expected to die within five
years of diagnosis. In 2019, the Boehringer Ingelheim and Eli Lilly Alliance announced the initiation of
EMPULSE, the sixth phase III study in the empagliflozin heart failure program, which also consists of the
EMPEROR-Reduced and EMPEROR-Preserved, EMPERIAL-Preserved and EMPA-VISION studies. These
studies are investigating the effects of empagliflozin on heart failure- related outcomes and functional
capacity in more than 9,500 patients with heart failure, including those with and without type 2 diabe-
tes. Building on our legacy of innovative treatments for a range of cardiovascular and metabolic condi-
tions, our R&D strategy takes a holistic view of the needs of cardio metabolic disease patients who often
have multiple, related conditions. We are pursuing the next wave of innovative medicines for obesity,
kidney and liver diseases – including non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).17
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP
Our focus in oncology research is to take cancer on by developing novel therapeutic approaches that
address unmet needs in lung and gastrointestinal cancers. We are advancing a very broad pipeline of
cancer cell-directed agents, immune oncology therapies and combinations of these approaches. In
2019, we have successfully advanced a range of research programs in this area. Ten new development
projects have been tested in people for the first time.
The scientific research for new therapeutic concepts to help patients with respiratory diseases
continues to be of high importance for Boehringer Ingelheim. In 2019, our focus areas leveraged our
extensive expertise in respiratory medicine, inflammation and fibrosis to target a broad range of inter-
stitial lung diseases (including indications such as IPF and systemic sclerosis-associated interstitial
lung disease (SSc-ILD)), as well as serious lung diseases with high unmet need, such as cystic fibrosis
and severe asthma. Data readouts from two phase III data sets for nintedanib in SSc-ILD (SENCSIS®
trial) and in progressive fibrosing interstitial lung diseases (PF-ILD, INBUILD® trial) occurred in 2019.
Based upon these data, filings for regulatory approvals in the respective indications were submitted
and first approvals for ofev® to slow the rate of decline in pulmonary function in patients with SSc-ILD
have been granted in the US, Japan and other countries in 2019. The new respimat® reusable was
launched in the first countries in 2019.
Boehringer Ingelheim has been continuously developing its immunology R&D activities for some years
now and is ramping up its capacities for a series of dermatological and gastroenterological indications.
Last year, risankizumab, originally discovered through our research activities and partnered with
AbbVie, received marketing approval and is now commercialized by AbbVie in major geographies.
Some of the most important neuropsychiatric diseases, such as schizophrenia or depression, continue
to be the center of Boehringer Ingelheim’s research in central nervous system diseases. Whilst the
medical need is high and the number of patients is increasing, the scientific challenges are extremely
high. Boehringer Ingelheim takes in this challenge and remains optimistic that we can develop effective
therapies for the treatment of neuropsychiatric diseases. The clinical investigation program also
encompasses the aspect of early treatment options at a point, when symptoms and physical disor-
ders are disturbing, but not yet pronounced, so that they could potentially be detected (e.g. by voice
analysis). This could favorably impact and avoid a more dramatic development.
Boehringer Ingelheim has also expanded the global research and development activities to tackle Boehringer Ingelheim
eye diseases, specifically those affecting the back of the eye. Science and innovation are at the core extends research
of the comprehensive pipeline portfolio the company has built in retinal health, with the first assets spectrum by retinal health
already in clinical development with the aim to prevent visual impairment and blindness as effective
as possible.
In addition to building on our strengths in core therapeutic areas, we capture synergies by focusing on
research platforms, ofev® being a good example for this. In areas such as immune modulation and fibrosis
we are working on combining the new approaches. The focus on common pathophysiological mecha-
nisms enables us to discover new approaches and to accelerate the development of new medicines.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS18
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
The following table shows the relevant changes in current clinical studies (Phase III):
CLINICAL TRIAL PHASE CHANGES IN 2019
senscis® (NCT02597933) was a double blind, Phase III Study completed and met primary endpoint.
randomized, placebo-controlled trial evaluating Published in New England Journal of Medicine.
efficacy and safety of oral nintedanib treatment
In the Phase III SENSCIS® trial nintedanib
for at least 52 weeks in patients with systemic
slowed the loss of pulmonary function in
sclerosis-associated interstitial lung disease
patients with SSc-ILD compared to placebo.
(SSc-ILD).
Patients taking nintedanib showed a 44%
reduction in the rate of decline of their lung
function, measured in FVC assessed over
52 weeks.
inbuild® (NCT02999178) was a double blind, Phase III Study completed and met primary endpoint.
randomized, placebo-controlled trial evaluating Published in New England Journal of Medicine.
the efficacy and safety of Nintedanib over
In the Phase III INBUILD® trial, nintedanib
52 weeks in patients with progressive fibrosing
slowed lung function decline significantly by
interstitial lung disease (PF-ILD).
57% across the overall study population, as
assessed by the annual rate of decline in
forced vital capacity (FVC) over 52 weeks in
patients with fibrosing interstitial lung dis-
ease (ILDs) with signs of progression.
An open-label, long-term extension study to Phase III First patient included.
assess the safety and efficacy of BI 655130
(spesolimab) treatment in patients with general-
ized pustular psoriasis (GPP) who took part in
previous studies with BI 655130.
empa-kidney (NCT 03594110) is a multinational Phase III First patient included.
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
clinical trial, designed to evaluate the effect of
empagliflozin on kidney disease progression and
cardiovascular mortality risk in people with
pre-existing chronic kidney disease with and
without type 2 diabetes.
carolina (NCT 01243424) is a multinational, Phase III Study completed and met primary endpoint.
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Published in Journal of the American Medical
clinical trial designed to assess the effect of lina- Association.
gliptin compared to glimepiride on cardiovascular
(CV) safety in adults with relatively early type 2
diabetes and increased CV risk or established
CV disease.19
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP
Animal Health
In its R&D activities in the field of animal health, Boehringer Ingelheim concentrates on innovative
vaccines and antiparasitics for the protection of livestock and pets, as well as pharmaceutical
products for the treatment of chronic diseases. Our goal is to strengthen animal health by means
of innovative, preventive solutions and medicines.
At our globally oriented research and development facilities, we focus on research into new sub-
stances and the development of future therapeutic solutions. Since many vaccines are based on
local pathogens and pathogen variants, it is imperative that we are present in all key market
regions with local R&D and production facilities.
In the past year, we created a comprehensive database of pet and livestock diseases which will
serve as the basis for focusing our research and development activities. Over 2,000 diseases and
clinical symptoms which have been entered in this database can be evaluated based on various
key criteria such as pathogens or affected organ systems.
In addition, we brought arti-cell® Forte, the first stem cell-based animal health product, onto the Launch of
European market. This is used to treat lameness in horses. We also continue to work on highly arti-cell® Forte
promising innovative, digitally integrated diagnostics solutions.
In 2019, we initiated more than 400 clinical studies worldwide and received more than 200
product authorizations. In addition to our internal research and development, we analyze external
projects or products and integrate them in our portfolio where appropriate. Obtaining approvals
and expanding the geographical distribution of existing products are other important aspects of
our R&D activities.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS20
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
PRODUCTION FACILITIES
11
23
2013
14
12 21
15 19
16 18
10
7 9 6 22 28
17 25
3
8 2426
4 5
27
2
1
29
Animal Health (AH)
Human Pharma (HP)
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing (Bio)
AMERICAS EUROPE Italy ASIA / OCEANIA
Brazil Denmark 18. Fornovo (HP) China
1. Itapecerica (HP) 11. Kalundborg (AH) 19. Noventa (AH) 24. Nanchang (AH)
2. Paulínia (AH) 25. Shanghai (HP, Bio)
Germany The Netherlands 26. Taizhou (AH)
Mexico 12. Biberach (Bio) 20. Lelystad (AH)
3. Guadalajara (AH) 13. Dortmund (HP) Indonesia
4. Xochimilco (HP) 14. Ingelheim am Rhein (HP) Austria 27. Bogor (HP)
21. Vienna (Bio)
Puerto Rico France Japan
5. Barceloneta (AH) 15. Lyon (AH) Spain 28. Yamagata (HP)
16. Toulouse (AH) 22. Sant Cugat (HP)
USA New Zealand
6. Athens (AH) Greece United Kingdom 29. Auckland (AH)
7. Fremont (Bio) 17. Koropi (HP) 23. Pirbright (AH)
8. Gainesville (AH)
9. St. Joseph (AH)
10. Worthington (AH)
Production
Human Pharma
In the Human Pharma business, production is responsible for the reliable supply of innovative,
top-quality medicines at competitive prices for patients and customers. The ongoing development of
the company’s internal production facilities and our strategic cooperation with external manufacturers
have established a modern, flexible market supply network which encompasses the entire value chain,
from suppliers of starting materials to worldwide logistics and the distribution of finished pharmaceu-
tical products. Boehringer Ingelheim’s production facilities concentrate on products that are strategi-
cally important for the company, as well as on state-of-the-art and in some cases unique manufacturing
technologies. Partnerships with external manufacturers expand production capacities, particularly for
products which are already far advanced in terms of their life cycle.21
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP
In the 2019 financial year, this global network included Boehringer Ingelheim’s own plants in nine coun-
tries. The Group has four biopharmaceuticals facilities. It also has two facilities for the manufacture of
pharmaceutical active substances, one that produces medical devices, and eight that manufacture
finished pharmaceutical products. In 2019, the Group’s network was optimized further and the facility in
Malgrat (Spain) was sold. By assigning important steps and technologies within the production processes
to more than one facility, Boehringer Ingelheim was always able to ensure the patient care in 2019.
Delivery capacity and patient care are a high priority for Boehringer Ingelheim. The company consist-
ently makes important investments in the development and transformation of its production capaci-
ties, in both its internal and external network. At its Ingelheim headquarters, Boehringer Ingelheim
made significant progress with the implementation of a key investment in the industrialization of
newly developed innovative medicines and an initial supply of them to the market. The construction of
a plant at the Group’s Sant Cugat facility in Spain was completed on schedule and the company’s mar-
kets were additionally supplied with respimat® technology-based inhalation medicines. The extension
of our biopharmaceutical site in Vienna (Austria) also creates additional in-house capacities to cover
the increasing demands for actilyse® and praxbind®.
The ongoing implementation of the Group’s supply chain strategy is optimizing value chain management
significantly, from the supplier to the customer (“end-to-end”). The use of modern digital and automated
processes and technologies facilitates the transparent and efficient management of an integrated, flexible
supply chain that is based on a global production network.
Animal Health
16
In 2019, Animal Health products were manufactured for worldwide sale in a network of 16 Animal
Health production facilities in eleven countries. In addition to Boehringer Ingelheim’s internal facili-
ties, the company used around 170 contract manufacturers to manufacture products for Boehringer Animal Health
Ingelheim. The company’s product portfolio is essentially unchanged and is well balanced between production facilities
vaccines, pharmaceutical products and nutraceuticals. These traditional products are supplemented in eleven countries
with diagnostics products as well as monitoring solutions, including digital applications which are
used for livestock monitoring or which link livestock owners with veterinarians. Optimization of the
company’s production network continues and remains a priority, with the goal of ensuring a robust,
efficient supply of all its products. The company sold its facility in Saint-Herblon (France) and reduced
the number of its contract manufacturers in 2019.
In 2019, investments were made in capacity expansion for the strongest revenue contributor,
nexgard®, at the Barceloneta (Puerto Rico) facility; in the expansion of small animal vaccine produc-
tion at the company’s facility in Athens, Georgia (USA) and of cattle vaccine production in St. Joseph,
Missouri (USA); and in capacity expansion for foot-and-mouth disease vaccines in Lyon (France).
Additional investments were made in the development of innovative technologies for the manufacture
of our products.
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing
Boehringer Ingelheim pursues its biopharmaceutical activities at its facilities in Biberach (Germany), One of the leading
Vienna (Austria), Fremont, California (USA) and Shanghai (China). They comprise the manufacture of providers for
own-brand marketable products (such as actilyse®, metalyse® and praxbind®), the manufacture of industrial customers
biopharmaceuticals for clinical testing and – as one of the world’s leading companies – process devel-
opment, launch preparation and commercial production of biopharmaceuticals for third-party indus-
trial customers. 70% of the top 20 pharmaceutical companies and innovative biotech firms are clients
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS22
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
of Boehringer Ingelheim’s Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing business. Boehringer Ingelheim
covers the entire biopharmaceutical value chain, from genetic development of the production cell,
followed by manufacturing the active substance and filling the finished pharmaceutical product, down
to the product launch and the global market supply.
2019 saw an overall increase to the full use of capacity at its network of industrial-scale production
facilities. Besides many other products, the Biberach facility fulfilled the increasing market demand for
actilyse®. At the company’s facility in Fremont, California (USA), the approval process for a custom-
er’s market product was successfully completed in 2019. It will thus be possible to meet rising product
demand within the network from both Biberach and Fremont. Moreover, at our large-scale cell culture
plant in Biberach and our large-scale microbial plant in Vienna, three further customer products
were successfully approved by the international authorities. One of these products is plasmid DNA,
which is used as a gene therapy. At its Vienna facility, Boehringer Ingelheim is actively examining
new therapy options.
The expansion project for a new industrial-scale biopharmaceutical production facility at Boehringer
Ingelheim’s facility in Vienna reached a further milestone in 2019, when two key functions went into
operation. The strategic relevance of our biotechnological production capacities is rising in the context
of the increasing importance of NBEs (new biological entities) in our pipeline.
In 2019, the production and delivery of everything from hospital products to finished pharmaceutical
products began as scheduled in Shanghai (China), for both the local market and countries outside
China. In addition, an application for approval of a customer product by the Chinese authorities was
successfully completed. This will be the first biopharmaceutical product to be approved in line with the
new regulatory requirements for contract manufacturing in China. Approval is the final milestone in a
pilot project between Boehringer Ingelheim and the Chinese regulatory authorities. The principles of
cooperation between a marketing authorization holder and a contract manufacturer were evaluated
and successfully applied, and our facility in Shanghai will be recognized as a contract manufacturer
(CMO) by the Chinese authorities.
Sustainability, occupational safety and environmental protection
The protection of employees and the environment, as well as the sustainable use of natural resources
and the promotion of environmental awareness, are major components of our company’s mission
statement and are of prime importance to Boehringer Ingelheim. Compliance with social and environ-
mental aspects has been firmly anchored in our corporate philosophy for many years now to ensure
that we can achieve sustainability for future generations.
Group-wide, our company has developed binding standards in terms of environmental protection and
health and safety at work. These internal guidelines reflect the respective country-specific require-
ments. In many cases, they go far beyond the standards prescribed by law. In particular, we follow
international standards and guidance documents and work in close cooperation with the relevant
associations. Within Boehringer Ingelheim, the corporate department Environment, Health, Safety &
Sustainability (EHS&S) is responsible for this strategic focus.23
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP
In 2011, we started our “BE GREEN – Future by Choice” program, which was developed further in 2019,
setting new strategic global goals for 2030, while taking our business growth into account. With this
program, we optimize “green” activities at all our facilities and business areas worldwide, while factor-
ing in the value chain. The program considers many different environmental aspects: building up facil-
ities close to nature to provide habitats for a variety of plants and animals, encouraging “green”
behavior of our employees, adopting measures to avoid water and air pollution, using renewable
energy, reducing waste and creating environmentally friendly products as well as implementing certi-
fied systems for environmental protection and energy management.
We are continuously working on CO -reducing measures at our facilities, and we are aiming to lower
2
our absolute CO emission by 30% until 2030. We focus on the sustainability of our major projects, we
2
are spending additional 10 million EUR per year to invest into a green future, and we foster environment-
friendly and energy-saving investments.
By means of digitalized solutions, we work on implementing globally efficient processes with stand-
ardized software solutions. Global digitalization projects such as the collection of environmental data
for the Group-wide “BE GREEN” program and electronic signature solutions for EH&S audit systems
were successfully supported, tested and implemented. This digitalization approach enables us to
rationalize our activities throughout the world and to reduce our expenditure without suffering quality
or performance losses.
Boehringer Ingelheim is aware of the need for active water management programs. Access to suffi-
ciently clean water has an impact on social and cultural justice, ecological sustainability and commer-
cial benefits. We are therefore introducing water management programs at all facilities that are prone
to water risk and are reducing the volume of medicines left in production wastewater; we require our
suppliers to do the same. This year in October, our Promeco production facility in Xochimilco (Mexico)
was awarded Alliance Water Stewardship (AWS) certification. Boehringer Ingelheim is the first pharma-
ceutical company worldwide to be certified to this globally recognized standard.
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) poses an increasingly serious threat to global public health and requires
action at every level of government as well as by businesses and society at large. For this reason, in
2019 Boehringer Ingelheim joined the AMR Industry Alliance – one of the largest private coalitions
established to offer sustainable solutions for combating antimicrobial resistance.
Boehringer Ingelheim supports the objectives of the Nagoya Protocol and is concerned with the
aspects of biodiversity which are relevant for its activities in the pharmaceutical sector. We are commit-
ted to upholding the obligations which result from acceptance of the Nagoya Protocol, by pursuing
research and development in a responsible manner.
In 2019, the “BE SAFE – Zero by Choice” program, which aims to further reduce the number of 10 years “BE SAFE - Zero
workplace accidents, celebrated its tenth anniversary in Germany. In addition, the “High Five for by Choice”
Safety” initiative, which is intended to promote occupational safety, was introduced in 2019.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS24
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
Employee reporting
Growing number of In 2019, Boehringer Ingelheim employed 51,015 people on average worldwide. This represents an
employees increase of + 1.4% over the previous year. The number of staff increased in all of its regions.
Average number of employees by region
2019 2018*
Americas 13,113 13,023
Europe 26,884 26,691
Asia / Australia / Africa (AAA) 11,018 10,619
51,015 50,333
* The methodology used to calculate the average number of employees was revised for the 2019 consolidated financial statements.
The calculated average, which was originally based on the four previous end-of-quarter figures, has been changed to an assessment
based on 12 month-end figures.The figures for 2018 have been adjusted in line with the new methodology.
A major success factor for the positive growth of the Group is its engaged and motivated staff. Accord-
ingly, we are particularly committed to actively developing and supporting our employees. In order to
be best prepared for the challenges ahead and as part of a comprehensive training system, we empha-
size the acquisition of technical expertise and also promote social skills.
With the integration of various experiences, cultural backgrounds and personalities, Boehringer
Ingelheim creates an openness to different approaches and opinions, living up to its corporate vision
“Value through Innovation”. As a global company, it is important to us that the diversity of our custom-
ers is reflected in our workforce. Creating a working environment that embraces diversity and differ-
ences is one of the pillars of Boehringer Ingelheim's corporate culture and is a contributing factor to
the company’s success.
In addition to competitive salaries, Boehringer Ingelheim offers other benefits to its employees. These
benefits include a range of company pension plans, flexible and home-based work options and
numerous health-related benefits. As a significant segment of our corporate strategy, it is part of our
human resources department’s scope to ensure the employability of our staff, promote a wide range of
opportunities for innovation at work, and support our employees to nurture their own talents and
develop as individuals.
Vocational training has always been of major importance to Boehringer Ingelheim. As part of its under-
standing of social responsibility, the company offers career opportunities to a great number of young
people. At the same time, we also tie a talented and well-qualified workforce of young professionals to
the company against a backdrop of demographic change. In 2019, 194 young professionals started
their careers with Boehringer Ingelheim in Germany in over 25 different scientific, technical and com-
mercial fields, in training and dual-study courses. On average, 704 young people were enrolled in our
vocational training program in 2019.25
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP
One of the company’s aims is to strengthen the appeal of Boehringer Ingelheim as a top employer for
our current and future employees. In 2019, Boehringer Ingelheim received a Top Employer award in this
area from the auditors of the international, independent “Top Employers Institute”. In addition to
Germany, Boehringer Ingelheim also received this award in Argentina, Brazil, China, Italy, Indonesia,
Colombia, Malaysia, Austria, the Philippines, Poland, Romania, Russia, Singapore, Spain, South Korea,
Thailand and Vietnam.
Social responsibility
At Boehringer Ingelheim we are powered by our people. We therefore actively promote a diverse, coop-
erative and open working environment where our employees’ differences are valued and respected.
Diversity makes for the right mix, but it is inclusion which brings out the best results from this mix.
Since we concentrate on encouraging a respectful environment, we have a comprehensive diversity
and inclusion action plan in place to promote diversity and the parameters necessary for it. Core issues
in 2019 included many activities of our diversity networks and our new recommendations for respect-
ful communication. Boehringer Ingelheim has been an official member of the “Diversity Charter” since
early 2016 and a PROUTEMPLOYER acknowledged by the PROUT AT WORK foundation since 2017.
Taking social responsibility is an important aspect of our corporate culture. Our commitment to
the well-being of our patients and employees as well as their families is the focus of a wide range
of projects. It is important for us to become involved into social interaction within the regions
where we are active as a company, with the main focus of our social engagement or support of
people in need for help being centered on the human person. All of Boehringer Ingelheim’s activ-
ities also focus on protecting and maintaining the environment.
A major pillar of our social commitment is our Making More Health (MMH) initiative. Since its start
in 2010, it has continuously developed as a social entrepreneurship movement, both within our
company and externally. Socially entrepreneurial and sustainable activities are not limited to indi-
vidual projects relating to various regions and issues. Instead, this initiative focuses on creatively
connecting with local and international partners from different sectors. Networking across all tra-
ditional visible and invisible borders is a central element of a successful social movement, in order
to identify, promote and implement innovative solutions for far-reaching and complex challenges
in the healthcare sector. Co-creation as a bridge between social and commercial entrepreneurship
brings together social entrepreneurs and non-profit organizations from the health care sector with
Boehringer Ingelheim employees and their resources. To date, within the MMH network, Boehringer
Ingelheim and Ashoka – one of the world’s largest non-profit organizations – have together helped
around 100 social entrepreneurs to reach approximately 9 million people worldwide in the area of
health care.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS26
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
The MMH initiative also aims to promote employees’ commitment to social entrepreneurship in
order to advance health care projects in many different countries, by working with local, external
partners as well as colleagues from throughout Boehringer Ingelheim. MMH leadership programs
in rural southern India (Insights India) as well as Kenya (Insights Kenya), participation in social
intrapreneurship online courses, opportunities to collaborate with social entrepreneurs in our
MMH network as "Executives in Residence", and an internal competition promoting employees’
own projects have honed our staff’s social entrepreneurial thinking and activities. We have also
strengthened our networking philosophy through partnerships with non-profit organizations and
social enterprises in the health care sector. A large number of local projects have taken shape in
which our employees are actively involved. Above all, improving health means understanding
people’s environment and their everyday challenges and offering solutions where they are needed.
Health awareness, affordability, accessibility of health services and acceptance play a key role
here. MMH plays a role in the university sector, with the goal of helping students and lecturers to
learn more about socially entrepreneurial thinking and practical activities through the develop-
ment of health care-related projects.
To optimize stroke care in Europe and emerging markets, Boehringer Ingelheim established the “Angels
Initiative” together with the European Stroke Organisation (ESO), the World Stroke Organization
(WSO), the Stroke Alliance for Europe (SAFE) and many other national stroke associations and compa-
nies. In 2019, this initiative achieved its goal of developing a network of 1,500 clinics in Europe which
ensure that stroke patients are treated in line with defined standards. Worldwide, there are already
more than 2,700 clinics in more than 95 countries.
Support of Boehringer Ingelheim supports the German Center for Infection Research (DZIF) in a project to develop
COVID-19 medication a therapy for the new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) with the development of monoclonal antiviral bodies,
development aiming to complete molecule discovery efforts within six months.
In 2019, Boehringer Ingelheim continued to pursue its LastMile program with support from the Global
Alliance for Livestock Veterinary Medicines (GALVmed) and funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation. This integrated, solution-oriented initiative aims to respond to critical challenges in the
field of animal health by ensuring the consistent availability of medical resources for animals in hard-
to-access areas of sub-Saharan Africa. Through this project, Boehringer Ingelheim helps small farmers
to gain access to veterinary medicines at a local level. Also newly approved medicines and new employ-
ment opportunities in technical and regulatory fields had a positive effect on the well-being of animals
and people in the “LastMile” countries in 2019. This underlines Boehringer Ingelheim’s strong social
commitment: We aim to have a positive impact on human and animal lives in areas where there is a
particularly vital need for this.
Beyond that, our employees are getting involved in a large variety of local initiatives together with the
company in order to help people in need in case of environmental catastrophes or just in everyday
situations, by providing technical support and their time or by providing medical or nursing care.27
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
REPORT ON ECONOMIC POSITION
REPORT ON ECONOMIC POSITION
Macroeconomic environment
The world economy suffered a noticeable loss of momentum in the past year. A world economic growth
rate of almost 3% was recorded for 2019, the lowest level since the 2008 /2009 financial and economic
crisis. The trade policy tensions between the US and China, the United Kingdom’s Brexit negotiations
with the EU, and growing global uncertainty about domestic and international political measures
prompted uncertainty among investors and resulted in a strong decrease in investment activity. The growth
slowdown affected the advanced economies and the emerging economies in equal measure, although
its significance for individual countries varied depending on the nature of their trading activities.
These overall conditions have a more direct and stronger impact in cyclical industries. The pharmaceu-
tical markets are characterized rather by the performance capability of national economies and, in par-
ticular, by the demographic development of societies.
The global pharmaceuticals market registered a growth rate of 6% in the 2019 financial year (source:
IQVIA). This trend was driven by rising demand in the industrialized countries for innovative medi- Global pharmaceutical
cines. Due to the aging population in the industrialized nations and the better access to medical care, market continues
the industry’s growth remained positive and surpassed the figure for the previous year 2018 of 5%. to grow
The growth of healthcare costs as a percentage of gross domestic product in many countries means
that governments and payors are under pressure to control and regulate healthcare expenditures even
more strongly than in the past. Along with sustained public and political pressure to contain the prices
for pharmaceuticals, many cost-cutting measures have been imposed by governments and other payors.
These include government-imposed industry-wide price reductions, mandatory reference price sys-
tems, payors limiting access to treatments based on strict cost-benefit analyses, imports of medicines
from lower-cost countries to more expensive ones, a shift of the burden of payment to patients through
higher co-payment programs and mandatory substitution of generics for the patented equivalent.
Furthermore, the protection of our intellectual property (patents, etc.) is under increasing pressure.
The animal health industry, which focusses on livestock and pets, is on a growth path in particular in
the emerging markets, due to population growth and improving living standards for many people. The
animal health market is characterized by rising demands for animal proteins and increasing popularity
of pets. On the other hand there are challenges as well. Strategic growth requires constant research and
development and innovations to be brought to market. In addition, a consolidation through mergers
of suppliers as well as on customer side currently leads to increasing competition.
Boehringer Ingelheim responded to this environment with boldness and innovative spirit and remains
determined to improve human and animal health even in difficult times.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS28
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
In 2020, the International Monetary Fund and the OECD expect the world economy to register a growth
rate similar to that in 2019. The continued loose monetary policy of the leading central banks and a
preliminary partial agreement in the trade conflict between the US and China point to stabilization. The
United Kingdom’s expected orderly withdrawal from the EU should also have a positive impact. How-
ever, there are also many risks which, if realized, could lead to weaker growth. They include in particu-
lar the recently emerged viral disease COVID-19 (coronavirus), which could have drastic consequences
for people and the world economy, a repeated escalation in the trade dispute, a worsening of geo-
political tensions, a spillover of the industrial sector’s weakness into the overall economy and weather-
related natural disasters.
Due to its global activities, Boehringer Ingelheim is depending on currency developments, in particular
regarding the USD and the Japanese Yen. In addition, the Chinese renminbi increases in importance.
All currencies with major significance for Boehringer Ingelheim had a positive impact on the sales in
the past year. Significant currency risks are hedged through suitable financial instruments.
Currency development
Effect on
net sales
Average rate – basis: EUR 1 2019 2018 (in million EUR)
US dollar 1.12 1.18 377
Japanese yen 122.06 130.41 89
Chinese renminbi 7.73 7.81 7
Earnings position
Our guiding principle of “Value through Innovation” and our long-term corporate strategy are
intended to secure the company’s independence. Improving human and animal health based on
new, future-oriented therapies in areas with high medical need are at the core of Boehringer Ingelheim’s
strategic focus. This requires a stable earnings position and a solid financing base in the near term.
19
Boehringer Ingelheim recorded net sales of 18,997 million EUR in the 2019 financial year, which corre-
sponds to an increase of +8.6% compared with the previous year’s level of 17,498 million EUR. The
billion EUR in sales exchange rate development on the foreign exchange markets and the associated exchange rate effects
had a positive impact on the sales trend. Adjusted for these effects, the Group grew by +5.7%.
With sales of 8,830 million EUR and a share of around 46% of overall sales, the Americas region remains
Boehringer Ingelheim’s key sales market. For the Americas region, sales increased by +9.2% year-over-
year (currency-adjusted +4.7%). Sales in the Europe region rose by +7.0% to 5,689 million EUR
(currency-adjusted +6.9%). The Group thus achieved 30% of its sales in this region. This growth was
driven by the markets in Germany, Spain and Great Britain, as well as Russia and Poland, while the
French market was unable to match the previous year’s sales volume. The Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA)
region also realized strong growth of +9.4% (currency-adjusted +6.4%). Revenues of 4,478 million EUR
were generated in this region, corresponding to a 24% share of the Group’s total revenues. The
strategically important Chinese market provided 5.2% of the company’s overall sales volume, which
represents a currency-adjusted increase of +5.1% year-over-year. The growth in the Animal Health
business in China was negatively affected by the outbreak of African swine fever.29
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
REPORT ON ECONOMIC POSITION
Net sales by region (in million EUR)
currency
2019 2018 Change adjusted
Americas 8,830 8,088 +9.2% +4.7% Growth in
Europe 5,689 5,316 +7.0% +6.9% all regions
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 4,478 4,094 +9.4% +6.4%
Supported by good results from clinical trials as well as by cooperations with our external partners, we
placed new products on the market and successfully pushed ahead with well-established products in
our Human Pharma business. On the other hand the results of our Animal Health business were nega-
tively affected by the outbreak of African swine fever in Asia in particular, but also increasing consoli-
dation in the animal health industry.
Key figures (in million EUR) 2019 2018 Change
Net sales 18,997 17,498 +8.6%
Operating income 3,782 3,472 +8.9%
Return on net sales +19.9% +19.8%
Income before taxes 3,496 3,176 +10.1%
Income after taxes 2,721 2,075 +31.1%
The materials ratio (taking into consideration the change in inventory) rose slightly to 14.2%
(2018: 13.5%). This was mainly attributable to increased destruction costs due to African swine fever.
The personnel expenses rose at a disproportionately slower rate than revenues, which was also related
to high extraordinary effects in the previous year. The company’s workforce once again increased in
2019, particularly at its strategic facilities.
Amortization and depreciation increased in comparison to 2018. In the past financial year, this item
included adjustments to intangible fixed assets in the Human Pharma and Animal Health businesses
as well as impairments losses on tangible fixed assets. Other operating expenses rose disproportion-
ately due to increased investment in research and development, services purchased for other projects
and higher currency losses (also from hedging) year-over-year.
The operating income in 2019 included extraordinary effects resulting from impairment losses on
intangible fixed assets, restructuring measures and integration costs as well as reversals of provisions,
amounting to a total of – 163 million EUR (2018: – 420 million EUR). The previous year’s operating
income was surpassed, thanks primarily to the positive operating trend in our Human Pharma busi-
ness. Boehringer Ingelheim recorded an operating income of 3,782 million EUR, corresponding to a
return on sales of 19.9% (2018: 19.8%).
Income before taxes increased, due to higher operating income and financial income. The financial
income remains strongly adversely affected due to the further decline in the discount rate for pensions
and similar obligations and amounts to – 369 million EUR. The financial income improved overall due
to gains from plan assets to cover pensions and similar obligations.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS30
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
Income after taxes was significantly higher (+31.1%) than in the previous year and reflected the
favorable course of business. It should be pointed out that the previous year was particularly burdened
by strong aperiodic tax expenses.
It must be noted in this regard that, under the provisions of German commercial law, shareholders’
personal taxes arising from Group business activities may not be recognized as tax expenses. Instead,
these taxes are presented as part of withdrawals from Group equity. Taking this specificity into account,
the actual tax ratio is markedly higher than the figure shown in the profit and loss statement.
2,721
Despite challenging market conditions in some business areas, the Boehringer Ingelheim Group regis-
tered a positive performance in the 2019 financial year. Following a Group profit of 2,075 million EUR in
million EUR the previous year, in 2019 this figure increased considerably and amounted to 2,721 million EUR.
Group profit
Development of the businesses
In the past financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim’s activities were divided into the Human Pharma,
Animal Health and Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing businesses.
Net sales by businesses (in million EUR)
currency
2019 2018 Change adjusted
Human Pharma 13,961 12,559 + 11.2% + 8.0%
Animal Health 4,035 3,960 + 1.9% – 0.7%
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 786 734 + 7.1% + 7.1%
Other sales 41 40 + 2.5% + 3.4%
Discontinued Operations 174 205 – 15.1% – 14.6%
Human Pharma
With around 74% of total Group revenue, Human Pharma was the main pillar of Boehringer Ingel-
heim’s business activities. Human Pharma sales amounted to 13,961 million EUR in 2019. This is
equivalent to growth of +11.2% (currency-adjusted +8.0%) compared with the previous year. This pos-
Human Pharma grows in itive sales trend resulted from the solid market position of established medicines, yet was driven as
all regions well by the products in the jardiance®-family and ofev®. The company achieved growth year-over-
year in all regions. Despite the price pressure – particularly for established medicines – Boehringer
Ingelheim successfully held its own and continued to pursue the reorganization of its Human Pharma
product portfolio as planned.
In 2019, the type 2 diabetes medicine jardiance® was the company’s biggest revenue contributor
for the first time. We achieved sales of 2,152 million EUR with jardiance® in the reporting period,
which corresponds to an increase of +47.3% compared with the previous year’s 1,461 million EUR.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s second-strongest product in terms of sales in the past year was spiriva®,
which is used to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). This generated a sales volume
of 2,058 million EUR, which was lower than the previous year’s level (2,412 million EUR) as expected
in view of the product’s life cycle.31
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
REPORT ON ECONOMIC POSITION
trajenta® and jentadueto®, for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, registered a sales volume of
1,559 million EUR, a growth rate of + 11.6%.
In the 2019 financial year, the anticoagulant pradaxa® achieved a + 2.9% increase on the previous
year’s figure of 1,486 million EUR. With a sales volume of 1,529 million EUR, this medicine remains
one of Boehringer Ingelheim’s biggest revenue contributors.
ofev® registered a growth rate of + 31.6% and contributed 1,491 million EUR to the company’s successful
sales result. The product is used for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and to an increasing
extend also for SSc-ILD.
micardis®, which is used for treatment of high blood pressure, recorded further growth despite increas-
ing generic competition. The product family achieved sales of 734 million EUR (2018: 689 million EUR).
For actilyse® we were able to increase sales by 67 million EUR to 448 million EUR. Since having been
launched in 1987 more than 7,500,000 patients were benefiting from the medication. Despite having
lost its patent protection more than a decade ago, the biopharmaceutical remains the only available
option for immediate treatment in cases of ischaemic stroke worldwide.
Risankizumab, a medication for treatment of plaque-psoriasis, which was mainly developed by
Boehringer Ingelheim, is marketed globally through our partner AbbVie under the brand name skyrizi®.
Net sales (in million EUR)
2019 2018 Change
jardiance® 2,152 1,461 + 47.3% 47.3
%
spiriva® 2,058 2,412 – 14.7%
trajenta® / jentadueto® 1,559 1,397 + 11.6% growth of jardiance®
pradaxa® 1,529 1,486 + 2.9%
With regard to the regional distribution of revenues in the Human Pharma business, the USA was once
again the largest market with a share of 40%. Here, Boehringer Ingelheim generated sales of 5,576 mil-
lion EUR, which corresponds to an increase of 9.2% compared with the previous year (currency-
adjusted + 3.6%).
The EUCAN region (Europe, Canada, Australia and New Zealand), our second-biggest market,
accounted for 31%, with revenues of 4,381 million EUR. Sales increased by + 9.6% compared to 2018
(3,999 million EUR). Exchange rate effects did not have any significant influence on the sales trend here.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS32
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
Strong sales increase In the past year, the company’s emerging markets registered strong sales growth of +19.9% (currency-
in the company’s adjusted +20.1%). The People’s Republic of China was a key driving force in the region, with a
emerging markets currency-adjusted growth rate of +21.2%. Sales rose from 2,296 million EUR in the previous year to
2,753 million EUR in 2019.
In Japan, sales increased by +7.8% to 1,251 million EUR (currency-adjusted +1.1%). Sales in the previous
year had amounted to 1,160 million EUR.
Net sales by region (in million EUR)
2019 2018 Change
USA 5,576 5,104 +9.2%
Europe/Canada/Australia/New Zealand (EUCAN) 4,381 3,999 +9.6%
Emerging Markets 2,753 2,296 +19.9%
Japan 1,251 1,160 +7.8%
Animal Health
The volume of sales in the Animal Health business amounted to 4,035 million EUR in 2019. This
represents a change of +1.9% over the previous year (currency-adjusted – 0.7%).
Net sales (in million EUR)
2019 2018 Change
nexgard® 740 610 + 21.3%
frontline® 379 399 – 5.0%
heartgard® 318 299 + 6.4%
ingelvac circoflex® / flexcombo® 238 303 – 21.5%
The sales figures were negatively affected by the outbreak of African swine fever in Asia. In the TCM
(China, Taiwan and Hongkong) region alone, sales plunged by – 32.6%. The swine vaccine ingelvac
circoflex® accordingly registered a strong decline in sales (– 21.5%) to 238 million EUR.
Increasing price pressure was perceptible on both the company’s pets segment and its swine segment.
While the frontline® antiparasitic achieved sales of 379 million EUR, this was – 5.0% lower than in the
previous year.
Antiparasitics The company’s nexgard® product performed strongly in this environment, with revenues of
drive growth 740 million EUR (2018: 610 million EUR) and +21.3% growth year-over-year.
heartgard®, another antiparasitic, achieved +6.4% growth and registered sales of 318 million EUR
(2018: 299 million EUR).33
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
REPORT ON ECONOMIC POSITION
The horse segment was very successful in 2019 as well and realized currency-adjusted growth of +5.7%
year-over-year.
Net sales by region (in million EUR)
2019 2018 Change
USA 1,768 1,627 + 8.7%
EUCAN 1,233 1,211 + 1.8%
ALAMEA* 829 818 + 1.3%
TCM** 205 304 – 32.6%
* Asia, Latin America, Middle East and Africa
** China, Taiwan and Hongkong
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing
The Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing business maintained its positive performance trend. Continued strong growth
The order situation for the entire business has developed positively, resulting in a high level of capacity in the Biopharmaceutical
utilization for biopharmaceutical production. Contract Manufacturing
Other sales / discontinued operations
Other sales mainly contain discontinued operations which were winding down as expected. Under dis-
continued operations we aggregate activities of minor strategic importance for Boehringer Ingelheim,
which include amongst others obligations and income resulting from the business swap with Sanofi.
These are in particular service agreements as well as the buscopan® business in Brazil, which was
excluded from the sale.
Financial position
(in million EUR) 2019
Financial funds as of 1.1. 9,454
Cash flow from operating activities 3,344
Cash flow from investing activities — 1,421
Cash flow from financing activities — 1,029
Change in financial funds from cash relevant transactions 894
Change in financial funds due to change of consolidated companies or exchange rate movements 29
Financial funds as of 31.12. 10,377
Boehringer Ingelheim’s financial management instruments and methods are aimed at securing liquidity
and ensuring appropriate management of financial risks. Our financial activities are therefore geared
towards supporting the business strategy.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS34
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
Cash inflow from operating activities amounted to 3,344 million EUR, which represents an increase of
356 million EUR in comparison to the previous year (2,988 million EUR). This is attributable to the
positive business trend. Cash flow from investing activities amounted to 1,421 million EUR which is a
similar level as prior year (2018: 1,403 million EUR) and reflects the significant investments in external
innovation and strategic infrastructure to support the business activities.
High capital Of particular note are our R&D investments with Amal Therapeutics SA and our cooperations with
expenditure volume Yuhan Corporation or SoundTalks NV, which strengthen our R&D pipeline. In addition, major invest-
ments in fixed assets could reach further milestones in 2019. One investment was made in the expan-
sion of the production facilities in Vienna for our Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing. In 2019,
around 230 million EUR were invested in the facility, which has been a significant site for the Group for
decades. Boehringer Ingelheim made another major investment in its new development center for bio-
pharmaceutical medicines (BDC) in Biberach. The BDC, whose foundation stone was laid in 2018, is
intended to create 100 new jobs and to increase our contract manufacturing capacity. It focuses on
therapeutic areas where the need for treatment is high, such as cancer and immunological diseases.
More than 60 million EUR were invested in the BDC in 2019, supplementing a number of significant
investments in Boehringer Ingelheim’s global biopharmaceutical development network. A further
important investment was made in the Animal Health business. In 2019, nearly 50 million EUR were
invested in a new antigen production center for regulatory animal disease control in Jonage, France. The
foundation stone for this major high-tech facility was laid in fall 2018. Planned overall investments in this
production center of more than 200 million EUR are intended to enable our Animal Health business to
respond to the growing demand for medicines to treat foot-and-mouth and bluetongue disease.
Cash outflow from financing activities in the amount of 1.029 million EUR comprises payments of
400 million EUR to the charitable Boehringer Ingelheim foundation, which supports basic research in
the fields of natural and life science, payments to the parent company’s shareholders, that are mainly
used to pay personal taxes arising from Group business activities, and interest paid. In addition, a
German private placement was repaid. Overall, after taking into consideration exchange effects and
changes within the group of consolidated companies, this led to an increase in the Boehringer
Ingelheim Group’s financial funds of 923 million EUR to 10,377 million EUR.35
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
REPORT ON ECONOMIC POSITION
Net assets position
(in million EUR) 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Change Change in %
Assets
Intangible and tangible assets 9,636 9,400 236
Financial assets 9,162 6,058 3,104
Fixed assets 18,798 15,458 3,340 + 21.6%
Inventories 3,563 3,312 251
Trade accounts receivable 4,196 3,540 656
Other receivables and other current assets 1,241 1,033 208
Cash and cash equivalents 2,195 4,303 — 2,108
Current assets 11,195 12,188 — 993 – 8.1%
Other assets 3,487 3,242 245
Total assets 33,480 30,888 2,592 + 8.4%
Equity and liabilities
Group equity 14,681 12,334 2,347 + 19.0%
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 5,185 4,712 473
Tax provisions and other provisions 9,336 9,040 296
Accounts payable and loans 1,715 2,142 — 427
– thereof residual term over 1 year: 83 45 38
Liabilities 16,236 15,894 342 + 2.2%
Other liabilities and difference
from capital consolidation 2,563 2,660 — 97
Total equity and liabilities 33,480 30,888 2,592 + 8.4%
In the 2019 financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim’s total assets amounted to 33,480 million EUR, an
increase of 2,592 million EUR as compared with the previous year. 923 million EUR of this growth was
attributable in particular to an increase in the volume of financial funds (cash and long-term securi-
ties), which grew significantly due to the positive cash flow in the financial year. Long-term financial
assets increased in this regard through the investment of cash in securities. Despite scheduled and
unscheduled depreciation and amortization, tangible and intangible fixed assets increased due to the
high volume of capital expenditure in the strategic expansion of the company’s business, including in
Human Pharma research, Biopharmaceuticals in Vienna (Austria) and Fremont, California (USA), and
Animal Health in France. Working capital (receivables and inventories) especially picked up as a result
of the positive sales trend in the US and increased inventories in the US, France and Greece. The other
assets likewise increased thanks to the positive market trend for plan assets for pensions and similar
obligations in the US. Another reason for the increase was higher deferred tax assets that resulted
from temporary differences between the values in the consolidated companies’ tax balance sheets
and the values in the consolidated balance sheet. Currency effects also resulted in increases for all
items on the asset side of the balance sheet.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS36
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
Equity ratio increases Group equity increased by 2,347 million EUR due to the Group profit in 2019 as well as positive cur-
despite higher rency differences. Equity amounted to 14,681 million EUR as of December 31, 2019. The equity ratio
balance sheet total thus improved to around 44% (December 31, 2018: 40%) in spite of the higher balance sheet total. In
addition to equity, the pension provisions and long-term liabilities are also available to the Group in
the long term. The total of these three items amounted to 19,949 million EUR as of December 31, 2019,
representing a share of 60% of the total assets. Consequently, as in the previous year, long-term
disposable capital covers all intangible and tangible fixed assets as well as working capital.
Pension provisions increased in Germany, particularly due to a lower actuarial discount rate. The
increase in other provisions correlates to the change in net sales, since the key elements represent
provisions for discounts in the USA. The decrease in liabilities relates to other liabilities, liabilities
to banks, and trade accounts payable, mainly in Germany. In 2019 the German private placement,
which had been issued in 2009, was completely repaid. The other liabilities declined, mainly due
to the release of the difference arising from capital consolidation and lower deferred tax liabilities
from temporary differences.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s positive performance in the 2019 financial year is also reflected in its net assets
position. Boehringer Ingelheim remains a profitable and soundly financed company, making considerable
capital expenditure and high R&D expenditure to ensure long-term growth and thus independence.37
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
REPORT ON OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
REPORT ON OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
Opportunities and risk management
When assessing the risks in the context of holistic opportunities and risk management, we also endeavor
to take into account the resulting opportunities. Opportunity management is based on the strategies
and objectives of the company and of individual businesses and operating business units, and is an
integral part of the Group-wide planning and management systems. Those responsible for the busi-
nesses and functions bear direct responsibility for the early and systematic identification, analysis and
use of opportunities. For Boehringer Ingelheim as a research-driven and innovative pharmaceutical
company, the current research and development activities are naturally considered a relevant opportu-
nity. Relevant projects have already been outlined in the Research and Development (R&D) chapter. We
also look at digitalization as an opportunity and see new technological possibilities in the areas of
research and (particularly clinical) development, as well as in the support of patients during therapy.
The aim of the risk management system implemented at Boehringer Ingelheim is to identify
business-specific risks as early as possible (particularly risks that jeopardize the continued existence
of the company); to assess them, and to reduce them to a reasonable level by means of suitable meas-
ures. The persons responsible for the key businesses and functions are also included in the process of
calculating and assessing risks. The Group-wide risk and information system ensures that all identified
risks are analyzed and assessed carefully. Following appropriate classification, adequate risk manage-
ment measures are initiated and their implementation is consistently monitored.
In the year under review, internal auditing performed targeted routine audits as well as extraordinary
audits around the world. In addition to adherence to legal requirements and internal Group guidelines,
the main focal points were the functionality of systems, the effectiveness of internal controls for the
prevention of loss of assets and the efficiency of structures and processes. Corresponding adjustments
or optimizations were initiated as necessary.
Individual risks
The most important risks to which Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed are broken down into the follow-
ing specific categories: financial risks, legal risks, production and environmental risks, personnel risks
and industry-specific risks.
Risks are identified below as being “concrete” when they appear to be controllable by means of
specific management procedures. The term “abstract” is used in the case of risks that cannot be
completely controlled, even by means of targeted management procedures, regardless of the probability
of their occurrence.
Financial risks
Relevant financial risks are themselves broken down as follows: currency risks, credit and country-
specific risks, as well as financial investment and shareholding risks.
Currency risks
The global orientation of our business activities is subject to opportunities and risks due to exchange rate
volatility, particularly with regard to the US dollar and Japanese yen. The Group monitors and quantifies
these risks at regular intervals, making them predictable for future business by means of
relevant hedging strategies and appropriate financial instruments, such as forward exchange contracts.
The resultant risks are subsequently designated as being concrete and controllable and therefore limited.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS38
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
Credit and country-specific risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to various credit and country-specific risks as a result of its interna-
tional business activities. From the portfolio of trade accounts receivable and trade accounts payable,
we have not identified any extraordinary risks for the Group beyond the usual level in the industry. The
same applies to possible default risks for receivables, which are largely hedged against economic and
political risks. We will continue to carefully track credit and country-specific risks, so as to be in a posi-
tion to respond to negative changes in a timely manner. These risks, which we consider moderate, are
therefore regarded as concrete.
Financial investment and shareholding risks
The Group pursues a defensive investment strategy in the management of its financial assets. This is
reflected in the orientation of its portfolio, which is focused on European Economic and Monetary
Union (EMU) government bonds with top credit ratings and short-term money market deposits.
This results in a concrete, controllable and thus limited risk – but therefore only limited opportunities –
for the major part of the financial investments. The net book value of some of the strategic investments
in related companies is affected by market and business circumstances, which leads to a higher level
of volatility in the fair market value. All specific risks have been covered by respective impairments in
the consolidated financial statements.
Legal risks
The business activities of the Group are exposed to legal risks. A distinction is made between regulatory,
liability and patent protection risks.
Regulatory risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to risks arising from legal disputes and proceedings as well as official
investigations. As the legal or administrative decisions in ongoing or future proceedings cannot be
predicted, we regard the resultant risks as being abstract and high.
Liability risks
The marketing and sale of pharmaceuticals are exposed to a potential product liability risk. Boehringer
Ingelheim currently has product liability insurance for the company’s risk profile. There is absolutely no
guarantee, however, that this insurance coverage can be maintained at reasonable cost and acceptable
conditions, or that it is sufficient to protect Boehringer Ingelheim against a claim or loss, or against all
potential claims or losses. In case it is foreseeable that the product liability insurance does not cover
or only partially covers a specific liability risk, the remaining risk exposure has been covered by a
provision. We therefore see a moderate risk for the Group here.
Furthermore, product liability claims could tie up substantial financial resources and management
capacity and be detrimental to the company’s image in the event that the market considers the
product to be unsafe or ineffective as a result of unexpected side effects. We see this as a moderate
and abstract risk.
Patent protection risks
Protection of innovations through trademark and patent rights is of particular importance to
Boehringer Ingelheim as a research company. These commercial protective rights are increasingly the
target of attacks and breaches. We have taken the necessary precautions to allow us to detect threats
at an early stage and, by commencing appropriate countermeasures, defend our legal position using all
legal means available to us so that these moderate risks are regarded as concrete.39
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
REPORT ON OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
Production and environmental risks
Our quality management system and compliance processes are continuously optimized in close coop-
eration with the relevant authorities in order to ensure compliance with cGMP standards (current good
manufacturing practices). Risks in this area continue to be of high significance to the Group and are
classified as abstract.
In order to guarantee the supply of our products to the market, we have implemented measures that
guarantee reliable and high-quality supplies for internal and external customers. In addition to supplier
management on the procurement side, this also involves building up internal standby capacities. As a
result, we see the risk as concrete.
Risks in the areas of environment, health, safety and sustainability (EHS&S) are preemptively mini-
mized by ensuring global adherence to our high safety standards. Appropriate emergency plans
have been drawn up for possible incidents of any kind and are practiced and subjected to comprehen-
sive quality testing at regular intervals. As a result of these measures, these risks are classed as concrete
and limited.
Personnel risks
Boehringer Ingelheim, as other companies, is exposed to demographic change and the resultant risk of
being affected by a lack of appropriately qualified personnel. This potential risk can have a substantial
impact on the company’s business activities. It has therefore been included in the long-term planning
process for many years and has gained strategic significance as a result.
Boehringer Ingelheim counters the risk by means of a comprehensive personnel concept. In the con-
text of global personnel management, this also presents the Group with opportunities. Regardless of
their ethnic background, gender or religion, we offer all of our company’s employees development
opportunities based on their professional abilities, social skills, personal aptitudes and willingness to
take on responsibility in accordance with the needs of the company. In view of the countermeasures
described above, the risk is regarded as moderate and concrete.
Industry-specific risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is subject to the industry-specific business risks of the pharmaceutical industry.
These risks have partly materialized in the past financial year and are becoming increasingly important
for Boehringer Ingelheim due to their effects. They are still considered high and abstract. In addition to
the loss of exclusivity of products established on the market and risks associated with the develop-
ment and registration of new products, these risks increasingly include changing and restrictive
requirements relating to pricing and reimbursement on many sales markets. Frequently, the prices of
pharmaceutical products are subject not only to state monitoring and regulation, but also to price pres-
sure from cheaper generic drugs caused by the state reimbursement systems. Boehringer Ingelheim is
therefore keeping a close eye on the various changes in its sales markets and takes appropriate meas-
ures in response to current developments.
Overall statement on the risk situation
From a current perspective, we are not aware of any risks that alone or in conjunction with other risks
could lead to a lasting impairment of the company’s assets, financial or earnings position that could
jeopardize the continued existence of Boehringer Ingelheim.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS40
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS
Boehringer Ingelheim can look back on a successful 2019 financial year in which we made our innova-
tions available to more patients than in the previous year and contributed significantly to the health of
livestock and pets. We also achieved our ambitious targets – both in absolute numbers and in compar-
ison with our competitors – while creating a foundation for sustainable corporate development and
long-term growth.
We look ahead optimistically to 2020 and will work passionately to continue improving human and
animal health. However, the increasingly difficult market environment for the pharmaceutical industry,
combined with the volatility of the economic environment, also makes planning capability increasingly
challenging. The outbreak of the new coronavirus poses another multi-dimensional challenge: for our
Chinese employees, for our global production network and for our global supply chain. In this rapidly
evolving environment, we will take advantage of the opportunities that present themselves again in
2020 and respond courageously to risks that materialize.
To ensure our continued success on the market, and with a view to our competitiveness, it remains
important that we preserve and make use of our financial flexibility for growth and innovation. In view
of the many changes unfolding in health care systems which are faced with aging populations and
increasing price pressure in many major markets – especially, but not exclusively, the core markets in
the USA, Japan, Europe and China – we expect only limited growth impetus for the pharmaceutical
industry in the coming year. We plan to focus even more strongly on our Animal Health customers and
on solutions to their challenges, as well as on innovation in our product portfolio. The spread of the
African swine fever to further countries remains a risk. Our priorities in our biopharmaceuticals busi-
ness are supplying the market with our own products and contract manufacturing for customers.
Beyond this, there is the completion of our LSCC large-scale production facility in Vienna (Austria).
For 2020, we expect Boehringer Ingelheim to achieve a slight year-on-year increase in net sales on a
comparable basis (adjusted for currency and extraordinary effects).
Our consistently high R&D expenditure, which once again increased in 2019, is compatible with our
strategic focus on continuing to drive growth and the flow of new products. We achieved our goal of
managing some of our R&D through external innovation and general partnerships in 2019, and we will
continue to pursue this strategy in 2020. We invest in our own and external R&D with care, after close
investigation of the therapeutic benefit and the associated prospects for success. The flow of innova-
tive medicines in our research pipeline shows short-, medium- and long-term growth potential.41
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS
In addition to patent expiry and attacks on patents, the major challenges facing the research-driven
pharmaceutical industry are the increasing amount of investment in R&D as well as bigger hurdles and
increased costs associated with product approvals. In this context, the increasing cost pressure in
health care systems as outlined above also has to be particularly emphasized. These systems are
increasingly unwilling to make substantial investments in the development of new medicines and to
contribute adequately to increased efficiency of the system as a whole. Animal Health research like-
wise requires major investments in both preventive research and diagnostic options. In conjunction
with longer planning and development cycles for new products, this makes business less predictable;
it requires us to quickly recognize and seize opportunities in both Human Pharma and Animal Health
on the one hand, while subjecting costs and strategies to continual monitoring and adjustments on the
other. To this end, we have launched initiatives over the past few years to accelerate our reaction to
changes and to reduce organizational complexities as well as to lower our cost base in order to create
potential for capital expenditure and to secure the company’s long-term success.
Against the backdrop of a very successful 2019 and taking into account the expected economic
and market environment, we expect operating income for 2020 on a comparable basis (adjusted for
currency and extraordinary effects) to be on the level of the fiscal year 2019.
As a family-owned company, Boehringer Ingelheim’s primary aim remains the creation of “Value
through Innovation.” Supported by long-term, sustainable organic growth, this vision will preserve the
company’s independence and competitiveness. We are confident that we will achieve our ambitious
targets thanks to our great innovative strength based on a comprehensive portfolio of prospective
products, our global presence and the support of our highly qualified and motivated employees in all
of our businesses. We remain committed to our “Ambition 2025” and will research and develop inno-
vative products and bring them to the market in areas where the medical need is high. We will
break new ground with therapeutic approaches in both human and animal medicine. The aim of our
endeavors is to make new medicines available to both humans and animals so they can be treated
more effectively with new therapies.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATSPAGE 44–74
C O N S O L I D A T E D F I N A N C I A L
S T A T E M E N T S
Overview of selected consolidated companies 44
Consolidated balance sheet 46
Consolidated profit and loss statement 47
Cash flow statement 48
Statement of changes in group equity 49
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 50
Independent auditor‘s report 71
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS44
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
OVERVIEW OF SELECTED CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES
C.H. BOEHRINGER SOHN
AG & CO. KG, INGELHEIM AM RHEIN
BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
VETMEDICA GMBH,
INGELHEIM AM RHEIN
ARGENTINA D ITALY D P TAIWAN D GERMANY D P R
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Corporate
Argentina S.A., Buenos Aires Italia S.p.A., Milan Taiwan Co., Ltd., Taipei Center GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
AUSTRALIA D R JAPAN D R THAILAND D Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma
Australia Pty. Ltd., North Ryde Japan Co., Ltd., Tokyo (Thailand) Limited, Bangkok
GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim microParts
BELGIUM D MEXICO D USA D P R
GmbH, Dortmund
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund
Belgium S.A., Brussels México S.A. de C.V., Mexico City USA, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
Newport Laboratories, Inc., Boehringer Ingelheim
BRAZIL D P R NETHERLANDS D P R Wilmington, Delaware Biopharmaceuticals GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
do Brasil Ltda., São Paulo Netherlands B.V., Velserbroek Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary
Research Center GmbH & Co. KG,
Hanover
CANADA D NEW ZEALAND D P R
Boehringer Ingelheim Middle East
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health and Africa GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
Canada Inc., Burlington New Zealand Limited, Auckland
CHINA D P R PHILIPPINES D
Nanchang Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Animal Health Co., Ltd., Nanchang Philippines, Inc., Makati City
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
(Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Shanghai PUERTO RICO P
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Operations (China) Co., Ltd., Taizhou
Puerto Rico LLC, Barceloneta
Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica
(China) Co., Ltd., Taizhou
SOUTH AFRICA D
DENMARK D P Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
South Africa Pty Ltd., Randburg
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Denmark A/S, Copenhagen
SOUTH KOREA D
FRANCE D P R Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Korea Ltd., Seoul
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
France, Lyon
SPAIN D
GREAT BRITAIN D P Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
España, S.A., Barcelona
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
UK Limited, Bracknell
D Distribution
P Production
R Research and development45
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OVERVIEw OF SELECTED CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES
C.H. BOEHRINGER SOHN
GRUNDSTÜCKSVERWALTUNG GMBH & CO. KG,
INGELHEIM AM RHEIN
BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
INTERNATIONAL GMBH,
INGELHEIM AM RHEIN
ARGENTINA D CZECH REPUBLIC D JAPAN D P R SERBIA D
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Boehringer Ingelheim, spol. s.r.o., Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim Co., Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim Serbia DOO
Buenos Aires Prague Tokyo Beograd, Belgrad
Boehringer Ingelheim Seiyaku,
AUSTRALIA D DENMARK D Yamagata SOUTH AFRICA D
Boehringer Ingelheim Japan, Inc.,
Boehringer Ingelheim Pty. Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim Danmark A/S, Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals
Tokyo
North Ryde Copenhagen (Proprietary) Ltd., Randburg
AUSTRIA D P R ECUADOR D MEXICO D P SOUTH KOREA D
Boehringer Ingelheim Mexico S.A. de
Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Boehringer Ingelheim Del Ecuador Boehringer Ingelheim Korea Ltd., C.V., Mexico City
Co. KG, Vienna Cia. Ltda., Quito Seoul
Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica S.A.
Forschungsinstitut für molekulare
de C.V., Guadalajara
Pathologie Gesellschaft mbH, Vienna FINLAND D SPAIN D P
Boehringer Ingelheim Promeco S.A.
ViraTherapeutics GmbH, Innsbruck
Boehringer Ingelheim Finland Ky, de C.V., Mexico City Boehringer Ingelheim España S.A.,
Espoo Barcelona
BELGIUM D
NETHERLANDS D
SCS Boehringer Ingelheim Comm.V., FRANCE D SWEDEN D
Boehringer Ingelheim B.V., Alkmaar
Brussels
Boehringer Ingelheim France S.A.S., Boehringer Ingelheim Aktiebolag,
Paris Stockholm
BRAZIL D P NEW ZEALAND D
Boehringer Ingelheim do Brasíl GREAT BRITAIN D Boehringer Ingelheim (N.Z.) Ltd., SWITZERLAND D R
Auckland
Química e Farmaceutica Ltda.,
Boehringer Ingelheim Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim (Schweiz)
São Paulo
Bracknell GmbH, Basel
Solana Agro Pecuária Ltda., Arapongas NORWAY D
Amal Therapeutics SA, Geneva
GREECE D P Boehringer Ingelheim Norway KS,
CANADA D Boehringer Ingelheim Ellas A.E., Asker TAIWAN D
B Too re oh nr ti onger Ingelheim (Canada) Ltd., Athens PERU D Boehringer Ingelheim Taiwan Ltd.,
Taipei
HONG KONG D Boehringer Ingelheim Peru S.A.C.,
CHILE D Boehringer Ingelheim (Hong Kong) Lima THAILAND V
B Sao neh tir ai gn og e dr e I n Cg he ill eheim Ltda., Ltd., Hong Kong PHILIPPINES D Boehringer Ingelheim (Thai) Ltd.,
Bangkok
INDIA D Boehringer Ingelheim (Philippines),
CHINA D P Boehringer Ingelheim India Private Inc., Manila TURKEY D
PB ho aeh rmrin acg ee ur tI in cg ae lslh Ce oim . L tS dh .a , Sn hgh aa ni g hai Ltd., Mumbai POLAND D Boehringer Ingelheim Ilaç Ticaret
A.S., Istanbul
Boehringer Ingelheim INDONESIA D P Boehringer Ingelheim Sp. z o.o.,
Biopharmaceuticals (China) Co., Ltd., Warsaw
Shanghai PT Boehringer Ingelheim Indonesia, USA D P R
Boehringer Ingelheim (China) Jakarta PORTUGAL D Boehringer Ingelheim
Investment Co., Ltd.,Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
Boehringer Ingelheim International ISRAEL D Unilfarma-Uniao Internacional de Wilmington, Delaware
Laboratórios Farmacêuticos, Lda.,
Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim Israel Ltd., Lisbon Boehringer Ingelheim Fremont, Inc.,
Shanghai Tel Aviv Wilmington, Delaware
Boehringer Ingelheim USA
COLOMBIA D ITALY D P RUSSIAN FEDERATION D Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware
OOO Boehringer Ingelheim, Moscow
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Boehringer Ingelheim Italia S.p.A., VIETNAM D
Santa Fé de Bogotá Milan
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Bidachem S.p.A., Fornovo S. Giovanni
Vietnam Limited Liability Company,
Ho Chi Minh City
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP46
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
Assets (in million EUR) Notes 1) 31.12.2019 31.12.2018
Intangible assets (3.1) 4,882 5,120
Tangible assets (3.2) 4,754 4,280
Financial assets (3.3) 9,162 6,058
Fixed assets 18,798 15,458
Inventories (3.4) 3,563 3,312
Accounts receivable and other assets (3.5) 5,437 4,573
Cash and cash equivalents 2,195 4,303
Current assets 11,195 12,188
Prepaid expenses 313 377
Deferred tax assets 3,000 2,784
Exceeding amount of plan assets 174 81
Total assets 33,480 30,888
Equity and liabilities (in million EUR) Notes 1) 31.12.2019 31.12.2018
Shareholders’ capital 178 178
Group reserves 14,709 12,453
Balance sheet currency conversion difference — 207 — 298
Equity attributable to the parent company 14,680 12,333
Non-controlling interests 1 1
Group equity 14,681 12,334
Difference from capital consolidation 1,471 1,511
Provisions (3.6) 14,521 13,752
Accounts payable and loans (3.7) 1,715 2,142
Liabilities 16,236 15,894
Deferred income 441 463
Deferred tax liabillities 651 686
Total equity and liabilities 33,480 30,888
1) For explanations, see relevant section in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.47
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET | CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
(in million EUR) Notes 1) 2019 2018
Net sales (4.1) 18,997 17,498
Changes in finished goods and work in process 224 244
Other own work capitalized 11 13
Other operating income (4.2) 2,040 1,872
Total revenues 21,272 19,627
Cost of materials (4.3) — 2,918 — 2,606
Personnel expenses (4.4) — 5,367 — 5,276
Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets (4.5) — 1,180 — 1,089
Other operating expenses (4.6) — 8,025 — 7,184
Operating income 3,782 3,472
Financial income (4.7) — 369 — 654
Holding income (4.8) 83 358
Income before taxes 3,496 3,176
Income taxes 2) (4.9) — 775 — 1,101
Income after taxes 2,721 2,075
Net income (4.10) 2,721 2,075
Non-controlling interests 0 0
Group profit 2,721 2,075
1) For explanations, see relevant section in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
2) Due to legal requirements the shareholders’ personal taxes arising from group business activities are shown as withdrawals from the group reserves.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP48
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(in million EUR) 2019
Income after taxes (including non-controlling interests) 2,721
Amortization / reversal of write-downs of intangible assets and depreciation /
reversal of write-downs of tangible assets 1,180
Change in provisions for pensions and similar obligations (including change of plan assets) 379
Change in other provisions 498
Other non-cash income and expenses — 305
Gain from disposals of consolidated companies — 2
Gain/loss from disposals of fixed assets — 6
Grants received — 9
Change in inventories — 274
Change in accounts receivable and other assets not related to investing or financing activities — 590
Change in trade accounts payable and other liabilities not related to investing or financing activities 9
Interest income / interest expenses 80
Other income from investments — 27
Income taxes 775
Income taxes paid — 1,085
Cash flow from operating activities 3,344
Payments to aquire intangible fixed assets — 221
Payments to aquire tangible fixed assets — 1,074
Payments to aquire financial fixed assets 1) — 53
Payments to aquire or generate plan assets — 10
Payments relating to purchase price adjustments of disposed consolidated entities and disposed fixed assets — 140
Investments in consolidated companies — 85
Proceeds from disposals of intangible fixed assets 7
Proceeds from disposals of tangible fixed assets 17
Proceeds from disposals of financial fixed assets 1) 40
Proceeds from disposals of consilidated entities 60
Interest received 23
Income from dividends 15
Cash flow from investing activities — 1,42149
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CASH FLOw STATEMENT | STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN GROUP EQUITY
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(in million EUR) 2019
Cash receipts from grants 9
Interest paid — 49
Cash payments to shareholders of the parent company — 804
Proceeds from loans / cash repayments of loans — 185
Cash flow from financing activities — 1,029
Change in financial funds from cash relevant transactions 894
Changes in financial funds due to change of consolidated companies 13
Changes in financial funds due to exchange rate movements 16
Financial funds 2) as of 1.1. 9,454
Financial funds 2) as of 31.12 10,377
1) Excl. fixed-asset investment securities.
2) Cash and cash equivalents and investment securities within fixed assets.
(+) = source of funds, (-) = use of funds
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN GROUP EQUITY
Balance sheet Equity attri­
currency butable to Non­
Shareholders’ Group conversion the parent controlling
(in million EUR) capital 1) reserves 2) difference company interests Group equity
Balance as of 31.12.2017 178 10,868 — 388 10,658 — 1 10,657
Contributions 0 62 0 62 0 62
withdrawals 0 — 544 0 — 544 0 — 544
Net income 0 2,075 0 2,075 0 2,075
Changes in consolidated companies 0 — 8 — 2 — 10 2 — 8
Currency effects 0 0 92 92 0 92
Balance as of 31.12.2018 178 12,453 — 298 12,333 1 12,334
withdrawals 0 — 465 0 — 465 0 — 465
Net income 0 2,721 0 2,721 0 2,721
Currency effects 0 0 91 91 0 91
Balance as of 31.12.2019 178 14,709 — 207 14,680 1 14,681
1) The shareholders’ capital consists of the equity of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG and C.H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH
& Co. KG. The shareholders’ capital consists only of the limited partner’s capital contribution.
2) The shareholders’ personal taxes arising from group business activities are shown as withdrawals from the group reserves.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP50
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Principles and methods
1.1 General principles
The consolidated financial statements of Boehringer Ingelheim for the 2019 financial year were prepared in accord-
ance with Section 264a of the German Commercial Code (HGB), in line with the legal requirements to prepare con-
solidated financial statements under Section 290 et seq. HGB.
In accordance with Section 297 (1) HGB, the consolidated financial statements consist of the consolidated balance
sheet, the consolidated profit and loss statement, the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the cash flow
statement and the statement of changes in equity.
The consolidated financial statements were prepared in euros in accordance with Section 298 (1) in conjunction
with Section 244 HGB.
To improve the clarity and transparency of the consolidated financial statements, individual items of the consoli-
dated balance sheet and the consolidated profit and loss statement have been combined. These items are presented
and explained separately in the notes. The additional disclosures required for the individual items can also be found
in the notes.
1.2 Registry information
The parent company is registered under the name C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, with its headquarters in
Ingelheim am Rhein, in the commercial register of Mainz district court under the number HRA 21732.
1.3 Information on the group of consolidated companies
The parent company of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein.
Boehringer AG, Ingelheim am Rhein, is the sole unlimited partner of this company.
The Boehringer Ingelheim Group consists of a total of 175 subsidiaries in Germany and abroad. 150 subsidiaries
have been included in the consolidated financial statements of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG under full con-
solidation rules. C.H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG is a special purpose entity in
which C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG bears a majority of the risks and opportunities in economic terms. C.H.
Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG holds a majority of the voting rights in the other subsidiaries, either directly
or indirectly.
In accordance with Section 296 (2) HGB, 22 subsidiaries were not included in the consolidation in the reporting
year, as they are individually and collectively insignificant to the Group’s net assets, financial and earnings position.
The total amount of the sales, equity and net income for the year of the subsidiaries not included in consolidation
accounts for less than 1% of the aggregated Group financial statements totals. For two further subsidiaries there are
ongoing restrictions on control due to the terms of the articles of association. These companies were also not con-
solidated in accordance with Section 296 (1) No. 1 HGB.51
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
The total number of subsidiaries decreased by one compared to the previous year:
• Seven companies were founded.
• Two companies were acquired.
• Eight companies lost their separate legal identity by merger.
• One affiliated company was liquidated.
• One company was sold.
The following subsidiaries were exempted from the duty to prepare and disclosure annual financial statements and
management reports in accordance with Section 264 (3) HGB:
• Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Europe GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Secura Versicherungsvermittlungs GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Grundstücks-GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Finanzierungs GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim R&D Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Invest GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health France Participations GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
The following subsidiaries were exempted from the duty to prepare and disclose annual financial statements and
management reports in accordance with Section 264b HGB:
• C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
• C.H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary Research Center GmbH & Co. KG, Hanover
Boehringer Ingelheim participates in one joint venture company, which has not been included in the consolidated
financial statements either using the proportionate method or the equity method, since it is not material. Further-
more, Boehringer Ingelheim holds an interest in fifteen associated companies, which have not been accounted
for using the equity method either due to their lack of significance. The resulting effect on the Group’s total assets
and net income is less than 1%.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP52
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
1.4 Consolidation methods
For inventories and fixed assets, receivables, liabilities, and income and expense items, transactions between the
companies included in consolidation were eliminated as part of debt consolidation procedures in accordance with
Section 303 HGB, procedures to eliminate intercompany profits in accordance with Section 304 HGB and income
and expenses consolidation procedures in accordance with Section 305 HGB.
The acquisition method was applied when including subsidiaries in the consolidation for the first time in accord-
ance with Section 301 HGB. Companies were included in the consolidation for the first time on the date on which
the company became a subsidiary.
The book value of the shares held by the parent company was offset against the corresponding equity of the subsid-
iary. Equity was carried at the amount of the fair value of the assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses, deferred income
and special reserves included in the consolidated financial statements as of the time of consolidation. Any remain-
ing positive balance was recorded as goodwill; any remaining negative balance was recorded as a difference from
capital consolidation.
1.5 Currency translation
Assets and liabilities resulting from foreign currency transactions were translated using the average spot exchange
rate as of the balance sheet date. The realization principle (Section 298 (1) in conjunction with Section 252 (1) No. 4
half-sentence 2 HGB) and the historical cost convention (Section 298 (1) in conjunction with Section 253 (1)
sentence 1 HGB) were applied to items with a remaining term of more than one year.
In these consolidated financial statements, the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries domiciled in a state out-
side the eurozone that are denominated in a foreign currency have been converted into euros in accordance with
Section 308a HGB using the modified closing date rate method.
Using the modified closing date rate method, the asset and liability items of the annual financial statements pre-
pared in foreign currency were translated into euros using the average spot exchange rate as of the balance sheet
date, with the exception of equity, which was translated using the historical rate. Items included in the profit and
loss statement were translated into euros using the average rate. The resulting translation differences were reported
within consolidated equity below the reserves in “Balance sheet currency conversion difference”.
The exchange rates for the Group’s most important currencies changed as follows during the reporting year
(basis: 1 EUR):
Spot rate Average rate
31.12.2019 31.12.2018 2019 2018
US dollar 1.12 1.15 1.12 1.18
Japanese yen 121.94 125.85 122.06 130.41
Chinese renminbi 7.82 7.88 7.73 7.8153
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
2 Accounting policies
2.1 Fixed assets
Acquired tangible and intangible assets are carried at cost, less scheduled straight-line amortization and depreciation
determined under consideration of the technical and economic circumstances. This is based on the following useful lives:
Goodwill 10 years
Other intangible assets 2 to 15 years
Buildings 20 years
Technical facilities and machines 10 years
Other facilities, operating equipment 3 to 10 years
Only straight-line depreciation and amortization are used in the consolidated financial statements. Additional
write-downs are recorded to reflect impairments when the value of assets has been considered permanently
impaired. Manufacturing costs include materials and labor manufacturing costs, an appropriate portion of materi-
als and labor overheads, and the depreciation of fixed assets (to the extent caused by production). Manufacturing
costs do not include financing costs.
All capitalized intangible assets have finite useful lives.
Financial assets primarily include investment securities, shareholder rights and loans and were carried at the lower
of cost or fair market value, if impaired. In the event that the reasons for the impairment losses recognized in previ-
ous financial years were no longer applicable, corresponding reversals were recorded.
2.2 Current assets, prepaid expenses, deferred income and exceeding amount of plan assets
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or fair market value.
Raw materials, consumables and supplies are capitalized at the lower of average acquisition prices or fair market
value on the balance sheet date.
Finished goods and work in progress are measured at manufacturing cost on the basis of individual calculations,
taking into account the directly attributable costs of materials, direct labor costs, special direct costs, an appropriate
share of material and production overhead costs and production-related depreciation.
Goods for resale are valued at the lower of either acquisition cost or fair market value.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP54
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
All identifiable risks in inventories arising from above-average storage periods, diminished marketability and lower
replacement costs were taken into account by recording appropriate valuation adjustments.
Inventories are valued loss-free – that is, deductions were made from the expected sales prices to reflect costs yet
to be incurred.
Receivables and other assets were recognized at cost less allowances for specific risks and general credit risk.
Low-interest or non-interest-bearing receivables with a term of more than one year were discounted.
Cash and cash equivalents, consisting of cash, balances at banks and checks, were recognized at the lower of cost
or fair market value.
Prepaid expenses recorded in accordance with Section 250 (1) HGB include expenses paid in advance in respect of
a defined period of time after the balance sheet date.
Deferred income recorded in accordance with Section 250 (2) HGB include proceeds that represent income relating
to a defined period of time after the balance sheet date.
The fair market value of pension plan assets and the corresponding present value of pension obligations have been
offset according to German GAAP. The exceeding amount of plan assets has been capitalized separately.
2.3 Difference from capital consolidation
The difference from capital consolidation reported on December 31, 2019 was primarily a result of the business
swap of Boehringer Ingelheim’s consumer healthcare business and Sanofi’s animal health business, which was
completed on January 1, 2017. This resulted in a difference from capital consolidation of 1,986 million EUR. The
difference is amortized over an estimated period of fifteen years. The remaining balance of the difference amounted
to 1,469 million EUR as of December 31, 2019.
The difference from capital consolidation reported on December 31, 2019 also included an amount arising from the
acquisition of a US company in 2011. The original difference amounted to 157 million EUR. The difference is amor-
tized over an estimated period of ten years. The remaining balance of this difference amounted to 2 million EUR as
of December 31, 2019.
The difference from capital consolidation was primarily influenced by the current year release of 151 million EUR
and by subsequent purchase price adjustments. The income from the release of the difference arising from capital
consolidation is included in other operating income. The release is made corresponding to the amortization of those
assets of the acquired company identified in the purchase price allocation not previously recognized in that compa-
ny’s balance sheet.55
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
2.4 Group reserves
Group reserves include the retained earnings of the consolidated subsidiaries from prior and current years and
consolidation entries that affect earnings.
2.5 Provisions
Tax provisions and other provisions include all uncertain liabilities and expected losses from executory contracts.
They were carried at the amount required to settle the obligation based on reasonable prudent commercial judg-
ment (that is, including future cost and price increases). Provisions with a remaining maturity of more than one year
were discounted using the matched-term, average market interest rate. In the case of pension provisions this inter-
est rate results from the last ten years average market interest rate and in the case of other provisions from the last
seven years average market interest rate (in accordance with the “Rückstellungsabzinsungsverordnung”, German
Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions).
2.6 Accounts payable and loans
Accounts payable and loans were recognized at settlement amount.
2.7 Deferred taxes
To calculate deferred taxes arising from temporary or quasi-permanent differences between the carrying amounts of
assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses and deferred income in the group financial statements and their carrying
amounts for tax purposes or tax loss carryforwards, the amounts of the resulting tax benefits and expenses at the
time that the differences will reverse were measured using tax rates specific to the respective consolidated company
(4% – 39%). Deferred tax balances are not discounted. Differences due to consolidation measures in accordance
with Sections 300 to 305 HGB were also measured using the company-specific tax rates applicable at the time of
the expected reversal of the difference. Deferred tax assets on loss carryforwards were taken into account if it is
likely that they will be used within the next five years.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities were reported without offsetting.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP56
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
3 Notes to the consolidated balance sheet
3.1 Intangible assets
Acquired
concessions / Advance
(in million EUR) similar rights Goodwill payments Total
Acquisition / manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2018 6,676 5 19 6,700
Currency conversion difference 182 0 0 182
Changes in consolidated companies 80 24 0 104
Additions 102 0 21 123
Disposals — 145 0 0 — 145
Reclassifications 13 0 — 14 — 1
Balance as of 31.12.2018 6,908 29 26 6,963
Currency conversion difference 54 0 0 54
Changes in consolidated companies 34 57 0 91
Additions 214 0 7 221
Disposals — 117 0 0 — 117
Reclassifications 23 0 — 21 2
Balance as of 31.12.2019 7,116 86 12 7,214
Accumulated amortization
Balance as of 1.1.2018 1,325 3 0 1,328
Currency conversion difference 36 0 0 36
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0
Additions 537 0 0 537
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 58 0 0 — 58
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2018 1,840 3 0 1,843
Currency conversion difference 12 0 0 12
Changes in consolidated companies — 2 0 0 — 2
Additions 589 6 0 595
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 117 0 0 — 117
Reclassifications 1 0 0 1
Balance as of 31.12.2019 2,323 9 0 2,332
Book value as of 31.12.2018 5,068 26 26 5,120
Book value as of 31.12.2019 4,793 77 12 4,88257
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
3.2 Tangible assets
Other Advance
Technical facilities / payments /
Land and facilities and operating construction
(in million EUR) buildings machines equipment in progress Total
Acquisition / manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2018 3,627 3,717 2,118 777 10,239
Currency conversion difference 34 24 18 1 77
Changes in consolidated companies 0 1 0 0 1
Additions 62 88 124 676 950
Disposals — 19 — 52 — 101 — 1 — 173
Reclassifications 221 192 69 — 481 1
Balance as of 31.12.2018 3,925 3,970 2,228 972 11,095
Currency conversion difference 27 19 14 3 63
Changes in consolidated companies — 61 — 97 — 3 — 8 — 169
Additions 62 85 156 770 1,073
Disposals — 46 — 84 — 110 — 7 — 247
Reclassifications 175 172 85 — 434 — 2
Balance as of 31.12.2019 4,082 4,065 2,370 1,296 11,813
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1.1.2018 2,056 2,657 1,659 0 6,372
Currency conversion difference 22 18 15 0 55
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 162 232 158 0 552
Write-ups — 3 — 5 0 0 — 8
Disposals — 13 — 48 — 95 0 — 156
Reclassifications — 1 3 — 2 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2018 2,223 2,857 1,735 0 6,815
Currency conversion difference 16 13 10 0 39
Changes in consolidated companies — 60 — 95 — 3 0 — 158
Additions 190 225 170 0 585
Write-ups 0 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 40 — 77 — 104 0 — 221
Reclassifications 8 — 14 5 0 — 1
Balance as of 31.12.2019 2,337 2,909 1,813 0 7,059
Book value as of 31.12.2018 1,702 1,113 493 972 4,280
Book value as of 31.12.2019 1,745 1,156 557 1,296 4,754
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP58
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
3.3 Financial assets
Investments Loans Investments Loans
in affiliated to affiliated in related to related Investment
(in million EUR) companies companies companies companies securities Other loans Total
Acquisition / manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2018 7 0 991 0 5,076 173 6,247
Currency conversion difference 0 0 0 0 2 3 5
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 5 0 31 0 117 7 160
Disposals 0 0 — 21 0 — 29 — 145 — 195
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2018 12 0 1,001 0 5,166 38 6,217
Currency conversion difference 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Changes in consolidated companies — 6 0 — 11 0 0 0 — 17
Additions 0 0 45 4 3,071 5 3,125
Disposals 0 0 — 81 0 — 46 — 8 — 135
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2019 6 0 954 4 8,191 35 9,190
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1.1.2018 0 0 397 0 17 3 417
Currency conversion difference 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 2 0 1 0 3
Write-ups 0 0 — 256 0 — 3 0 — 259
Disposals 0 0 — 2 0 0 0 — 2
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2018 0 0 141 0 15 3 159
Currency conversion difference 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 3 0 2 0 5
Write-ups 0 0 — 60 0 — 7 0 — 67
Disposals 0 0 — 68 0 — 1 0 — 69
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2019 0 0 16 0 9 3 28
Book value as of 31.12.2018 12 0 860 0 5,151 35 6,058
Book value as of 31.12.2019 6 0 938 4 8,182 32 9,162
As in the previous year, the “Other loans” item does not include any loans to shareholders.59
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
3.4 Inventories
(in million EUR) 31.12.2019 31.12.2018
Raw materials and supplies 635 626
Unfinished goods 1,763 1,602
Finished goods and goods for resale 1,155 1,071
Advance payments to suppliers 10 13
3,563 3,312
3.5 Accounts receivable and other assets
Residual term Residual term
(in million EUR) 31.12.2019 over 1 year 31.12.2018 over 1 year
Trade accounts receivable 4,196 2 3,540 0
Receivables from affiliated companies 19 0 24 0
Receivables from related companies 29 0 27 0
Other assets 1,193 176 982 67
5,437 178 4,573 67
The “Other assets” item includes receivables from shareholders of 123 million EUR (previous year: around half
a million EUR).
Receivables from affiliated companies almost exclusively consist of receivables from loans.
Receivables from related companies primarily consist of trade accounts receivable.
3.6 Provisions
(in million EUR) 31.12.2019 31.12.2018
Pension provisions and similar obligations 5,185 4,712
Tax provisions 1,816 1,812
Other provisions 7,520 7,228
14,521 13,752
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP60
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations
The provisions for pensions and similar obligations were determined on the basis of actuarial calculations using the
projected unit credit method, taking into account future adjustments in salaries and pensions.
In addition to local biometric data (in Germany, for example, 2018 G mortality tables published by Prof. Dr. Klaus
Heubeck which have been adjusted for group-specific death probabilities and invalidity rates), pension obligations
in the significant countries were calculated on the basis of the following actuarial parameters:
(in % as of December 31, 2019) Germany USA Japan
Discount rate 2.71 3.96 1.08
Salary increase 3.50 4.00 3.51
Pension increase 1.88 3.00 0.00
Discounting rates were determined by reference to average market rates for 15-year maturities in accordance with
the German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions of March 11, 2016. The interest rates used to discount sig-
nificant foreign pension obligations (USA and Japan) were determined with comparable parameters, in line with the
German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions of March 11, 2016.
The difference calculated in accordance with Section 253 (6) HGB amounts to 743 million EUR (previous year:
767 million EUR).
The plan assets intended solely to cover pension and similar obligations that are unavailable to all other creditors
(plan assets as defined in Section 246 (2) sentence 2 HGB) were measured at fair market value, which is essentially
derived from stock market prices, and offset against the underlying pension and similar obligations. The fair market
value of the plan assets on the balance sheet date was 2,149 million EUR. The related amount of pension obligations
and similar obligations was 7,160 million EUR.
Tax provisions
The tax provisions also include provisions for double taxation risks, which have resulted following the implementation
of the action plans of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) as part of their interna-
tional initiative known as the “Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting” (BEPS).61
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
Other provisions
Other provisions mainly include provisions for discounts and guarantees, personnel-related provisions, provisions
for outstanding invoices, as well as provisions for litigation, legal claims and compensation for damages.
3.7 Accounts payable and loans
Residual term Residual term
less than Over Thereof over less than
(in million EUR) 1 year 1 year 5 years 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 1 year
Bank loans 247 9 0 256 420 412
Other accounts payable 1,385 74 35 1,459 1,722 1,685
thereof:
– Trade accounts payable 822 8 0 830 855 852
– Advance payments received 170 22 13 192 164 142
– Accounts payable
to affiliated companies 3 5 5 8 9 4
– Accounts payable
to related companies 2 0 0 2 1 1
– Other liabilities * 388 39 17 427 693 686
1,632 83 35 1,715 2,142 2,097
* thereof:
– from taxes (in million EUR) 205 225
– social security liabilities (in million EUR) 35 40
As in the previous year, there were no liabilities secured by mortgages or similar collateral rights on the balance
sheet date.
At the end of the year, there were liabilities to shareholders of 61 million EUR (previous year: 255 million EUR).
These are presented within the “Other liabilities” item.
Accounts payable to affiliated companies include loans amounting to 4 million EUR (previous year: 4 million EUR)
and trade accounts payable amounting to 4 million EUR (previous year: 5 million EUR).
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP62
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
4 Notes to the consolidated profit and loss statement
The structure of the consolidated profit and loss statement was based on the total cost format. Other taxes are
included in other operating expenses.
To provide a better view of the earnings position, cost of materials has been partially reclassified to other operating
expenses. The previous year’s figure has also been adjusted by 452 million EUR for better comparability.
4.1 Net sales
by businesses (in million EUR) 2019 2018
Human Pharma 13,961 12,559
Animal Health 4,035 3,960
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 786 734
Other sales 41 40
Discontinued Operations 174 205
18,997 17,498
by region (in million EUR) 2019 2018
Americas 8,830 8,088
Europe 5,689 5,316
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 4,478 4,094
18,997 17,498
4.2 Other operating income
Other operating income includes income from currency translation of 811 million EUR (previous year: 783 million EUR).
4.3 Cost of materials
(in million EUR) 2019 2018
Costs of raw material, supplies and goods for resale 2,074 1,720
Expenditure on services 844 886
2,918 2,60663
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
4.4 Personnel expenses
(in million EUR) 2019 2018
Wages and salaries 4,349 4,260
Social benefits and retirement benefits 1,018 1,016
thereof: retirement benefits 267 305
5,367 5,276
All interest effects of the measurement of the provisions for pensions and similar obligations were shown as a
separate item of financial income.
Average headcount 2019 2018
Production 16,590 16,360
Marketing and sales 18,463 18,776
Research and development 9,154 8,552
Administration 6,104 5,960
Apprentices 704 685
51,015 50,333
The methodology used to calculate the average number of employees was revised for the 2019 consolidated finan-
cial statements. The calculated average, which was originally based on the four previous end-of-quarter figures, has
been changed to an assessment based on 12 month-end figures. The figures for 2018 have been adjusted in line with
the new methodology. This has resulted in an overall difference of -37 employees for 2018.
4.5 Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets
Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets include impairment losses of 181 mil-
lion EUR (previous year: 116 million EUR).
4.6 Other operating expenses
Other operating expenses include expenses from currency translation of 1,056 million EUR (previous year:
779 million EUR).
In addition, other items included in operating expenses are mainly the charges made to record provisions for
legal risks and restructuring, as well as third-party services for research, development, medicine and marketing
purposes, administrative expenses, fees and contributions, commissions, rent, freight and expenses for repairs
carried out by third parties.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP64
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
4.7 Financial income
(in million EUR) 2019 2018
Interest result from provisions for pensions and similar obligations and other provisions — 393 — 665
Other interest expenses and similar expenses — 133 — 149
Interest expenses and similar expenses — 526 — 814
Amortization of and loss on disposal of financial fixed assets and short-term investments — 2 — 1
Income from other investment securities and from long-term loans 105 104
Other interest income and similar income 54 57
— 369 — 654
Gains and losses from plan assets and interest expense relating to pension and similar obligations were offset in
accordance with Section 246 (2) sentence 2 HGB. In total, 357 million EUR in earnings from plan assets and 727 million
EUR in interest expense relating to pension and similar obligations are included under “Interest result from provi-
sions for pensions and similar obligations and other provisions”.
4.8 Holding income
(in million EUR) 2019 2018
Write-downs on financial assets — 4 — 2
Write-ups of financial assets 60 256
Income from related companies 27 104
thereof: from disposal of related companies 12 91
83 358
4.9 Income taxes
(in million EUR) 2019 2018
Current income taxes 1,027 1,588
Deferred taxes — 252 — 487
775 1,101
Current income taxes primarily include the corporation and trade tax expenses of the consolidated companies.
The total balance of deferred tax assets as of the balance sheet date amounted to 3,000 million EUR (previous
year: 2,784 million EUR). Deferred tax assets primarily arise on the difference between the carrying amounts of
provisions for pension obligations and for discounts, tax goodwill, intangible assets, inventories and tangible
assets. Deferred tax liabilities of 651 million EUR (previous year: 686 million EUR) were recorded. These primarily
relate to differences between the carrying amounts of intangible assets, tangible assets, inventories and provisions.65
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
4.10 Net income
The net income for 2019 was positively influenced by non-period income (primarily from the reversal of other
provisions) of 630 million EUR (previous year: 352 million EUR) and was negatively influenced by non-period
expenses (mainly due to taxes for previous years) of 206 million EUR (previous year: 511 million EUR).
5 Notes to the cash flow statement
The cash flow statement shows the changes in cash and cash equivalents (cash and long-term investment securities
that can be sold at any time) of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group resulting from cash inflows and outflows in the
reporting year. In accordance with the German Accounting Standard on the cash flow statement (DRS 21), the cash
flow statement has been broken down according to cash flows from operating activities and cash flows from invest-
ing and financing activities.
The changes in the balance sheet items of the affiliated companies included were translated using average rates for
the year. As on the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents are carried at the spot rate. The effect of exchange rate
changes on cash and cash equivalents has been shown separately.
The financial funds also include financial assets with a remaining maturity exceeding three months on the date of
acquisition. These financial assets can be converted into cash in the short-term.
The financial funds as of December 31, 2019 comprised the following items:
(in million EUR) 2019
Cash and cash equivalents 2,195
Financial assets 8,182
10,377
The financial funds included 486 million EUR in restricted funds as of the balance sheet date.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP66
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
6 Other disclosures
6.1 Contingent liabilities
(in million EUR) 31.12.2019 31.12.2018
Liabilities from guarantees 25 21
Warranties and the granting of securities for third-party liabilities 70 235
95 256
The risk of utilization of these contingent liabilities is assessed as low on account of the good net assets, financial
and earnings position.
6.2 Other financial commitments and off-balance sheet transactions
(in million EUR) 31.12.2019 31.12.2018
Rental and lease obligations 486 512
Residual other financial commitments 1,610 1,465
thereof: pension-related 0 10
2,096 1,977
There are obligations from rental and lease agreements of 486 million EUR (previous year: 512 million EUR), of
which 29 million EUR (previous year: 12 million EUR) relate to long-term rental agreements with non-consoli-
dated subsidiaries.
The purpose of the lease agreements is the lower capital commitment compared to buying property and the absence
of the resale risk. Risks could arise from the term of the lease should it not be possible to continue to utilize the
properties fully. There are no indications of this at this time.
The residual other financial commitments include future capital expenditures of 1,279 million EUR (previous year:
1,125 million EUR).
6.3 Derivative financial instruments and valuation units
Due to its extensive international structure, the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is highly dependent on developments
in the world’s currencies and interest rates. To hedge these risks, particularly those emerging from delivery of goods,
services, and financing, currency forwards and options are generally used for currency risks. Interest rate swaps and
options are used for interest rate risks.
The use of derivative financial instruments and the organizational processes are set out in internal guidelines. There
is a strict separation between trading, processing, documentation, and control.67
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
Risk positions are regularly tracked, analyzed, and measured in a special Group-wide financial report. The positions
entered into are periodically reevaluated and monitored. The fair value of the derivative financial instruments is
calculated using generally accepted market valuation methods (currency forwards based on the present value
method) taking into account the market data as of the balance sheet date.
Provisions of 114 million EUR were recognized for currency forwards not included in hedge accounting for which
there was a negative fair value within one currency as of the balance sheet date. In line with the imparity principle,
positive fair values within one currency are not recognized.
On the balance sheet date, the derivative financial instruments not included in hedge accounting valuation units
were as follows:
Nominal value Fair value
(in million EUR) 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 31.12.2019 31.12.2018
Foreign exchange forward contracts 5,620 3,906 — 71 — 27
To the extent that the requirements for hedge accounting of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with highly
probable forecasted transactions in accordance with Section 254 HGB are met, the foreign currency forward
exchange contracts are not recognized in the balance sheet in line with the net hedge presentation method.
The following accounting policies apply to the recognition of valuation units in accordance with Section 254 HGB:
Economic hedges are accounted for in the financial statements by the use of valuation units. The valuation units are
recognized for each foreign currency based on the net amount of highly probable forecasted transactions and currency
forwards that match the forecasted net cash flow in terms of maturity, nominal amount and foreign currency (macro
hedge). The highly probable forecasted transactions (incoming and outgoing payments for planned sales and pur-
chases) are derived from company planning. Ex-post analysis of planning has shown that the planned transactions
are highly probable.
The opposing changes in value of the hedged item and the hedging instrument are fully offset as the critical terms
(maturity, nominal amount, and foreign currency) match. An effective hedge can therefore be assumed both
prospectively and retrospectively. The critical term match method is exclusively used to measure the prospective
and retrospective effectiveness of hedges. Excess amounts under hedging transactions are not included in the
valuation units.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP68
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
As of December 31, 2019, hedges for highly probable forecasted net cash flows were recognized as follows:
January to December 2020:
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 1,674 USD 1,607 USD — 97
JPY 742 JPY 627 JPY — 23
AUD 131 AUD 100 AUD — 3
MXN 97 MXN 96 MXN — 8
CAD 256 CAD 146 CAD — 5
GBP 151 GBP 152 GBP — 9
January to December 2021:
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 2,171 USD 1,309 USD — 51
JPY 744 JPY 370 JPY — 12
AUD 17 AUD 12 AUD 0
MXN 24 MXN 20 MXN — 1
CAD 43 CAD 28 CAD 0
GBP 27 GBP 22 GBP — 1
January to December 2022:
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 2,182 USD 537 USD — 11
JPY 769 JPY 205 JPY 069
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
January to February 2023:
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 812 USD 145 USD 1
JPY 110 JPY 26 JPY 0
Furthermore, as of December 31, 2019, valuation units for foreign currency receivables were recognized as
follows:
Receivables (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
RUB 171 RUB 71 RUB — 5
PLN 59 PLN 16 PLN 0
The amount of the hedged foreign currency risk correlates to the relative change in the exchange rate between the
planning date and the realization date of the forecasted transactions. If all currencies were to appreciate or depreciate
against the euro by 10.0%, there would be a foreign currency risk of + / – 1,018 million EUR without hedging.
6.4 Research and development expenses
(in million EUR) 2019 2018
Research and development expenses 3,462 3,164
Non-capitalized research and development expenses include, among other items, the costs associated with
clinical studies.
6.5 Total auditor fees
Total fees charged to the Group by the auditor for the financial year amounted to 5.9 million EUR. 1.6 million EUR of
this relates to audits of financial statements, 0.8 million EUR to other assurance services, 2.2 million EUR to tax
advisory services and 1.3 million EUR to other services.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP70
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
6.6 Subsequent events
On December 18, 2019, an asset purchase agreement was signed between Hypera S.A. and Boehringer Ingelheim on
the sale of the Buscopan business in Brazil. This agreement contains the conditions for the closing and execution of
the asset sale, including antitrust authority approval, and other relevant conditions. The transaction is expected to
be concluded during the 2020 financial year. An amount equivalent to approximately 288 million EUR as of the bal-
ance sheet date was agreed as the selling price.
Since the end of the 2019 financial year, we have not become aware of any further events that are of material signif-
icance to the Group or that could lead to a reappraisal of its net assets, financial and earnings position.
6.7 Shareholdings
The list of companies included in the consolidated financial statements and the complete list of shareholdings
presented in accordance with Section 313 (2) HGB are included in the audited consolidated financial statements
submitted to the German Federal Gazette.
Ingelheim am Rhein, 2 March 2020
Boehringer AG
Board of Managing Directors
Hubertus von Baumbach Carinne Knoche-Brouillon Dr. Michel Pairet
Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok Michael Schmelmer71
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
Qualified Audit Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements and Audit Opinion on the Group Manage-
ment Report
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein,
and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2019, and the
consolidated profit and loss statement, cash flow statement and statement of changes in group equity for the finan-
cial year from 1 January to 31 December 2019, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a sum-
mary of significant accounting policies. In addition, we have audited the group management report of C.H.
Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2019.
In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in the audit,
• except for the effects of the matter described in section “Basis for the Qualified Audit Opinion on the Consoli-
dated Financial Statements and the Audit Opinion on the Group Management Report” the accompanying consol-
idated financial statements comply, in all material respects, with the requirements of German commercial law
and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2019
and of its financial performance for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2019, in accordance with
German Legally Required Accounting Principles, and
• the accompanying group management report as a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position. In
all material respects, this group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements,
complies with German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future devel-
opment.
Pursuant to Section 322 (3) sentence 1 HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch “German Commercial Code”], we declare that,
except for the qualification of the audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements mentioned, our audit has
not led to any reservations relating to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements and the group
management report.
Basis for the Qualified Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Audit Opinion on the Group
Management Report
Contrary to Section 314 (1) number 6 letters a) and b) HGB the total remuneration granted to the members and the
former members of the board of managing directors as well as the pension provisions recognized and not recog-
nized for the former members of the board of managing directors are not disclosed in the notes to the consolidated
financial statements.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report in accord-
ance with Section 317 HGB and the German Generally Accepted Standards of Financial Statement Audits promul-
gated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW). Our responsibilities
under those requirements and principles are further described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Consolidated Financial Statements and of the Group Management Report” section of our auditor’s report. We are
independent of the group entities in accordance with the requirements of German commercial and professional law,
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP72
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
and we have fulfilled our other German professional responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We
believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions on the
consolidated financial statements and on the group management report.
Other Information
Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the annual report, with the
exception of the audited consolidated financial statements and group management report and our auditor’s report.
Our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report do not cover the other
information, and consequently we do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in so doing, to consider whether
the other information
• is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements, with the group management report or our
knowledge obtained in the audit, or
• otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Responsibilities of Management for the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Group Management Report
Management is responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that comply, in all material
respects, with the requirements of German commercial law and that the consolidated financial statements give a
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial performance of the Group in compliance
with German Legally Required Accounting Principles. In addition, management is responsible for such internal
control as they, in accordance with German Legally Required Accounting Principles, have determined necessary to
enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due
to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to
continue as a going concern. They also have the responsibility for disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern. In addition, they are responsible for financial reporting based on the going concern basis of accounting,
provided no actual or legal circumstances conflict therewith.
Furthermore, management is responsible for the preparation of the group management report that, as a whole, pro-
vides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and is, in all material respects, consistent with the consolidated
financial statements, complies with German legal requirements, and appropriately presents the opportunities and
risks of future development. In addition, management is responsible for such arrangements and measures (sys-
tems) as they have considered necessary to enable the preparation of a group management report that is in accord-
ance with the applicable German legal requirements, and to be able to provide sufficient appropriate evidence for
the assertions in the group management report.73
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the Group Manage-
ment Report
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and whether the group management report as a
whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and, in all material respects, is consistent with the con-
solidated financial statements and the knowledge obtained in the audit, complies with the German legal require-
ments and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development, as well as to issue an auditor’s
report that includes our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
Section 317 HGB and in compliance with the German Generally Accepted Standards of Financial Statement Audits
promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) will always detect a material misstatement. Misstatements
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial state-
ments and this group management report.
We exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements and of the group
management report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of
arrangements and measures (systems) relevant to the audit of the group management report in order to design
audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on
the effectiveness of these systems.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by management and the reasonableness of estimates
made by management and related disclosures.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty
exists, we are required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated
financial statements and in the group management report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our
respective opinions. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to be able to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements present the underlying transactions and events in
a manner that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial
position and financial performance of the Group in compliance with German Legally Required Accounting Principles.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP74
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activ-
ities within the Group to express opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group manage-
ment report. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain
solely responsible for our opinions.
• Evaluate the consistency of the group management report with the consolidated financial statements, its
conformity with [German] law, and the view of the Group’s position it provides.
• Perform audit procedures on the prospective information presented by management in the group management
report. On the basis of sufficient appropriate audit evidence we evaluate, in particular, the significant assump-
tions used by management as a basis for the prospective information, and evaluate the proper derivation of the
prospective information from these assumptions. We do not express a separate opinion on the prospective infor-
mation and on the assumptions used as a basis. There is a substantial unavoidable risk that future events will
differ materially from the prospective information.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we
identify during our audit.
Frankfurt am Main, 3 March 2020
KPMG AG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Original German version signed by
Kneisel Krauß
Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer
[German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor]OILOFTROP
TCUDORP
PAGES 76–105
P R O D U C T P O R T F O L I O
A S E L E C T I O N
Human Pharmaceuticals 76
Animal Health 9076
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
RESPIRATORY DISEASES
Respiratory diseases are very common. Chronic obstructive Bronchial asthma
pulmonary disease (COPD) and bronchial asthma are among Bronchial asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the
the most prevalent chronic diseases and a frequent cause of airways. The inflammation is accompanied by airway hyper­
morbidity and premature deaths worldwide. responsiveness, which leads to a narrowing of the airways and
recurrent episodes of wheezing, breathlessness and coughing.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a rare disease which is These symptoms occur particularly at night or in the early
severely debilitating and ultimately lethal. hours of the morning. It is now known that asthma can be trig­
gered by genetic and environmental factors (e.g. allergens and
COPD viral infections). Unlike COPD, asthma can occur very early in
COPD is a chronic disease of the lungs that causes coughing, childhood; it can also be present in adolescents or adults.
excessive mucus production and dyspnea and ultimately Asthma is often underestimated as an easy­to­manage condi­
destroys the lung tissue. The alveoli and thus gas exchange are tion. However, almost one in two patients with asthma still
the most affected. This leads to a limitation of airflow, causing experience symptoms while receiving maintenance therapy,
shortness of breath and other respiratory symptoms. The air­ putting them at increased risk of potentially life­threatening
flow limitation is only partially reversible and usually worsens asthma exacerbations. In addition, patients often adjust their
over time, leading to disability and ultimately to death. Symp­ daily lives to accommodate their conditions and avoid physical
toms such as excess cough and breathlessness are the main exertion in day­to­day activities, which has a negative impact
reasons why COPD is very stressful for patients. Lung emphy­ on quality of life.
sema and chronic bronchitis are the main manifestations of
COPD.
COPD is caused by continuous damage to the lungs resulting
from inhaling pollutants, primarily cigarette smoke. However,
other factors also need to be considered including indoor and
outdoor air pollution. The course of COPD, which is a disease
that occurs in the second half in a human’s life, is character­
ized by an accelerated loss of lung function compared to nor­
mal ageing and by occasional sudden worsening of symptoms
and function referred to as acute exacerbations. This can lead
to a downward spiral of worsening symptoms and thus further
inactivity.77
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Chronic obstructive spiriva® tiotropium bromide Maintenance treatment of patients with COPD
pulmonary disease (COPD) spiriva® handihaler® (including chronic bronchitis and emphysema),
spiriva® respimat® maintenance treatment of associated dyspnoea
and for prevention of exacerbations.
– Bronchial asthma spiriva® respimat® tiotropium bromide An add­on maintenance bronchodilator treat­
ment in patients aged six years and older with
severe asthma who experienced one or more
severe asthma exacerbations in the past year.*
* spiriva® respimat® is approved for use in asthma in
the EU, Japan, the USA and many other countries. The
label varies by country. Please refer to the local product
information.
– Chronic obstructive spiolto® respimat® tiotropium bromide, Maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction
pulmonary disease (COPD) stiolto® respimat® olodaterol hydrochloride in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary
inspiolto® respimat® disease (COPD).
– C hronic obstructive striverdi® respimat® olodaterol hydrochloride Maintenance treatment of patients with chronic
pulmonary disease (COPD) obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
– Reversible bronchospasms combivent® respimat® ipratropium bromide, A combination of a short­acting anticholinergic
associated with obstructive salbutamol, sulphate and beta­adrenergic for the management of
airway diseases reversible bronchospasms associated with
obstructive airway diseases in patients requir­
ing more than one bronchodilator.
– C hronic obstructive atrovent® ipratropium bromide Prevention and treatment of shortness of
pulmonary disease (COPD) breath in patients with chronic obstructive
– Chronic bronchitis pulmonary disease (COPD) and mild to moder­
– Bronchial asthma ate bronchial asthma in adulthood and child­
hood as a supplement to beta­agonists in cases
of acute asthma.
– C hronic obstructive airway berodual® ipratropium bromide, Prevention and treatment of symptoms in
disorders bronchodual® fenoterol hydrobromide chronic obstructive airway disorders with
duovent® reversible airflow limitation such as bronchial
asthma and especially chronic bronchitis with
or without emphysema.78
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
RESPIRATORY DISEASES (CONTINUED)
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) Systemic sclerosis associated interstitial lung
IPF is a chronic progressive lung disease associated with a disease (SSc-ILD)
markedly reduced life span and affecting as many as 14 – 43 Systemic sclerosis (SSc), also known as scleroderma, is a rare
people per 100,000 worldwide. IPF is characterized by progres­ incurable autoimmune disease affecting connective tissue. The
sive scarring of lung tissue and a loss of lung function over disease is estimated to affect 15 to 24 people in every 100,000
time. Development of scarred tissue is called fibrosis. Over in Europe and 2.5 million worldwide. SSc impacts four times as
time, as the tissue thickens and stiffens with scarring, the lungs many women as men, and the onset of the disease typically
lose their ability to take in and transfer oxygen into the blood­ occurs at a young age – between 25 and 55 years. It can cause
stream, and vital organs do not get enough oxygen. As a result, scarring (fibrosis) of the skin as well as major organs such as
individuals with IPF experience shortness of breath, even when the heart, lungs, digestive tract and kidneys and can have
resting, and often have difficulty coping with the demands of life­threatening complications. Approximately 25% of patients
everyday life due to their limited physical capacity. develop significant pulmonary involvement within three years
of diagnosis. When SSc affects the lungs, it can cause intersti­
Acute IPF exacerbations are defined as rapid deteriorations of tial lung disease (ILD), known as SSc­ILD. It is a key driver of
symptoms and lung function within days or weeks. These mortality among people with SSc, accounting for approxi­
events can occur at any point in the course of the disease, even mately one third of deaths.
at first presentation, and are associated with high mortality. All
patients with IPF are at risk of acute IPF exacerbations.79
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Bronchial asthma berotec® fenoterol hydrobromide Symptomatic treatment of acute asthma
attacks.
Prophylaxis of exercise­induced asthma bron­
chiale.
Symptomatic treatment of allergic and non­
allergic asthma bronchiale and other conditions
with reversible airway narrowing, e.g. chronic
obstructive bronchitis.
– Bronchial asthma alesion® epinastine hydrochloride Prophylactic treatment of patients with bron­
– Allergic rhinitis flurinol® chial asthma. Prophylaxis and symptomatic
treatment of allergic rhinitis.
– I diopathic pulmonary fibrosis ofev® nintedanib Treatment of patients with idiopathic pulmo­
(IPF) nary fibrosis (IPF).
– S ystemic sclerosis associated
Approved in the USA, Brazil, Canada, Japan and
interstitial lung disease
other countries as therapy for SSc­ILD to slow
(SSc­ILD)
down the rate of decline in pulmonary function.80
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
CARDIOVASCULAR AND METABOLIC DISEASES
Cardiovascular (CV) disease is the leading cause of death Prevention and treatment of venous
worldwide and is still increasing in prevalence. Currently, it is thromboembolism
responsible for nearly one in three deaths worldwide. One key Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is an umbrella term that
risk factor for developing cardiovascular disease is the pres­ encompasses deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary
ence of diabetes: people with type 2 diabetes are two to four embolism (PE). DVT occurs when a thrombus (blood clot) forms
times more likely to develop cardiovascular disease than peo­ in a deep vein, most commonly in the leg, and partially or com­
ple without diabetes, and as a result, their life expectancy is up pletely blocks the flow of blood. As the thrombus grows, a por­
to 12 years shorter. Proper control of diabetes and other treat­ tion may break away from the main clot and travel in the circu­
able risk factors is therefore vital for the prevention of cardio­ latory system to the lungs. The lodging of a blood clot in the
vascular events. arteries of the lung is called a PE. VTE is a serious disorder with
potentially fatal consequences.
Stroke
Stroke is the rapidly developing loss of brain functions caused Patients undergoing orthopedic surgery are at considerable
by a disrupted blood flow to the affected brain tissue. This can risk of developing DVT, and chronic venous insufficiency and/
be due to ischemia (lack of blood supply) caused by thrombo­ or pulmonary hypertension may develop in the longer term. To
sis or embolism, or due to bleeding (hemorrhagic stroke). As a prevent VTE events and their consequences after orthopedic
result, the affected area of the brain is unable to function and surgery, patients should receive some kind of thromboprophy­
the damage quickly becomes permanent, if untreated. A stroke laxis. Patients who have already suffered from VTE require anti­
is an acute event requiring emergency diagnosis and interven­ coagulant treatment for secondary prevention of a recurrent
tion. Worldwide, stroke is one of the leading causes of death thromboembolic event.
and long­term disability.
Reversing anticoagulation
Symptoms of a transient ischemic attack (TIA) are similar to Anticoagulation therapy offers important benefits for patients at
stroke, but last for only a few minutes or hours and do not risk of thromboembolic events. However, even though rare,
result in permanent neurological damage. As a TIA may pre­ there may be situations when rapid reversal of anticoagulation is
cede a stroke, emergency medical care and subsequent pre­ medically necessary, e.g. if a patient taking an anticoagulant is
ventive treatment may be necessary. involved in a severe car accident and needs emergency surgery.
Atrial fibrillation
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained heart
rhythm condition, affecting approximately 2% of the total pop­
ulation. One in four adults over 40 develops AF in their lifetime.
Patients with AF are at higher risk of developing blood clots in
their upper left heart chamber, which can cause a stroke if the
clot breaks loose and travels to the brain. AF leads to a five­fold
increase in the risk of stroke, resulting in up to three million
patients worldwide suffering AF­related strokes each year. For
patients with AF, the risk of stroke can be reduced by appropri­
ate anticoagulation therapy.81
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Stroke prevention in atrial pradaxa® dabigatran etexilate Prevention of strokes and blood clots in
fibrillation pradaxar® patients with atrial fibrillation.
– Primary prevention of venous prazaxa®
Primary prevention of venous thrombo­embolic
thromboembolic events after
events (VTE) in adults after elective total hip or
orthopedic surgery
knee replacement surgery.
– Treatment and secondary
prevention of venous Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and
thromboembolic events pulmonary embolism (PE), and secondary
prevention of recurrent DVT and PE in adults.
– S pecific reversal of pradaxa® praxbind® idarucizumab praxbind® is a specific reversal agent for
(dabigatran etexilate) dabigatran and is indicated in adult patients
treated with pradaxa® (dabigatran etexilate)
when rapid reversal of its anticoagulant effects
is required: for emergency surgery/urgent
procedures; in life­threatening or uncontrolled
bleeding.
– Hypertension micardis® telmisartan Treatment of hypertension. For the reduction of
– C ardiovascular morbidity and the risk of myocardial infarction (heart attack),
mortality prevention stroke or death from cardiovascular (CV) causes
in patients 55 years of age or older at high risk
of developing major CV events who are unable
to take ACE inhibitors (US).
For the reduction of cardiovascular morbidity in
patients with manifest atherothrombotic car­
diovascular disease (history of coronary heart
disease, stroke or peripheral arterial disease), or
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus with
documented target organ damage (EU).
– Hypertension micardisplus® telmisartan; Treatment of hypertension alone or with other
micardis® plus hydrochlorothiazide antihypertensive agents, to lower blood pres­
micardis® hct sure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk
co-micardis® of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events,
primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions.
Not indicated for initial therapy (US).
Treatment of essential hypertension.
micardisplus® fixed dose combination is
indicated in adults whose blood pressure is
not adequately controlled on telmisartan
alone (EU).82
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
CARDIOVASCULAR AND METABOLIC DISEASES (CONTINUED)
Hypertension and cardiovascular diseases
Hypertension (high blood pressure) is a chronic disease in
which the blood pressure is chronically elevated. Hypertension
is also one of the major risk factors for stroke, heart attacks,
heart failure and chronic renal failure. The primary goal of anti­
hypertensive treatment is to prevent such cardiovascular
events and to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality.
Acute myocardial infarction
An acute myocardial infarction, or heart attack, occurs when a
thrombus (blood clot) suddenly prevents blood flow to an area
of the heart muscle. Unless the blood flow is restored quickly,
the affected section of heart muscle becomes permanently
damaged. Heart attacks are one of the most common causes of
death in industrialized countries.83
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Hypertension twynsta® telmisartan, amlodipine Treatment of hypertension alone or with other
micamlo® antihypertensive agents. As initial therapy in
micardis® amlo patients likely to need multiple antihypertensive
micardis® duo agents to achieve their blood pressure goals
(US).
Add­on therapy in adult patients with not ade­
quately controlled blood pressure on amlodip­
ine, and replacement therapy in adult patients
receiving telmisartan and amlodipine from
separate tablets (EU).
– Acute ischemic stroke actilyse® alteplase Fibrinolytic treatment of acute ischemic stroke,
– Acute myocardial infarction actilyse® cathflo® acute myocardial infarction, acute massive
– A cute massive pulmonary pulmonary embolism. Fibrinolytic treatment of
embolism occluded catheters.
– C atheter clearance due to
thrombotic occlusion
– S econdary prevention of aggrenox® dipyridamole, Prevention of stroke following an initial first
stroke or transient ischemic asasantin® acetylsalicylic acid stroke, or transient ischemic attacks (TIA).
attacks (TIA) asasantin® retard
– Acute myocardial infarction metalyse® tenecteplase Fibrinolytic treatment of acute myocardial
infarction.
– Hypertension catapresan® clonidine; Treatment of hypertension.
catapres® clonidine hydrochloride
catapressan®84
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
CARDIOVASCULAR AND METABOLIC DISEASES (CONTINUED)
Diabetes In addition to cardiovascular disease, serious complications of
Type 2 diabetes is a chronic, progressive condition associated diabetes include:
with elevated blood sugar levels that can cause long­term
complications if not treated. An estimated four million deaths • Nephropathy, culminating in renal failure requiring dialysis
worldwide every year are linked directly to the long­term • Retinopathy with potential loss of vision
effects of diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is the most common form • Peripheral neuropathy with the risk of developing foot ulcers
of the disease and accounts for up to 95% of all cases in the and potentially requiring foot or leg amputations
developed world. Currently, more than 425 million people in • Autonomic neuropathy, which can cause gastrointestinal,
the world live with diabetes, which represents an enormous genitourinary and cardiovascular symptoms and sexual dys­
burden on health care systems globally. Without effective pre­ function.
vention and management strategies, it is estimated that the
number of cases will reach 629 million by 2045.
In addition, type 2 diabetes is one of the major risk factors for
cardiovascular disease. Life expectancy of people with type 2
diabetes at high cardiovascular risk decreases, on average, by
up to 12 years. Overall, around half of deaths in people with
type 2 diabetes are caused by concomitant cardiovascular dis­
ease, indicating a high unmet medical need.85
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
Indications Brand Names** Active Ingredients
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus trajenta® linagliptin Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes
tradjenta® mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise to
trazenta® improve glycemic control, used in monotherapy
trayenta® (if metformin is not tolerated or contraindi­
cated) or in combination therapy.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus jentadueto® linagliptin, metformin Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes
trayenta duo® hydrochloride mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise to
trajenta duo® improve glycemic control when treatment with
trajentamet® metformin does not lead to sufficient control
or when patients are treated with trajenta®
(linagliptin) and metformin.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus jardiance® empagliflozin Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes melli­
jardianz® tus as an adjunct to diet and exercise to
improve glycemic control and to reduce the risk
of cardiovascular death in adults with type 2
diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascu­
lar disease.*
* US indication, December 2016. The label varies by country.
Please refer to the local product information.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus synjardy® empagliflozin, Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes melli­
jardiance duo® metformin tus as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve
hydrochloride glycemic control when treatment with both
empagliflozin and metformin is appropriate.*
* US indication, December 2016. The label varies by country.
Please refer to the local product information.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus glyxambi® empagliflozin, linagliptin Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes melli­
tus as an adjunct to diet and exercise to
improve glycemic control in adults with type 2
diabetes mellitus when both empagliflozin and
linagliptin are appropriate treatments.*
* US indication, March 2015. The label varies by country.
Please refer to the local product information.
** Diabetes portfolio in collaboration with Eli Lilly and Company.86
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
ONCOLOGY
Cancer is a threat to global health. In 2018, an estimated There are different subtypes such as small cell lung cancer
18 million new cases of cancer were diagnosed worldwide and (SCLC) and non­small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). More than ten
9.6 million people died from cancer, nearly one in six global different molecular genetic aberrations (mutations) present in
deaths (WHO World Cancer Factsheet 2018). The most com­ the tumor have been identified. By focusing on molecular
mon diagnosed cancer types were lung cancer (nearly 12%), changes that are specific to the respective subtype of lung
breast cancer (nearly 12%), colorectal cancer (10%), prostate cancer, targeted therapies have become more effective than
cancer (7%) and stomach cancer (6%). other treatments. They show a survival benefit and are at the
same time less harmful to normal cells, thereby reducing side
Lung cancer effects.
Lung cancer refers to malignant abnormal cell growth inside
the lung tissue. It is the most common cancer with an esti­
mated 2.1 million new cases per year worldwide (2018). Smok­
ing is the primary cause of the disease, contributing to almost
90% of the cases. Recently, however, the incidence of lung
cancer among non­smokers has increased. Lung cancer has a
poor prognosis, with 1.8 million deaths per year, representing
nearly 20% of all cancer deaths. Lung cancer symptoms are
unspecific so that the disease may take many years to appear.
Late diagnosis in an advanced stage of the disease results in
an often dismal prognosis, with only 10 – 15% of lung cancer
patients surviving five years or more following diagnosis.87
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Non­small cell lung cancer giotrif® afatinib First­line treatment of adult patients with locally
(NSCLC) gilotrif® advanced or metastatic non­small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC) whose tumors have activating
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)
mutations.
For the treatment of patients with locally
advanced or metastatic NSCLC of squamous
histology progressing on or after platinum­based
chemotherapy.
– N on­small cell lung cancer vargatef® nintedanib Combination therapy with docetaxel for
(NSCLC) the treatment of adult patients with locally
advanced, metastatic or locally recurrent
non­small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) of
adenocarcinoma tumor histology after
first­line chemotherapy.88
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
DISEASES OF THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM
Mental and neurological diseases such as depression and associated with PD, such as depression and sleep disorders.
Parkinson’s disease significantly impact patients and their The primary symptoms are the result of a lack of the neuro­
families and are also a substantial burden to society. transmitter dopamine in distinct areas of the human brain.
Parkinson’s disease Restless legs syndrome (RLS)
Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a degenerative disorder of the cen­ Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common neurological disor­
tral nervous system. Patients usually notice motor symptoms der characterized by an uncontrollable urge to move the legs,
like hand shaking (tremor) as their first sign of the disease, primarily occurring in the evening and night hours. It is usually
which may progress to include shaking of the arms, legs or accompanied by unpleasant and sometimes painful sensa­
head. Other motor symptoms that may develop over time tions in the legs as well as disturbed sleep resulting in daytime
include stiffness that often results in loss of facial expression tiredness or sleepiness. The sensations are felt deep within the
and a gradual slowing or loss of motion, or “freezing”. About legs and are described as creeping, crawling or aching.
30 – 40% of patients also suffer from non­motor symptoms
INFECTIOUS DISEASES
HIV infection/AIDS
Acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a set of symp­
toms and infections resulting from the damage to the human
immune system caused by the human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV). If untreated, infection with HIV progressively reduces the
effectiveness of the immune system and leaves individuals sus­
ceptible to opportunistic infections and tumors. Babies of
infected mothers are at risk of getting the virus during preg­
nancy, childbirth or breastfeeding.89
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Parkinson’s disease (PD) sifrol® pramipexole Symptomatic treatment of idiopathic
– Restless legs syndrome (RLS) mirapex® Parkinson’s disease. It may be used as mono­
mirapexin® therapy or in combination with levodopa.
pexola® Symptomatic treatment of idiopathic moderate
to severe restless legs syndrome.
– Sleep disorders lendormin® brotizolam Short­term treatment of disorders of initiating
and maintaining sleep.
Insomnia requiring pharmacological inter­
vention.
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– HIV/AIDS viramune® nevirapine For the combination therapy of HIV­1 infection
viramune xr® and (in several countries) for the prevention of
mother­to­child transmission of HIV­1 in preg­
nant women who are not taking antiretroviral
therapy at time of labor.
Prolonged release tablets for once­daily dosing
within combination therapy.
– HIV/AIDS aptivus® tipranavir Indicated for combination antiretroviral treat­
ment of HIV­1­infected patients, co­adminis­
tered with 200 mg of ritonavir, who are treat­
ment­experienced and infected with HIV­1
strains resistant to more than one protease
inhibitor.90
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
LIVESTOCK – SWINE
Infectious respiratory diseases Infectious enteric diseases
ingelvac circoflex® is the first single-dose piglet vaccine for enterisol® ileitis is the first and only oral live vaccine against
the control of porcine circovirus disease (PCVD). This vaccine ileitis, globally the most prevalent enteric disease in swine
provides significant reduction of mortality in the acute phase caused by Lawsonia intracellularis. It is licensed to improve
of PCVD as well as improved growth rates in the chronic phase weight gain and to reduce growth variability associated with
of the disease. ingelvac circoflex® protects with minimal the disease. enterisol® ileitis helps to reduce the total anti-
systemic adverse reactions or injection site swellings and can microbial use in pork production.
be used during gestation and lactation. Our ingelvac® prrs
products are licensed for active immunization against the
respiratory and reproductive form of porcine reproductive and
respiratory syndrome (PRRS).
ingelvac mycoflex® provides proven safety, efficacy and
rapid onset of long-lasting immunity against Mycoplasma hyo-
pneumoniae (M. hyo.) with a single dose. ingelvac mycoflex®
contains the impranflex® adjuvant which allows for fresh
mixing with ingelvac circoflex® to form flexcombo®.
ingelvac provenza® protects against multiple IAV-S strains
and decreases nasal shedding, providing protection where pigs
are most vulnerable.91
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
ANIMAL HEALTH
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac circoflex® recombinant vaccine For the active immunization of pigs over the
diseases (porcine circovirus age of two weeks against porcine circovirus
type 2, PCV2 ) type 2 to reduce mortality, clinical signs –
including weight loss – and lesions in lymphoid
tissues associated with porcine circovirus
diseases (PCVD). In addition, vaccination has
been shown to reduce PCV 2 nasal shedding,
viral load in blood and lymphoid tissues, and
duration of viremia.
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac® prrs mlv attenuated live vaccine Depending on the product, for the active
diseases ingelvac prrsflex® eu (PRRS virus type 2, type 1) immunization of pigs at various ages against
reprocyc® prrs eu porcine reproductive and respiratory
syndrome virus (PRRS).
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac mycoflex® inactivated vaccine For the active immunization of pigs from the
diseases (Mycoplasma age of three weeks to reduce lung lesions
hyopneumoniae) following infections with Mycoplasma hyo-
pneumoniae.
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac provenza® attenuated live influenza vaccine For the vaccination of pigs one day of age or
diseases (LAIV) older against influenza virus strains H1N2 and
H3N2.
– Infectious enteric diseases enterisol® ileitis attenuated live vaccine For the active immunization of pigs from the
(Lawsonia intracellularis) age of three weeks against intestinal lesions
caused by Lawsonia intracellularis infection
and to reduce growth variability and loss of
weight gain associated with the disease.92
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
LIVESTOCK – CATTLE/RUMINANTS
Our cattle/ruminants business is a global leader in antiparasitic
brands such as ivomec®, longrange® and eprinex®. These
world renowned parasiticides treat and protect grazing animals
from the harmful effects of internal and external parasites.
zactran® treats cattle with bacterial pneumonia and sheep with
digital dermatitis infections.
bovela® is for active immunization of cattle of three months of
age in terms of reproductive infectious diseases.93
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
ANIMAL HEALTH
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Internal and external ivomec® ivermectin Depending on formulation, the product is for
parasites of cattle the treatment of nematodes, lice, mites, ticks,
flies, lungworms and liver flukes.
– I nternal and external longrange® eprinomectin, long-acting The Theraphase® technology used to develop
parasites of cattle this formulation of eprinomectin allows a
single treatment to last up to 100-150 days —
long enough to break the parasite life cycle
and effectively reduce parasite burdens on the
pasture. longrange® is effective in the con-
trol of most internal and external parasites of
cattle: gastrointestinal roundworms, lung-
worms, grubs, mites.
– I nternal and external eprinex® eprinomectin Depending on formulation, the product is for
parasites of ruminants the treatment of nematodes, lice, mites, ticks,
flies and lungworms in cattle and sheep.
– Bacterial causes of respiratory zactran® gamithromycin Depending on species indication (and country
disease and interdigital of registration), the product is for the treat-
dermatitis (footrot) ment and metaphylaxis control of respiratory
disease in cattle caused by key bacteria
(Mannheimia, Pasteurella, Histophilus and
Mycoplasma) and footrot disease in sheep
caused by key bacteria (Fusobacterium and
Dichelobacter).
– Reproductive infectious bovela® bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) Reduces hyperthermia and minimizes the
diseases in cattle types 1 and 2 reduction of leukocyte count caused by bovine
viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV-1 and BVDV-2);
reduces virus shedding and viremia caused by
BVDV-2 and prevents the birth of persistently
infected calves caused by transplacental
infection.94
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
LIVESTOCK – CATTLE/RUMINANTS (CONTINUED)
Our vaccine pyramid®/presponse® is part of our expanding
portfolio of respiratory and reproductive vaccines to prevent
diseases that affect livestock.
metacam® is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID),
helping to minimize losses from inflammation and tissue
damage in animals suffering from disease, hence addressing
the need for maintained profitability and the concern for farm
animal well-being.95
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
ANIMAL HEALTH
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Infectious respiratory pyramid® family of multivalent vaccine combina- The pyramid®/presponse® family of vaccines
diseases and reproductive presponse® tions including different modified live provides broad coverage for BVD types 1 and 2,
disorders in cattle viruses: bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) IBR, BRSV, PI3 and Mannheimia haemolytica
types 1 and 2, infectious bovine rhino- with only a single dose. They contain the
tracheitis (IBR), parainfluenza 3 (PI3) MetaStim®* adjuvant system to enhance the
and bovine respiratory syncytial virus animal’s response for greater protection
(BRSV), and bacteria: Pasteurella (US and Canada only).
multocida, Mannheimia haemolytica,
* MetaStim® is a registered trademark of
L. canicola, L. grippotyphosa, L. hardjo, Zoetis Services LLC.
L. icterohaemmorrhagiae and
L. pomona
– Pain and inflammatory metacam® meloxicam For the treatment of mastitis in lactating cows
disorders and for the control of pain associated with
dehorning or surgery. It is also indicated for
use in calves affected by diarrhoea and in
cattle suffering from respiratory disease.96
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
LIVESTOCK – POULTRY
Our poultry vaccine portfolio consists of a significant range of
live and inactivated vaccines for broilers, layers and breeder
hens, providing protection against the most critical viral and
bacterial diseases like avian influenza, infectious bronchitis,
Newcastle disease, infectious bursal disease, egg drop syn-
drome and avian coryza. This portfolio of preventive products
helps producers worldwide to provide safe, affordable, abun-
dant and sustainable high-quality poultry meat and eggs.97
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
ANIMAL HEALTH
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Various viral and bacterial gallimune® polyvalent attenuated live and inacti- For vaccination of healthy chickens against
diseases in poultry gallivac® vated vaccine containing antigens for diseases caused by the included antigens. For
volvac® vaccination against avian influenza, the prevention of the most common diseases
Newcastle disease, avian in broiler chickens and diseases responsible
coryza, egg drop syndrome, for losses in egg production in layers.
infectious bronchitis,
infectious bursal
disease, gallibacterium
anatis
– Infectious bursal disease vaxxitek®hvt + ibd serotype 3, live Marek’s disease vector, To prevent mortality and to reduce clinical
and Marek’s disease live vHVT013-69 recombinant virus signs and lesions of infectious bursal disease.
(and diluent) The onset of protection is from two weeks and
the protection extends to nine weeks.
To reduce mortality, clinical signs and lesions
of Marek’s disease. The onset of protection is
four days. A single vaccination is sufficient to
provide reliable protection during the risk
period.
– Infectious bursal, Newcastle vaxxitek® hvt + ibd + ndBursal disease, Marek’s disease, New- The vaccination of 18 to 19-day-old embryos
and Marek’s diseases castle disease vaccine, Serotype 3, and one-day-old chickens is effective against
live Marek’s disease vector; the vaccine standard and variant infectious bursal, New-
contains a gene of IBD and NDV castle and Marek’s disease.
(and diluent)
– Newcastle disease (ND) avinew® live Newcastle disease virus, In broiler chickens from one day of age: active
VG/GA-AVINEW strain immunization against Newcastle disease to
reduce mortality and clinical signs associated
with the disease.
In future layer and future breeder pullets
from the age of four weeks: priming for active
immunization against egg drop caused by
Newcastle disease before vaccination with an
inactivated vaccine (strain Ulster 2C) prior to
the beginning of lay.
– Marek’s disease prevexxionTM rn live herpes virus chimera, The vaccine is recommended for in ovo
serotype 1, strain RN1250 vaccination of 18 to 19-day-old embryonated
(and diluent) chicken eggs to protect against the very
virulent Marek’s disease.
– Newcastle and Marek’s newxxitekTM hvt + nd live Marek’s disease vectored The vaccination of 18 to 19-day-old embryos
diseases virus, serotype 3, that and one-day-old chickens is effective against
contains a gene insert from Marek’s disease and Newcastle disease.
Newcastle disease (and
diluent)98
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
VETERINARY PUBLIC HEALTH (VPH)
We work with governments and private partners toward rabisin® is an inactivated vaccine against rabies, available as a
improving control and eradicating diseases such as foot-and- clear colorless suspension for injection.
mouth disease, bluetongue virus and rabies.
btv pur® is a multi-strain vaccine used for active immunization
Our foot-and-mouth vaccines portfolio works for the active of sheep and cattle to prevent viremia and to reduce clinical
immunization of cattle, sheep or pigs to reduce clinical signs signs caused by bluetongue virus.
and mortality following exposure to foot-and-mouth disease
(FMD) virus.99
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
ANIMAL HEALTH
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Foot-and-mouth disease aftopor® mix of inactivated FMD virus antigens FMD vaccines with highly potent and purified
(FMD) aftovaxpur® out of the widest range of vaccine antigens (aftopor®, aftovaxpur®, aftobov®
aftovax® strains oleosa) have potential marker properties that
aftobov® oleosa allow differentiation between infected and
aftovaxpur® doe vaccinated animals (DIVA) for endemic or
emergency situations.
aftovaxpur® doe is suitable for emergency
situations only.
– Rabies rabisin® Rabisin: inactivated and adjuvanted rabisin® is used for the active immunization
raboral v-rg® rabies glycoproteins; Raboral V-RG: of dogs and cats to reduce mortality and clini-
vaccina-vectored rabies vaccine cal signs due to rabies infection. Immunity has
been demonstrated one month after vaccina-
tion and has been shown to persist up to the
next re-vaccination dose.
raboral v-rg® is an oral rabies recombinant
vaccine that protects raccoons and coyotes
against rabies, thereby reducing the risk of
exposure to rabies to humans and domestic
animals. It is only sold to government agen-
cies conducting rabies control programs.
– Bluetongue btv pur® mix of inactivated bluetongue virus Active immunization of sheep to prevent
viremia and to reduce clinical signs caused by
bluetongue virus serotypes 1, 2, 4 and/or 8
(combination of maximum 2 serotypes).
Active immunization of cattle to prevent viremia
caused by bluetongue virus serotypes 1, 2, 4
and/or 8, and to reduce clinical signs caused
by bluetongue virus serotypes 1, 4 and/or 8
(combination of maximum 2 serotypes).
Onset of immunity has been demonstrated
three weeks (or five weeks in sheep for BTV2)
after the primary vaccination course for BTV-1,
BTV-2 (cattle), BTV-4 and BTV-8 serotypes.100
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
COMPANION ANIMALS – HORSE
Our main equine products focus on the prevention and treat- eqvalan®/zimecterin® contains ivermectin, a leading ingredi-
ment of parasite infestations, management solutions for ent that controls a wide variety of important internal parasites,
chronic diseases, gastric ulcers, and vaccines. Our equine port- including bots and benzimidazole-resistant small strongyles,
folio also includes a range of flagship products for the treat- in an easy-to-administer oral paste. eqvalan®/zimecterin® is
ment of joint disease, colic and respiratory disease, as well as a approved for adult horses and foals as young as six weeks of
line of nutraceuticals. age.
prascend® is indicated for the treatment of pituitary pars eqvalan® duo/gold, zimecterin® gold combines ivermectin
intermedia dysfunction (PPID), which is also known as equine with praziquantel, an ingredient that specifically controls tape-
Cushing’s disease. Clinical signs of PPID are hypertrichiosis, worms.
laminitis, change in body conformation and lack of perfor-
mance. Treatment with prascend® is life-long. arti-cell® forte is the world’s first licensed veterinary stem
cell product which is a ready-to-use intra-articular injection of
vetera® vaccines are the first US vaccine portfolio to include chondrogenic induced mesenchymal cells for the treatment of
multiple convenient combinations of disease protection for lameness in horses. arti-cell® forte is one of the latest addi-
horses from as young as four months of age. The vaccines pro- tions to the equine portfolio and is available in a range of
tect against as many as nine infectious organisms including countries within the EU as of 2019.
influenza, herpes, the West Nile virus, tetanus and others. This
enables customised protection for each horse with limited aservo® equihaler® is the first inhalation product for the
needle injections. treatment of severe equine asthma. This product is a novel
glucocorticoid pro-drug (ciclesonide inhalation solution)
gastrogard®/ulcergard® is indicated for the treatment and delivered in an inhaler specifically designed for use in horses,
prevention of equine gastric ulcers, which is one of the most and implementing the Soft Mist™ technology derived from the
common diseases in horses. gastrogard® is supplied in an respimat® inhalers in human pharma. This exciting new intro-
easy-to-use oral paste form and has been the first choice for duction gained final authorization and product availability in the
treatment of gastric ulcers since its launch in 1999. ulcergard® EU in early 2020; further approvals in other countries are
in the USA is the preventive of choice for horses with an expected in due course.
increased risk of developing gastric ulcers.101
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
ANIMAL HEALTH
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Pituitary pars intermedia prascend® pergolide mesylate Symptomatic treatment of clinical signs
dysfunction (PPID) associated with pituitary pars intermedia
dysfunction (PPID, also known as equine
Cushing’s disease).
– Combination vaccine against vetera® Eastern, Western and Venezuelan For vaccination of healthy horses as an aid in
up to nine common diseases encephalomyelitis, tetanus, West Nile the prevention of diseases caused by the
in horses virus, equine herpes virus, equine included antigens (US and Canada only).
influenza viruses
– Equine gastric ulcers gastrogard® omeprazole For treatment and prevention of gastric ulcers
ulcergard® and prevention of recurrence of gastric ulcers
in horses and foals four weeks of age and
older.
– Internal parasites eqvalan® ivermectin For treatment and prevention of parasitic
zimecterin® ivermectin, praziquantel infestations in horses and donkeys due to
eqvalan® gold large and small strongyles, ascarids.
eqvalan® duo
gold/duo includes treatment against
zimecterin® gold
tapeworms.
– Reduction of mild to arti-cell®* forte chondrogenic induced equine For treatment of mild to moderate lameness
moderate recurrent lameness allogeneic peripheral blood-derived linked to non-infective joint inflammation
associated with non-septic mesenchymal stem cells in horses. It contains stem cells which are
joint inflammation in horses obtained from equine blood. Stem cells can
develop into other types of cells. The stem
cells in the active substance (mesenchymal
stem cells) are treated so that they develop
into cartilage cells.
– Severe equine asthma aservo® equihaler® ciclesonide inhalation solution For the alleviation of clinical symptoms of
severe equine asthma characterized by
coughing, nasal discharge, nasal flaring,
increased breathing effort at rest, or
abnormal lung sounds.
* arti-cell® forte is a registered trademark of Global Stem Cell Technology BE.102
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
COMPANION ANIMALS – PETS
Our pets portfolio offers diverse solutions for some of the most heartgard® plus contains the active ingredients ivermectin
important needs of canine and feline health including indus- and pyrantel in a soft beef chew. When given monthly,
try-leading parasiticides, vaccines, and therapeutics to address ivermectin is effective in preventing deadly heartworm dis-
major chronic diseases: heart failure, kidney diseases, hyperten- ease. Pyrantel is effective in the treatment and control of round
sion, epilepsy and osteoarthritis. worms as well as hookworms. heartgard® was launched in
1987 as the first monthly heartworm preventative and is still
For 25 years, frontline® has been a leader in flea and tick the best-selling heartworm preventative in the world.4
control on dogs and cats, and is one of the most trusted brands
in animal health.1 frontline® continues to bring innovation to broadline® offers pet owners all-in-one convenience providing
the category, with the recent launch of frontline tri-act®, confidence that their cat has the broadest possible protection. It
which features repellency and insecticidal efficacy on many protects cats against the broadest spectrum of internal and
disease- carrying flying insects and which decreases the risk of external parasites, including adult fleas, flea eggs, flea larvae,
transmission of vector-borne pathogen.2 ticks, heartworms, hookworms, roundworms and tapeworms.
nexgard® contains the active ingredient afoxolaner and was the As the first of a new class of heart treatments termed inodilators,
first oral medication that treats both fleas and ticks in dogs. vetmedin® has been shown to significantly improve clinical
Because of its efficacy and palatable, beef-flavored soft chew signs and extend life expectancy in dogs with congestive heart
formulation, nexgard® is currently the best-selling pet medica- failure originating from dilated cardiomyopathy or valvular
tion in the animal health industry.3 insufficiency (mitral and/or tricuspid regurgitation). Recent
studies have also shown that when used preclinically in appro-
nexgard spectra® combines the flea and tick efficacy of priate asymptomatic cases of either dilated cardiomyopathy in
afoxolaner in nexgard® with a broad-spectrum deworming Doberman pinschers or valvular insufficiency, vetmedin® sig-
ingredient, milbemycin oxime, in the same beef-flavored chew. nificantly delays the onset of clinical signs of congestive heart
nexgard spectra® is not only effective in treating fleas and failure.
ticks, but also protects dogs against deadly parasites such as
heartworm and lungworm as well as gastrointestinal parasites.
1) Data on file.
2) A novel combination of fipronil and permethrin (Frontline Tri-Act®/Frontect®)
reduces risk of transmission of Babesia canis by Dermacentor reticulatus and of
Ehrlichia canis by Rhipicephalus sanguineus ticks to dogs. Jongejan et al. Parasites
& Vectors (2015 ) 8:602.
3) Data on file.
4) Data on file.103
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
ANIMAL HEALTH
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Antiparasitic: canine/feline frontline® fipronil frontline® is indicated for the treatment
external parasites frontline combo® fipronil/s-methoprene and prevention of fleas, ticks and chewing lice
frontline plus® fipronil/permethrin in dogs and cats, and aids in the control of
frontline tri-act® sarcoptic mange in dogs.
frontect®
frontline plus®/ frontline combo® is
indicated for the treatment and prevention of
fleas, ticks and chewing lice in dogs and cats.
Also breaks the flea life cycle by preventing
the development of immature stages. It aids
in the control of sarcoptic mange in dogs.
frontline tri-act®/frontect® is indicated
for the treatment and prevention of flea and
tick infestations where repellent (anti-feeding)
activity is necessary against sandflies, biting
flies and/or mosquitos. For dogs only.
– Antiparasitic: canine external nexgard® afoxolaner nexgard® is delivered in a highly palatable
parasites beef-flavored chew that kills adult fleas and is
indicated for the treatment and prevention of
flea infestations and the treatment and control
of tick infestations in dogs and puppies for
one month.
– Antiparasitic: canine internal nexgard spectra® afoxolaner, nexgard spectra® is delivered in a highly
and external parasites milbemycin oxime palatable beef-flavored chew that kills adult
fleas and is indicated for the treatment and
prevention of flea and tick infestations. Pre-
vents heartworm disease and treats and con-
trols hookworm, roundworm, whipworm and
lungworm infestations in dogs and puppies.
– Antiparasitic: canine internal heartgard® plus ivermectin, For use in dogs to prevent canine heartworm
parasites pyrantel disease by eliminating the tissue stage of
heartworm larvae for a month (30 days) after
infection, and for the treatment and control of
roundworms and hookworms.
– Antiparasitic: feline internal broadline® fipronil, (s)-methoprene, Protects cats against the broadest spectrum of
and external parasites eprinomectin, praziquantel internal and external parasites including adult
fleas, flea eggs, flea larvae, ticks, heartworms,
hookworms, roundworms, and tapeworms.
– Congestive heart failure vetmedin® pimobendan Treatment of canine congestive heart failure
originating from dilated cardiomyopathy or
valvular insufficiency (mitral and/or tricuspid
regurgitation).
Treatment of dilated cardiomyopathy in the
preclinical stage (asymptomatic with an
increase in left ventricular end-systolic and
end-diastolic diameter) in Doberman Pin-
schers.
Treatment of dogs with myxomatous mitral
valve disease (MMVD) in the preclinical stage
(asymptomatic with a systolic mitral murmur
and evidence of increased heart size) to delay
the onset of clinical symptoms of heart failure.104
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
COMPANION ANIMALS – PETS (CONTINUED)
metacam® is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). semintra® is the first-ever licensed angiotensin receptor
It is available as an oral suspension, tablets and injectable blocker (ARB) for veterinary use. It provides a proven, conve-
solution for dogs and as an oral suspension and injectable nient and safe compliance solution for cats, cat owners and
solution for cats. In dogs, the indications include the allevia- vets. semintra® is available as 4mg/ml and 10mg/ml oral solu-
tion of inflammation and pain in both acute and chronic mus- tion. semintra® (4mg/ml) was first launched in 2013 for the
culoskeletal disorders as well as the reduction of pain follow- reduction of proteinuria associated with chronic kidney dis-
ing surgery. In cats, the indications include the alleviation of ease (CKD) in cats. In 2018, semintra® (10mg/ml) was
inflammation and pain in acute and chronic musculoskeletal launched for the control (US)/treatment (EU) of feline systemic
disorders, as well as for the alleviation of mild to moderate hypertension. It is the first vet-licensed product for feline
postoperative pain. The variety of formulations offers veteri- hypertension in the US.
narians and owners the flexibility to use the formulation they
prefer in individual cases to manage the various levels of Since its launch in 2009 prozinc® has become the proven
inflammation and pain associated with the licensed indica- choice for feline patients and their owners for convenient man-
tions. agement of feline diabetes. Having this reliable, long-acting
insulin as a treatment option has made the difference in the
In 2005, previcox® was launched as a new NSAID (selective lives of cats and their owners. With the approval of prozinc®
COX-2 inhibitor) for dogs that addresses one of the category’s for canine patients, we have the opportunity to expand our
main drivers: the need for efficacious pain relief with ensured impact to become the first-choice solution for successful man-
safety over the long term. previcox® is indicated for the relief agement of diabetes in both dogs and cats.
of pain and inflammation associated with osteoarthritis and
for the relief of post-operative pain and inflammation associ- Our pet vaccine product portfolio includes the purevax® feline
ated with soft- tissue, orthopedic and dental surgery. vaccines formulated to provide effective protection without the
use of adjuvants and recombitek®, providing targeted protec-
tion for dogs through recombinant technology.105
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
ANIMAL HEALTH
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Pain and inflammatory metacam® meloxicam metacam® is used to reduce specific types of
diseases post-operative pain and inflammation as well
as musculoskeletal disorders in dogs and cats.
– Pain and inflammatory previcox® firocoxib For the relief of pain and inflammation associ-
diseases ated with osteoarthritis as well as specific
types of post-operative pain in dogs.
– Chronic kidney disease (CKD) semintra® telmisartan Management of chronic kidney disease (CKD)
in cats and feline systemic hypertension (US and EU)
in cats.
– Hypertension in cats
– Diabetes prozinc® protamine zinc For the treatment of diabetes mellitus in cats
and dogs to achieve reduction of hyper-
glycemia and improvement of associated
clinical signs.
– Feline vaccines portfolio purevax® feline herpes virus purevax® is the only fully adjuvant-free feline
feline calicivirus vaccine range and leverages its innovative
feline panleukopenia virus canarypox technology for FeLV and rabies. It
chlamydophila felis also offers sustained protection on rabies for
recombinant vectored feline up to three years.
leukemia virus
recombinant vectored rabies virus
– Canine vaccines portfolio recombitek®* recombinant vectored canine recombitek® features a complete line of
distemper virus, canine vaccines including:
canine parvovirus,
recombitek® lyme: The only vaccine that
canine adenovirus type 2,
contains OspA in a non-adjuvant formulation.
canine parainfluenza virus,
coronavirus, rekombitek® oral bordatella: Effective and
leptospira Canicola, safe protection made easy.
leptospira grippotyphosa,
leptospira icterohaemorrhagiae,
leptospira Pomona,
recombinant borrelia burgdorferi,
bordetella bronchiseptica
* In the US and others.Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2019
C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
COMPARISON OF BALANCE SHEET AND FINANCIAL DATA 2010 ― 2019
(in million EUR)
Assets (as of December 31) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Intangible assets 736 710 682 582 592 606 550 5,372 5,120 4,882
Tangible assets 3,314 3,442 3,103 2,887 3,070 3,264 3,045 3,867 4,280 4,754
Financial assets 3,168 3,953 4,222 4,737 5,312 5,933 6,092 5,830 6,058 9,162
Fixed assets 7,218 8,105 8,007 8,206 8,974 9,803 9,687 15,069 15,458 18,798
Inventories 1,850 1,998 2,095 2,083 2,237 2,483 2,610 3,087 3,312 3,563
Accounts receivable and other assets (incl. prepaid expenses,
deferred taxes and exceeding amount of plan assets) 4,047 4,652 4,814 5,131 5,546 6,463 6,837 7,159 7,815 8,924
Liquid funds 3,118 3,903 2,374 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005 3,071 4,303 2,195
Current and other assets 9,015 10,553 9,283 10,093 11,077 13,482 16,452 13,317 15,430 14,682
Total assets 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 33,480
Equity and Liabilities (as of December 31) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Shareholders’ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178
Group reserves (incl. balance sheet currency conversion difference) 5,408 5,812 4,763 5,619 6,884 7,844 9,296 10,703 10,080 11,781
Group profit 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,047 1,577 1,853 — 223 2,075 2,721
Equity attributable to the parent company 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,121 8,109 9,599 11,327 10,658 12,333 14,680
Non-controlling interests 0 0 0 1 2 4 0 — 1 1 1
Group equity 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,122 8,111 9,603 11,327 10,657 12,334 14,681
Difference from capital consolidation 0 157 134 104 91 71 52 1,729 1,511 1,471
Provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 6,598 7,402 7,749 7,817 8,840 10,543 12,233 13,482 14,438 15,172
Liabilities (incl. deferred income) 3,161 3,633 3,229 3,256 3,009 3,068 2,527 2,518 2,605 2,156
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred income) 9,759 11,035 10,978 11,073 11,849 13,611 14,760 16,000 17,043 17,328
Total equity and liabilities 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 33,480
Summary of selected financial data 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Net sales 12,586 13,171 14,691 14,065 13,317 14,798 15,850 18,056 17,498 18,997
Operating income 1,896 2,272 1,853 2,114 2,140 2,269 2,872 3,487 3,472 3,782
Operating income as % of net sales 15.1 17.3 12.6 15.0 16.1 15.3 18.1 19.3 19.8 19.9
Income after taxes 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,046 1,576 1,849 — 229 2,075 2,721
Income after taxes as % of net sales 7.1 11.2 8.4 9.4 7.9 10.7 11.7 — 1.3 11.9 14.3
Return on equity (in %) 15.0 22.8 16.6 21.4 14.7 19.4 19.3 — 2.0 19.5 22.1
Equity ratio (in %) 39.9 40.0 35.7 38.9 40.4 41.2 43.3 37.5 39.9 43.8
Cash flow from operating activities 2,056 2,570 2,170 1,819 2,015 2,232 2,888 2,624 2,988 3,344
Financial funds 6,113 7,711 6,467 7,514 8,507 10,200 11,989 8,130 9,454 10,377
Personnel expenses 3,358 3,664 4,024 4,071 4,116 4,518 4,570 4,934 5,276 5,367
Personnel expenses as % of net sales 26.7 27.8 27.4 28.9 30.9 30.5 28.8 27.3 30.2 28.3
Average number of employees 42,224 44,094 46,228 47,492 47,743 47,501 45,692 49,610 50,333 51,015
Research and development expenses 2,453 2,516 2,795 2,743 2,654 3,004 3,112 3,078 3,164 3,462
R&D as % of net sales 19.5 19.1 19.0 19.5 19.9 20.3 19.6 17.0 18.1 18.2
Investments in tangible assets 519 458 562 558 548 591 645 872 950 1,073
Depreciation of tangible assets 498 535 793 640 449 475 516 521 552 585i m p r i n t
C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG
Assets (as of December 31) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Binger Straße 173
Intangible assets 736 710 682 582 592 606 550 5,372 5,120 4,882 55216 Ingelheim am Rhein
Germany
Tangible assets 3,314 3,442 3,103 2,887 3,070 3,264 3,045 3,867 4,280 4,754
Telephone + 49 6132 77-0
Financial assets 3,168 3,953 4,222 4,737 5,312 5,933 6,092 5,830 6,058 9,162 Fax + 49 6132 72-0
Fixed assets 7,218 8,105 8,007 8,206 8,974 9,803 9,687 15,069 15,458 18,798
CONTACT
Inventories 1,850 1,998 2,095 2,083 2,237 2,483 2,610 3,087 3,312 3,563
Corporate Division Communications and Public Affairs
Accounts receivable and other assets (incl. prepaid expenses, Matthias Reinig
deferred taxes and exceeding amount of plan assets) 4,047 4,652 4,814 5,131 5,546 6,463 6,837 7,159 7,815 8,924 E-mail press@boehringer-ingelheim.com
Liquid funds 3,118 3,903 2,374 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005 3,071 4,303 2,195 Internet www.boehringer-ingelheim.com
Current and other assets 9,015 10,553 9,283 10,093 11,077 13,482 16,452 13,317 15,430 14,682
ISSUED BY
Total assets 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 33,480 C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG
represented by the Board of Managing Directors:
Hubertus von Baumbach (Chair),
Equity and Liabilities (as of December 31) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Carinne Brouillon, Dr. Michel Pairet,
Shareholders’ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok, Michael Schmelmer
Group reserves (incl. balance sheet currency conversion difference) 5,408 5,812 4,763 5,619 6,884 7,844 9,296 10,703 10,080 11,781
CONCEPT, DESIGN AND LAYOUT
Group profit 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,047 1,577 1,853 — 223 2,075 2,721
MPM Corporate Communication Solutions, Mainz, Düsseldorf
Equity attributable to the parent company 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,121 8,109 9,599 11,327 10,658 12,333 14,680 www.mpm.de
Non-controlling interests 0 0 0 1 2 4 0 — 1 1 1
PHOTOS
Group equity 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,122 8,111 9,603 11,327 10,657 12,334 14,681
Andreas Reeg (page 2, 4, 5)
Difference from capital consolidation 0 157 134 104 91 71 52 1,729 1,511 1,471
Provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 6,598 7,402 7,749 7,817 8,840 10,543 12,233 13,482 14,438 15,172 PRINTED BY
EBERL PRINT GmbH, Immenstadt
Liabilities (incl. deferred income) 3,161 3,633 3,229 3,256 3,009 3,068 2,527 2,518 2,605 2,156
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred income) 9,759 11,035 10,978 11,073 11,849 13,611 14,760 16,000 17,043 17,328
COPYRIGHT
Total equity and liabilities 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 33,480 © C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, 2020
All rights reserved. No part of this Annual Report 2019 may
be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means,
Summary of selected financial data 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 electronic or photocopy, without permission in writing from
Net sales 12,586 13,171 14,691 14,065 13,317 14,798 15,850 18,056 17,498 18,997 C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG. Figures from third parties
used in the annual report are based on data available at the
Operating income 1,896 2,272 1,853 2,114 2,140 2,269 2,872 3,487 3,472 3,782
time the financial statements were drawn up.
Operating income as % of net sales 15.1 17.3 12.6 15.0 16.1 15.3 18.1 19.3 19.8 19.9
Income after taxes 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,046 1,576 1,849 — 229 2,075 2,721
Income after taxes as % of net sales 7.1 11.2 8.4 9.4 7.9 10.7 11.7 — 1.3 11.9 14.3
Return on equity (in %) 15.0 22.8 16.6 21.4 14.7 19.4 19.3 — 2.0 19.5 22.1
Equity ratio (in %) 39.9 40.0 35.7 38.9 40.4 41.2 43.3 37.5 39.9 43.8
Cash flow from operating activities 2,056 2,570 2,170 1,819 2,015 2,232 2,888 2,624 2,988 3,344
Financial funds 6,113 7,711 6,467 7,514 8,507 10,200 11,989 8,130 9,454 10,377
Personnel expenses 3,358 3,664 4,024 4,071 4,116 4,518 4,570 4,934 5,276 5,367 carbon neutral
Personnel expenses as % of net sales 26.7 27.8 27.4 28.9 30.9 30.5 28.8 27.3 30.2 28.3 natureOffice.com | DE-141-1VEB8RJ
print production
Average number of employees 42,224 44,094 46,228 47,492 47,743 47,501 45,692 49,610 50,333 51,015
Research and development expenses 2,453 2,516 2,795 2,743 2,654 3,004 3,112 3,078 3,164 3,462
R&D as % of net sales 19.5 19.1 19.0 19.5 19.9 20.3 19.6 17.0 18.1 18.2 With the CO2 emission certificates we support forest conservation and
forest modification in many regions in Germany.
Investments in tangible assets 519 458 562 558 548 591 645 872 950 1,073
Depreciation of tangible assets 498 535 793 640 449 475 516 521 552 585WWW.BOEHRINGER-INGELHEIM.COM
ANNUALREPORT.BOEHRINGER-INGELHEIM.COM