B O E H R I N G E R I N G E L H E I M
2 0 18
Annual Report
Value through Innovationf in a n ci a l h i gh l ig h ts s um m ar y r ep o r t
Amounts in EUR million,
unless otherwise indicated 2018 2017 Change
Net sales 17,498 18,056 — 3%
by region
Europe 30% 32%
Americas 46% 45% S U M M A R Y
Asia, Australia, Africa 24% 23%
R E P O R T
by business
Human Pharmaceuticals 72% 70%
Animal Health 23% 22% 2 018
Biopharmaceuticals 4% 4%
Discontinued Operations 1% 4%
Research and development 3,164 3,078 + 3%
Personnel expenses 5,276 4,934 + 7%
Average number of employees 50,370 49,610 + 2%
Operating income 3,472 3,487 – 0%
Operating income as % of net sales 19.8% 19.3%
Group profit / loss 2,075 — 223 – 1,030%
as % of net sales 11.9% — 1.2%
Group equity 12,334 10,657 + 16%
Return on Group equity 19.5% — 2.0%
Investments in tangible assets 950 872 + 9%
Depreciation of tangible assets 552 521 + 6%
Top 4 products — Human Pharmaceuticals Top 4 products — Animal Health
Net Sales 2018 in millions of EUR change Net sales 2018 in millions of EUR Change
spiriva® 2,412 – 15% nexgard® 610 + 12%
pradaxa® 1,486 + 3% frontline® 399 – 1%
jardiance® 1,461 + 45% ingelvac ciroflex® 303 – 9%
trajenta® / jentadueto® 1,397 + 5% heartgard® 299 + 5%o v e r v i e w
THE CORE OF OUR LEITBILD
01
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
09
CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
43
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
751
OUR COMPANY
Improving the health and quality of life of patients is the
goal of the research-driven pharmaceutical company
Boehringer Ingelheim. The focus in doing so is on diseases
for which no satisfactory treatment option exists to date. The
company therefore concentrates on developing inn ovative
therapies that can extend patients’ lives. In animal health,
Boehringer Ingelheim stands for advanced prevention.
Family-owned since it was established in 1885, Boehringer
Ingelheim is one of the pharmaceutical industry’s top
20 companies. Some 50,000 employees create value through
innovation daily for the three business areas human
pharmaceuticals, animal health and biopharmaceuticals.
In 2018, Boehringer Ingelheim generated net sales of
around 17.5 billion euros. R&D expenditure of almost
3.2 billion euros, corresponded to 18.1 per cent of net sales.
As a family-owned company, Boehringer Ingelheim plans
in generations and focuses on long-term success, rather
than short-term profit. The company therefore aims at
organic growth from its own resources with simultaneous
openness to partnerships and strategic alliances in research.
In everything it does, Boehringer Ingelheim naturally adopts
responsibility towards mankind and the environment.c o n t e n t
THE CORE OF OUR LEITBILD 01
The Shareholders’ Perspective 02
Key Aspects 2018 06
Corporate bodies 07
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT 09
Information about the Group 10
Report on economic position 27
Report on opportunities and risks 37
Report on expected developments 40
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43
Overview of selected consolidated companies 44
Consolidated balance sheet 46
Consolidated profit and loss statement 47
Cash flow statement 48
Statement of changes in group equity 49
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 50
Independent Auditor’s report 71
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO 75
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS 76
Respiratory diseases 76
Cardiovascular and metabolic diseases 80
Oncology 86
Diseases of the central nervous system 88
Infectious diseases 88
TIERGESUNDHEIT 90
Livestock – swine 90
Livestock – cattle/ruminants 92
Livestock – poultry 96
Veterinary Public Health (VPH) 98
Companion animals – horse 100
Companion animals – pets 1022
THE SHAREHLDERS’ PERSPECTIVE
THE SHAREHOLDERS’ PERSPECTIVE3
THE SHAREHOLDERS’ PERSPECTIVE
2018 was a successful year for Boehringer Ingelheim. Success for us means having
reached more patients and thereby having delivered a significant contribution to
human and animal health. The favourable figures for 2018, which the company
documents in this annual report, also testify to this success.
Our primary objective is and remains to maintain Boehringer Ingelheim’s indepen-
dence. In order to be sustainable, we have to continue to remain competitive. For this
we need innovations. Our readiness to invest more than the competition average in
the research, development and production of innovative medicines, follows this
knowledge – and at the same time mirrors the trust we place in Boehringer Ingelheim
and all our employees.
Their high degree of commitment is decisive to our success. Shared guiding principles
(Leitbild) and the goal of improving the health of humans and animals bind us
together worldwide. The individuality of all of them characterises our culture and our
values. All of them stand for the family-owned company Boehringer Ingelheim and
help us to maintain our independence.
Our express thanks go to our employees who together have all contributed with great
engagement and effort to realise our corporate goals.
signed by
Christian Boehringer
Chairman of the Shareholders’ CommitteeT H E B O A R D O F
M A N A G I N G D I R E C T O R S
Allan Hillgrove Michel Pairet Hubertus von BaumbachT H E B O A R D O F
M A N A G I N G D I R E C T O R S
Michael Schmelmer Andreas Neumann Joachim Hasenmaier6
KEY ASPECTS 2018
Over 50,000 employees worldwide share our enthusiasm for the task of improving the health of
humans and animals through innovation and therapeutic breakthroughs. Today, we want to tell
you how we realise this shared vision and what results we were able to achieve in the past year.
The year 2018 was a successful one for Boehringer Ingelheim. The reason for this was our focus
on innovation: in a large number of our research projects – currently about 90 all in human
pharmaceuticals – we pursue approaches with which we want to be first in the therapeutic class
or in the indication. For us it is also decisive to conduct research in areas of unmet medical needs,
where patients are dependent on innovations.
This focus – already the principle and foundation of our success at Boehringer Ingelheim for
many decades – has provided the basis for the growth of our Human Pharmaceuticals business last
year. Although the expiry of market exclusivity had a marked impact on the development of some
of our biggest products, overall we were able to grow in line with local markets, and frequently
even outgrow them considerably, thanks to the great therapeutic progress offered by our new pro-
ducts such as ofev® or jardiance®.
In the Animal Health area we have concluded the integration process and further merged both
organisations. Prioritising customer needs ahead of our own optimisation has already enabled us
to exceed market growth in year two of the new structure.
The Biopharmaceuticals business is also developing very favourably. In particular, progress in
expanding capacity in Vienna, Austria, is today already visible to a large extent.
Numerous partnerships that reinforce our innovative core – equally in all business areas and
across the whole value chain – have shown how well the specific competences of third parties
combine with Boehringer Ingelheim’s special capabilities and translate into patient benefit. The
accom panying magazine highlights this transformation and takes a detailed look at the possibili-
ties that digitalisation offers us.
Dear Reader, the past financial year was a successful one for Boehringer Ingelheim, also charac-
terised by continual change. As in previous years, the basis for this was the trust of our customers
and our partners - and especially the commitment of our employees. Their sense of responsibility
and their entrepreneurial spirit have helped us to remain competitive. All of them deserve our
thanks.
signed by signed by signed by
hubertus von baumbach joachim hasenmaier allan hillgrove
signed by signed by signed by
andreas neumann michel pairet michael schmelmer7
CORPORATE BODIES
Shareholders’ Committee Board of Managing Directors
christian boehringer hubertus von baumbach
Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors
christoph boehringer dr joachim hasenmaier
Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
erich von baumbach jr Animal Health
isabel boehringer allan hillgrove
Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
dr mathias boehringer Human Pharma
prof. dr dr andreas barner dr andreas neumann
Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
Human Resources
Advisory Board dr michel pairet
Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
egbert appel Innovation
Chairman of the Advisory Board
Trustee, Martin Hilti Family Trust michael schmelmer
President, Hilti Foundation Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
Finance
dr nikolaus von bomhard
Former Chairman of the Board of Management
Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG
dr andreas kreimeyer
Former member of the Board of Executive Directors
and Research Executive Director BASF SE
jan rinnert
Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors
Heraeus Holding GmbHPAGE 10–41
G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R TPAGE 10–41
G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T
Information about the Group 10
The Group’s business model 10
Research & Development 12
Production 20
Occupational safety and environmental protection 22
Employee reporting 24
Social responsibility 25
Report on economic position 27
Macroeconomic environment 27
Earnings position 29
Development of the businesses 31
Financial position 34
Net assets position 35
Report on opportunities and risks 37
Opportunities and risk management 37
Individual risks 37
Overall statement on the risk situation 40
Report on expected developments 40
TROPER
TNEMEGANAM
PUORG10
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP
The Group’s business model
For over 130 years, Boehringer Ingelheim has pursued the goal of improving and preserving the quality
of life and health of humans and animals. Headquartered in Ingelheim am Rhein, Germany, the com-
pany has been family-owned since its founding in 1885 and is among the 20 leading companies world-
wide in its industry. As one of Germany’s most research-intensive companies, Boehringer Ingelheim
concentrates in particular on researching medicines and offering therapies for diseases for which
satisfactory treatment options are currently unavailable and provides the entire value chain, starting
from reasearch and development (R&D) through production and commercialisation of its products.
Boehringer Ingelheim operates at a global level, with around 50,000 employees in the areas of
human pharmaceuticals, animal health and biopharmaceuticals, which generated net sales of almost
EUR 17.5 billion in 2018.
Human pharmaceuticals – in which the company’s own medicines are already standard treatments in
various therapeutic areas – represent the core focus of Boehringer Ingelheim’s activities.
Integration of Merial Following the transaction on 1 January 2017, containing a swap of Boehringer Ingelheim’s consumer
successfully completed health care business with Sanofi’s animal health business (Merial), the integration of the new compa-
nies has now been successfully completed. Through the merger of Boehringer Ingelheim’s existing
animal health activities with Merial, the company’s animal health business is now the market leader in
Germany and, at the global level, the second-largest provider of veterinary vaccines and medicines.
UNmEsTa tSzeArlLösEeS n aBchY G BesUchSäIfNtenE (SinS % ) Group: EUR 17,498 million
4% 1%
Biopharmaceuticals Other sales
EUR 734 million EUR 245 million
23% 72%
Animal health Human Pharmaceuticals
EUR 3,960 million EUR 12,559 million11
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
NET SALES BY REGION (IN EUR MILLION)
Europe 5,316 5,690
2018 2017
Asia,
Australia,
Africa
(AAA) 4,094 4,225
2018 2017
Americas 8,088 8,141
2018 2017
Boehringer Ingelheim continues to expand its existing product portfolio through further organic
growth, including cooperation with external partners. Through the recent acquisition, the company’s
global research network has expanded to 13 countries with major facilities in Germany (Biberach, Han-
over and Ingelheim), in the US (Ridgefield, Connecticut, Duluth, Georgia, and St. Joseph, Missouri), in
Austria (Vienna) as well as in Japan (Kobe) and France (Lyon).
In 2018, the company’s biggest revenue contributor in the human pharmaceuticals business was once spiriva® still biggest
again spiriva®, which is used to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma. The revenue contributor
following products also made significant contributions to Boehringer Ingelheim’s success: pradaxa®
(used to prevent strokes in patients with atrial fibrillation and for the prevention and treatment of
thromboembolic disorders); its type 2 diabetes products jardiance® (winner of the Prix Galien Inter-
national 2018 for the most innovative pharmaceutical product) and trajenta®; and the medicine
ofev®. The latter medicine was introduced in 2015 and offers people with the rare, fatal respiratory dis-
ease idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) for the first time a treatment option.
In the company’s animal health business, the antiparasitic nexgard® is the strongest product in terms
of net sales. Its other antiparasitics heartgard® and frontline® and its established swine vaccine
ingelvac circoflex®, which is used to treat porcine circovirus type 2, also played a key role in the
success of the company’s animal health business.
The biopharmaceuticals business is another important growth area for Boehringer Ingelheim.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s biopharmaceutical activities comprise the manufacture of own-brand market-
able products (such as actilyse®, metalyse® and praxbind®), and – as one of the world’s leading com-
panies – process development and commercial production of biopharmaceuticals for third-party
industrial customers.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS12
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
In the 2018 financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim once again achieved the majority of its sales in the
Americas (46%) and Europe (30%) regions. The region of Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) is of strategic
significance for the Group’s future growth, making up 24% of its sales. The three biggest markets, the
USA, Japan and Germany, accounted for 52% of sales in 2018.
Research and Development
In line with its mission statement, Boehringer Ingelheim’s goal is to research and develop innovative
medicines and therapies for the treatment of diseases for which there are currently no satisfactory
treatments available. The key emphasis here is on developing pharmaceuticals as well as new
approaches and therapies to prevent, detect and treat chronic diseases more effectively. We focus on
making a major contribution in areas where the need for treatment is high and on taking a leading
position in the human pharmaceuticals business as well as in the field of animal health.
Research and development
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Expenditure in EUR million 3,164 3,078 3,112 3,004 2,654
– as % of net sales 18.1 17.0 19.6 20.3 19.9
Human Pharmaceuticals expenditure in EUR million 2,780 2,714 2,870 2,780 2,333
– as % of Human Pharmaceuticals net sales 22.1 21.5 23.9 24.8 23.1
Average number of employees 8,566 8,589 8,055 7,895 8,104
Investments in tangible assets (without investments in infrastructure)
in EUR million 136 71 92 77 78
We rely on partnerships with academic institutions, other biotech companies, public research institu-
tions as well as a global research network comprising our own facilities in many different countries
around the world. Moreover, in the field of development projects and technologies, our research activ-
ities are supplemented by important cooperation and licence agreements. Boehringer Ingelheim
continued to expand its research network in 2018. Its acquisition of ViraTherapeutics GmbH represents
a significant addition in the R&D of immuno-oncological therapies, which are based on the use of
oncolytic viruses. In the area of cardiovascular further studies examining the effect of empagliflozin
were launched in cooperation with Eli Lilly.
The company’s own R&D portfolio, which is already broad, is supplemented by our partnerships. These
are a key component of Boehringer Ingelheim’s innovation strategy and complement the innovative
prowess of our own R&D. They are also evidence of Boehringer Ingelheim’s successful collaboration
with third parties.
This can also be seen from the online portal opnMe, which gives researchers worldwide the opportu-
nity to order molecules from Boehringer Ingelheim and then to use them without fear of infringing any
patents. The researchers have the unique opportunity to start experiments and continue their own
research. In addition, joint research projects are being developed from which new findings in drug
development can be generated.13
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
R&D SITES
16
20 13
14
12
5 15 21
11
3 6 9 1718
10
4 8 19 26
7 23 25
2 24
Animal health (AH) 1
Human pharmaceuticals (HP) 22 27
AMERICAS EUROPE ASIA / OCEANIA
Brazil Germany Australia
1. Paulínia (AH) 12. Biberach (HP) 22. Sydney (AH)
13. Hanover (AH)
Mexico 14. Ingelheim (AH) China
2. Guadalajara (AH) 15. Katharinenhof-Rohrdorf (AH) 23. Shanghai (AH)
24. Taizhou (AH)
USA Denmark
3. Ames (AH) 16. Kalundborg (AH) Japan
4. Athens / Colbert (AH) 25. Kobe (HP)
5. Duluth (AH) France 26. Tokyo (AH)
6. Fulton (AH) 17. Lyon (AH)
7. Gainesville (AH) 18. Saint Vulbas (AH) New Zealand
8. North Brunswick (AH) 27. Auckland (AH)
9. Ridgefield (HP) Italy
10. Saint Joseph (AH) 19. Milan (HP)
11. Sioux Center (AH)
The Netherlands
20. Lelystad (AH)
Austria
21. Vienna (HP)
In the second year of its existence, Boehringer Ingelheim’s digital laboratory BI X now has 43 employees. Digital laboratory BI X
Our experts for digital technologies are currently working on five innovative digital products. Last year, as innovation driver
two of these were successfully handed over to their respective business in the past year: PetPro Con-
nect, an app which connects pet owners with vets in the USA, and a collaboration platform for research-
ers (NTC Studio).
Boehringer Ingelheim’s R&D activities are the basis for the company’s sustainable success. Our inno-
vative capability has played a key role in the Group’s positive business development over the past
years. In-house R&D – supplemented by external cooperation and partnerships – will also continue to
be a top priority in the future.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS14
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
In the 2018 financial year, we employed an average of 8,566 people at our R&D facilities. A total of
almost EUR 3.2 billion was invested in the R&D of new medicines, corresponding to around 18% of the
Group’s net sales in 2018, which is slightly above the 2017 level, as expected.
Human Pharmaceuticals
Respiratory Since more than a century, we have been committed to improving the lives of people living with
diseases respiratory diseases. The scientific research for new therapeutic concepts to help patients in need
continues to be of high importance for Boehringer Ingelheim. In 2018, our focus areas were chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), cystic fibrosis (CF), idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF),
systemic sclerosis with interstitial lung disease (SSc-ILD) as well as other forms of progressive fibrosing
interstitial lung diseases (PF-ILD).
Early in 2018, the results of the landmark DYNAGITO® trial were published in The Lancet Respiratory.
The data from the 52-week trial show that in people with COPD, tiotropium/olodaterol lowers the
rate of moderate-to-severe exacerbations compared to tiotropium monotherapy. These results
contribute to our understanding of COPD exacerbations and the role of dual combination bronchodilator
LAMA/LABA therapy in the management of COPD. Another focus topic in 2018 was the importance of
physical activity for people living with COPD. Here, a number of studies were completed and published
which investigated the effect of tiotropum/olodaterol compared to tiotropium monotherapy on physical
activity related endpoints. Towards the end of the year, we started to receive the first national approvals
for the new and enhanced respimat® inhaler, which will be launched in the first European countries
starting in the first quarter of 2019.
At the European Respiratory Society International Congress 2018, we presented the final data for two
important trials in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF): the INPULSIS®-ON trial and the INSTAGE® trial.
The results of INPULSIS®-ON indicate that safety and efficacy of nintedanib in IPF are maintained over
more than four years and are consistent with prior findings from the INPULSIS® study programme. The
INSTAGE® trial showed that efficacy and safety of nintedanib in patients with IPF and severe impair-
ment in gas exchange, which are usually excluded from clinical trials, was consistent with that observed
in patients with less advanced disease in earlier trials. Both trials were published in high-ranking med-
ical journals (The Lancet Respiratory and The New England Journal of Medicine, respectively). In addi-
tion to communicating the new scientific data, a key effort in 2018 was to raise awareness for the need
to diagnose and treat IPF as early as possible together with various stakeholders and partners as this
remains a key challenge for affected patients.
In 2018, Boehringer Ingelheim became a founding member of the Open Source Imaging Consortium
(OSIC), a statement of our commitment to advancing science and supporting innovation for the ben-
efit of patients. The goal of OSIC is to develop digital imaging biomarkers for accurate imaging-based
diagnosis, prognosis and prediction of response to therapy in IPF and other fibrosing interstitial lung
diseases (ILDs).15
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
In scleroderma (systemic sclerosis, SSc), we continued our efforts to support patients and create
awareness for this rare disease with our “More than Scleroderma” campaign. The SENSCIS™ trial inves-
tigating the safety and efficacy of nintedanib in patients with systemic sclerosis-associated ILD has
been completed. With more than 520 patients recruited, it is the largest randomised and placebo-
controlled clinical trial in SSc to date. The results will be presented in 2019.
The INBUILD trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of nintedanib over 52 weeks in patients with Pro-
gressive fibrosing interstitial lung disease (PF-ILD) is ongoing. This trial includes a range of patients
who have been diagnosed with interstitial lung disease except IPF but exhibit a similar progressive
fibrosing phenotype, i.e. deterioration of respiratory symptoms, lung function or worsening of fibrosis
on chest imaging, irrespective of the underlying diagnosis. This unique “basket” approach makes
INBUILD the only trial including patients with different underlying diseases as varied as chronic hyper-
sensitivity pneumonitis, rheumatoid arthritis associated ILD and sarcoidosis. The approach is based
on the underlying hypothesis that the response to lung injury in some of these patients includes the
development of fibrosis, which becomes progressive and self-sustaining independent of the initiating
trigger. The results are expected in the course of 2019.
At Boehringer Ingelheim, we are committed to fighting cancer to provide patients with new treatment Oncology
options. We are dedicated to collaborating with the oncology community on a shared journey to deliver
leading science. Our goal is first-in-class treatments with breakthrough potential that can transform
the lives of patients and help win the fight against cancer. Our focus is on discovering, developing and
accelerating novel therapeutic approaches that address unmet needs in lung and gastrointestinal can-
cers. To this end, we are conducting targeted research into therapies, immuno-oncology products and
intelligent combination approaches that offer the greatest chance of success in the fight against cancer.
In 2018, we have successfully advanced several of our research programmes into clinical development.
To further strengthen our oncology portfolio, we are actively seeking for scientific collaborations, inno-
vative partnerships and strategic acquisitions with the goal to improve our understanding of cancer
and transform patient lives. Our commitment to innovation has already resulted in important treat-
ments for lung cancer, afatinib (giotrif®/gilotrif®) and nintedanib (vargatef®).
Afatinib (giotrif®/gilotrif®), a second-generation EGFR inhibitor for the treatment of a specific type
of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients and metastatic NSCLC of squamous histology, has been
available to patients since 2013 and has become the standard of care in many markets in the approved
indications. The results of GioTag, a real-world study to investigate how the use of front-line afatinib,
followed by the next-line targeted treatment can extend the chemotherapy-free treatment time for
patients, were first published in 2018. The study shows that using afatinib (giotrif®/gilotrif®) fol-
lowed by osimertinib, a third-generation EGFR inhibitor, provides a median of 27.6 months of chemo-
therapy-free regimen in patients with EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC. These results add to the com-
prehensive ‘LUX-Lung’ trial programme for afatinib of nine trials including head to head randomised
trials versus first-generation treatments.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s second marketed cancer drug is vargatef® (nintedanib) for the treatment of
advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in combination with docetaxel in patients who were pre-
viously treated with chemotherapy. In December 2018, results from the real-world study VARGADO
showed that nintedanib plus docetaxel could be an option after failure of immunotherapy in these
patients. Nintedanib in combination with chemotherapy was also investigated in patients with malig-
nant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) of epitheloid histology, a rare and aggressive type of cancer that is
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS16
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
strongly associated with exposure to asbestos. The data from the respective phase III trial, LUME-Meso,
were presented in 2018 and showed that nintedanib in combination with standard chemotherapy did
not extend the progression-free survival of patients with MPM.
Cardiovascular and Boehringer Ingelheim’s therapeutic area of cardiovascular and metabolic diseases contains some of
metabolic diseases the company’s core products.
Within the diabetes portfolio, and specifically with jardiance® (empagliflozin), important research
data were published and a range of new clinical trials and collaborations were announced in 2018.
In March, Boehringer Ingelheim and diabetes alliance partner Eli Lilly announced plans to expand the
clinical trial programme for empagliflozin in chronic heart failure with the EMPERIAL t rials. These trials
will evaluate the effect of empagliflozin on exercise ability and heart failure symptoms in people with
chronic heart failure independent of whether they have type 2 diabetes.
In April, the diabetes alliance initiated EMPA-KIDNEY. The clinical trial investigates the effects of
empagliflozin on the progression of kidney disease and the occurrence of cardiovascular death in peo-
ple with established chronic kidney disease, with and without diabetes. The study will be independently
conducted, analysed and reported by the Medical Research Council Population Health Research Unit at
the University of Oxford (MRC PHRU). In summer of 2018, data from the EASE phase III programme
investigating the use of empagliflozin in combination with insulin therapy in adults with type 1 diabe-
tes were published. Both randomised controlled trials met their primary endpoint. Based on the total-
ity of the EASE data, Boehringer Ingelheim has initiated regulatory discussions for empagliflozin as
adjunct to insulin for adults with type 1 diabetes. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) Committee
for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) issued a positive opinion in July to update the labels of
jardiance® (empagliflozin), synjardy® (empagliflozin and metformin) and glyxambi® (empagliflozin
and linagliptin) to include additional important data from the landmark EMPA-REG OUTCOME® trial
on heart failure and kidney endpoints. The labels now also include results on the relative risk reduction
in hospitalisation for heart failure by 35% and the relative risk reduction for new-onset or worsening of
kidney disease by 39% with empagliflozin, compared with placebo, in people with type 2 diabetes and
established cardiovascular disease.
At the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) congress in October, results from
CARMELINA®, the first of two cardiovascular outcome trials for the DPP-4 inhibitor linagliptin
(trajenta®), were presented. CARMELINA® studied the impact of linagliptin on cardiovascular and kid-
ney safety in adults with type 2 diabetes at high risk for heart and/or kidney disease. The study met its
primary endpoint, with linagliptin demonstrating a similar cardiovascular safety profile compared to
placebo when added to standard of care. CARMELINA® also included a key secondary composite
endpoint, showing a similar kidney safety profile compared to placebo. The results of the second
cardiovascular outcome trial CAROLINA® are expected for 2019. CAROLINA® evaluates the impact of
treatment with linagliptin compared to the sulphonylurea, glimepiride, on top of standard of care, on
cardiovascular safety in patients with early type 2 diabetes and increased cardiovascular risk or estab-
lished cardiovascular complications.17
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Shortly after the EASD congress the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and the EASD published a
Consensus Report recommending SGLT2 inhibitors, such as empagliflozin, to help manage cardiovas-
cular outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes. Empagliflozin is the only SGLT2 inhibitor recom-
mended in the ADA 2018 Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes for reducing the risk of cardiovascular
death in people with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease. Following this announce-
ment, the American College of Cardiology (ACC) published a new Expert Consensus Decision Pathway
(ECDP) also recommending empagliflozin as the preferred SGLT2 inhibitor for its proven benefit in
reducing the risk of cardiovascular death in adults with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular
disease. Worldwide, more than 50 treatment guidelines have now been updated to include findings
from the empa-reg outcome trial® in their endorsement of type 2 diabetes treatments with proven
cardiovascular benefits.
In October 2018, the journal Circulation published an analysis based on data from the EMPA-REG
OUTCOME® trial which suggests that treatment with empagliflozin positively impacts life expectancy
in adults with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease. Using actuarial methods, and
assuming that the demonstrated beneficial effects of empagliflozin remain consistent with long-term
use, empagliflozin was estimated to extend life expectancy by 1 to 4.5 years on average, depending on
age, when compared with placebo.
At the American Heart Association (AHA) Scientific Sessions in November, initial effectiveness results
from the first real-world evidence study with empagliflozin (EMPRISE) were presented, reinforcing the
clinical results from the landmark EMPA-REG OUTCOME® trial.
Finally, to conclude a highly successful year for the diabetes products, jardiance® (empagliflozin) was
awarded the 2018 International Prix Galien “Best Pharmaceutical Product” award – the most prestig-
ious honour in the field of pharmaceutical research and innovation, recognising the outstanding
efforts and achievements of pharmaceutical R&D.
It was also a successful year for pradaxa®. In October, the company presented primary results from
two key trials, re-spectesus® and re-spect cvt®at the World Stroke Congress in Montreal, Canada.
re-spectesus® was the first trial to investigate dabigatran etexilate versus acetylsalicylic acid (ASA).
Full results of both trials are expected to be published in 2019. Both primary analyses will contribute to
the scientific community’s understanding of the diseases and add to the wealth of evidence support-
ing the established safety profile of pradaxa®.
Some of the most important neuropsychiatric diseases, such as Schizophrenia or Alzheimer’s disease Diseases of the
as well as depression, continue to be the centre of Boehringer Ingelheim’s research in central nervous central nervous
system diseases. Many companies and institutions have pulled out of CNS projects in the past years, system (CNS)
the reason being that for many players in the field, setbacks seem to be more frequent than successes.
At Boehringer Ingelheim, we remain true to our motto “#Commitment Never Stops” and we are opti-
mistic that we can develop effective therapies for the treatment of neuropsychiatric diseases.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS18
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
In such highly complex diseases like Schizophrenia, we focus on investigating the impaired glutama-
tergic signalling pathway present in a range of CNS diseases. Based on findings from a clinical trial in
schizophrenia, we are investigating in particular how a specific mechanism of action could be used to
prevent further deterioration after a first psychotic episode and to prevent relapses in schizophrenia.
Studies on the effect of GlyT1 inhibition on cognitive impairment in Alzheimer’s disease and Schizo-
phrenia are on track and we expect phase II clinical results within 2019.
Beyon that, clinical trials in depression investigating the effect of a substance that should influence the
hyperactivity of certain brain regions, which are responsible for the impaired processing of negative
stimuli, were started. Further substances are being investigated in earlier stages of development.
Immunology Boehringer Ingelheim has been continuously developing its immunology R&D activities for some years
now and is ramping up its capacities for a series of dermatological and gastroenterological indications.
Initial clinical testing results published in September 2018 in the field of dermatology suggest positive
therapeutic potential for the active substance BI 655130, an interleukin 36 receptor antagonist, for a
rare form of psoriasis known as generalised pustular psoriasis. Patients with these and other clearly
visible inflammatory skin diseases, such as palmoplantar pustulosis (PPP) or neurodermitis (atopic
dermatitis), frequently face considerable disruptions in their lives since these skin changes are not only
painful, but also visible.
These and a series of other active substances, such as an ROR-gamma inhibitor, are currently at the
clinical development stage and are showing initial signs of offering strong therapeutic potential for
patients with various immunological diseases. Boehringer Ingelheim’s development programme
includes substances for the treatment of chronic inflammatory bowel diseases such as Crohn’s disease
and ulcerative colitis, and also lupus nephritis, for which there is a strong and as yet unmet medical
need for more effective therapies.
Last year, the development of the substance risankizumab for the treatment of psoriasis, which
originally resulted from our research activities, was completed in partnership with AbbVie. AbbVie has
now submitted this substance to the regulatory authorities. This development and marketing partner-
ship with AbbVie offers the best means of ensuring that the first interleukin inhibitor to emerge from
Boehringer Ingelheim’s research programme can be made available to the greatest possible number of
patients.
With its broad-based pipeline and its substantial investments in immunology, Boehringer Ingelheim
expects to significantly contribute to the better treatment of patients with immune diseases in the
foreseeable future and will assume sole responsibility for development and marketing activities.19
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Animal Health
In its R&D work in the field of animal health, Boehringer Ingelheim concentrates on innovative
vaccines and antiparasitics for the protection of livestock and pets, as well as on pharmaceutical
products for the treatment of chronic diseases.
At our facilities in Europe, Asia, Oceania and North, Central and South America, we focus on research
into new drugs and the development of future therapeutic solutions. Since many vaccines are based on
local pathogens and pathogen variants, it is imperative that we are present in all key market regions
with local R&D and production facilities.
In the past year, we invested approximately EUR 38 million in new R&D plants and the expansion
of existing facilities. In Lyon Porte-des-Alpes, France, we completed the construction of a
EUR 70 million research building for over 200 employees, in order to bring our R&D activities and vaccine
production together at a single facility. Another milestone was the spatial consolidation of our research
activities in China through a EUR 19 million investment in the expansion of our research centre there.
These investments demonstrate our commitment to strengthen animal health by means of innovative,
preventive medicines and our intention to sustainably expand our leading position in this field.
In 2018, we initiated more than 400 clinical studies worldwide and received more than 300 product
authorisations. In addition to our internal R&D, we analyse external projects or products and integrate
them in our portfolio where appropriate. Obtaining approvals and expanding the geographical distri-
bution of existing products are other important aspects of our R&D activities.
Biopharmaceuticals
In 2018, we decided to pursue our biosimilars activities, including potential partnerships, within the
US market and to end development activities for other markets. We are concentrating on launching our
approved biosimilar cyltezo® (adalimumab-adbm) on the US market.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS20
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
PRODUCTION FACILITIES
11
25
2113
14
12 22
16
15 20
17 19
8
106
2423
30
7 18 27
3
9 2628
4 5
29
2
1
31
Animal health (AH)
Human pharmaceuticals (HP)
Biopharmaceuticals (Bio)
AMERICAS EUROPE Italy ASIA / OCEANIA
Brazil Denmark 19. Fornovo (HP) China
1. Itapecerica (HP) 11. Kalundborg (AH) 20. Noventa (AH) 26. Nanchang (AH)
2. Paulínia (AH) 27. Shanghai (HP, Bio)
Germany The Netherlands 28. Taizhou (AH)
Mexico 12. Biberach (HP, Bio) 21. Lelystad (AH)
3. Guadalajara (AH) 13. Dortmund (HP) Indonesia
4. Xochimilco (HP) 14. Ingelheim (HP) Austria 29. Bogor (HP)
22. Vienna (Bio)
Puerto Rico France Japan
5. Barceloneta (AH) 15. Lyon (AH) Spain 30. Yamagata (HP)
16. Saint-Herblon (AH) 23. Malgrat (HP)
USA 17. Toulouse (AH) 24. Sant Cugat (HP) New Zealand
6. Athens (AH) 31. Auckland (AH)
7. Columbus (HP) Greece United Kingdom
8. Fremont (Bio) 18. Koropi (HP) 25. Pirbright (AH)
9. Gainesville (AH)
10. St. Joseph (AH)
Production
Human Pharmaceuticals
In the Human Pharmaceuticals business, production is responsible for the reliable supply of innova-
tive, top-quality medicines at competitive prices for patients and customers. The ongoing development
of the company’s internal production facilities and our strategic cooperation with external manufac-
turers have established a modern, flexible market supply network which encompasses the entire value
chain, from suppliers of starting materials to worldwide logistics and distribution of finished pharma-
ceutical products.21
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
20
In 2018, this global network included 20 of Boehringer Ingelheim’s own plants in 10 countries. The
group now has four biopharmaceuticals facilities. It also has three plants for the manufacture of active
pharmaceutical ingredients as well as 13 plants which manufacture finished pharmaceutical products. facilities in
Boehringer Ingelheim’s own production facilities concentrate on products which are of strategic 10 countries for human
importance for the company as well as state-of-the-art and in some cases unique manufacturing tech- pharmaceuticals
nologies. Partnerships with external manufacturers expand production capacities and focus on prod-
ucts which are already far advanced in terms of their life cycle.
Within the scope of the company’s redesigned network, the increasing amounts produced for the com-
pany’s antidiabetic product portfolio have now been transferred to facilities throughout the world,
which are thus assuming an increasingly important role. For instance, production capacity has been
increased for active pharmaceutical ingredients in Fornovo (Italy) and for finished pharmaceutical
products in Koropi (Greece) and Xochimilco (Mexico). The company also initiated additional important
investments in the development and transformation of capacities in its internal and external network.
At its Ingelheim headquarters, the company began to implement a key investment in the industrialisa-
tion of newly developed medicines and the initial market supply of these medicines. At its Sant Cugat
facility in Spain, the company made further progress in the construction of a plant to supply the market
with respimat® technology-based inhalation medicines. At the same time, with the end of the product
life cycle for aggrenox® the company closed its Biberach site’s dedicated production plant.
Alongside the continued development of the company’s production network, the ongoing development of
its value chain management is another current area of focus. The implementation of the company’s supply
chain strategy has set in motion a process of transformation spanning the entire value chain, from the
supplier to the customer (“end-to-end”). The goal is a highly integrated and flexible delivery chain
which is fully transparent and can be efficiently controlled through modern digital technology.
Animal Health
16
Following the acquisition of Merial in 2017, teams from the two companies have been working together
to create an environment that promises future success. In 2018, Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
operated a network of 16 facilities in 11 countries which are dedicated to the manufacture of vaccines, Animal Health facilities
finished pharmaceutical products and nutraceuticals. This industrial set-up is complemented by con- in 11 countries
tract manufacturers, primarily in North and Central America as well as in Europe. We have defined a
new network strategy in order to balance internal and external production subsequently to the integra-
tion of Merial and focus on core products in full alignment with business requirements. In addition to
our production facility in Paulínia (Brazil), in the past year we invested in a new production line for our
strong revenue contributor nexgard® at our Barceloneta (Puerto Rico) facility. Moreover, our produc-
tion of vaccines for the foot-and-mouth disease has been expanded at a global level. Boehringer
Ingelheim established a collaboration with two Chinese partners, aiming for the triplication of production
of the much sought-after vaccine.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS22
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
Biopharmaceuticals
One of the leading Boehringer Ingelheim pursues its biopharmaceutical activities at its facilities in Biberach (Germany),
companies for Vienna (Austria), Fremont, California (USA) and Shanghai (China). They comprise the manufacture of
industrial customers own-brand marketable products (such as actilyse®, metalyse® and praxbind®), the manufacture of
biopharmaceuticals for clinical testing and – as one of the world’s market leaders – process develop-
ment, launch preparation and commercial production of biopharmaceuticals for third-party industrial
customers. 15 out of the top 20 pharmaceutical companies and innovative biotech firms are clients of
Boehringer Ingelheim’s biopharmaceuticals business. Boehringer Ingelheim covers the entire biophar-
maceutical value chain, from genetic development of the production cell, followed by manufacturing
the active substance and filling the finished pharmaceutical product, down to the product launch and
the global market supply.
2018 saw an overall increase to almost full use of capacity at its network of industrial-scale production
facilities. Besides many other products, Boehringer Ingelheim fulfilled at its Biberach (Germany) facility
the increasing level of market demand for actilyse® for the Chinese market in particular. At the com-
pany’s facility in Fremont, California (USA), a third large-scale bioreactor was launched in 2018 and the
market product of a customer was transferred. It will thus be possible to meet rising product demand
within the network from both Biberach (Germany) and Fremont, California (USA). Moreover, at our
large-scale cell culture plant in Biberach (Germany) and our large-scale microbial plant in Vienna (Aus-
tria), two further customer products were successfully approved by the international authorities. The
expansion project (a new industrial-scale biopharmaceutical production facility) at Boehringer Ingel-
heim’s site in Vienna (Austria) reached a further milestone, as the topping-out ceremony for this facil-
ity took place in the autumn of 2018. The company’s commercial filling facility in Shanghai (China) was
also successfully put into operation. For the local market and countries outside China, production and
delivery began as scheduled, from GMP hospital products to finished pharmaceutical products. In
addition, an application for approval of a customer product by the Chinese authorities was successfully
completed. This was another important milestone in terms of the Chinese authorities’ recognition of
our Shanghai facility as a contract manufacturer (CMO).
Occupational safety and environmental protection
The protection of the employees and the environment, as well as the sustainable use of natural
resources and the promotion of environmental awareness, are major components of our group’s mis-
sion statement and are of prime importance to Boehringer Ingelheim. Compliance with social and
environmental aspects has been firmly anchored in our corporate philosophy for many years now to
ensure that we can achieve sustainability for future generations.
Group-wide, we have long established binding standards in terms of environmental protection and
health and safety at work. These internal guidelines reflect the respective country-specific require-
ments. In many cases, they go far beyond the standards prescribed by law. In particular, we follow
international standards and guidance documents and work in close cooperation with the relevant
associations. Within Boehringer Ingelheim, the corporate department Environment, Health, Safety &
Sustainability (EHS&S) is responsible for this particular strategic focus.23
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
For Boehringer Ingelheim, 2018 continued to be characterised by the integration of Sanofi’s animal
health division (Merial) into our Group. In addition to safety and environmental risk assessments for
the new facilities, integration audits were implemented and a training platform (“EHS Academy”)
was established in order to provide our employees with EHS&S training and develop their awareness
of this field.
Technical support and regular EHS&S audits, both at Boehringer Ingelheim’s internal facilities and at
the premises of suppliers and contract manufacturers, ensure compliance with our own as well as
international standards. The company continuously reviews the status of environmental protection
and health and safety at work. Potential for improvement is identified on this basis.
To us, close coordination with stakeholders both within and outside the company is extremely impor-
tant in advancing current topics that are relevant to our company. We are taking a stand and are formu-
lating related position papers in order to achieve continuous and sustainable improvements world-
wide, for the sake of our company. These topics range from the use of improved refrigerants and the
use of certified natural resources to the careful handling of plastics.
Boehringer Ingelheim supports the United Nations (UN) sustainable development goals (SDGs) as well
as the development of corresponding ISO standards, and is making its own contribution to sustaina-
bility. At the 24th UN Climate Change Conference in Katowice, Poland (Conference of the Parties,
COP24) in 2018, EHS&S representatives of Boehringer Ingelheim participated once again.
As our contribution towards reducing global greenhouse gas emissions, we continue to pursue the goal Activities for futher
of reducing our entire CO e emissions by 20% by 2020 as compared with 2010 values. To achieve this CO reduction
2 2
goal and make further future-oriented reductions in our environmental footprint overall, our interna-
tional BE GREEN initiative has been stepped up and further activities are planned.
The roll-out of the BE SAFE safety initiative, which aims to further reduce the number of workplace
accidents, also continued in 2018. Successful workshops with a focus on behaviour-based safety were
held at several of the company’s worldwide facilities. The “High Five for Safety” initiative defines five
simple rules of behaviour which shall ensure improved occupational safety.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS24
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
Employee reporting
760
In 2018, Boehringer Ingelheim employed 50,370 people on average worldwide. This represents an
increase of 1.5% on the previous year. The number of staff increased in all of its regions.
additional employees
in 2018 Average number of employees by region
2018 2017
Americas 12,986 12,890
Europe 26,758 26,300
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 10,626 10,420
50,370 49,610
A major success factor for the positive growth of the Group is its engaged and motivated staff. Accord-
ingly, we are particularly committed to actively developing and supporting our employees. In order to
be best prepared for the challenges ahead and as part of a comprehensive training system, we empha-
sise the acquisition of technical expertise and also promote social skills.
With the integration of various experiences, cultural backgrounds and personalities, Boehringer Ingel-
heim creates an openness to different approaches and opinions, living up to its corporate vision “Value
through Innovation”. As a global company, it is important to us that the diversity of the markets is
reflected in our workforce. Creating a working environment that embraces diversity and differences is
one of the pillars of the corporate culture of Boehringer Ingelheim and is a contributing factor to the
company’s success.
In addition to competitive salaries, Boehringer Ingelheim offers other benefits to its employees. These
benefits include a range of company pension plans, flexible and home-based work options and numer-
ous health-related benefits. As a significant segment of our corporate strategy, it is part of our Talent
Management department’s remit to ensure the employability of our staff, promote a wide range of
opportunities for innovation at work, and motivate our employees to nurture their own talents and
develop as individuals.
631
Vocational training has always been of major importance to Boehringer Ingelheim. As part of its under-
standing of social responsibility, the company offers career opportunities to a great number of young
apprentices people. At the same time, we also tie a talented and well-qualified workforce of young professionals to
in Germany the company against a backdrop of demographic change. In 2018, 204 young professionals started
their careers with Boehringer Ingelheim in Germany in over 25 different scientific, technical and com-
mercial fields, in training and dual-study courses. As of 31 December 2018, 631 young people were
enrolled on our vocational training programme in Germany.
One of the company’s aims is to strengthen the appeal of Boehringer Ingelheim as a top employer for
our current and future employees. Boehringer Ingelheim was the recipient of various awards for its
efforts in this area in 2018. We received top marks from the auditors of the international, independent
Top Employers’ Institute in the categories of salaries (“Compensation & Benefits”) and employee
development (“Performance Management”). We received this distinction for our facilities in Germany
as well as for our facilities in China, Taiwan, Brazil, Russia, Spain, Poland and for the first time, Singa-
pore. The number of country organisations that were awarded this rating was unprecedented. This is25
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
evidence of the strong appeal and development opportunities at our company – both for employees
and for potential recruits.
Social responsibility
Taking social responsibility is also an important aspect of our corporate culture. Our commitment
to the well-being of our patients, employees and their families is the focus of a range of projects.
In addition, we support people in need through various initiatives in countries and regions where
we are active as a company. All of our company’s activities also focus on protecting and maintaining
the environment.
As in previous years, Boehringer Ingelheim continues to assist in providing support and in the integra-
tion of people who have fled their home country. It pursues a broad range of measures in this area:
Boehringer Ingelheim employees in Germany are conducting workshops for refugees. In addition,
the company has a partnership with the Deutsche Universitätsstiftung. Through this partnership,
Boehringer Ingelheim sponsors the WELCOME scholarship programme, which supports students from
crisis regions. The company also helps candidates from c risis regions and areas people are fleeing from
to join our company by offering them apprenticeships or the opportunity to complete an introductory
training year or an internship. Upon successfully completing internships, employees were once again
offered permanent positions in the past year.
A major pillar of our social commitment is our Making More Health (MMH) initiative. Since its start in Making More Health as
2010, this has continuously developed as a social entrepreneurship movement, both within our com- worldwide initiative
pany and externally. Socially entrepreneurial and sustainable activities are not limited to individual
projects relating to various regions and issues. Instead, this initiative focuses on creatively connecting
with local and international partners from different sectors. Networking across all traditional visible
and invisible borders is a central element of a successful social movement, in order to identify, pro-
mote and implement innovative solutions for far-reaching and complex challenges in the health care
sector. “Co-creation” as a bridge between social and commercial entrepreneurship brings together
social entrepreneurs and non-profit organisations from the health care sector with Boehringer Ingel-
heim employees and their resources. To date, within the MMH network, Boehringer Ingelheim and
Ashoka – one of the world’s largest non-profit organisations – have together helped around 90 social
entrepreneurs to reach approximately 9 million people worldwide in the area of health care.
The MMH initiative also aims to promote employees’ commitment to social entrepreneurship in order
to advance health care projects in many different countries, by working with local, external partners as
well as colleagues from throughout Boehringer Ingelheim. MMH leadership programmes in rural south-
ern India (Insights India); participation in online social intrapreneurship courses; opportunities to col-
laborate with social entrepreneurs in our MMH network as Executives in Residence; and an internal
competition promoting employees’ own projects have honed our staff’s social entrepreneurial think-
ing and activities. We have also strengthened our networking philosophy through partnerships with
non-profit organisations and social enterprises in the health care sector. A large number of local pro-
jects have taken place in which our employees are actively involved. Above all, improving health means
understanding people’s environment and their everyday challenges and offering solutions where they
are needed. Health awareness, affordability, accessibility of health services and acceptance play a key
role here. MMH plays a role in the university sector, with the goal of helping students and lecturers to
learn more about socially entrepreneurial thinking and practical activities through the development of
health care-related projects.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS26
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
With the Angels Initiative, together with the European Stroke Organisation (ESO), the World Stroke
Organisation (WSO), the Stroke Alliance for Europe (SAFE) and many other national stroke associations
and companies, Boehringer Ingelheim has established a unique health initiative. The goal of this initi-
ative is to improve stroke care in Europe and in emerging markets. More than 2,500 hospitals are
already part of the Angels Initiative. In November 2018, this initiative received the prestigious “Health
Collaboration” award in the “Service Delivery” category from the European Federation of Pharmaceu-
tical Industries and Associations (EFPIA).
In 2018, Boehringer Ingelheim established and introduced a “LastMile” programme with support from
the Global Alliance for Livestock Veterinary Medicines (GALVmed) and funding from the Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation. This integrated, solution-oriented initiative aims to respond to critical challenges in
the field of animal health by ensuring the consistent availability of medical resources for animals in
hard-to-access areas of sub-Saharan Africa. This initiative currently focuses on ruminants such as
sheep, goats and cattle but is to be expanded to include poultry. Through this project, Boehringer Ingel-
heim helps small farmers in Africa to gain access to veterinary medicines. This underlines Boehringer
Ingelheim’s strong social commitment: we aim to have a positive impact on human and animal lives
in areas where there is a particularly vital need for this.
Boehringer Ingelheim values and respects its employees’ differences and actively promotes a diverse,
cooperative and open working environment. We are conscious of the fact that the diversity of our mar-
kets and customers has to be be reflected in our workforce. For us, diversity makes for the right mix, but
it is inclusion which brings out the best results from this mix. We therefore focus on encouraging an
inclusive environment where this kind of diversity can thrive. Boehringer Ingelheim participated in
the 6th German Diversity Day under the motto “Fly the Flag for Diversity” at its two largest German
facilities, Ingelheim and Biberach. It has been an official member of the “Diversity Charter” since
early 2016 and a PROUT EMPLOYER acknowledged by the PROUT AT WORK foundation since 2017.27
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
REPORT ON ECONOMIC POSITION
Macroeconomic environment
In line with 2017, an worldwide economic growth rate of slightly below 4% was likewise registered in
2018. In the eurozone, economic output grew less strongly than in 2017, while the growth rate for the
emerging markets and developing countries was on the same level as in the previous year, slightly
below 5%. Due to the growth slowdown in the major economies a reduction in global growth is
expected over the next few years. The continuously expanding emerging markets and developing
countries will be unable to make up for this.
In the USA, as a result of increasing private consumption as well as investments in intellectual property
and production wells in the oil and gas industry, the second-longest growth phase of the past 160 years
continued. Strongly expansionary fiscal policy in the form of a tax reform at the start of 2018 also stim-
ulated economic output, while at the same time increasing the funding deficit. The tariff increases
resolved by the USA at the start of 2018, and the counter-tariffs introduced by the affected trading
partners in response, had a negative impact on economic growth, although the economic repercus-
sions were relatively limited due to the low proportion of overall trade volume.
Japan, the world’s third-largest economy, recorded a decline in its gross domestic product in the first
quarter of the year, despite its consistently low unemployment rate. This followed eight consecutive
quarters of growth. Nevertheless, the economy managed to grow throughout the year, however, not as
strongly as in 2017. This is attributable to the high rate of utilisation of existing capacities as well as a
decrease in the growth of exports.
The Chinese economy continues to undergo a process of structural transformation, whereby the ser-
vice sector is asserting itself in comparison with the manufacturing sector. The Chinese economy’s rate
of growth remains strong, driven by the government’s high growth targets. However, it has weakened
slightly compared with the previous years. This is also attributable to restrictive market access condi-
tions for foreign companies in China, as well as external trade and political tensions with the USA.
Economic performance steadily increased in the Asian region as a whole due to strong economic
growth in the emerging markets and developing countries in particular. On a global scale however,
some emerging markets and developing countries provided grounds for concern. In Argentina and Tur-
key, relatively serious current account deficits, significant debt levels and high inflation rates triggered
a devaluation of these countries’ currencies. However, this has so far been limited to these countries,
since other emerging markets hold high foreign currency reserves.
In terms of economic momentum, the eurozone recorded a negative development in 2018. This was
due to an attenuation of foreign trade, which ended the export-driven boom of the past few years for
now. A lack of qualified personnel and technical capacities resulted in supply-side bottlenecks in
manufacturing industries in particular. In addition, factors such as the ongoing discussion over the
introduction of tariffs on certain product groups as well as the EU’s post-Brexit economic relationship
with the United Kingdom negatively affected sentiment in the eurozone. On the other hand, the unem-
ployment rate remained unchanged in the eurozone, despite the economic downturn. Inflation picked
up over the course of the year due to rising energy prices and wage costs.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS28
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
The German economy continued to grow over the past year, though this trend weakened appreciably
from the summer to the end of the year. Reasons for this included production losses due to strikes
and illness as well as problems in the German automotive industry. The weaker level of demand
in the eurozone and the world economy’s loss of impetus present enduring problems. These are
having an additional adverse effect on foreign demand, which has already been negatively affected
by economic conditions.
Inflation in Germany averaged 1.9% in 2018 and was thus close to the ECB’s target level of 2%. Prices
increased strongly compared with previous years due to an above-average increase in the price of food
and luxury food items such as tobacco and beer, and sharply increased prices of heating oil and petrol.
The global economic upturn is expected to weaken in 2019. On the one hand, this reflects the fact that
many of the advanced economies have already exhausted their production capacities and are also
experiencing recruitment difficulties. On the other hand, it is expected that the USA’s restrictive mon-
etary policy will result in significantly worse financing terms in Latin America, which will decelerate the
pace of economic growth. In addition, the positive effect of the USA’s tax reform will gradually recede
into the background.
Currency development
Effect on
net sales
Average rate – basis: EUR 1 2018 2017 (in EUR million)
USD 1.18 1.13 — 300
JPY 130.41 126.66 — 45
CNY 7.81 7.63 — 14
GBP 0.88 0.88 — 5
CAD 1.53 1.46 — 15
BRL 4.31 3.60 — 68
The global pharmaceuticals market registered growth of 5% in the 2018 financial year (IQVIA: The
Global Use of Medicine in 2019 and Outlook to 2023). This trend was driven by rising demand in the
industrialised countries for cancer medicines, products for the treatment of autoimmune diseases and
anti-diabetic medicines. Due to the ageing population in the industrialised countries, the industry’s
growth remained stable and surpassed the growth of the previous year 2017.29
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Earnings position
Long-term and sustainably successful development forms the basis for securing the company’s
independence over the long term. Combined with stable earnings and sound financing, this is at
the core of Boehringer Ingelheim’s strategic focus. As in previous years, we based our approach on
these principles.
Boehringer Ingelheim recorded net sales of EUR 17,498 million in the 2018 financial year, which corre- EUR
17.5
sponds to a decrease of 3.1% as compared with the previous year’s level of EUR 18,056 million. The
exchange rate developments on the foreign exchange markets and the associated exchange rate effects
had a negative impact on sales growth in the biggest markets. billion net sales
Currency adjusted, the Group’s growth rate stood at + 0.6%. Leaving aside the discontinued operations
(interim contracts and agreements which were signed in early 2017 following the exchange of busi-
nesses with Sanofi) which had contributed significantly to sales in 2017, operating sales from the com-
pany’s core business areas – adjusted for currency effects – grew by 4.0%.
With sales of EUR 8,088 million and a share of around 46% of overall sales, the Americas region remains
Boehringer Ingelheim’s key sales market. The slight decline in sales resulted from negative currency
effects in North and South America, which originary sales growth in North America could not offset.
On a currency-adjusted basis, sales in the Americas region increased by 5.6% as compared with the
previous year. The Europe region registered net sales of EUR 5,316 million and thus contributed 30% of
the Group’s net sales. This corresponds to a 6.6% decline in sales compared with 2017. This decrease
was largely a consequence of lower than previous-year sales from discontinued operations. Currency
effects had no significant impact here. The Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) region realised only a slight
growth of 0.5% on a currency-adjusted basis, as net sales declined particularly in Japan. Net sales of
EUR 4,094 million were achieved in this region, corresponding to a share of almost 24% of the Group’s
total revenues.
Net sales by region (in EUR million)
currency
2018 2017 Change adjusted
Americas 8,088 8,141 – 0.7% + 5.6%
Europe 5,316 5,690 – 6.6% – 6.0%
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 4,094 4,225 – 3.1% + 0.5%
In general, sales growth conformed to expectations. Supported by good results from clinical trials as
well as by our external partners, we have been able to place promising new products on the market and
successfully push ahead with well-established products. On the other hand, we are experiencing an
increasingly difficult market situation with constantly challenging market access and growing price
pressure in our key markets. Overall, the company has asserted itself well despite the difficult condi-
tions and has laid the foundations for future growth.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS30
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
The materials ratio (taking into consideration the change in inventory) has improved to 16.1% (2017:
20.9%). This resulted from the negative impact in the previous year of sales from the Merial companies’
inventories which were assessed at market value. In addition, the relatively low-margin service and
production agreements from discontinued operations (consumer health care business) was no longer
included. Personnel expenses increased due to the increased number of employees, plus expenses for
pension plans and similar obligations. Depreciation and amortisation also increased. This was mainly
attributable to the write-down on intangible assets in the animal health business as well as impairment
losses on tangible assets in France and Spain. In 2018, the operating income included extraordinary
effects which totalled EUR – 420 million (2017: EUR – 309 million), mainly due to restructuring measures
and integration costs. Overall, despite the positive operating trend for our core business, operating
income was thus in line with the previous year’s level which, considering extraordinary effects, met our
expectations. Boehringer Ingelheim recorded an operating income of EUR 3,472 million, corresponding
to a return on sales of 19.8%, which is 0.5 percentage points above the previous year’s return on sales.
Key figures (in EUR million) 2018 2017 Change
Net sales 17,498 18,056 – 3.1%
Operating income 3,472 3,487 – 0.4%
Return on net sales + 19.8% + 19.3%
Income before taxes 3,176 2,856 + 11.2%
Income after taxes 2,075 — 229 n.a.
Income before taxes increased by EUR 320 million or 11.2%, mainly due to improved holding income.
The financial result reflects increased interest expenses due to pension commitments and similar obli-
gations as well as losses from plan assets; in the previous year, it included gains from plan assets. The
other financial result improved.
While tax expenses in 2017 were negatively affected by significant extraordinary effects resulting from
the disposal of the consumer health care business as well as the tax reform in the USA, these negative
factors were no longer applicable in 2018. We can therefore report a clearly positive income after tax
once again.
It must be noted in this regard that under the provisions of German commercial law, shareholders’ per-
sonal taxes arising from Group business activities may not be recognised as tax expenses. Instead,
these taxes are presented as part of withdrawals from Group equity. Taking this specificity into account,
the actual tax ratio is markedly higher than the figure shown in the profit and loss statement.
EUR Despite difficult market conditions and adverse currency effects, Boehringer Ingelheim registered a
2.1
positive development of the operating business in the 2018 financial year. Following the previous year,
which was shaped by integration processes and extraordinary tax effects, we concluded the past year
billion income with income after taxes of EUR 2,075 million (2017: EUR – 229 million).
after taxes31
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Development of the businesses
In the past financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim’s business activities were divided into the areas of
Human Pharmaceuticals, Animal Health and Biopharmaceuticals.
Net sales by businesses (in EUR million)
currency
2018 2017 Change adjusted
Human Pharmaceuticals 12,559 12,621 – 0.5% + 3.3%
Animal Health 3,960 3,901 + 1.5% + 5.6%
Biopharmaceuticals 734 678 + 8.3% + 8.3%
Other sales 40 43 – 7.0% – 4.3%
Discontinued Operations 205 813 – 74.8% – 73.1%
Human Pharmaceuticals
3.3
With around 72% of total Group revenue, Human Pharmaceuticals is the main pillar of Boehringer
%
Ingelheim’s business activities. Net sales from this business amounted to EUR 12,559 million in 2018.
This is equivalent to a change of – 0.5% (+ 3.3% currency adjusted) compared with the previous year. growth (currency
The positive currency-adjusted sales growth has resulted, in particular, from the successful placement adjusted) for human
of innovative products as well as the solid market position of established medicines. In 2018, the pharmaceuticals
emerging markets and the US market were once again the key growth drivers for the human pharma-
ceuticals business. On the other hand, in many significant markets, price pressure – particularly on
established medicines – and a relatively strong euro represent a difficult environment in which
Boehringer Ingelheim has nonetheless managed to assert itself.
Our product spiriva®, which is used to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), was
once again the biggest contributor to sales in 2018. It generated revenues of EUR 2,412 million in the
reporting period, which was below the previous year’s level (EUR 2,828 million) as a result of increasing
price pressure.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s second-strongest product in terms of sales, the anticoagulant pradaxa®,
registered sales of EUR 1,486 million in the past year, an increase compared with 2017 (+ 3.3%).
In the 2018 financial year, the type-2 diabetes medicine jardiance® – winner of the Prix Galien Inter-
national 2018 for the most innovative pharmaceutical product – once again recorded strong growth.
We achieved sales of EUR 1,461 million with jardiance® in the reporting period, which corresponds to
an increase of 44.9% compared with the previous year’s EUR 1,008 million.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS32
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
Net sales (in EUR million)
2018 2017 Change
spiriva® 2,412 2,828 – 14.7%
pradaxa® 1,486 1,438 + 3.3%
jardiance® 1,461 1,008 + 44.9%
trajenta® / jentadueto® 1,397 1,333 + 4.8%
With regard to the regional distribution of sales in the human pharmaceuticals business, the USA, with
a share of 41%, was once again by far the largest market. Here, Boehringer Ingelheim generated sales
of EUR 5,104 million, which corresponds to an increase of 0.2% compared with the previous year
(+ 4.7% currency-adjusted).
Our second-biggest market, the EUCAN region (Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand), accounted
for 32%, with revenues of EUR 3,971 million. Sales increased by 0.2% compared to 2017 (EUR 3,965 mil-
lion). Exchange rate effects did not have any significant influence on the sales trend here.
In Japan, sales declined by 18.0% to EUR 1,160 million (2017: EUR 1,415 million), partly due to the
expiry of a cooperation agreement for the product micardis®.
Net sales by region (in EUR million)
2018 2017 Change
USA 5,104 5,096 + 0.2%
Europe/Canada/Australia/New Zealand (EUCAN) 3,971 3,965 + 0.2%
Emerging Markets 2,324 2,145 + 8.3%
Japan 1,160 1,415 – 18.0%
Strong sales increase in In the growth markets, sales increased by 8.3% to EUR 2,324 million (+ 16.5% currency-adjusted). Sales
growth markets in the previous year had amounted to EUR 2,145 million here. In China, growth of almost 28% was
achieved compared with 2017, resulting in sales of EUR 658 million.33
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Animal Health
Sales of products in the animal health business once again increased in 2018. They amounted to
EUR 3,960 million and were thus 1.5% (+ 5.6% currency-adjusted) higher than in 2017.
Net sales (in EUR million)
2018 2017 Change
nexgard® 610 546 + 11.7%
frontline® 399 401 – 0.5%
ingelvac circoflex® 303 333 – 9.0%
heartgard® 299 284 + 5.3%
As in the 2017 financial year, in the 2018 reporting period three antiparasitics and the vaccine ingelvac Growth driven by
circoflex® were the company’s four best selling medicines. antiparasitics
The product nexgard® once again generated the strongest sales with revenues of EUR 610 million
(2017: EUR 546 million), thus recording growth of 11.7% compared with the previous year.
This is followed by another antiparasitic, frontline®, which registered a decrease of 0.5% from
EUR 401 million (2017) to EUR 399 million due to adverse currency effects.
The product ingelvac circoflex®, which is used as a vaccine against porcine circovirus type 2,
achieved EUR 303 million in sales in the 2018 financial year, which represents a decline of 9.0% on the
previous year (EUR 333 million).
Net sales by region (in EUR million)
2018 2017 Change
North America 1,726 1,664 + 3.7%
Europe 978 970 + 0.8%
Africa/Asia/Middle East/Oceania (METAsia) 971 954 + 1.8%
Latin America 285 313 – 8.9%
Biopharmaceuticals
In the 2018 financial year, the biopharmaceuticals business maintained its position in the industrial Once again
customers segment. The order situation for the entire business has developed p ositively, resulting in strong growth in
high capacity utilisation for biopharmaceutical production. Sales increased from EUR 678 million in Biopharmaceuticals
2017 to EUR 734 million (+ 8.3%).
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS34
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
Financial position
(in EUR million) 2018
Financial funds as of 1.1. 8,130
Cash flow from operating activities 2,988
Cash flow from investing activities — 1,403
Cash flow from financing activities — 208
Change in financial funds from cash relevant transactions 1,377
Change in financial funds due to change of consolidated companies or exchange rate movements — 53
Financial funds as of 31.12. 9,454
Boehringer Ingelheim’s financial management instruments and methods are aimed at securing liquid-
ity, minimising financial risks and optimising the cost of capital with an appropriate capital structure.
Our financial activities are therefore geared towards supporting the business strategy.
Cash flow from operating activities amounted to EUR 2,988 million, which represents an increase of
EUR 364 million in comparison to the previous year (EUR 2,624 million). Cash flow from investing
activities declined considerably to EUR 1,403 million (2017: EUR 5,115 million), as the prior year was
strongly affected by the cash settlement for the swap of businesses with Sanofi and tax payments
resulting from the sale of our consumer health care business.
Significant investments Investments are of particular importance to Boehringer Ingelheim from a strategic point of view. Con-
tinuous investment is a requirement for long-term development of the company and forms the basis
for the profitable growth of our business activities. A total of EUR 1,073 million was invested in tangible
and intangible assets in the year under review, representing an unchanged high level and a slight
increase compared to 2017 (EUR 1,023 million). Furthermore, EUR 367 million have been deposited in
plan assets for pension and similar obligations mainly in the USA.
After the topping-out ceremony in autumn 2018 for the expansion of production in Vienna (Austria) for
the strongly growing biopharmaceutical business represents the biggest single investment in the his-
tory of Boehringer Ingelheim and is well underway, with a further 500 jobs to be created. In 2018 alone,
about EUR 180 million has been invested into the facility that has been a significant site for the Group
for decades.
An important investment also took place in the business of human pharmaceuticals. Despite the dis-
posal of our chemical production site in Malgrat, Spain beginning of 2019, whose new proprietor will
in future be incorporated into our production network as an external strategic partner, Spain remains
an important site of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group. In 2018, more than EUR 45 million has been
invested into a project that comprises the production of cartridges used in respimat® products and
their filling as well as the packaging for the global distribution in Sant Cugat, Spain.35
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
A further important investment was made in the animal health business. In March 2018, groundbreaking
for a new production facility, which will focus on the production of avian vaccines, has begun in Lyon
Porte-des-Alpes (France) and is expected to offer employment to more than 40 people. This invest-
ment follows to the rising demand of vaccines for the foot-and-mouth disease, resulting from higher
poultry consumption.
The cash outflow from financing activities in the amount of EUR 208 million mainly includes payments
to the shareholders and interest paid. Overall, after taking currency effects and changes within
the group of consolidated companies into consideration, this led to an increase in the Boehringer
Ingelheim Group’s financial funds of EUR 1,324 million to EUR 9,454 million.
Net assets position
(in EUR million) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Change Change in %
Assets
Intangible and tangible assets 9,400 9,239 161
Financial assets 6,058 5,830 228
Fixed assets 15,458 15,069 389 + 2.6%
Inventories 3,312 3,087 225
Trade accounts receivable 3,540 3,146 394
Other receivables and other current
assets 1,033 1,360 — 327
Cash and cash equivalents 4,303 3,071 1,232
Current assets 12,188 10,664 1,524 + 14.3%
Other assets 3,242 2,653 589
Total assets 30,888 28,386 2,502 + 8.8%
Equity and liabilities
Group equity 12,334 10,657 1,677 + 15.7%
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 4,712 4,289 423
Tax provisions and other provisions 9,040 8,439 601
Accounts payable and loans 2,142 2,004 138
- of which greater than 5 years: 20 134 — 114
Liabilities 15,894 14,732 1,162 + 7.9%
Other liabilities and difference from capital
consolidation 2,660 2,997 — 337
Total equity and liabilities 30,888 28,386 2,502 + 8.8%
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS36
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
In the 2018 financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim’s total assets amounted to EUR 30.888 million, which
is an increase of EUR 2,502 million as compared with the previous year. A significant reason for this
was the development of the financial funds which rose by EUR 1,232 million as a result of the positive
cash flow. An increase in deferred tax assets, working capital (trade receivables and inventories) and
fixed assets contributed to the rise as well.
Despite depreciation, amortisation and impairments, a high investment activity, the initial consolida-
tion of the ViraTherapeutics GmbH and positive currency effects led to a slight increase in tangible and
intangible assets of around 2%. The financial assets also went up by around 4% due to a reversal on an
impairment loss in the previous year.
Inventories and trade receivables grew significantly by 10% (EUR 619 million) as a result of higher
working capital in the USA, the emerging markets (especially in China) and in Japan. Other receivables
and other current assets decreased mainly due to lower tax prepayments in the USA, France and Ger-
many. The increase in other assets arose from higher deferred tax assets based on temporary differ-
ences in fixed assets as well as higher plan assets for pensions and similar obligations in the USA.
Increased equity ratio The increase in Group equity by EUR 1,677 million is the result of the Group profit in 2018 as well
in spite of higher as positive currency effects that surpassed withdrawals by the shareholders. Group equity as of
balance sheet total 31 December 2018, amounted to EUR 12,334 million. The equity ratio improved to about 40%
(31 December 2017: 38%). In addition to equity, pension provisions and long-term liabilities are also
at the Group’s disposability in the long term. The total of these three items amounted to EUR 17,066 mil-
lion in 2018, representing a share of 55% of the total assets. Consequently, long-term disposable
capital covers all intangible and tangible assets as well as the working capital.
Pension provisions increased due to a higher actuarial interest rate and the utilisation of updated
mortality tables. Provisions for discounts and guarantees in the USA and tax provisions in Germany
went up in comparison to the previous reporting year as well. While the trade accounts payable and
liabilities to banks slightly decreased in 2018, other liabilities increased due to higher tax liabilities in
Germany. Other liabilities declined mainly due to the reversal of the difference from capital consolidation
and lower deferred tax liabilities from temporary differences in fixed assets.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s positive development in the 2018 financial year is also reflected in its net asset
position. Boehringer Ingelheim remains a soundly financed and profitable company.37
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
REPORT ON OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
Opportunities and risk management
When assessing the risks in the context of holistic opportunities and risk management, we also endeav-
our to take into account the resulting opportunities. Opportunities management is based on the strat-
egies and objectives of the company, individual businesses and operating business units and is an
integral part of the Group-wide planning and management systems. Those responsible for the busi-
nesses and functions bear direct responsibility for the early and systematic identification, analysis and
use of opportunities. For Boehringer Ingelheim as a research-driven and innovative pharmaceutical
company, the current R&D activities are considered a relevant opportunity. Relevant projects have
already been illustrated in the research and development chapter.
The aim of the risk management system implemented at Boehringer Ingelheim is to identify busi-
ness-specific risks and, in particular, risks that jeopardise the continued existence of the company as
early as possible, to assess them and to reduce them to a reasonable level by means of suitable measures.
The persons responsible for the key businesses and functions are as well included in the process of
calculating and assessing risks. The Group-wide risk and information system ensures that all identified
risks are analysed and assessed carefully. Following an appropriate classification into various catego-
ries, adequate risk management measures are initiated and their implementation is consistently
monitored.
In the year under review, internal auditing performed targeted routine audits as well as extraordinary
audits around the world. In addition to adherence to legal requirements and internal Group guidelines,
the main focal points were the functionality of systems, the effectiveness of internal controls for the
prevention of loss of assets, and the efficiency of structures and processes. Corresponding adjust-
ments or optimisations were initiated as necessary.
Individual risks
The most important risks to which Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed are broken down into the follow-
ing specific categories: financial risks, legal risks, production and environmental risks, personnel risks
and industry-specific risks.
Risks are identified below as being “concrete” when they appear to be controllable by means of specific
management procedures. The term “abstract” is used in the case of risks that cannot be completely
controlled, even by means of targeted management procedures, regardless of the probability of their
occurrence.
Financial risks
Relevant financial risks are broken down as follows: currency risks, credit and country- specific risks, as
well as financial investment and shareholding risks.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS38
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
Currency risks
The global orientation of our business activities is subject to opportunities and risks due to exchange
rate volatility, particularly with regard to the US dollar and Japanese yen. The Group monitors and
quantifies these risks at regular intervals, making them predictable for future business by means of rel-
evant hedging strategies and appropriate financial instruments, such as forward exchange contracts.
The resultant risks are subsequently designated as being concrete and controllable and therefore limited.
Credit and country-specific risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to various credit and country-specific risks as a result of its interna-
tional business activities. From the portfolio of trade accounts receivable and trade accounts payable,
we have not identified any extraordinary risks for the Group beyond the usual level in the sector. The
same applies to possible default risks for receivables, which are largely hedged against economic and
political risks. We will continue to carefully track credit and country-specific risks to be in a position to
respond to negative changes in a timely manner. These risks, which we consider moderate, are there-
fore regarded as concrete.
Financial investment and shareholding risks
The Group pursues a defensive investment strategy in the management of its financial assets. This is
reflected in the orientation of its portfolio, which is focused on European Economic and Monetary
Union (EMU) government bonds with top credit ratings and short-term investments at selected banks.
This results in a concrete, controllable and thus limited risk – but therefore only limited opportunities –
for the major part of the financial investments. The net book value of some of the strategic investments
in related companies is affected by market and business circumstances, which leads to a higher vola-
tility of the fair market value. All specific risks have been covered by respective impairments in the con-
solidated financial statements.
Legal risks
The business activities of the Group are exposed to legal risks. A distinction is made between regula-
tory, liability and patent protection risks.
Regulatory risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to risks arising from legal disputes and proceedings as well as official
investigations. As the legal or administrative decisions in ongoing or future proceedings cannot be
predicted, we regard the resultant risks as being abstract and high.
Liability risks
The marketing and sale of pharmaceuticals are exposed to a potential product liability risk. Boehringer
Ingelheim currently has product liability insurance for the Company’s risk profile. There is absolutely
no guarantee, however, that this insurance coverage can be maintained at reasonable cost and accept-
able conditions, or that it is sufficient to protect Boehringer Ingelheim against a claim or loss, or against
all potential claims or losses. In case it is foreseeable that the product liability insurance does not cover
or only partially covers a specific liability risk, the remaining risk exposure has been covered by a pro-
vision. We therefore see a moderate risk for the Group here.39
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Furthermore, product liability claims could tie up substantial financial resources and management
capacity and be detrimental to the company’s image in the event that the market considers the product
to be unsafe or ineffective as a result of unexpected side effects. We see this as a moderate and abstract risk.
Patent protection risks
Protection of innovations through trademark, brand and patent rights is of particular importance to
Boehringer Ingelheim as a research company. These commercial protective rights are increasingly the
target of attacks and breaches. We have taken the necessary precautions to allow us to detect threats
at an early stage and, by commencing appropriate countermeasures, defend our legal position using all
legal means available to us so that these moderate risks are regarded as concrete.
Production and environmental risks
Our quality management system and compliance processes are continuously optimised in close coop-
eration with the relevant authorities in order to ensure compliance with cGMP standards (current good
manufacturing practices). Risks in this area continue to be of high significance to the Group and are
classified as abstract.
In order to guarantee the supply of our products to the market, we have implemented measures that
guarantee reliable and high-quality supplies for internal and external customers. In addition to supplier
management on the procurement side, this also involves building up internal standby capacities. As a
result, we see the risk as concrete.
Risks in the areas of environment, health, safety and sustainability (EHS&S) are pre-emptively mini-
mised by ensuring global adherence to our high safety standards. Appropriate emergency plans have
been drawn up for possible incidents of any kind and are practised and subjected to comprehensive
quality testing at regular intervals. As a result of these measures, these risks are classed as concrete and
limited.
Personnel risks
Boehringer Ingelheim, as other companies, is exposed to demographic change and the resultant risk of
being affected by a lack of appropriately qualified personnel. This potential risk can have a substantial
impact on the company’s business activities. It has therefore been included in the long-term planning
process for many years and has gained strategic significance as a result.
Boehringer Ingelheim counters the risk by means of a comprehensive personnel concept. In the con-
text of global personnel management, this also presents the Group with opportunities. Regardless of
their ethnic background, gender or religion, we offer all company employees development opportuni-
ties based on their vocational skills, social expertise, personal aptitudes and willingness to take on
responsibility in accordance with the needs of the company. In view of the counter-measures described
above, the risk is regarded as moderate and concrete.
Industry-specific risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to business risks specific to the pharmaceutical industry. Some of
these risks materialised in the past financial year and are increasing in significance as a result of their
impact on Boehringer Ingelheim. They will continue to be classed as significant and abstract.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS40
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
In addition to the loss of exclusivity of products established on the market and risks associated with
the development and registration of new products, the industry-specific risks increasingly include
changing and restrictive requirements relating to pricing and reimbursement on many sales markets.
Frequently, the prices of pharmaceutical products are subject not only to state monitoring and regula-
tion, but also to price pressure from cheaper generic drugs caused by the state reimbursement sys-
tems. Boehringer Ingelheim is therefore keeping a close eye on the various changes in its sales markets
and takes appropriate measures in response to current developments.
Overall statement on the risk situation
From a current perspective, we are not aware of any risks that alone or in conjunction with other risks
could lead to a lasting impairment of the company’s net assets, financial or earnings position that
could jeopardise the continued existence of Boehringer Ingelheim.
REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS
Boehringer Ingelheim can look back on a successful 2018 financial year in which we achieved our
ambitious targets – both in absolute figures and in comparison with our competitors – and laid the
foundations for sustainable development and long-term growth.
We demonstrated the consistent focus of our business on innovation-oriented fields by the strategic
exchange of Sanofi’s animal health business (Merial) and Boehringer Ingelheim’s consumer health
care business. The transaction was successfully closed on 1 January 2017. Through this transaction, we
improved the competitiveness of our animal health business in the industry’s important growth mar-
kets. The animal health business is growing in the second year following integration of the Merial busi-
ness. We have successfully managed the demanding task of incorporating this organisation with many
products, new customers and processes. We expect this to provide the Group with further growth
momentum in the future.
Further sales growth The increasingly difficult market environment and increased unpredictability of doing business poses
expected major challenges for the entire pharmaceutical industry and will continue to require significant atten-
tion from Boehringer Ingelheim in 2019, too. With regard to competitiveness, it is even more impor-
tant, therefore, that we retain our scope for growth and innovation as well as our financial ability to act
so that we can continue to be successful on the market in the future. In view of the many change pro-
cesses in healthcare systems, which are faced with ageing populations and increasing price pressure in
many major markets, we only expect to see low growth impetus for the pharmaceutical industry in the
coming year. On a comparable basis (adjusted for currency and extraordinary effects), we expect to see
a slight increase in net sales for Boehringer Ingelheim in 2019.
R&D expenses remain continuously high, in line with our strategy to drive growth and promote new
products in the future primarily with products from our own R&D facilities. We invest in this area with
care after close investigation of the therapeutic benefit and the associated prospects for success. The
replenishment of innovative medicines in our research pipeline shows short-, mid- and long-term
growth potential. For 2019, we envisage a slight increase in our investments in the R&D of new phar-
maceuticals.41
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
In addition to patent expiry and attacks on patents, the major challenges facing the research-driven
pharmaceutical industry are the increasing amount of investment in R&D as well as bigger hurdles and
increased costs associated with product approvals. In this context, the increasing cost pressure in
healthcare systems as outlined above must also be particularly emphasised. The systems are increas-
ingly unwilling to substantially and adequately reward high investments in the development of new
medicines and the value contribution to increasing the efficiency of the system as a whole. As a result,
there is significant price pressure in all major markets for prescription medicines. In conjunction with
longer planning and development cycles for new products, this makes business less predictable and
requires us to recognise and seize opportunities quickly on the one hand, while subjecting costs and
strategies to continual monitoring and adjustments on the other hand. To this end, we have launched
initiatives over the past few years to accelerate our reaction to changes and to reduce organisational
complexities as well as to lower our cost base in order to create potential for investments and to secure
the company’s long-term success. With the difficult market environment on the one hand, and the
potential resulting from the measures we have introduced as well as promising new product launches
on the other hand, we plan to see a 2019 operating income which is on a comparable basis (adjusted
for currency and extraordinary effects) slightly above last year’s level.
As a family-owned company, Boehringer Ingelheim’s primary aim is to maintain the group’s indepen- Boehringer Ingelheim
dence and competitiveness. As such, long-term and sustainable organic growth still takes precedence well positioned
over short-term profit targets. We are confident that we will achieve our ambitious targets in all of our for the future
businesses thanks to our great innovative strength based on a comprehensive portfolio of prospective
products, our global presence and the support of our highly qualified and motivated employees. We
will stand by our vision “Value through Innovation” and develop and bring to market innovative prod-
ucts in areas of high unmet medical need and therapeutic approaches where we aim to be first. The aim
of our endeavours is to make new medicines available that will allow the treatments of humans and
animals more effectively than is currently possible.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATSPAGE 44–74
C O N S O L I D A T E D F I N A N C I A L
S T A T E M E N T S
Overview of selected consolidated companies 44
Consolidated balance sheet 46
Consolidated profit and loss statement 47
Cash flow statement 48
Statement of changes in group equity 49
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 50
Independent auditor‘s report 71
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS44
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
OVERVIEW OF SELECTED CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES
C.H. BOEHRINGER SOHN
AG & CO. KG, INGELHEIM AM RHEIN
BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
VETMEDICA GMBH,
INGELHEIM AM RHEIN
ARGENTINA D MEXICO D GERMANY D P R
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Corporate
Argentina S.A., Buenos Aires México S.A. de C.V., Mexico City Center GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
AUSTRALIA D R NETHERLANDS D P Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma
Australia Pty. Ltd., Netherlands B.V., Alkmaar
GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
North Ryde
Boehringer Ingelheim microParts
NEW ZEALAND D P R
GmbH, Dortmund
BELGIUM D
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health New Zealand Ltd., Manukau City GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
Belgium S.A., Brussels
Boehringer Ingelheim
PUERTO RICO P Biopharmaceuticals GmbH,
BRAZIL D P R Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Puerto Rico LLC, Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary
do Brasil Ltda., São Paulo Barceloneta Research Center GmbH & Co. KG,
Hanover
CANADA D SOUTH AFRICA D Boehringer Ingelheim Middle East
and Africa GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
Merial Canada, Inc., Burlington Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
South Africa Pty Ltd., Randburg
CHINA D P R
SOUTH KOREA D
Nanchang Boehringer Ingelheim
Animal Health Co., Ltd., Nanchang Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Korea Ltd., Seoul
(Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Shanghai
SPAIN D
DENMARK D P R Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health España, S.A., Barcelona
Denmark A/S, Copenhagen
TAIWAN D
FRANCE D P R Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Merial S.A.S., Lyon Taiwan Co., Ltd., Taipei
GREAT BRITAIN D P THAILAND D
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
UK Limited, Bracknell (Thailand) Limited, Bangkok
ITALY D P USA D P R
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Italia S.p.A., Milan USA, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware
JAPAN D R
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Japan Co., Ltd., Tokyo
D Distribution
P Production
R Research and Development45
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OVERVIEw OF SELECTED CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES
C.H. BOEHRINGER SOHN
GRUNDSTÜCKSVERWALTUNG GMBH & CO. KG,
INGELHEIM AM RHEIN
BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
INTERNATIONAL GMBH,
INGELHEIM AM RHEIN
ARGENTINA D P COLOMBIA D ITALY D P R SOUTH AFRICA D
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Boehringer Ingelheim Italia S.p.A., Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals
Buenos Aires Santa Fé de Bogotá Milan (Proprietary) Ltd., Randburg
Bidachem S.p.A., Fornovo S. Giovanni
AUSTRALIA D P CZECH REPUBLIC D SOUTH KOREA D
Boehringer Ingelheim Pty. Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim, spol. s.r.o., JAPAN D P R Boehringer Ingelheim Korea Ltd.,
North Ryde Prague Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim Co., Ltd., Seoul
Tokyo Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica
AUSTRIA D P R DENMARK D Boehringer Ingelheim Seiyaku, Korea Ltd., Seoul
Yamagata
Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Boehringer Ingelheim Danmark A/S,
Co. KG, Vienna Copenhagen Boehringer Ingelheim Japan, Inc., SPAIN D P
Tokyo
Forschungsinstitut für molekulare Boehringer Ingelheim España S.A.,
Pathologie Gesellschaft mbH, Vienna ECUADOR D Barcelona
MEXICO D P R
Boehringer Ingelheim Del Ecuador
BELGIUM D Cia. Ltda., Quito Boehringer Ingelheim Mexico S.A. de SWEDEN D
C.V., Mexico City
SCS Boehringer Ingelheim Comm.V., Boehringer Ingelheim Aktiebolag,
Brussels FINLAND D Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica S.A. Stockholm
de C.V., Guadalajara
Boehringer Ingelheim Finland Ky,
BRAZIL D P Espoo SWITZERLAND D
NETHERLANDS D
Boehringer Ingelheim do Brasíl Boehringer Ingelheim (Schweiz)
Química e Farmaceutica Ltda., FRANCE D Boehringer Ingelheim B.V., Alkmaar GmbH, Basel
São Paulo
Boehringer Ingelheim France S.A.S.,
Solana Agro Pecuária Ltda., Arapongas Paris NEW ZEALAND D TAIWAN D
Boehringer Ingelheim (N.Z.) Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim Taiwan Ltd.,
CANADA D GREAT BRITAIN D Auckland Taipei
Boehringer Ingelheim (Canada) Ltd.,
Boehringer Ingelheim Ltd.,
Toronto Bracknell NORWAY D THAILAND V
Boehringer Ingelheim Norway KS, Boehringer Ingelheim (Thai) Limited,
CHILE D GREECE D P Asker Bangkok
Boehringer Ingelheim Ltda.,
Boehringer Ingelheim Ellas A.E.,
Santiago de Chile Athens PHILIPPINES D TURKEY D
Boehringer Ingelheim (Philippines), Boehringer Ingelheim Ilaç Ticaret
CHINA D P R HONG KONG D Inc., Manila A.S., Istanbul
Boehringer Ingelheim Shanghai
Boehringer Ingelheim (Hong Kong)
Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd., Shanghai Ltd., Hong Kong POLAND D USA D P R
Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim Sp. z o.o., Boehringer Ingelheim
Biopharmaceuticals (China) Co., Ltd., INDIA D Warsaw Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
Shanghai
Wilmington, Delaware
B Ino ve eh sr ti mng ee nr t I Cn og .e ,l Lh te dim ., (China) B Lto de .h , Mrin ug me br aIn igelheim India Private PORTUGAL D Boehringer Ingelheim Fremont, Inc.,
Wilmington, Delaware
Shanghai Unilfarma-Uniao Internacional de
Boehringer Ingelheim International INDONESIA D P Laboratórios Farmacêuticos, Lda., Boehringer Ingelheim USA
Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Lisbon Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware
PT Boehringer Ingelheim Indonesia,
Shanghai
Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica Jakarta RUSSIAN FEDERATION D VIETNAM D
(China) Co., Ltd., Taizhou ISRAEL D OOO Boehringer Ingelheim, Moscow Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Vietnam Limited Liability Company,
Boehringer Ingelheim Israel Ltd., Ho Chi Minh City
Tel Aviv
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP46
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
Assets (in EUR million) Notes 1) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017
Intangible assets (3.1) 5,120 5,372
Tangible assets (3.2) 4,280 3,867
Financial assets (3.3) 6,058 5,830
Fixed assets 15,458 15,069
Inventories (3.4) 3,312 3,087
Accounts receivable and other assets (3.5) 4,573 4,506
Cash and cash equivalents 4,303 3,071
Current assets 12,188 10,664
Prepaid expenses 377 334
Deferred tax assets 2,784 2,307
Exceeding amount of plan assets 81 12
Total assets 30,888 28,386
Equity and liabilities (in EUR million) Notes 1) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017
Shareholders’ capital 178 178
Group reserves 12,453 10,868
Balance sheet currency conversion difference — 298 — 388
Equity attributable to the parent company 12,333 10,658
Non-controlling interests 1 — 1
Group equity 12,334 10,657
Difference from capital consolidation 1,511 1,729
Provisions (3.6) 13,752 12,728
Accounts payable and loans (3.7) 2,142 2,004
Liabilities 15,894 14,732
Deferred income 463 514
Deferred tax liabilities 686 754
Total equity and liabilities 30,888 28,386
1) For explanations, see relevant section in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.47
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET | CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
(in EUR million) Notes 1) 2018 2017
Net sales (4.1) 17,498 18,056
Changes in finished goods and work in process 244 — 291
Other own work capitalised 13 16
Other operating income (4.2) 1,872 3,411
Total revenues 19,627 21,192
Cost of materials (4.3) — 3,058 — 3,474
Personnel expenses (4.4) — 5,276 — 4,934
Amortisation of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets (4.5) — 1,089 — 963
Other operating expenses (4.6) — 6,732 — 8,334
Operating income 3,472 3,487
Financial income (4.7) — 654 — 330
Holding income (4.8) 358 — 301
Income before taxes 3,176 2,856
Income taxes 2) (4.9) — 1,101 — 3,085
Income after taxes 2,075 — 229
Net income/loss (4.10) 2,075 — 229
Non-controlling interests 0 6
Group profit/loss 2,075 — 223
1) For explanations, see relevant section in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
2) Due to legal requirements the shareholders’ personal taxes arising from group business activities are shown as withdrawals from the group reserves.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP48
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(in EUR million) 2018
Income after taxes (including non-controlling interests) 2,075
Amortisation / reversal of write-downs of intangible assets and depreciation / reversal of write-downs of tangible assets 1,081
Change in provisions for pensions and similar obligations (without acquiring or generating of plan assets) 711
Change in other provisions 414
Other non-cash income and expenses — 515
Gain from disposals of consolidated companies — 4
Gain/loss from disposals of fixed assets — 1
Grants received — 7
Change in inventories — 229
Change in accounts receivable and other assets not related to investing or financing activities — 478
Change in trade accounts payable and other liabilities not related to investing or financing activities 8
Interest income/interest expenses 93
Other income from investments — 13
Income/expenses of extraordinary magnitude or significance — 87
Income taxes 1,101
Income taxes paid — 1,161
Cash flow from operating activities 2,988
Payments to acquire intangible fixed assets — 123
Payments to acquire tangible fixed assets — 950
Payments to acquire financial fixed assets 1) — 43
Payments to acquire or generate plan assets — 367
Investments in consolidated companies — 99
Proceeds from disposals of intangible fixed assets 0
Proceeds from disposals of tangible fixed assets 12
Proceeds from disposals of financial fixed assets 1) 33
Cash receipts relating to the purchase price adjustment of consolidated companies 7
Cash receipts of extraordinary magnitude or significance 96
Interest received 18
Income from dividends 13
Cash flow from investing activities — 1,40349
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CASH FLOw STATEMENT | STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN GROUP EQUITY
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(in EUR million) 2018
Cash receipts from grants 7
Interest paid — 62
Cash payments from shareholders of the parent company 62
Cash payments to shareholders of the parent company — 217
Proceeds from loans / cash repayments of loans 2
Cash flow from financing activities — 208
Change in financial funds from cash relevant transactions 1,377
Changes in financial funds due to change of consolidated companies 5
Changes in financial funds due to exchange rate movements — 58
Financial funds 2) as of 1.1. 8,130
Financial funds 2) as of 31.12. 9,454
1) Excl. investment securities.
2) Cash and cash equivalents and investment securities within fixed assets.
(+) = source of funds, (-) = use of funds
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN GROUP EQUITY
Balance sheet Equity attri­
currency butable to Non­
Shareholders’ Group conversion the parent controlling
(in EUR million) capital 1) reserves 2) difference company interests Group equity
Balance as of 31.12.2016 178 11,220 — 71 11,327 0 11,327
withdrawals 0 — 145 0 — 145 0 — 145
Net loss 0 — 223 0 — 223 — 6 — 229
Changes in consolidated companies 0 16 — 21 — 5 5 0
Currency effects 0 0 — 296 — 296 0 — 296
Balance as of 31.12.2017 178 10,868 — 388 10,658 — 1 10,657
Contributions 0 62 0 62 0 62
withdrawals 0 — 544 0 — 544 0 — 544
Net income 0 2,075 0 2,075 0 2,075
Changes in consolidated companies 0 — 8 — 2 — 10 2 — 8
Currency effects 0 0 92 92 0 92
Balance as of 31.12.2018 178 12,453 — 298 12,333 1 12,334
1) The shareholders’ capital consists of the equity of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG and C.H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH
& Co. KG. The shareholders’ capital consists only of the limited partner’s capital contribution.
2) The shareholders’ personal taxes arising from group business activities are shown as withdrawals from the group reserves.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP50
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Principles and methods
1.1 General principles
The consolidated financial statements of Boehringer Ingelheim for the 2018 financial year were prepared in accord-
ance with Section 264a of the German Commercial Code (HGB), in line with the legal requirements to prepare
consolidated financial statements under Section 290 et seq. HGB.
In accordance with Section 297 (1) HGB, the consolidated financial statements consist of the consolidated balance
sheet, the consolidated profit and loss statement, the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the cash flow
statement and the statement of changes in equity.
The consolidated financial statements were prepared in euros in accordance with Section 298 (1) in conjunction
with Section 244 HGB.
To improve the clarity and transparency of the consolidated financial statements, individual items of the consoli-
dated balance sheet and the consolidated profit and loss statement have been combined. These items are presented
and explained separately in the notes. The additional disclosures required for the individual items can also be found
in the notes.
1.2 Registry information
The parent company is registered under the name C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, with its headquarters in
Ingelheim am Rhein, in the commercial register of Mainz district court under the number HRA 21732.
1.3 Information on the group of consolidated companies
The parent company of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein.
Boehringer AG, Ingelheim am Rhein, is the sole, personally liable, managing shareholder of this company.
Besides C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, there is C.H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG,
Ingelheim am Rhein, whose general partner is controlled by C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG.
The Boehringer Ingelheim Group consists of a total of 176 affiliated companies in Germany and abroad. The consol-
idated financial statements of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG include 152 fully consolidated subsidiaries. C.H.
Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG is consolidated as a special purpose entity because the
majority of the risks and rewards from its business activities is attributable to C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG.
In the remaining subsidiaries, C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, directly or indirectly, holds a majority of the
voting rights.
In accordance with Section 296 (2) HGB, 21 affiliated companies were not included in the consolidation in the
reporting year, as they are individually and collectively insignificant to the Group’s net assets, financial and earnings
position. The total amount of the sales, equity and net income for the year of the affiliated companies not included
in consolidation accounts for less than 1% of the aggregated Group financial statements totals. For two further
affiliated companies, there are ongoing restrictions on control due to the terms of the articles of association.
These companies were also not consolidated in accordance with Section 296 (1) No. 1 HGB.51
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
The total number of affiliated companies decreased by five compared to the previous year:
• One new company was founded.
• One company was acquired.
• Six companies lost their separate legal identity through merger.
• One affiliated company was liquidated.
ViraTherapeutics GmbH, Innsbruck, was acquired on 10 September 2018.
The following subsidiaries were exempt from the duty to prepare and disclose annual financial statements and
management reports in accordance with Section 264 (3) HGB:
• Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Europe GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Secura Versicherungsvermittlungs GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Grundstücksgesellschaft mbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Finanzierungs GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim R&D Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Invest GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
The following subsidiaries were exempt from the duty to prepare and disclose annual financial statements and
management reports in accordance with Section 264b HGB:
• C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
• C.H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary Research Center GmbH & Co. KG, Hanover
Two joint ventures have been included at cost instead of either using the proportionate method or the equity method
due to their lack of significance.
In accordance with Section 311 (2) HGB, associated companies were not valuated using the equity method due to
their lack of significance.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP52
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
1.4 Consolidation methods
For inventories and fixed assets, receivables, liabilities, and income and expense items, transactions between the
companies included in consolidation were eliminated as part of debt consolidation procedures in accordance with
Section 303 HGB, procedures to eliminate intercompany profits in accordance with Section 304 HGB and income
and expenses consolidation procedures in accordance with Section 305 HGB.
The acquisition method was applied when including subsidiaries in the consolidation for the first time in accordance
with Section 301 HGB. Companies were included in the consolidation for the first time on the date at which the
company became a subsidiary.
The book value of the shares held by the parent company was offset against the corresponding equity of the subsid-
iary. Equity was carried at the amount of the fair value of the assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses and deferred
income and special reserves included in the consolidated financial statements as at the time of consolidation. Any
remaining positive balance was recorded as goodwill; any remaining negative balance was recorded as a difference
from capital consolidation.
1.5 Currency translation
Assets and liabilities resulting from foreign currency transactions were translated using the average spot exchange
rate as at the balance sheet date. The realisation principle (Section 298 (1) in conjunction with Section 252 (1)
No. 4 half-sentence 2 HGB) and the historical cost convention (Section 298 (1) in conjunction with Section 253 (1)
sentence 1 HGB) were applied to items with a remaining term of more than one year.
In these consolidated financial statements, the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries domiciled in a state
outside the eurozone that are denominated in a foreign currency have been converted into euros in accordance
with Section 308a HGB using the modified closing date rate method.
Using the modified closing date rate method, the asset and liability items of the annual financial statements pre-
pared in foreign currency were translated into euros using the average spot exchange rate as at the balance sheet
date, with the exception of equity, which was translated using the historical rate. Items included in the profit and
loss statement were translated into euros using the average rate. The resulting translation difference was reported
within consolidated equity below the reserves in “Balance sheet currency conversion difference”.
The exchange rates for the Group’s most important currencies changed as follows during the reporting year
(basis: EUR 1):
Closing rate Average annual rate
31.12.2018 31.12.2017 2018 2017
US dollar 1.15 1.20 1.18 1.13
Japanese yen 125.85 135.01 130.41 126.66
Chinese renminbi 7.88 7.80 7.81 7.63
Pound sterling 0.89 0.89 0.88 0.8853
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
2 Accounting policies
2.1 Fixed assets
Acquired intangible assets and tangible fixed assets are carried at cost, less scheduled straight-line amortisation
and depreciation, considering technical and economic circumstances. This is based on the following useful lives:
Intangible assets 2 to 15 years
Buildings 20 years
Technical equipment and machinery 10 years
Other equipment, operating and office equipment 3 to 10 years
Only straight-line depreciation and amortisation are used in the consolidated financial statements. Additional
write-downs are recorded to reflect impairments when the value of assets has been considered permanently
impaired. Manufacturing costs include materials and labour manufacturing costs, an appropriate portion of mate-
rials and labour overheads, and the depreciation of fixed assets (to the extent caused by production). Manufacturing
costs do not include financing costs.
All capitalised intangible assets have finite useful lives.
A useful life of ten years was applied to the goodwill for ViraTherapeutics GmbH, acquired this year, as past experi-
ence of products and sales markets together with the business conditions of ViraTherapeutics GmbH indicates that
this presents a true and fair view.
Financial assets primarily include investment securities, shareholder rights and loans and were carried at the lower
of cost or fair market value, if impaired. Once the reasons for the impairment made in previous financial years no
longer existed, appropriate write-ups were made.
2.2 Current assets, prepaid expenses, deferred charges and exceeding amount
of plan assets
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or fair market value.
Raw materials, consumables and supplies are capitalised at the lower of average acquisition prices or fair market
value on the balance sheet date.
Finished goods and work in progress are measured at manufacturing cost on the basis of individual calculations,
taking into account the directly attributable costs of materials, direct labour costs, special direct costs, and an
appropriate portion of material and production overhead costs and production-related depreciation.
Goods for resale are valued at the lower of either acquisition cost or fair market value.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP54
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
All identifiable risks in inventories arising from above-average storage periods, diminished marketability and lower
replacement costs were taken into account by recording appropriate valuation adjustments.
Inventories are valued loss-free, i. e. deductions were made from the expected sales prices to reflect costs yet to be
incurred.
Receivables and other assets were recognised at cost less allowances for specific risks and general credit risk.
Low-interest or non-interest-bearing receivables with a term of more than one year were discounted.
Cash and cash equivalents, consisting of cash, balances at banks and cheques were recognised at the lower of cost
or fair market value.
Prepaid expenses recorded in accordance with Section 250 (1) HGB include expenses paid in advance in respect of
a defined period of time after the balance sheet date.
Deferred income recorded in accordance with Section 250 (2) HGB include proceeds that represent income relating
to a defined period of time after the balance sheet date.
The fair market value of plan assets and the corresponding present value of pension obligation have been offset
according to German GAAP. The exceeding amount of plan assets has been capitalised separately.
2.3 Difference from capital consolidation
The difference from capital consolidation reported on 31 December 2018 was primarily a result of the business swap
of Boehringer Ingelheim’s consumer health care business and Sanofi’s animal health business, which was
completed on 1 January 2017. This resulted in a difference from capital consolidation of EUR 1,986 million. The
difference is amortised over an estimated period of 15 years. The remaining balance of the difference amounted to
EUR 1,495 million at 31 December 2018.
The difference from capital consolidation reported on 31 December 2018 also included an amount arising from the
acquisition of a US company in 2011. The original difference amounted to EUR 157 million. The difference is amor-
tised over an estimated period of ten years. The remaining balance of this difference amounted to EUR 16 million at
31 December 2018.
The income from the release of the difference arising from capital consolidation is included in other operating
income. The release is made corresponding to the amortisation of those assets of the acquired company identified
in the purchase price allocation not previously recognised in that company’s balance sheet.55
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
2.4 Group reserves
Group reserves include the retained earnings of the consolidated subsidiaries from prior and current years and
consolidation entries that affect earnings.
2.5 Provisions
Tax provisions and other provisions include all uncertain liabilities and expected losses from executory contracts.
They were carried at the amount required to settle the obligation based on reasonable prudent commercial judgement
(i. e. including future cost and price increases). Provisions with a remaining maturity of more than one year were
discounted using the matched-term, average market interest rate. In the case of pension provisions, this interest
rate results from the last ten years average and in the case of other provisions, from the last seven years average
(in accordance with the Rückstellungsabzinsungsverordnung – German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions).
2.6 Accounts payable and loans
Accounts payable and loans were recognised at settlement amount.
2.7 Deferred taxes
To calculate deferred taxes arising from temporary or quasi-permanent differences between the carrying amounts of
assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses and deferred income in the group financial statements and their carrying
amounts for tax purposes or tax loss carryforwards, the amounts of the resulting tax benefits and expenses at the
time that the differences will reverse were measured using tax rates specific to the respective consolidated company
(4% - 39%). Deferred tax balances are not discounted. Differences due to consolidation measures in accordance
with Sections 300 to 305 HGB were also measured using the company specific tax rates applicable at the time of the
expected reversal of the difference. Deferred tax assets on loss carryforwards were taken into account if it is likely
that they will be used within the next five years.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities were reported without offsetting.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP56
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
3 Notes to the consolidated balance sheet
3.1 Intangible assets
Acquired
concessions/ Advance
(in EUR million) similar rights Goodwill payments Total
Acquisition/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1 January 2017 1,815 6 12 1,833
Currency conversion difference — 625 — 1 — 1 — 627
Changes in consolidated companies 5,635 0 — 1 5,634
Additions 137 0 14 151
Disposals — 290 0 — 1 — 291
Reclassifications 4 0 — 4 0
Balance as of 31 December 2017 6,676 5 19 6,700
Currency conversion difference 182 0 0 182
Changes in consolidated companies 80 24 0 104
Additions 102 0 21 123
Disposals — 145 0 0 — 145
Reclassifications 13 0 — 14 — 1
Balance as of 31 December 2018 6,908 29 26 6,963
Accumulated amortisation
Balance as of 1 January 2017 1,280 3 0 1,283
Currency conversion difference — 72 0 0 — 72
Changes in consolidated companies — 164 0 0 — 164
Additions 442 0 0 442
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 161 0 0 — 161
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31 December 2017 1,325 3 0 1,328
Currency conversion difference 36 0 0 36
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0
Additions 537 0 0 537
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 58 0 0 — 58
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31 December 2018 1,840 3 0 1,843
Book value as of 31 December 2017 5,351 2 19 5,372
Book value as of 31 December 2018 5,068 26 26 5,12057
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
3.2 Tangible assets
Other Advance
Technical facilities/ payments/
Land and facilities and operating construction
(in EUR million) buildings machines equipment in progress Total
Acquisition/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1 January 2017 2,962 3,147 2,153 468 8,730
Currency conversion difference — 170 — 101 — 77 — 34 — 382
Changes in consolidated companies 802 536 18 162 1,518
Additions 50 88 135 599 872
Disposals — 134 — 132 — 175 — 58 — 499
Reclassifications 117 179 64 — 360 0
Balance as of 31 December 2017 3,627 3,717 2,118 777 10,239
Currency conversion difference 34 24 18 1 77
Changes in consolidated companies 0 1 0 0 1
Additions 62 88 124 676 950
Disposals — 19 — 52 — 101 — 1 — 173
Reclassifications 221 192 69 — 481 1
Balance as of 31 December 2018 3,925 3,970 2,228 972 11,095
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1 January 2017 1,698 2,296 1,691 0 5,685
Currency conversion difference — 88 — 65 — 58 0 — 211
Changes in consolidated companies 376 318 12 0 706
Additions 141 218 162 0 521
Write-ups 0 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 72 — 109 — 148 0 — 329
Reclassifications 1 — 1 0 0 0
Balance as of 31 December 2017 2,056 2,657 1,659 0 6,372
Currency conversion difference 22 18 15 0 55
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 162 232 158 0 552
Write-ups — 3 — 5 0 0 — 8
Disposals — 13 — 48 — 95 0 — 156
Reclassifications — 1 3 — 2 0 0
Balance as of 31 December 2018 2,223 2,857 1,735 0 6,815
Book value as of 31 December 2017 1,571 1,060 459 777 3,867
Book value as of 31 December 2018 1,702 1,113 493 972 4,280
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP58
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
3.3 Financial assets
Investments Loans Investments
in affiliated to affiliated in related Advance Investment Other
(in EUR million) companies companies companies payments securities loans Total
Acquisition/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1 January 2017 7 0 965 18 5,000 196 6,186
Currency conversion difference 0 0 — 1 — 2 — 1 — 20 — 24
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 16 — 16 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 16 0 107 14 137
Disposals 0 0 — 5 0 — 30 — 17 — 52
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31 December 2017 7 0 991 0 5,076 173 6,247
Currency conversion difference 0 0 0 0 2 3 5
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 5 0 31 0 117 7 160
Disposals 0 0 — 21 0 — 29 — 145 — 195
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31 December 2018 12 0 1,001 0 5,166 38 6,217
Accumulated amortisation
Balance as of 1 January 2017 0 0 75 0 16 3 94
Currency conversion difference 0 0 — 1 0 — 1 0 — 2
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 1 0 1
Additions 0 0 324 0 1 0 325
Write-ups 0 0 — 1 0 0 0 — 1
Disposals 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31 December 2017 0 0 397 0 17 3 417
Currency conversion difference 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 2 0 1 0 3
Write-ups 0 0 — 256 0 — 3 0 — 259
Disposals 0 0 — 2 0 0 0 — 2
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31 December 2018 0 0 141 0 15 3 159
Book value as of 31 December 2017 7 0 594 0 5,059 170 5,830
Book value as of 31 December 2018 12 0 860 0 5,151 35 6,058
As in the previous year, the “Other loans” item does not include any loans to shareholders.59
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
3.4 Inventories
(in EUR million) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017
Raw materials and supplies 626 575
Unfinished goods 1,602 1,547
Finished goods and goods for resale 1,071 951
Advance payments to suppliers 13 14
3,312 3,087
3.5 Accounts receivable and other assets
Residual term Residual term
(in EUR million) 31.12.2018 over 1 year 31.12.2017 over 1 year
Trade accounts receivable 3,540 0 3,146 1
Receivables from affiliated companies 24 0 29 0
Receivables from related companies 27 0 28 0
Other assets 982 67 1,303 79
4,573 67 4,506 80
The “Other assets” item included receivables from shareholders of around half a million euro (previous year:
EUR 87 million).
Receivables from affiliated companies almost exclusively consisted of receivables from loans.
Receivables from related companies primarily consisted of trade accounts receivable.
3.6 Provisions
(in EUR million) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017
Pension provisions and similar obligations 4,712 4,289
Tax provisions 1,812 1,750
Other provisions 7,228 6,689
13,752 12,728
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP60
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations
The provisions for pensions and similar obligations were determined on the basis of actuarial calculations using the
projected unit credit method, taking into account future adjustments in salaries and pensions.
In addition to local biometric data (e.g. for Germany, mortality tables 2018 G published by Prof. Dr Klaus Heubeck
which have been adjusted for group-specific death probabilities and invalidity rates), pension obligations in the
significant countries were calculated on the basis of the following actuarial parameters:
(in % as of 31 December 2018) Germany USA Japan
Discount rate 3.21 4.20 1.23
Salary increase 3.50 4.00 4.18
Pension increase 1.88 3.00 0.00
Discounting rates were determined by reference to average market rates for 15-year maturities in accordance with
the German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions of 11 March 2016. The interest rates used to discount
significant foreign pension obligations (USA and Japan) were determined with comparable parameters, in line with
the German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions of 11 March 2016.
The difference calculated in accordance with Section 253 (6) HGB amounts to EUR 767 million.
The plan assets intended solely to cover pension and similar obligations that are unavailable to all other creditors
(plan assets as defined in Section 246 (2) sentence 2 HGB) were measured at fair market value, which is essentially
derived from stock market prices, and offset against the underlying pension and similar obligations. The fair market
value of the plan assets on the balance sheet date was EUR 1,845 million. The related amount of pension obligations
and similar obligations was EUR 6,477 million. Gains and losses from plan assets and interest expense relating to
pension and similar obligations were offset in accordance with Section 246 (2) sentence 2 HGB. In total, EUR 81 mil-
lion in losses from plan assets and EUR 562 million in interest expense relating to pension and similar obligations
are included under “Interest expense relating to pensions and similar obligations and other provisions” within the
financial result.
Tax provisions
The tax provisions also include provisions for double taxation risks, which have resulted following the implementation
of the action plans of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) as part of their
international initiative known as the “Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting” (BEPS).61
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
Other provisions
Other provisions mainly include provisions for discounts and guarantees, personnel-related provisions, provisions
for outstanding invoices, as well as provisions for litigation, legal claims and compensation for damages.
3.7 Accounts payable and loans
Residual term of which Residual term
less than greater than greater than less than
(in EUR million) 1 year 1 year 5 years 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 1 year
Bank loans 412 8 0 420 439 373
Other accounts payable 1,685 37 20 1,722 1,565 1,381
of which:
- Trade accounts payable 852 3 0 855 880 875
- Advance payments received 142 22 13 164 131 131
- Accounts payable
to affiliated companies 4 5 5 9 6 1
- Accounts payable
to related companies 1 0 0 1 1 1
- Other liabilities* 686 7 2 693 547 373
2,097 45 20 2,142 2,004 1,754
* Of which:
- from taxes (EUR million) 225 189
- social security liabilities (EUR million) 40 37
As in the previous year, there were no liabilities secured by mortgages or similar collateral rights on the balance
sheet date.
At the end of the year, there were liabilities to shareholders of EUR 255 million (previous year: EUR 22 million). These
are presented within the “Other liabilities” item.
Accounts payable to affiliated companies include loans amounting to EUR 4 million (previous year: EUR 5 million)
and trade accounts payable amounting to EUR 5 million (previous year: EUR 1 million).
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP62
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
4 Notes to the consolidated profit and loss statement
The structure of the consolidated profit and loss statement was based on the total cost format. Other taxes are
included in other operating expenses.
4.1 Net sales
by businesses (in EUR million) 2018 2017
Human Pharmaceuticals 12,559 12,621
Animal Health 3,960 3,901
Biopharmaceuticals 734 678
Other sales 40 43
Dicontinued Operations 205 813
17,498 18,056
by geographic region (in EUR million) 2018 2017
Europe 5,316 5,690
of which: Germany 888 982
Americas 8,088 8,141
of which: USA 6,924 6,861
Asia/Australia/Africa 4,094 4,225
of which: Japan 1,323 1,601
17,498 18,056
4.2 Other operating income
Other operating income includes income from currency translation of EUR 783 million (previous year: EUR 1,040 million).
4.3 Cost of materials
(in EUR million) 2018 2017
Costs of raw material, supplies and goods for resale 2,172 2,431
Expenditure on services 886 1,043
3,058 3,47463
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
4.4 Personnel expenses
(in EUR million) 2018 2017
Wages and salaries 4,260 4,078
Social benefits and retirement benefits 1,016 856
of which: retirement benefits 305 154
5,276 4,934
All interest effects of the measurement of the provisions for pensions and similar obligations were shown as a
separate item of financial income.
Average headcount 2018 2017
Production 16,380 16,361
Administration 5,964 5,826
Marketing and Sales 18,762 18,123
Research and Development 8,566 8,589
Apprentices 698 711
50,370 49,610
The allocation of employees among their different functions was restated for 2017 as many former Merial
employees were not allocated to their respective function in the first year that Merial was consolidated, but rather
reported within Administration.
4.5 Amortisation of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets
Amortisation of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible fixed assets include extraordinary write-downs of
EUR 116 million (previous year: EUR 16 million).
4.6 Other operating expenses
Other operating expenses include expenses from currency translation of EUR 779 million (previous year:
EUR 2,060 million).
In addition, other items included in operating expenses are mainly the charges made to record provisions for legal
risks and restructuring, as well as third-party services for research, development, medicine and marketing purposes,
administrative expenses, fees and contributions, commissions, rent, freight and expenses for repairs carried out by
third parties.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP64
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
4.7 Financial income
(in EUR million) 2018 2017
Interest expense relating to pensions and similar obligations and other provisions — 665 — 321
Other interest expense and similar expenditure — 149 — 153
Interest expense and similar expenditure — 814 — 474
Amortisation of and loss on disposal of financial fixed assets and short-term invest-
ments — 1 — 1
Income from other investment securities and from long-term loans 104 104
Other interest income and similar income 57 41
— 654 — 330
4.8 Holding income
(in EUR million) 2018 2017
Write-downs on financial fixed assets — 2 — 324
Write-ups of financial fixed assets 256 1
Income from related companies 104 22
of which: from disposal of related companies 91 10
358 — 301
4.9 Income taxes
(in EUR million) 2018 2017
Current income taxes 1,588 2,333
Deferred taxes — 487 752
1,101 3,085
Current income taxes primarily include the corporation and trade tax expenses of the consolidated companies.
The total balance of deferred tax assets at the balance sheet date amounted to EUR 2,784 million (previous year:
EUR 2,307 million). Deferred tax assets primarily arise on the difference between the book values of provisions for
pension obligations and for discounts, tax goodwill, intangible fixed assets, inventories and on tangible fixed assets.
Deferred tax liabilities of EUR 686 million (previous year: EUR 754 million) were recorded. These primarily relate to
differences between the book values of intangible fixed assets, tangible fixed assets, inventories and provisions.65
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
4.10 Net income
The net income for 2018 was positively influenced by prior-period operating income (mainly from the reversal of
other provisions and tax refunds for prior years) of EUR 352 million (previous year: EUR 724 million) and negatively
influenced by prior-period operating expenses (mainly due to additional payment of taxes for prior years) of
EUR 511 million (previous year: EUR 170 million).
5 Notes to the cash flow statement
The cash flow statement shows the changes in cash and cash equivalents (cash and long-term investment securities
that can be sold at any time) of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group resulting from cash inflows and outflows in the
reporting year. In accordance with the German Accounting Standard on the cash flow statement (DRS 21), the
cash flow statement has been broken down according to cash flows from operating activities and cash flows from
investing and financing activities.
The changes in the balance sheet items of the affiliated companies included were translated using average rates for
the year. As on the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents are carried at the closing rate. The effect of exchange
rate changes on cash and cash equivalents has been shown separately.
The financial funds also include financial assets with a remaining maturity exceeding three months on the date of
acquisition which can be converted into cash in the short term.
The financial funds as of 31 December 2018 comprised the following items:
(in EUR million) 2018
Cash and cash equivalents 4,303
Financial assets 5,151
9,454
The financial funds included EUR 492 million in restricted funds at the balance sheet date.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP66
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
6 Other disclosures
6.1 Contingent liabilities
(in EUR million) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017
Liabilities from guarantees 21 21
Warranties and the granting of securities for third-party liabilities 235 159
256 180
The risk of utilisation of these contingent liabilities is assessed as low on account of the good net assets, financial
and earnings position.
6.2 Other financial commitments and off-balance sheet transactions
(in EUR million) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017
Rental and lease obligations 512 445
Residual other financial commitments 1,465 1,392
of which: pension-related 10 0
There are rental and lease obligations of EUR 512 million (previous year: EUR 445 million), EUR 12 million of which
(previous year: EUR 11 million) relate to long-term rental obligations with non-consolidated affiliated companies.
The purpose of the lease agreements is the lower capital commitment compared to acquired property and the
absence of the resale risk. Risks could arise from the term of the lease should it not be possible to continue to utilise
the properties fully, of which there are no indications at this time.
Residual other financial commitments include future expenditure-effective investments of EUR 1,125 million
(previous year: EUR 1,120 million).
6.3 Derivative financial instruments and valuation units
Due to its extensive international structure, the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is highly dependent on developments
in the world’s currencies and interest rates. To hedge these risks, particularly those emerging from goods, services
and financing, currency forwards and options are generally used for currency risks. Interest rate swaps and options
are used for interest rate risks.
The use of derivative financial instruments and the organisational processes are set out in internal guidelines. There
is a strict separation between trading, processing, documentation and control.67
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
Risk positions are regularly tracked, analysed and measured in a special Group-wide financial report. The positions
entered into are periodically re-evaluated and monitored. The fair value of the derivative financial instruments is cal-
culated using generally accepted market valuation methods (currency forwards based on the present value method)
taking into account the market data as of the balance sheet date.
Provisions of EUR 49 million were recognised for currency forwards not included in hedge accounting for which
there was a negative fair value within one currency as at the balance sheet date. In line with the imparity principle,
positive fair values within one currency were not recognised.
On the balance sheet date, the derivative financial instruments not included in hedge accounting valuation units
were as follows:
Nominal value Fair value
(in EUR million) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017
Foreign exchange forward contracts 3,906 4,105 — 27 — 23
To the extent that the requirements for hedge accounting of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with highly
probable forecasted transactions in accordance with Section 254 HGB were met, the foreign currency forward
exchange contracts were not recognised in the balance sheet in line with the net hedge presentation method.
The following accounting policies apply to the recognition of valuation groups in accordance with Section 254 HGB:
Economic hedges are accounted for in the financial statements by the use of valuation units. The valuation units are
recognised for each foreign currency based on the net amount of highly probable forecasted transactions and cur-
rency forwards that match the forecasted net cash flow in terms of maturity, nominal amount and foreign currency
(macro hedge). The highly probable forecasted transactions (incoming and outgoing payments for planned sales and
purchases) are derived from company planning. Ex-post analysis of planning has shown that the planned transac-
tions are highly probable.
The opposing changes in value of the hedged item and the hedging instrument are fully offset as the critical terms
(maturity, nominal amount and foreign currency) match. An effective hedge can therefore be assumed both
prospectively and retrospectively. The critical term match method is exclusively used to measure the prospective
and retrospective effectiveness of hedges. Excess amounts under hedging transactions are not included in the
valuation units.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP68
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
As at 31 December 2018, hedges for highly probable forecasted net cash flows were recognised as follows:
January to December 2019:
Net cash flow (in EUR million) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in EUR million)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 1,460 USD — 1,453 USD — 39
JPY 720 JPY — 481 JPY — 6
AUD 127 AUD — 113 AUD 2
MXN 103 MXN — 62 MXN — 2
CAD 266 CAD — 116 CAD 1
GBP 153 GBP — 109 GBP 1
January to December 2020:
Net cash flow (in EUR million) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in EUR million)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 1,505 USD — 880 USD — 34
JPY 711 JPY — 361 JPY — 8
AUD 24 AUD — 16 AUD 0
MXN 14 MXN — 11 MXN — 1
CAD 44 CAD — 16 CAD 0
GBP 56 GBP — 39 GBP 0
January to December 2021:
Net cash flow (in EUR million) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in EUR million)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 1,495 USD — 384 USD — 13
JPY 709 JPY — 188 JPY — 569
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
January to February 2022:
Net cash flow (in EUR million) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in EUR million)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 186 USD — 51 USD — 2
JPY 88 JPY — 26 JPY — 1
For the year 2019, there were also hedge accounting valuation units from long and short positions of derivatives.
The offsetting nominal values amount to +/– EUR 64 million from Japanese yen.
Furthermore, as at 31 December 2018, valuation units for foreign currency receivables were recognised as follows:
Receivables (in EUR million) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in EUR million)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
RUB 100 RUB — 53 RUB 3
PLN 54 PLN — 15 PLN 0
The amount of the hedged foreign currency risk correlates to the relative change in the exchange rate between the
planning date and the realisation date of the forecast transactions. If all currencies were to appreciate or depreciate
against the euro by 10.0%, there would be a foreign currency risk of plus or minus EUR 782 million without hedging.
6.4 Research and development expenses
(in EUR million) 2018 2017
Research and development expenses 3.164 3.078
Non-capitalised research and development expenses include, amongst other items, the costs associated with
clinical studies.
6.5 Shareholdings
The list of companies included in the consolidated financial statements and the list of shareholdings presented in
accordance with Section 313 (2) HGB are included in the audited consolidated financial statements submitted to
the German Federal Gazette.
6.6 Subsequent events
Since the end of the 2018 financial year, we have not become aware of any events that are of material significance
to the Group or that could lead to a reappraisal of its net assets, financial and earnings position.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP70
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
6.7 Total auditor fees
Total fees charged to the Group by the auditor for the financial year amounted to EUR 7.3 million. EUR 1.6 million
of this relates to audits of financial statements, EUR 1.7 million to tax advisory services and EUR 4.0 million to
other services.
Ingelheim am Rhein, 5 March 2019
Boehringer AG
Board of Managing Directors
Hubertus von Baumbach Joachim Hasenmaier
Allan Hillgrove Dr Andreas Neumann
Dr Michel Pairet Michael Schmelmer71
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
Qualified Audit Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements and Audit Opinion on the Group Manage-
ment Report
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein,
and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018, and
the consolidated profit and loss statement, cash flow statement and statement of changes in group equity for the
financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2018, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a
summary of significant accounting policies. In addition, we have audited the group management report of C.H.
Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2018.
In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in the audit,
• except for the effects of the matter described in section “Basis for the Qualified Audit Opinion on the Consoli-
dated Financial Statements and the Audit Opinion on the Group Management Report” the accompanying consol-
idated financial statements comply, in all material respects, with the requirements of German commercial law
and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2018
and of its financial performance for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2018, in accordance with
German Legally Required Accounting Principles, and
• the accompanying group management report as a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position. In
all material respects, this group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements,
complies with German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future
development.
Pursuant to Section 322 (3) sentence 1 HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch “German Commercial Code”], we declare that,
except for the qualification of the audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements mentioned, our audit has
not led to any reservations relating to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements and the group
management report.
Basis for the Qualified Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Audit Opinion on the Group
Management Report
Contrary to Section 314 (1) number 6 letters a) and b) HGB the total remuneration granted to the members and
the former members of the board of managing directors as well as the pension provisions recognized and not
recognized for the former members of the board of managing directors are not disclosed in the notes to the consol-
idated financial statements.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report in accord-
ance with Section 317 HGB and the German Generally Accepted Standards of Financial Statement Audits promul-
gated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW). Our responsibilities
under those requirements and principles are further described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Consolidated Financial Statements and of the Group Management Report” section of our auditor’s report. We are
independent of the group entities in accordance with the requirements of German commercial and professional law,
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP72
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
and we have fulfilled our other German professional responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We
believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions on the
consolidated financial statements and on the group management report.
Other Information
Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the annual report, with the
exception of the audited consolidated financial statements and group management report and our auditor’s report.
Our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report do not cover the other
information, and consequently we do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in so doing, to consider whether
the other information
• is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements, with the group management report or our
knowledge obtained in the audit, or
• otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Responsibilities of Management for the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Group Management Report
Management is responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that comply, in all material
respects, with the requirements of German commercial law and that the consolidated financial statements give a
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial performance of the Group in compliance
with German Legally Required Accounting Principles. In addition, management is responsible for such internal
control as they, in accordance with German Legally Required Accounting Principles, have determined necessary to
enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due
to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to
continue as a going concern. They also have the responsibility for disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern. In addition, they are responsible for financial reporting based on the going concern basis of accounting,
provided no actual or legal circumstances conflict therewith.
Furthermore, management is responsible for the preparation of the group management report that, as a whole,
provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and is, in all material respects, consistent with the consoli-
dated financial statements, complies with German legal requirements, and appropriately presents the opportunities
and risks of future development. In addition, management is responsible for such arrangements and measures
(systems) as they have considered necessary to enable the preparation of a group management report that is in
accordance with the applicable German legal requirements, and to be able to provide sufficient appropriate
evidence for the assertions in the group management report.73
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the Group Manage-
ment Report
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and whether the group management report as a
whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and, in all material respects, is consistent with the
consolidated financial statements and the knowledge obtained in the audit, complies with the German legal require-
ments and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development, as well as to issue an auditor’s
report that includes our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance
with Section 317 HGB and in compliance with the German Generally Accepted Standards of Financial Statement
Audits promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) will always detect a material misstatement.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consoli-
dated financial statements and this group management report.
We exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements and of the group
management report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of
arrangements and measures (systems) relevant to the audit of the group management report in order to design
audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on
the effectiveness of these systems.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by management and the reasonableness of estimates
made by management and related disclosures.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty
exists, we are required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated
financial statements and in the group management report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our
respective opinions. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to be able to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including
the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements present the underlying transactions and
events in a manner that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,
financial position and financial performance of the Group in compliance with German Legally Required
Accounting Principles.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP74
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
activities within the Group to express opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group
management report. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We
remain solely responsible for our opinions.
• Evaluate the consistency of the group management report with the consolidated financial statements, its
conformity with [German] law, and the view of the Group’s position it provides.
• Perform audit procedures on the prospective information presented by management in the group management
report. On the basis of sufficient appropriate audit evidence we evaluate, in particular, the significant assump-
tions used by management as a basis for the prospective information, and evaluate the proper derivation of the
prospective information from these assumptions. We do not express a separate opinion on the prospective infor-
mation and on the assumptions used as a basis. There is a substantial unavoidable risk that future events will
differ materially from the prospective information.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we
identify during our audit.
Frankfurt / Main, 5 March 2019
KPMG AG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Original German version signed by
Kneisel Krauß
Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer
[German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor]PAGES 76–105
P R O D U C T P O R T F O L I O
A S E L E C T I O N
Human Pharmaceuticals 76
Animal Health 90
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP76
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
RESPIRATORY DISEASES
Respiratory diseases are very common. Chronic obstructive Bronchial asthma
pulmonary disease (COPD) and bronchial asthma are among Bronchial asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the air­
the most prevalent chronic diseases and a frequent cause of ways. The inflammation is accompanied by airway hyperre­
morbidity and premature deaths worldwide. sponsiveness, which leads to a narrowing of the airways and
recurrent episodes of wheezing, breathlessness and coughing.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a rare disease which is These symptoms occur particularly at night or in the early
severely debilitating and ultimately lethal. hours of the morning. It is now known that asthma can be trig­
gered by genetic and environmental factors (e.g. allergens and
COPD viral infections). Unlike COPD, asthma can occur very early in
COPD is a chronic disease of the lungs that causes coughing, childhood; it can also be present in adolescents or adults.
excessive mucus production and dyspnea and ultimately Asthma is often underestimated as an easy­to­manage condi­
destroys the lung tissue. The alveoli and thus gas exchange tion. However, almost one in two patients with asthma still
are the most affected. This leads to a limitation of airflow, experience symptoms while receiving maintenance therapy,
causing shortness of breath and other respiratory symptoms. putting them at increased risk of potentially life­threatening
The airflow limitation is only partially reversible and usually asthma exacerbations. In addition, patients often adjust their
worsens over time, leading to disability and ultimately to death. daily lives to accommodate their conditions and avoid physical
Symptoms such as excess cough and breathlessness are the exertion in day­to­day activities, which has a negative impact
main reasons why COPD is very stressful for patients. Lung on quality of life.
emphysema and chronic bronchitis are the main manifesta­
tions of COPD.
COPD is caused by continuous damage to the lungs resulting
from inhaling pollutants, primarily cigarette smoke. However,
other factors also need to be considered including indoor and
outdoor air pollution. The course of COPD, which is a disease
that occurs in the second half in a human’s life, is character­
ised by an accelerated loss of lung function compared to nor­
mal ageing and by occasional sudden worsening of symptoms
and function referred to as acute exacerbations. This can lead
to a downward spiral of worsening symptoms and thus further
inactivity.77
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO – HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Chronic obstructive spiriva® tiotropium bromide Maintenance treatment of patients with
pulmonary disease (COPD) spiriva® handihaler® COPD (including chronic bronchitis and
spiriva® respimat® emphysema), maintenance treatment of
associated dyspnoea and for prevention of
exacerbations.
– Bronchial asthma spiriva® respimat® tiotropium bromide An add­on maintenance bronchodilator
treatment in patients aged six years and older
with severe asthma who experienced one
or more severe asthma exacerbations in the
past year.*
* spiriva® respimat® is approved for use in asthma in
the EU, Japan, the USA and many other countries. The
label varies by country. Please refer to the local
product information.
– Chronic obstructive spiolto® respimat® tiotropium bromide, Maintenance treatment of airflow obstruc­
pulmonary disease (COPD) stiolto® respimat® olodaterol tion in patients with chronic obstructive
inspiolto® respimat® hydrochloride pulmonary disease (COPD).
– Chronic obstructive striverdi® respimat® olodaterol hydrochloride Maintenance treatment of patients with
pulmonary disease (COPD) chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD).
– Reversible bronchospasms combivent® respimat® ipratropium bromide, A combination of a short­acting anticholin­
associated with obstructive salbutamol, sulphate ergic and beta­adrenergic for the manage­
airway diseases ment of reversible bronchospasms associ­
ated with obstructive airway diseases in
patients requiring more than one bronchodi­
lator.
– Chronic obstructive atrovent® ipratropium bromide Prevention and treatment of shortness of
pulmonary disease (COPD) breath in patients with chronic obstructive
– Chronic bronchitis pulmonary disease (COPD) and mild to mod­
– Bronchial asthma erate bronchial asthma in adulthood and
childhood as a supplement to beta­agonists
in cases of acute asthma.
– Chronic obstructive airway berodual® ipratropium bromide, fenoterol Prevention and treatment of symptoms in
disorders bronchodual® hydrobromide chronic obstructive airway disorders with
duovent® reversible airflow limitation such as bron­
chial asthma and especially chronic bronchi­
tis with or without emphysema.78
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
RESPIRATORY DISEASES (CONTINUED)
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) Acute IPF exacerbations are defined as rapid deteriorations of
IPF is a chronic progressive lung disease associated with a symptoms and lung function within days or weeks. These
markedly reduced life span and affecting as many as 14 – 43 events can occur at any point in the course of the disease, even
people per 100,000 worldwide. IPF is characterised by progres­ at first presentation, and are associated with high mortality. All
sive scarring of lung tissue and a loss of lung function over patients with IPF are at risk of acute IPF exacerbations.
time. Development of scarred tissue is called fibrosis. Over
time, as the tissue thickens and stiffens with scarring, the lungs
lose their ability to take in and transfer oxygen into the blood­
stream, and vital organs do not get enough oxygen. As a result,
individuals with IPF experience shortness of breath, even when
resting, and often have difficulty coping with the demands of
everyday life due to their limited physical capacity.79
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO – HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Bronchial asthma berotec® fenoterol hydrobromide Symptomatic treatment of acute asthma
attacks.
Prophylaxis of exercise­induced asthma
bronchiale.
Symptomatic treatment of allergic and non­
allergic asthma bronchiale and other condi­
tions with reversible airway narrowing, e.g.
chronic obstructive bronchitis.
– Bronchial asthma alesion® epinastine hydrochloride Prophylactic treatment of patients with
– Allergic rhinitis flurinol® bronchial asthma. Prophylaxis and sympto­
matic treatment of allergic rhinitis.
– Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ofev® nintedanib Treatment of patients with idiopathic
(IPF) pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).80
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
CARDIOVASCULAR AND METABOLIC DISEASES
Cardiovascular (CV) disease is the leading cause of death Prevention and treatment of venous
worldwide and is still increasing in prevalence. Currently, it is thromboembolism
responsible for nearly one in three deaths worldwide. One key Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is an umbrella term that
risk factor for developing cardiovascular disease is the presence encompasses deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary
of diabetes: people with type 2 diabetes are two to four times embolism (PE). DVT occurs when a thrombus (blood clot) forms
more likely to develop cardiovascular disease than people in a deep vein, most commonly in the leg, and partially or com­
without diabetes, and as a result, their life expectancy is up to pletely blocks the flow of blood. As the thrombus grows, a
12 years shorter. Proper control of diabetes and other treata­ portion may break away from the main clot and travel in the
ble risk factors is therefore vital for the prevention of cardio­ circulatory system to the lungs. The lodging of a blood clot in
vascular events. the arteries of the lung is called a PE. VTE is a serious disorder
with potentially fatal consequences.
Stroke
Stroke is the rapidly developing loss of brain functions caused Patients undergoing orthopaedic surgery are at considerable
by a disrupted blood flow to the affected brain tissue. This can risk of developing DVT, and chronic venous insufficiency and/
be due to ischaemia (lack of blood supply) caused by thrombosis or pulmonary hypertension may develop in the longer term. To
or embolism, or due to bleeding (hemorrhagic stroke). As a prevent VTE events and their consequences after orthopaedic
result, the affected area of the brain is unable to function and surgery, patients should receive some kind of thromboprophy­
the damage quickly becomes permanent, if untreated. A stroke laxis. Patients who have already suffered from VTE require anti­
is an acute event requiring emergency diagnosis and interven­ coagulant treatment for secondary prevention of a recurrent
tion. Worldwide, stroke is one of the leading causes of death thromboembolic event.
and long­term disability.
Reversing anticoagulation
Symptoms of a transient ischaemic attack (TIA) are similar to Anticoagulation therapy offers important benefits for patients at
stroke, but last for only a few minutes or hours and do not risk of thromboembolic events. However, even though rare,
result in permanent neurological damage. As a TIA may precede there may be situations when rapid reversal of anticoagulation is
a stroke, emergency medical care and subsequent preventive medically necessary, e.g. if a patient taking an anticoagulant is
treatment may be necessary. involved in a severe car accident and needs emergency surgery.
Atrial fibrillation
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained heart
rhythm condition, affecting approximately 2% of the total pop­
ulation. One in four adults over 40 develops AF in their lifetime.
Patients with AF are at higher risk of developing blood clots in
their upper left heart chamber, which can cause a stroke if the
clot breaks loose and travels to the brain. AF leads to a five­fold
increase in the risk of stroke, resulting in up to three million
patients worldwide suffering AF­related strokes each year. For
patients with AF, the risk of stroke can be reduced by appropri­
ate anticoagulation therapy.81
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO – HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Stroke prevention in atrial pradaxa® dabigatran etexilate Prevention of strokes and blood clots in
fibrillation pradaxar® patients with atrial fibrillation.
– Primary prevention of venous prazaxa® Primary prevention of venous thrombo­
thromboembolic events after
embolic events (VTE) in adults after elective
orthopaedic surgery
total hip or knee replacement surgery.
– Treatment and secondary
prevention of venous throm­ Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and
boembolic events pulmonary embolism (PE), and secondary
prevention of recurrent DVT and PE in adults.
– Specific reversal of pradaxa® praxbind® idarucizumab praxbind® is a specific reversal agent for
(dabigatran etexilate) dabigatran and is indicated in adult patients
treated with pradaxa® (dabigatran etexilate)
when rapid reversal of its anticoagulant
effects is required: for emergency surgery/
urgent procedures; in life­threatening or
uncontrolled bleeding.
– Hypertension micardis® telmisartan Treatment of hypertension. For the reduction
– Cardiovascular morbidity and of the risk of myocardial infarction (heart
mortality prevention attack), stroke or death from cardiovascular
(CV) causes in patients 55 years of age or
older at high risk of developing major CV
events who are unable to take ACE inhibitors
(USA).
For the reduction of cardiovascular morbidity in
patients with manifest atherothrombotic cardio­
vascular disease (history of coronary heart
disease, stroke or peripheral arterial disease),
or patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus with
documented target organ damage (EU).
– Hypertension micardisplus® telmisartan; Treatment of hypertension alone or with
micardis® plus hydrochlorothiazide other antihypertensive agents, to lower
micardis® hct blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure
reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardio­
co-micardis®
vascular events, primarily strokes and myo­
cardial infarctions. Not indicated for initial
therapy (US).
Treatment of essential hypertension.
micardisp lus® fixed dose combination is
indicated in adults whose blood pressure
is not adequately controlled on telmisartan
alone (EU).
– H ypertension twynsta® telmisartan, amlodipine Treatment of hypertension alone or with
micamlo® other antihypertensive agents. As initial
micardis® amlo therapy in patients likely to need multiple
antihypertensive agents to achieve their
micardis® duo
blood pressure goals (USA).
Add­on therapy in adult patients with not
adequately controlled blood pressure on
amlodipine, and replacement therapy in
adult patients receiving telmisartan and
amlodipine from separate tablets (EU).82
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
CARDIOVASCULAR AND METABOLIC DISEASES (CONTINUED)
Hypertension and cardiovascular diseases
Hypertension (high blood pressure) is a chronic disease in
which the blood pressure is chronically elevated. Hypertension
is also one of the major risk factors for stroke, heart attacks,
heart failure and chronic renal failure. The primary goal of anti­
hypertensive treatment is to prevent such cardiovascular
events and to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality.
Acute myocardial infarction
An acute myocardial infarction, or heart attack, occurs when a
thrombus (blood clot) suddenly prevents blood flow to an area
of the heart muscle. Unless the blood flow is restored quickly,
the affected section of heart muscle becomes permanently
damaged. Heart attacks are one of the most common causes of
death in industrialised countries.83
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO – HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Acute ischaemic stroke actilyse® alteplase Fibrinolytic treatment of acute ischaemic
– Acute myocardial infarction actilyse® cathflo® stroke, acute myocardial infarction, acute
– Acute massive pulmonary massive pulmonary embolism. Fibrinolytic
embolism treatment of occluded catheters.
– Catheter clearance due to
thrombotic occlusion
– Secondary prevention of aggrenox® dipyridamole, Prevention of stroke following an initial first
stroke or transient ischaemic asasantin® acetylsalicylic acid stroke, or transient ischaemic attacks (TIA).
attacks (TIA) asasantin® retard
– Acute myocardial infarction metalyse® tenecteplase Fibrinolytic treatment of acute myocardial
infarction.
– Hypertension catapresan® clonidine; Treatment of hypertension.
catapres® clonidine hydrochloride
catapressan®
catapres-tts®
– Hypertension motens® lacidipine Treatment of hypertension.84
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
CARDIOVASCULAR AND METABOLIC DISEASES (CONTINUED)
Diabetes Overall, around half of deaths in people with type 2 diabetes
Type 2 diabetes is a chronic, progressive condition associated are caused by concomitant cardiovascular disease, indicating a
with elevated blood sugar levels that can cause long­term high unmet medical need.
complications if not treated. An estimated four million deaths
worldwide every year are linked directly to the long­term In addition to cardiovascular disease, serious complications of
effects of diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is the most common form diabetes include:
of the disease and accounts for up to 95% of all cases in the
developed world. Currently, more than 425 million people in • Nephropathy, culminating in renal failure requiring dialysis
the world live with diabetes, which represents an enormous • Retinopathy with potential loss of vision
burden on health care systems globally. Without effective pre­ • Peripheral neuropathy with the risk of developing foot ulcers
vention and management strategies, it is estimated that the and potentially requiring foot or leg amputations
number of cases will reach 629 million by 2045. • Autonomic neuropathy, which can cause gastrointestinal,
genitourinary and cardiovascular symptoms and
In addition, type 2 diabetes is one of the major risk factors for s exual dysfunction.
cardiovascular disease. Life expectancy of people with type 2
diabetes at high cardiovascular risk decreases, on average, by
up to 12 years.85
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO – HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES* ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus trajenta® linagliptin Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes
tradjenta® mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise
trazenta® to improve glycaemic control, used in mono­
therapy (if metformin is not tolerated or
trayenta®
contraindicated) or in combination therapy.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus jentadueto® linagliptin, metformin hydrochloride Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes
trayenta duo® mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise to
trajenta duo® improve glycaemic control when treatment
with metformin does not lead to sufficient
trajentamet®
control or when patients are treated with
trajenta® (linagliptin) and metformin.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus jardiance® empagliflozin Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes
jardianz® mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise to
improve glycaemic control and to reduce
the risk of cardiovascular death in adults with
type 2 diabetes mellitus and established
cardiovascular disease.*
* USA indication, December 2016. The label varies
by country. Please refer to the local product information.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus synjardy® empagliflozin, Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes
jardiance duo® metformin mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise to
hydrochloride improve glycaemic control when treatment
with both empagliflozin and metformin
hydrochloride is appropriate.*
* USA indication, December 2016. The label varies
by country. Please refer to the local product information.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus glyxambi® empagliflozin, linagliptin Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes
mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise
to improve glycaemic control in adults with
type 2 diabetes mellitus when both empagli­
flozin and linagliptin are appropriate treat­
ments.*
* USA indication, March 2015. The label varies by coun-
try. Please refer to the local product information.
* Diabetes portfolio in collaboration with Eli Lilly and Company.86
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
ONCOLOGY
Cancer is a threat to global health. In 2018, an estimated Recently, however, the incidence of lung cancer among
18 million new cases of cancer were diagnosed worldwide and non­smokers has increased. Lung cancer has a poor prognosis,
9.6 million people died from cancer, nearly one in six global with 1.8 million deaths per year, representing nearly 20% of all
deaths (WHO World Cancer Factsheet 2018). The most com­ cancer deaths. Lung cancer symptoms are unspecific so that
mon diagnosed cancer types were lung cancer (nearly 12%), the disease may take many years to appear. Late diagnosis in
breast cancer (nearly 12%), colorectal cancer (10%), prostate an advanced stage of the disease results in an often dismal
cancer (7%) and stomach cancer (6%). prognosis, with only 10 – 15% of lung cancer patients surviving
five years or more following diagnosis.
Lung cancer
Lung cancer refers to malignant abnormal cell growth inside Lung cancer is more than just one disease. There are different
the lung tissue, forming a cluster or tumour. It is the most com­ subtypes such as small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and non­small
mon cancer with an estimated 2.1 million new cases per year cell lung cancer (NSCLC). More than ten different molecular
worldwide (2018). Smoking is the primary cause of the dis­ genetic aberrations (mutations) present in the tumour have
ease, contributing to almost 90% of the cases. been identified. By focusing on molecular changes that are
specific to the respective subtype of lung cancer, targeted ther­
apies have become more effective than other treatments. They
show a survival benefit and are at the same time less harmful
to normal cells, thereby reducing side effects.87
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO – HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Non­small cell lung cancer giotrif® afatinib First­line treatment of patients with meta­
(NSCLC) gilotrif® static non­small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
whose tumours have activating epidermal
growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations.
For the treatment of patients with locally
advanced or metastatic NSCLC of squamous
histology progressing on or after platinum­
based chemotherapy.
– Non­small cell lung cancer vargatef® nintedanib Combination therapy with docetaxel for the
(NSCLC) treatment of adult patients with locally
advanced, metastatic or local non­small cell
lung cancer (NSCLC) of adenocarcinoma
tumour histology after first­line chemotherapy.88
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
DISEASES OF THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM
Mental and neurological diseases such as depression and Par­ Restless legs syndrome (RLS)
kinson’s disease significantly impact patients and their fami­ Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common neurological disor­
lies and are also a substantial burden to society. der characterised by an uncontrollable urge to move the legs,
primarily occurring in the evening and night hours. It is usually
Parkinson’s disease accompanied by unpleasant and sometimes painful sensa­
Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a degenerative disorder of the cen­ tions in the legs as well as disturbed sleep resulting in daytime
tral nervous system. Patients usually notice motor symptoms tiredness or sleepiness. The sensations are felt deep within the
like hand tremor (shaking) as their first sign of the disease, legs and are described as creeping, crawling or aching.
which may progress to include shaking of the arms, legs or
head. Other motor symptoms that may develop over time
include stiffness that often results in loss of facial expression
and a gradual slowing or loss of motion, or “freezing”. About
30 – 40% of patients also suffer from non­motor symptoms
associated with PD, such as depression and sleep disorders.
The primary symptoms are the result of a lack of the neuro­
transmitter dopamine in distinct areas of the human brain.
INFECTIOUS DISEASES
HIV infection/AIDS
Acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a set of symp­
toms and infections resulting from the damage to the human
immune system caused by the human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV). If untreated, infection with HIV progressively reduces the
effectiveness of the immune system and leaves individuals
susceptible to opportunistic infections and tumours. Babies of
infected mothers are at risk of getting the virus during preg­
nancy, childbirth or breastfeeding.89
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO – HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Parkinson’s disease (PD) sifrol® pramipexole Symptomatic treatment of idiopathic Parkin­
– Restless legs syndrome (RLS) mirapex® son’s disease. It may be used as monother­
mirapexin® apy or in combination with levodopa. Symp­
tomatic treatment of idiopathic moderate to
pexola®
severe restless legs syndrome.
– Sleep disorders lendormin® brotizolam Short­term treatment of disorders of initiat­
ing and maintaining sleep.
Insomnia requiring pharmacological inter­
vention.
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– HIV/AIDS viramune® nevirapine For the combination therapy of HIV­1 infec­
viramune xr® tion and (in several countries) for the pre­
vention of mother­to­child transmission of
HIV­1 in pregnant women who are not taking
antiretroviral therapy at time of labour.
Prolonged release tablets for once­daily
dosing within combination therapy.
– HIV/AIDS aptivus® tipranavir Indicated for combination antiretroviral
treatment of HIV­1­infected patients, co­
administered with 200 mg of ritonavir, who
are treatment­experienced and infected with
HIV­1 strains resistant to more than one
protease inhibitor.90
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
LIVESTOCK – SWINE
Infectious respiratory diseases Infectious enteric diseases
ingelvac circoflex® is the first single-dose piglet vaccine for enterisol® ileitis is the first and only oral live vaccine against
the control of porcine circovirus disease (PCVD). This vaccine ileitis, globally the most prevalent enteric disease in swine
provides significant reduction of mortality in the acute phase caused by Lawsonia intracellularis. It is licensed to improve
of PCVD as well as improved growth rates in the chronic phase weight gain and to reduce growth variability associated with
of the disease. ingelvac circoflex® protects with minimal the disease. enterisol® ileitis helps to reduce the total anti-
systemic adverse reactions or injection site swellings and can microbial use in pork production.
be used during gestation and lactation. Our ingelvac® prrs
products are licensed for active immunisation against the
respiratory and reproductive form of porcine reproductive and
respiratory syndrome (PRRS).
ingelvac mycoflex® provides proven safety, efficacy and
rapid onset of long-lasting immunity against Mycoplasma hyo-
pneumoniae (M. hyo.) with a single dose. ingelvac mycoflex®
contains the impranflex® adjuvant which allows for fresh mix-
ing with ingelvac c ircoflex® to form flexcombo®.
ingelvac provenza® protects against multiple IAV-S strains
and decreases nasal shedding, providing protection before pigs
are most vulnerable.91
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO – ANIMAL HEALTH
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac circoflex® recombinant vaccine For the active immunisation of pigs over the
diseases (porcine circovirus age of two weeks against porcine circovirus
type 2, PCV 2) type 2 to reduce mortality, clinical signs –
including weight loss – and lesions in lymphoid
tissues associated with porcine circovirus
diseases (PCVD). In addition, vaccination has
been shown to reduce PCV 2 nasal shedding,
viral load in blood and lymphoid tissues, and
duration of viraemia.
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac® prrs mlv attenuated live vaccine Depending on the product, for the active
diseases ingelvac prrsflex® eu (PRRS virus type 2, type 1) immunisation of pigs at various ages against
reprocyc® prrs eu porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome
virus (PRRSV).
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac mycoflex® inactivated vaccine For the active immunisation of pigs from the
diseases (Mycoplasma age of three weeks to reduce lung lesions
hyopneumoniae) following infections with Mycoplasma hyo-
pneumoniae.
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac provenza® attenuated live influenza vaccine For the vaccination of pigs one day of age or
diseases (LAIV) older against influenza virus strains H1N2 and
H3N2.
– Infectious enteric diseases enterisol® ileitis attenuated live vaccine For the active immunisation of pigs from the
(Lawsonia age of three weeks against intestinal lesions
intracellularis) caused by Lawsonia intracellularis infection
and to reduce growth variability and loss of
weight gain associated with the disease.92
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
LIVESTOCK – CATTLE/RUMINANTS
Our cattle/ruminants business is a global leader in antiparasitic
brands such as ivomec®, longrange® and eprinex®. These
world renowned parasiticides treat and protect grazing animals
from the harmful effects of internal and external parasites.
zactran® treats cattle with bacterial pneumonia and sheep
with digital dermatitis infections.
bovela® is for active immunisation of cattle of three months of
age in terms of reproductive infectious diseases.93
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO – ANIMAL HEALTH
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Internal and external ivomec® ivermectin Depending on formulation, the product is for
parasites of cattle the treatment of nematodes, lice, mites, ticks,
flies, lungworms and liver flukes.
– Internal and external longrange® eprinomectin, long-acting The Theraphase™ technology used to develop
parasites of cattle this formulation of eprinomectin allows a
single treatment to last up to 100–150 days —
long enough to break the parasite life cycle and
effectively reduce parasite burdens on the
pasture. longrange® is effective in the control
of most internal and external parasites of cattle:
gastrointestinal roundworms, lungworms,
grubs, mites.
– Internal and external eprinex® eprinomectin Depending on formulation, the product is for
parasites of ruminants the treatment of nematodes, lice, mites, ticks,
flies and lungworms in cattle and sheep.
– Bacterial causes of respiratory zactran® gamithromycin Depending on species indication (and country
disease and interdigital of registration), the product is for the treatment
dermatitis (footrot) and metaphylaxis control of respiratory disease
in cattle caused by key bacteria (Mannheimia,
Pasteurella, Histophilus and Mycoplasma) and
footrot disease in sheep caused by key bacteria
(Fusobacterium and Dichelobacter).
– Reproductive infectious bovela® bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) Reduces hyperthermia and minimises the reduc-
diseases in cattle types 1 and 2 tion of leukocyte count caused by bovine viral
diarrhoea virus (BVDV-1 and BVDV-2); reduces
virus shedding and viraemia caused by BVDV-2
and prevents the birth of persistently infected
calves caused by transplacental infection.94
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
LIVESTOCK – CATTLE/RUMINANTS (CONTINUED)
Our vaccine pyramid®/presponse® is part of our ex panding
portfolio of respiratory and reproductive vaccines to prevent
diseases that affect livestock.
metacam® is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID),
helping to minimise losses from inflammation and tissue dam-
age in animals suffering from disease, hence addressing the
need for maintained profitability and the concern for farm ani-
mal well-being.95
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO – ANIMAL HEALTH
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Infectious respiratory pyramid® family of multivalent vaccine combi- The pyramid®/presponse® family of vaccines
diseases and reproductive presponse® nations including different modified provides broad coverage for BVD types 1 and 2,
disorders in cattle live viruses: bovine viral diarrhoea IBR, BRSV, PI3 and Mannheimia haemolytica
(BVD) types 1 and 2, infectious with only a single dose. They contain the
bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR), parain- MetaStim®* adjuvant system to enhance the
fluenza 3 (PI3) and bovine respira- animal’s response for greater protection (US
tory syncytial virus (BRSV), and and Canada only).
bacteria: Pasteurella multocida,
* MetaStim® is a registered trademark of Zoetis S ervices LLC
Mannheimia haemolytica, L. canic-
ola, L. grippotyphosa,
L. hardjo, L. icterohaemmorrhagiae
and L. pomona
– Pain and inflammatory metacam® meloxicam For the treatment of mastitis in lactating cows
disorders and for the control of pain associated with
dehorning or surgery. It is also indicated for use
in calves affected by diarrhoea and in cattle
suffering from respiratory disease.96
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
LIVESTOCK – POULTRY
Our poultry vaccine portfolio consists of a significant range of
live and inactivated vaccines for broilers, layers and breeder
hens, providing protection against the most critical viral and
bacterial diseases like avian influenza, infectious bronchitis,
Newcastle disease, infectious bursal disease, egg drop
syndrome and avian coryza. This portfolio of preventive pro-
ducts helps producers worldwide to provide safe, affordable,
abundant and sustainable high-quality poultry meat and eggs.97
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO – ANIMAL HEALTH
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Various viral and bacterial gallimune® polyvalent attenuated live and For vaccination of healthy chickens against
diseases in poultry gallivac® inactivated vaccine containing diseases caused by the included antigens. For
volvac® antigens for vaccination the prevention of the most common diseases
against avian influenza, in broiler chickens and diseases responsible
Newcastle disease, avian for losses in egg production in layers.
coryza, egg drop syndrome,
infectious bronchitis,
infectious bursal
disease,
gallibacterium
anatis
– Infectious bursal disease and vaxxitek®hvt + ibd serotype 3, live Marek’s To prevent mortality and to reduce clinical
Marek’s disease disease vector, live vHVT013-69 signs and lesions of infectious bursal disease.
r ecombinant virus The onset of protection is from two weeks and
(and diluent) the protection extends to nine weeks.
To reduce mortality, clinical signs and lesions
of Marek’s disease. The onset of protection is
four days. A single vaccination is sufficient to
provide reliable protection during the risk
period.
– Newcastle disease (ND) avinew® live Newcastle disease virus, In broiler chickens from one day of age: active
VG/GA-AVINEW strain immunisation against Newcastle disease to
reduce mortality and clinical signs associated
with the disease.
In future layer and future breeder pullets from
the age of four weeks: priming for active immu-
nisation against egg drop caused by Newcastle
disease before vaccination with an inactivated
vaccine (strain Ulster 2C) prior to the beginning
of lay.
– Marek’s disease prevexxionTM rn live herpes virus chimera, The vaccine is recommended for in ovo vacci-
serotype 1, nation of 18 to 19-day-old embryonated
strain RN1250 chicken eggs to protect against the very virulent
Marek’s disease.
– Newcastle and Marek’s newxxitekTM hvt+nd live Marek’s disease vectored The vaccination of 18 to 19-day-old embryos
d iseases virus, serotype 3, that contains and one-day-old chickens is effective against
a gene insert from Newcastle Marek’s disease and Newcastle disease.
disease; the vaccine includes
a diluent98
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
VETERINARY PUBLIC HEALTH (VPH)
We work with governments and private partners towards btv pur® is a multi-strain vaccine used for active immunisation
improving control and eradicating diseases such as foot-and- of sheep and cattle to prevent viraemia and to reduce clinical
mouth disease, bluetongue virus and rabies. signs caused by bluetongue virus.
Our foot-and-mouth vaccines portfolio works for the active
immunisation of cattle, sheep or pigs to reduce clinical signs
and mortality following exposure to foot-and-mouth disease
(FMD) virus.
rabisin® is an inactivated vaccine against rabies, available as a
clear colourless suspension for injection.99
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO – ANIMAL HEALTH
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Foot-and-mouth disease aftopor® mix of inactivated FMD virus FMD vaccines with highly potent and purified
(FMD) aftovaxpur® antigens out of the widest range of antigens (aftopor®, aftovaxpur®, aftobov®
aftovax® vaccine strains oleosa) have potential marker properties that
allow differentiation between infected and
aftobov® oleosa
vaccinated animals (DIVA) for endemic or
aftovaxpur® doe
emergency situations.
aftovaxpur® doe is suitable for emergency
s ituations only.
– R abies rabisin® Rabisin: inactivated and adjuvanted rabisin® is used for the active immunisation of
raboral v-rg® rabies glycoproteins dogs and cats to reduce mortality and clinical
Raboral V-RG: vaccina-vectored signs due to rabies infection. Immunity has
rabies vaccine been demonstrated one month after vaccina-
tion and has been shown to persist up to the
next re-vaccination dose.
raboral v-rg® is an oral rabies recombinant
vaccine that protects raccoons and coyotes
against rabies, thereby reducing the risk of
exposure to rabies to humans and domestic
animals. It is only sold to government agencies
conducting rabies control programs.
– B luetongue btv pur® Mix of inactivated bluetongue virus Active immunisation of sheep to prevent virae-
mia and to reduce clinical signs caused by
bluetongue virus serotypes 1, 2, 4 and/or 8
(combination of maximum 2 serotypes).
Active immunisation of cattle to prevent virae-
mia caused by bluetongue virus serotypes 1, 2,
4 and/or 8, and to reduce clinical signs caused
by bluetongue virus serotypes 1, 4 and/or 8
(combination of maximum 2 serotypes).
Onset of immunity has been demonstrated
three weeks (or five weeks in sheep for BTV2)
after the primary vaccination course for BTV-1,
BTV-2 (cattle), BTV-4 and BTV-8 serotypes.100
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
COMPANION ANIMALS – HORSE
Our main horse products focus on the prevention and treat- gastrogard® ulcergard® is indicated for the treatment and
ment of parasite infestations, management solutions for prevention of equine gastric ulcers, which is one of
chronic diseases, and vaccines. Our equine portfolio also the most common diseases in horses. gastrogard® is sup-
includes a range of flagship products for the treatment of joint plied in an easy-to-use oral paste form and has been the first
disease, colic and respiratory disease, for pain management, choice for treatment of gastric ulcers since its launch in 1999.
and nutraceuticals. ulcergard® in the USA is the preventive of choice for horses
with an increased risk of developing gastric ulcers.
prascend® is indicated for the treatment of pituitary pars
intermedia dysfunction (PPID), which is also known as equine eqvalan®/zimecterin® contains ivermectin, a leading ingredi-
Cushing’s disease. Clinical signs of PPID are hypertrichiosis, ent that controls a wide variety of important internal parasites,
laminitis, change in body conformation and lack of perform- including bots and benzimidazole-resistant small strongyles,
ance. Treatment with prascend® is life-long. in an easy-to-administer oral paste. eqvalan®/zimecterin® is
approved for adult horses and foals as young as six weeks of age.
vetera® vaccines are the first US vaccine portfolio to include
multiple convenient combinations of disease protection for eqvalan® duo/gold, zimecterin® gold combines ivermectin
horses from as young as four months of age. The vaccines pro- with praziquantel, an ingredient that specifically controls
tect against as many as nine infectious organisms including tapeworms.
influenza, herpes, the West Nile virus, tetanus and others. This
enables customised protection for each horse with limited
needle injections.101
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO – ANIMAL HEALTH
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Pituitary pars intermedia prascend® pergolide mesylate Symptomatic treatment of clinical signs associ-
dysfunction (PPID) ated with pituitary pars intermedia dysfunction
(PPID, also known as equine Cushing’s disease).
– Combination vaccine against vetera® Eastern, Western and Venezuelan For vaccination of healthy horses as an aid in
up to nine common diseases encephalomyelitis, tetanus, West the prevention of diseases caused by the
in horses Nile virus, equine included antigens (US and Canada only).
herpes virus, equine
influenza viruses
– Equine gastric ulcers gastrogard® omeprazole For treatment and prevention of gastric ulcers
ulcergard® and prevention of recurrence of gastric ulcers
in horses and foals four weeks of age and older.
– Internal parasites eqvalan® ivermectin For treatment and prevention of parasitic infes-
zimecterin® ivermectin, praziquantel tations in horses and donkeys due to large and
eqvalan® gold small strongyles, ascarids.
eqvalan® duo
zimecterin® gold gold/duo includes treatment against tape-
worms.102
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
COMPANION ANIMALS – PETS
Our pets portfolio offers diverse solutions for some of the most heartgard® plus contains the active ingredients ivermectin
important needs of canine and feline health including indus- and pyrantel in a soft beef chew. When given monthly,
try-leading parasiticides, vaccines, and therapeutics to address ivermectin is effective in preventing deadly heartworm dis-
major chronic diseases: heart failure, kidney diseases, hyper- ease. Pyrantel is effective in the treatment and control of round
tension, epilepsy and osteoarthritis. worms as well as hookworms. heartgard® was launched in
1987 as the first monthly heartworm preventative and is still
For more than 20 years, frontline® has been a leader in flea the best-selling heartworm preventative in the world.4
and tick control on dogs and cats, and is one of the most
trusted brands in animal health.1 frontline® continues to broadline® offers pet owners all-in-one convenience providing
bring innovation to the category, with the recent launch of confidence that their cat has the broadest possible protection.
frontline tri-act®, which features repellency and insecticidal It protects cats against the broadest spectrum of internal and
efficacy on many disease-carrying flying insects and which external parasites, including adult fleas, flea eggs, flea larvae,
decreases the risk of transmission of vector-borne pathogen.2 ticks, heartworms, hookworms, roundworms and tapeworms.
nexgard® contains the active ingredient afoxolaner and was As the first of a new class of heart treatments termed inodilators,
the first oral medication that treats both fleas and ticks in dogs. vetmedin® has been shown to significantly improve clinical
Because of its efficacy and palatable, beef-flavoured soft chew signs and extend life expectancy in dogs with congestive heart
formulation, nexgard® is currently the best-selling pet medi- failure originating from dilated cardiomyopathy or valvular insuf-
cation in the animal health industry.3 ficiency (mitral and/or tricuspid regurgitation). Recent studies
have also shown that when used preclinically in appropriate
nexgard spectra® combines the flea and tick efficacy of asymptomatic cases of either dilated cardiomyopathy in Dober-
afoxolaner in nexgard® with a broad-spectrum deworming man pinschers or valvular insuffi ciency, vetmedin® significantly
ingredient, milbemycin oxime, in the same beef-flavoured delays the onset of clinical signs of congestive heart failure.
chew. nexgard spectra® is not only effective in treating fleas
and ticks, but also protects dogs against deadly parasites such as
heartworm and lungworm as well as gastrointestinal parasites.
1) Data on file.
2) A novel combination of fipronil and permethrin (Frontline Tri-Act®/Frontect®)
reduces risk of transmission of Babesia canis by Dermacentor reticulatus and of
Ehrlichia canis by Rhipicephalus sanguineus ticks to dogs. Jongejan et al. Parasites
& Vectors (2015 ) 8:602.
3) Data on file.
4) Data on file.103
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO – ANIMAL HEALTH
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Antiparasitic: canine/feline frontline® fipronil frontline® is indicated for the treatment
external parasites frontline combo® fipronil/S-methoprene and prevention of fleas, ticks and chewing lice
frontline plus® fipronil/permethrin in dogs and cats, and aids in the control of
frontline tri-act®
frontect® sarcoptic mange in dogs.
frontline plus®/ frontline combo® is indi-
cated for the treatment and prevention of fleas,
ticks and chewing lice in dogs and cats. Also
breaks the flea life cycle by preventing the
development of immature stages. It aids in the
control of sarcoptic mange in dogs.
frontline tri-act®/frontect® is indicated
for the treatment and prevention of flea and
tick infestations where repellent (anti-feeding)
activity is necessary against sandflies, biting
flies and/or mosquitos. For dogs only.
– Antiparasitic: canine external nexgard® afoxolaner nexgard® is delivered in a highly palatable
parasites beef-flavoured chew that kills adult fleas and is
indicated for the treatment and prevention of
flea infestations and the treatment and control
of tick infestations in dogs and puppies for one
month.
– Antiparasitic: canine internal nexgard spectra® afoxolaner, nexgard spectra® is delivered in a highly
and external parasites milbemycin oxime palatable beef-flavoured chew that kills adult
fleas and is indicated for the treatment and
prevention of flea and tick infestations. Prevents
heartworm disease and treats and controls
hookworm, roundworm, whipworm and lung-
worm infestations in dogs and puppies.
– Antiparasitic: canine internal heartgard® plus ivermectin, For use in dogs to prevent canine heartworm
parasites pyrantel disease by eliminating the tissue stage of
heartworm larvae for a month (30 days) after
infection, and for the treatment and control
of roundworms and hookworms.
– Antiparasitic: feline internal broadline® fipronil, (s)-methoprene, Protects cats against the broadest spectrum of
and external parasites eprinomectin, praziquantel internal and external parasites including adult
fleas, flea eggs, flea larvae, ticks, heartworms,
hookworms, roundworms, and tapeworms.
– Congestive heart failure vetmedin® pimobendan Treatment of canine congestive heart failure
originating from dilated cardio myo pathy or
valvular insufficiency (mitral and/or tricuspid
regurgitation).
Treatment of dilated cardiomyopathy in the
preclinical stage (asymptomatic with an
increase in left ventricular end-systolic and
end-diastolic diameter) in Doberman Pinschers.
Treatment of dogs with myxomatous mitral
valve disease (MMVD) in the preclinical stage
(asymptomatic with a systolic mitral murmur
and evidence of increased heart size) to delay
the onset of clinical symptoms of heart failure.104
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
COMPANION ANIMALS – PETS (CONTINUED)
metacam® is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). Our pet vaccine product portfolio includes the purevax® feline
It is available as an oral suspension, tablets and injectable vaccines formulated to provide effective protection without
solution for dogs and as an oral suspension and injectable the use of adjuvants and recombitek®, providing targeted pro-
solution for cats. In dogs, the indications include the allevia- tection for dogs through recombinant technology.
tion of inflammation and pain in both acute and chronic mus-
culoskeletal disorders as well as the reduction of pain follow-
ing surgery. In cats, the indications include the alleviation of
inflammation and pain in acute and chronic musculoskeletal
disorders, as well as for the alleviation of mild to moderate
postoperative pain. The variety of formulations offers veteri-
narians and owners the flexibility to use the formulation they
prefer in individual cases to manage the various levels of
inflammation and pain associated with the licensed indications.
semintra® is the first-ever licensed angiotensin receptor blocker
(ARB) for veterinary use. It provides a proven, convenient and
safe compliance solution for cats, cat owners and vets.
semintra® is available as 4mg/ml and 10mg/ml oral solution.
semintra® (4mg/ml) was first launched in 2013 for the reduc-
tion of proteinuria associated with chronic kidney disease
(CKD) in cats. In 2018, semintra® (10mg/ml) was launched for
the control (US)/treatment (EU) of feline systemic hypertension.
It is the first vet-licensed product for feline hypertension in
the US.105
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO – ANIMAL HEALTH
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– P ain and inflammatory metacam® meloxicam In dogs, metacam® is used to reduce post-
diseases operative pain and inflammation following
orthopaedic (e.g. fracture operation) and soft
tissue surgery.
In cats, metacam® is used to reduce postopera-
tive pain and inflammation, e.g. after ovario-
hysterectomy (spay operation), orthopaedic
and minor soft tissue surgery.
Moreover, it is used for the alleviation of pain
and inflammation in acute and chronic muscu-
loskeletal disorders (dogs and cats).
– Chronic kidney disease (CKD) semintra® telmisartan 4mg/ml – Management of chronic kidney dis-
in cats ease (CKD) in cats: for reduction of proteinuria
associated with CKD in cats.
– Hypertension in cats
10mg/ml – Hypertension: indicated for the
treatment (EU)/control (US) of feline systemic
hypertension.
– Feline vaccines portfolio purevax® feline herpes virus purevax® is the only fully adjuvant-free feline
feline calicivirus vaccine range and provides:
feline panleukopenia virus
• Optimised safety profile with adjuvant-free
chlamydophila felis
protection for all components;
recombinant vectored feline
leukemia virus • Powerful immune response without adju-
recombinant vectored rabies virus vant, thanks to its innovative canarypox
technology for FeLV and rabies;
• An easy fit to all cat lifestyles, allow ing com-
pliance with feline vaccination guidelines;
• Sustained protection up to three years for
the rabies component.
– Canine vaccines portfolio recombitek®* recombinant vectored canine dis- recombitek® offers a complete line of canine
(*in the US and others) temper virus, vaccines with:
canine parvovirus,
• Proven efficacy against distemper in the
canine adenovirus type 2,
presence of maternal antibodies;*
canine parainfluenza virus,
coronavirus, • Concentrated Parvo with demonstrated
leptospira Canicola, protection against major circulating strains
leptospira grippotyphosa, CPV-2a, 2b, 2c;*
leptospira icterohaemorrhagiae,
• Prevention of disease and shedding against
leptospira Pomona,
leptospirosis;*
recombinant borrelia burgdorferi,
bordetella bronchiseptica • Targeted, advanced science – without the
need for adjuvants.
recombitek® lyme:
The only vaccine that contains OspA in a
non-adjuvant formulation.
rekombitek® oral bordatella:
Effective and safe protection made easy.
* Data on fileBoehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2018
C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
COMPARISON OF BALANCE SHEET AND FINANCIAL DATA 2009 ― 2018
(in EUR million)
Assets (as of December 31) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Intangible assets 745 736 710 682 582 592 606 550 5,372 5,120
Tangible assets 3,219 3,314 3,442 3,103 2,887 3,070 3,264 3,045 3,867 4,280
Financial assets 1,699 3,168 3,953 4,222 4,737 5,312 5,933 6,092 5,830 6,058
Fixed assets 5,663 7,218 8,105 8,007 8,206 8,974 9,803 9,687 15,069 15,458
Inventories 1,801 1,850 1,998 2,095 2,083 2,237 2,483 2,610 3,087 3,312
Accounts receivable and other assets (incl. prepaid expenses,
deferred taxes and exceeding amount of plan assets) 3,663 4,047 4,652 4,814 5,131 5,546 6,463 6,837 7,159 7,815
Liquid funds 3,877 3,118 3,903 2,374 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005 3,071 4,303
Current and other assets 9,341 9,015 10,553 9,283 10,093 11,077 13,482 16,452 13,317 15,430
Total assets 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888
Equity and Liabilities (as of December 31) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Shareholders’ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178
Group reserves (incl. balance sheet currency conversion difference) 3,964 5,408 5,812 4,763 5,619 6,884 7,844 9,296 10,703 10,080
Group profit 1,759 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,047 1,577 1,853 — 223 2,075
Equity attributable to the parent company 5,901 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,121 8,109 9,599 11,327 10,658 12,333
Non-controlling interests 179 0 0 0 1 2 4 0 — 1 1
Group equity 6,080 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,122 8,111 9,603 11,327 10,657 12,334
Difference from capital consolidation 0 0 157 134 104 91 71 52 1,729 1,511
Provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 5,731 6,598 7,402 7,749 7,817 8,840 10,543 12,233 13,482 14,438
Liabilities (incl. deferred income) 3,193 3,161 3,633 3,229 3,256 3,009 3,068 2,527 2,518 2,605
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred income) 8,924 9,759 11,035 10,978 11,073 11,849 13,611 14,760 16,000 17,043
Total equity and liabilities 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888
Summary of selected financial data 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Net sales 12,721 12,586 13,171 14,691 14,065 13,317 14,798 15,850 18,056 17,498
Operating income 2,239 1,896 2,272 1,853 2,114 2,140 2,269 2,872 3,487 3,472
Operating income as % of net sales 17.6 15.1 17.3 12.6 15.0 16.1 15.3 18.1 19.3 19.8
Income after taxes 1,764 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,046 1,576 1,849 — 229 2,075
Income after taxes as % of net sales 13.9 7.1 11.2 8.4 9.4 7.9 10.7 11.7 — 1.3 11.9
Return on equity (in %) 37.4 15.0 22.8 16.6 21.4 14.7 19.4 19.3 — 2.0 19.5
Equity ratio (in %) 39.3 39.9 40.0 35.7 38.9 40.4 41.2 43.3 37.5 39.9
Cash flow from operating activities 2,391 2,056 2,570 2,170 1,819 2,015 2,232 2,888 2,624 2,988
Financial funds 5,384 6,113 7,711 6,467 7,514 8,507 10,200 11,989 8,130 9,454
Personnel expenses 3,221 3,358 3,664 4,024 4,071 4,116 4,518 4,570 4,934 5,276
Personnel expenses as % of net sales 25.3 26.7 27.8 27.4 28.9 30.9 30.5 28.8 27.3 30.2
Average number of employees 41,534 42,224 44,094 46,228 47,492 47,743 47,501 45,692 49,610 50,370
Research and development expenses 2,215 2,453 2,516 2,795 2,743 2,654 3,004 3,112 3,078 3,164
R&D expenses as % of net sales 17.4 19.5 19.1 19.0 19.5 19.9 20.3 19.6 17.0 18.1
Investments in tangible assets 630 519 458 562 558 548 591 645 872 950
Depreciation of tangible assets 470 498 535 793 640 449 475 516 521 552i m p r i n t
C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG
Assets (as of December 31) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Binger Straße 173
Intangible assets 745 736 710 682 582 592 606 550 5,372 5,120 55216 Ingelheim
Germany
Tangible assets 3,219 3,314 3,442 3,103 2,887 3,070 3,264 3,045 3,867 4,280
Telephone + 49 6132 77-0
Financial assets 1,699 3,168 3,953 4,222 4,737 5,312 5,933 6,092 5,830 6,058 Fax + 49 6132 72-0
Fixed assets 5,663 7,218 8,105 8,007 8,206 8,974 9,803 9,687 15,069 15,458
CONTACT
Inventories 1,801 1,850 1,998 2,095 2,083 2,237 2,483 2,610 3,087 3,312
Corporate Division Communications and Public Affairs
Accounts receivable and other assets (incl. prepaid expenses, E-mail press@boehringer-ingelheim.com
deferred taxes and exceeding amount of plan assets) 3,663 4,047 4,652 4,814 5,131 5,546 6,463 6,837 7,159 7,815 Internet www.boehringer-ingelheim.com
Liquid funds 3,877 3,118 3,903 2,374 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005 3,071 4,303
ISSUED BY
Current and other assets 9,341 9,015 10,553 9,283 10,093 11,077 13,482 16,452 13,317 15,430
C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG
Total assets 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888
CONCEPT, DESIGN AND LAYOUT
Equity and Liabilities (as of December 31) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 MPM Corporate Communication Solutions, Mainz, Düsseldorf
www.mpm.de
Shareholders’ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178
Group reserves (incl. balance sheet currency conversion difference) 3,964 5,408 5,812 4,763 5,619 6,884 7,844 9,296 10,703 10,080 PHOTOS
Group profit 1,759 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,047 1,577 1,853 — 223 2,075 Andreas Pohlmann (page 2)
Andreas Reeg (page 4 / 5)
Equity attributable to the parent company 5,901 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,121 8,109 9,599 11,327 10,658 12,333
Non-controlling interests 179 0 0 0 1 2 4 0 — 1 1 PRINTED BY
Group equity 6,080 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,122 8,111 9,603 11,327 10,657 12,334 EBERL PRINT GmbH, Immenstadt
Difference from capital consolidation 0 0 157 134 104 91 71 52 1,729 1,511
COPYRIGHT
Provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 5,731 6,598 7,402 7,749 7,817 8,840 10,543 12,233 13,482 14,438
© C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, 2019
Liabilities (incl. deferred income) 3,193 3,161 3,633 3,229 3,256 3,009 3,068 2,527 2,518 2,605 All rights reserved. No part of this Annual Report 2018 may
be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means,
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred income) 8,924 9,759 11,035 10,978 11,073 11,849 13,611 14,760 16,000 17,043
electronic or photocopy, without permission in writing from
Total equity and liabilities 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG. Figures from third parties
used in the annual report are based on data available at the
time the financial statement was drawn up.
Summary of selected financial data 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Net sales 12,721 12,586 13,171 14,691 14,065 13,317 14,798 15,850 18,056 17,498
Operating income 2,239 1,896 2,272 1,853 2,114 2,140 2,269 2,872 3,487 3,472
Operating income as % of net sales 17.6 15.1 17.3 12.6 15.0 16.1 15.3 18.1 19.3 19.8
Income after taxes 1,764 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,046 1,576 1,849 — 229 2,075
Income after taxes as % of net sales 13.9 7.1 11.2 8.4 9.4 7.9 10.7 11.7 — 1.3 11.9
Return on equity (in %) 37.4 15.0 22.8 16.6 21.4 14.7 19.4 19.3 — 2.0 19.5
Equity ratio (in %) 39.3 39.9 40.0 35.7 38.9 40.4 41.2 43.3 37.5 39.9
Cash flow from operating activities 2,391 2,056 2,570 2,170 1,819 2,015 2,232 2,888 2,624 2,988
Financial funds 5,384 6,113 7,711 6,467 7,514 8,507 10,200 11,989 8,130 9,454
Personnel expenses 3,221 3,358 3,664 4,024 4,071 4,116 4,518 4,570 4,934 5,276
Personnel expenses as % of net sales 25.3 26.7 27.8 27.4 28.9 30.9 30.5 28.8 27.3 30.2
Average number of employees 41,534 42,224 44,094 46,228 47,492 47,743 47,501 45,692 49,610 50,370
Research and development expenses 2,215 2,453 2,516 2,795 2,743 2,654 3,004 3,112 3,078 3,164
R&D expenses as % of net sales 17.4 19.5 19.1 19.0 19.5 19.9 20.3 19.6 17.0 18.1
Investments in tangible assets 630 519 458 562 558 548 591 645 872 950
Depreciation of tangible assets 470 498 535 793 640 449 475 516 521 552WWW.BOEHRINGER-INGELHEIM.COM
ANNUALREPORT.BOEHRINGER-INGELHEIM.COM