L I V I NG
CON T R ASTS
ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Value through InnovationBOEHRINGER INGELHEIM GROUP
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS OF EUR, unless otherwise indicated 2014 2013 Change
Net sales 13,317 14,065 — 5%
by region
Europe 31% 30%
Americas 44% 46%
Asia, Australia, Africa 25% 24%
by business
Prescription Medicines 76% 77%
Consumer Health Care 11% 11%
Animal Health 8% 8%
Biopharmaceuticals 4% 3%
Industrial Customers and other sales 1% 1%
Research and development 2,654 2,743 — 3%
Personnel costs 4,116 4,071 + 1%
Average number of employees 47,743 47,492 + 1%
Operating income 2,140 2,114 + 1%
Operating income as % of net sales 16.1% 15.0%
Income after taxes 1,047 1,324 – 21%
Income after taxes as % of net sales 7.9% 9.4%
Shareholders‘ equity 8,111 7,122 + 14%
Return on shareholders‘ equity 14.7% 21.4%
Cash flow 1,850 2,129 – 13%
Investments in tangible assets 548 558 – 2%
Depreciation of tangible assets 449 640 – 30%
Top 4 products — Prescription Medicines Top 4 products — Consumer Health Care
Net sales 2014 IN MILLIONS OF EUR Change Net sales 2014 IN MILLIONS OF EUR Change
spiriva® 3,237 – 9% buscopan® 222 + 8%
pradaxa® 1,198 – 1% dulcolax® 200 + 5%
micardis® 1,088 – 21% mucosolvan® 162 – 12%
combivent® 563 – 21% pharmaton® 136 – 2%CONTENT
OUR COMPANY 05 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO 101
The Shareholders’ Perspective 06 BRANDED PRESCRIPTION MEDICINES 102
Key Aspects 2014 10 Respiratory diseases 102
Corporate bodies 15 Cardiovascular diseases 104
Highlights in medicine in 2014 16 Metabolic diseases 108
Oncology 108
LIVING CONTRASTS 22 Diseases of the central nervous system 110
Infectious diseases 110
Safety & Challenge 26
Commitment & Performance 32
CONSUMER HEALTH CARE 112
Individuality & Standards 38
Cough and cold 112
Chance & Strategy 44
Sore throat 114
Pain 114
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT 51
Gastrointestinal diseases 116
Information about the group of companies 52
Vitamins and supplements 118
Report on economic position 61
Leg vein health 120
Report on post-balance sheet date events 66
Urological diseases 120
Report on opportunities and risks 67
Report on expected developments 69
ANIMAL HEALTH 122
Food producing animals – swine 122
CONSOLIDATED
Food producing animals – poultry 122
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71
Food producing animals – cattle 124
Overview of the major Companion animals – horse 128
consolidated companies 72
Companion animals – small animals 130
Consolidated balance sheet 74
Consolidated profit and loss
statement 75
Cash flow statement 76
Statement of changes in group
equity 77
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements 78
Auditor’s report 98SAFETY
&
CHALLENGE
P. 26
TNETNOC
COMMITMENT
&
PERFORMANCE
P. 32
INDIVIDUALITY
&
STANDARDS
P. 38
CHANCE
&
STRATEGY
P. 44OUR COMPANY
The Boehringer Ingelheim Group is one of the world’s 20 leading pharmaceutical
companies. Headquartered in Ingelheim, Germany, Boehringer Ingelheim operates
globally with 146 affiliates and a total of more than 47,700 employees. The focus of
the family-owned company, founded in 1885, is researching, developing, manu-
facturing and marketing new medications of high therapeutic value for human and
veterinary medicine.
Social responsibility is an important element of the corporate culture at Boehringer
Ingelheim. This includes worldwide involvement in social projects, such as the initiative
“Making more Health” and caring for the employees. Respect, equal opportunities and
reconciliation of work and family life form the foundation of the mutual cooperation. In
every thing it does, the company focuses on environmental protection and sustainability.
INNOVATIVE
CARING
RESPONSIBLE
INDEPENDENT
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 55THE SHAREHOLDERS’ PERSPECTIVE
Christian Boehringer
Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee
THE SHAREHOLDERS’
PERSPECTIVE
As a family-owned, research-driven pharmaceutical company, Boehringer Ingelheim
for many years now has adhered to its vision “Value through Innovation”. This
is the principle that guides all of our actions, the aim of which is to provide patients
worldwide with beneficial medicines and to safeguard Boehringer Ingelheim’s
independence.
66Innovation, care, responsibility and independence – the way we work together to
achieve our goals determines the day-to-day business in our company. However,
there are fields of tension where it is vital to reconcile differing interests. Under the
heading “Living Contrasts”, this Annual Report 2014 includes examples of how
Boehringer Ingelheim succeeds in maintaining a balance between such differences.
130 years after the company was founded by Albert Boehringer, we respect diversity,
and thus contrasts, more than ever. Only when we are consciously aware of the
changes that take place inside and outside our company, understand them and draw
the right conclusions, will it be possible for us to remain competitive globally. To
do this, it is important that we look at issues from different viewpoints in order to
continue to meet the differing needs of our patients in a complex environment.
This annual report shows how different approaches, standpoints and talents are taking
the company forward. What makes Boehringer Ingelheim stand out is our ability to
balance contrasts and not only to identify differences, but also to systematically take
advantage of them as opportunities.
The company’s employees, with their individuality, their different experiences and
their creativity, are the foundation of our success. In this annual report, however, we
also show that there are areas within the company where there is little room for
diversity. In terms of drug safety surveillance, for example, it is absolutely essential
to adhere strictly to prescribed procedures and regulations. For this reason, one of
our main concerns is to find the right balance between individuality on the one hand
and narrowly defined standards on the other.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 77THE SHAREHOLDERS’ PERSPECTIVE
While it is possible in a variety of ways to market medicines with convincing benefits
and acceptable risks, marketing a medicine that is completely free of side effects is a
challenge for research-driven pharmaceutical companies that is impossible to meet at
the present time. For this reason, we closely support the launch of new medicines
with detailed studies using data from patients in general clinical practice (epidemiology)
and by continuing to pursue Phase III clinical trials and new trials with patients
(Phase IV). The key question for us is how to identify risks at an early stage which
possibly appear only after medicines have been administered to hundreds of thousands
of patients who suffer from various secondary diseases and are also taking several
different medicines, and then ensure that these risks are minimised.
The patient’s well-being is our main concern, which is why we, as shareholders, support
Boehringer Ingelheim as a research-driven pharmaceutical company in focussing
not only on indications that are expected to achieve high volume sales, but also in
developing medicines for people with rare diseases such as idiopathic pulmonary
fibrosis (IPF). This is only possible with a powerful business performance that has a
long-term focus, since this enables us to invest in research and development and
thus ensures that we can continue to provide a portfolio of medicines that will meet
the needs of many patients in the future.
Our independence as a family-owned company is firmly anchored in our corporate
culture. To ensure that this remains so, Boehringer Ingelheim pursues a distinct
strategy, also in terms of research. Moreover, it is important that we identify other
opportunities that sometimes arise by chance and then take full advantage of them.
Actively promoting innovation means, among other things, “Living Contrasts”.
At the same time, we focus on our joint strengths and values. That is why we are
successful – despite the many challenges we face – as was the case in 2014.
88The company will also have to demonstrate its strengths in future in a rapidly changing
market environment. This is a challenge that is taken on by over 47,700 employees
each and every day. They and the Board of Managing Directors deserve our sincere
thanks for their outstanding efforts and passion. Now that we have been able to bring
many activities to a favourable conclusion in 2014, the priority for the current year
will be on the launch of new medicines. We look forward, therefore, to the ebbs and
flows of business, the c hallenges and the successes that lie ahead in 2015.
signed by
christian boehringer
chairman of the shareholders’ committee
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 99KKEEYY AASSPPEECCTTSS 22001144
Andreas Barner, Wolfgang Baiker, Allan Hillgrove, Joachim Hasenmaier, Hubertus von Baumbach
(from left to right), the Board of Managing Directors
KEY ASPECTS 2014
Looking back on the financial year just ended, it stands once again for significant
progress in medicinal developments. We succeeded in submitting a wide range of
medicines to the regulatory authorities for marketing approval and in launching
some of them on the market in the initial countries. These medicines represent
highly innovative therapeutic alternatives which, in the case of ofev®, finally offer
new options for patients with life-threatening idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and
for the physicians treating them. On the other hand, 2014 was an intense year for us
– a year in which we faced many business challenges. Our guiding principle was
at all times to create sufficient space in future to be able to continue to invest in
organic, sustainable growth. It is our goal to remain competitive and independent.
1100New medicines are an important prerequisite for our future success. In this respect,
2014 was an exceptionally good year, as the list of our new products is long:
jardiance® for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, vargatef® for advanced lung cancer
following chemotherapy, ofev® for the treatment of the rare disease idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), and striverdi® respimat® for patients with chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Furthermore, we have now made established
medicines available to a wider group of patients: we received marketing authorisation
in Europe for spiriva® respimat® for asthma patients receiving standard
treatment who still exhibit symptoms, and for pradaxa® for the prevention and
treatment of deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism.
In addition, we submitted a large number of additional marketing authorisation
applications for new medicines and indications in 2014. These include the new
COPD therapy tiotropium/olodaterol in respimat®, and a combination product of
empagliflozin and metformin, in addition to a combination tablet of empagliflozin
and linagliptin, for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
We made excellent progress in the further development of our late pipeline, for
example in the development of a medication that in the shortest of time cancels out the
effect of the anticoagulant pradaxa®. In the first quarter of 2015, we submitted
the reversal agent for marketing approval to the regulatory authorities in the USA and
Europe. We are also working on new treatment options for Alzheimer’s disease,
schizophrenia and other psychiatric disorders, and in the therapeutic area immu nology
we now have a pipeline portfolio that includes projects for severe psoriasis,
spondylarthritis (an inflammatory disease of the joints) and Crohn’s disease (a chronic
inflammatory bowel disease).
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 1111KEY ASPECTS 2014
We are currently working on a total of 100 research projects. An indication of
how important our research work on future medicines is to us can also be seen in our
research and development expenditure, which in 2014 amounted to just under
2.7 billion euros, representing some 20 per cent of our total sales. Over 8,000 people
worldwide were employed in R&D at Boehringer Ingelheim in 2014.
We also used 2014 to bring a number of challenges we had faced in the past few years
to a favourable conclusion. The most important milestones were the lifting of
the Warning Letter issued by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for our
manufacturing facility in Ingelheim, Germany, the sale of our US subsidiary Ben
Venue Laboratories Inc. and the settlement achieved in US litigation regarding
pradaxa®. Independent of this, an analysis conducted by the FDA towards the end
of last year, based on data obtained from 134,000 patients suffering from atrial
fibrillation, once again confirmed the positive safety and efficacy profile of pradaxa®
in daily practice.
Innovation is the basis of long-term, sustained growth. Here, Boehringer Ingelheim
was once again highly successful in the last year. Nevertheless, the market environment
became more difficult for the whole pharmaceutical industry and thus also for us,
particularly in the USA – a very important market for us. The cause of this were, on
the one hand, severe cuts due to the reforms in the healthcare system and, on the
other hand, the consolidation in the insurance industry.
1122This had an impact on our net sales in prescription medicines, our most important
business. In 2014, we generated total net sales amounting to 13,317 million euros.
The best-selling products continued to be our respiratory medicine spiriva®, the anti-
coagulant pradaxa®, and micardis® for the treatment of high blood pressure.
Overall, we have now accumulated around 116 million patient years’ experience
with these medicines.
The aforementioned challenges will continue to occupy us in 2015. We have therefore
begun with the early adjustment of our global cost structure. From this follows
the need to save. We have thus launched programmes in the most important markets
in order to maintain our competitiveness, for example. Our aim is to gain space
for growth and innovation in order to also operate successfully in the market in future.
With an operating income of 2,140 million euros and a return on net sales of
16.1 per cent in 2014, we are on the right way.
In the short term, we are on schedule with our planned product launches until 2016.
They form the basis for our future growth. In the long term, with a new research
strategy and by focusing on the four research areas immunology and respiratory
diseases, oncology, cardiometabolic diseases, and diseases of the central nervous system,
we have taken steps to ensure that we will be able to develop more innovative
products. To this end, it is important to sound out new avenues of research and forward-
looking technologies at an early stage.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 1133KEY ASPECTS 2014
For the current financial year 2015, we have set ourselves the goal – thanks in no little
way to the large number of launches – of again achieving an increase in net sales
compared with the previous year. We will continue to work intensively to ensure that
as many patients as possible are supplied with our medicines. At the same time,
we will raise competitiveness.
In this intense and demanding phase, it is our employees who deserve our appreciation
most of all. We would like to thank them all most sincerely for their extraordinary
efforts. In the face of difficult overall conditions, they have once again demonstrated
great willingness to assume responsibility, flexibility and personal initiative. Our
success depended on their great commitment in 2014 and will depend on it in the
current financial year 2015 as well.
signed by signed by
andreas barner wolfgang baiker
signed by signed by
hubertus von baumbach joachim hasenmaier
signed by
allan hillgrove
1144CORPORATE BODIES
Shareholders’ Committee Board of Managing Directors
christian boehringer prof* dr dr andreas barner
Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee Chairman of the Board
Corporate Board Divisions Human Resources and Research,
christoph boehringer Development and Medicine
erich von baumbach jr. dr wolfgang baiker
Corporate Board Divisions Operations
isabel boehringer and Biopharmaceuticals
dr mathias boehringer hubertus von baumbach
Corporate Board Division Finance
dr joachim hasenmaier
Advisory Board Corporate Board Divisions Animal Health and
Consumer Health Care
egbert appel
Trustee, Martin Hilti Family Trust allan hillgrove
President, Hilti Foundation Corporate Board Division
Chairman of the Advisory Board Pharma Marketing and Sales
kurt beck
Former Minister-President
dr andreas kreimeyer
Member of the Board of Executive Directors
and Research Executive Director BASF SE
jan rinnert
Chairman of the Board of Management
Heraeus Holding GmbH * Republic of Austria
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 1155HIGHLIGHTS IN MEDICINE IN 2014
NEWS FROM THERAPEUTIC AREAS
Research, development and medicine at Boehringer Ingelheim can look back on yet
another very successful year.
Research, development and medicine at Boehringer applications in 2014 for market authorisation in the European
Ingelheim look back on an outstanding successful year 2014 Union (EU) and the USA. Additionally, Boehringer Ingelheim
where registrations and launches are concerned. submitted an application for market authorisation in the USA of
a medicine for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, a combination
In 2014, the company received approval in various markets for tablet consisting of empagliflozin and linagliptin, which has been
empagliflozin (jardiance®) in diabetes, nintedanib (vargatef®) approved in early 2015.
for the treatment of advanced adenocarcinoma of the lung after
failure of initial chemotherapy, and for olodaterol (striverdi® In the field of cardiovascular disease, Boehringer Ingelheim is
respimat®) for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary making further progress with the development of the antidote
disease (COPD). Additionally, authorities granted a reg istration for its anticoagulant pradaxa®. Furthermore, three new clinical
extension for tiotropium (spiriva® respimat®) for asthma studies are currently investigating pradaxa® to further improve
patients who remain symptomatic under standard therapy. treatment for patients at risk of stroke. In addition, two real-
Dabigatran (pradaxa®) received registration for the secondary world studies are investigating the use of pradaxa® in everyday
prevention and the treatment of acute deep vein thrombosis clinical practice to help inform physicians’ and patients’ daily
and pulmonary embolism. Furthermore, spiriva® respimat® in decision-m aking.
COPD and nintedanib (ofev®) for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
(IPF) received approval in the USA. The music of the future is currently at its loudest in two
therapeutic areas at Boehringer Ingelheim: research and devel-
And even more future launches are in sight, with preparations opment in the treatment of diseases of the central nervous
running at full speed. In the field of respiratory diseases, system (CNS) is progressing, where Boehringer Ingelheim is
Boehringer Ingelheim has already applied for regulatory approval working on solutions for schizophrenia and Alzheimer’s disease,
for the fixed-dose combination of spiriva® (tiotropium) and among others. The therapeutic area of immunology has
striverdi® (olodaterol) in respimat® for the treatment of COPD meanwhile established a meaningful pipeline portfolio including
in Europe and the USA, and expects market authorisation advanced projects in psoriasis, spondyloarthritis, an inflam-
in 2015. For a new diabetes drug – a combination product of matory disease of the spine, an–d Crohn’s disease, a chronic
empagliflozin and metformin – the company also submitted inflammatory bowel disease.
16R ESPIRATORY DISEASES
LEADERSHIP IN RESPIRATORY
Alveole
Having been a leader in respiratory Regulatory approval has been requested
medicines for over 90 years, Boehringer in Europe and the USA, and is expected
Ingelheim has continued to develop in 2015. oxygen into the bloodstream. Boehringer
innovative new products that provide Ingelheim developed ofev® (nintedanib)
meaningful medical benefit to patients. In Every second asthma patient still as a treatment for patients with IPF. It was
COPD, a debilitating and life-threatening suffers from symptoms, despite current designated as a “breakthrough therapy”
disease that affects more than 65 million standard medication. With spiriva® enabling approval in the USA as early as
patients worldwide, spiriva® (tiotropium) respimat® the company is offering the first October. The European Medicines Agency
is the most prescribed maintenance new class of inhaled asthma treatments (EMA) approved ofev® in January 2015
therapy. The backbone of the portfolio was in over a decade. spiriva® respimat® in an accelerated approval assessment.
complemented by the specifically de- was approved in many countries as add-on Earlier, the relevant Committee for Medic-
signed combination partner striverdi® therapy for symptomatic adult asthma inal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
(olodaterol) respimat®. By combining patients.* published– a positive opinion for nintedanib
both substances in a single respimat® for IPF.
inhaler, the fixed-dose combination has Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is
* i n Europe: spiriva® respimat® for asthma is indicated
the potential to offer even greater benefits a rare, severely debilitating and fatal lung as an add-on maintenance bronchodilator treatment
in adult patients who are currently treated with the
to patients such as improvement in lung disease. It is characterised by progres-
maintenance combination of inhaled corticosteroids
function, which leads to relief in breath- sive scarring of lung tissue so that lungs (≥ 800 µg budesonide/day or equivalent) and long-
acting β2 agonists, and who experienced one or more
lessness and to improved quality of life. lose their ability to take in and transfer severe exacerbations in the previous year.
ONCOLOGY
PROGRESS MADE WITH NEW CANCER TREATMENTS
Boehringer Ingelheim has a long-term Nintedanib (vargatef®) was approved
commitment to delivering novel cancer at the end of 2014 by the European
therapies with high therapeutic value for Medicines Agency (EMA) for treatment of
patients and has successfully advanced patients with advanced adenocarcinoma
its oncology franchise, aiming to provide of the lung after failure of initial chemo-
new treatment options for patients with therapy. The approval was, among other vargatef® works by inhibiting growth
of new blood vessels, depriving the
solid tumours. grounds, based on promising patient
tumour of nutrients required for growth
survival data for nintedanib in combina- and spread.
giotrif®/gilotrif® (afatinib) is approved tion with docetaxel in this indication.
in more than 50 countries worldwide Boehringer Ingelheim continues its efforts
for patients with a distinct type of non- to make this treatment available globally.
small cell lung cancer. New analyses Phase III trials in other tumour types are adds to the current portfolio. In 2014
show promising results in terms of patient ongoing for both approved compounds. Boehringer Ingelheim expanded its lung
survival with afatinib compared to cancer development portfolio with a
standard chemotherapy. A growing pipeline of oncology com- major in-licensin–g deal of a novel thera-
pounds in various stages of development peutic vaccine.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 17HIGHLIGHTS IN MEDICINE IN 2014
CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASES
ONGOING INNOVATION IN CARDIOVASCULAR
Boehringer Ingelheim’s oral anticoagulant for physicians. Idarucizumab has already demon-
pradaxa® (dabigatran etexilate), which can prevent strated its potential for immediate, complete and sus-
life-threatening blood clots that may cause harm tained reversal of the anticoagulant effect of
to patients, is now approved for seven medical uses pradaxa® in studies with healthy volunteers. Since
in many countries worldwide. In 2014, pradaxa® mid-2014, REVERSE-AD™, a global patient study
received new approvals for the treatment and preven- has been underway to investigate the reversal agent
tion of recurrence of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in the clinical setting in patients taking pradaxa®
and pulmonary embolism (PE) in numerous countries who require rapid reversal of the anticoagulant effect
worldwide, including the USA and Europe. in an emergency situation.
The company continues to look for ways to further Three new clinical studies (RE-SPECT ESUS™,
improve care for patients at risk of blood clots RE-DUAL PCI™, RE-CIRCUIT™) are currently
through new studies with pradaxa® and through the investiga ting pradaxa® to further improve treatment
development of idarucizumab as a reversal agent for patients at risk of stroke. The GLORIA™-AF
for the anticoagulant effect of pradaxa®. and RE-COVERY DVT/PE™ real-world studies are
investigating the use of pradaxa® to help inform
The demanding development of a reversal agent to physicians’ and patient–s’ decision-making in every-
pradaxa® is part of the commitment to broaden day clinical practice.
the existing range of emergency management options
Dabigatran and its reversal agent
18METABOLISM
COMMITMENT TO DIABETES
Type 2 diabetes is a complex condition with diabetes. jardiance® (empagliflozin), blood sugar with weight loss after two
and new treatments are required for the second diabetes medication after years and improvements in systolic blood
patients and physicians to help control trajenta® (linagliptin), was approved pressure. Glimepiride was associated
blood glucose levels. In 2014, Boehringer in several countries and first launches with an increase in body weight and
Ingelheim made significant progress in occurred in 2014. jardiance® and systolic blood pressure. In terms of regula-
bringing new treatment options to people trajenta® are part of the alliance with tory filings, the combination product of
Eli Lilly and Company. Large cardiovas- empagliflozin with metformin immediate
cular outcome trials with both products release was submitted in 2014 in the
are on schedule to complete on time. EU and the USA. The combination tablet
Results from the jardiance® trial empa- of empagliflozin with linagliptin was
reg outcome™ are expected in 2015. submitted in the USA and approved in
early 2015.
jardiance® lowers blood glucose
levels in people with diabetes by removing In addition to this growing diabetes
excess blood glucose from the body via portfolio, the new insulin glargine product,
the urine. Compared to glimepiride, a which is part of the alliance with Eli
commonly used treatment to improve Lilly, was approved as the first biosimilar
Pancreas: islets of Langerhans blood sugar control, empagliflozin led to insulin in the EU and rec–eived tentative
a statistically significant reduction in approval in the USA.
DISEASES OF THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM
NEW IN THE LIMELIGHT: CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DISEASES
For a company mainly known for its suffering from substantial impairment of innovative treatment approaches for many
Parkinson Medicine sifrol®, Boehringer their cognitive functions (including learn- so-called neuropsychiatric disorders.
Ingelheim’s CNS pipeline may reveal ing and memory problems), as they are
a surprise: different compounds to poten- common in schizophrenia or Alzheimer’s Boehringer Ingelheim’s way forward in
tially treat CNS diseases are in develop- disease. For these two indications, Phase II CNS also includes research activity in
ment. This may be good news for patients clinical testing is already running, and other fields of psychiatry, including treat-
the clinical phase for several further com- ment-resistant depression. It further
pounds will follow soon. explores “beyond the pill” approaches as
more benefit for patients can be expected
Cognitive impairment is a problem for when complementing medication with
many psychiatric indications and related other approaches. Drug therapy may for
symptoms may appear across many CNS example be combined with cognitive
diseases. Deciphering brain circuitries of remediation, a mental training that helps
cognition and the underlying mechanism concentration, attention and memory –
of actions in the human brain has been an approach that more holistically offers
the mandate of CNS discovery research the best option for an i–ndividually
with the aim to finally develop effective optimised treatment.
Nerve cell
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 19HIGHLIGHTS IN MEDICINE IN 2014
IMMUNOLOGY
A FAST-GROWING THERAPEUTIC AREA: IMMUNOLOGY
Boehringer Ingelheim’s immunology portfolio has therapeutic strategies to the clinic – as does Boehringer
grown substantially in recent times. There is now Ingelheim. While the indication psoriasis may be
a broad range of immunological diseases of central the first where Boehringer Ingelheim’s frontrunner
interest: e.g. the autoimmune disease family spondy- molecule (BI 655066) will show advanced clinical data,
loarthritis, one form of which is also known as spondyloarthritis and Crohn’s disease will possibly
Morbus Bechterew (ankylosing spondylitis). The follow this year with Phase II study results.
disease causes arthritis associated with pain and stiff-
ness, most often of the spine or joints. The onset Apart from BI 655066, an additional compound is
of the disease, from which 0.1 to 1.4 per cent of all in earlier clinical stages of development which already
persons in Western societies suffer, occurs typically demonstrated high therapeutic potential for pat–ients
in late adolescence to early adulthood. It is rare suffering from other immunological diseases.
for ankylosing spondylitis to begin after age 45. Ano-
ther autoimmune disease is Crohn’s disease, a
chronic inflammatory bowel disease which affects
any part of the gastrointestinal tract, resulting in
pain in the abdomen and further serious symptoms.
Crohn’s disease affects about 3.2 people per 1,000
in Europe and North America with the incidence
increasing.
Once the mechanism of a body’s immune response
to a certain trigger has been scientifically under stood
and the corresponding physiologic and pathologic
effects are investigated, it is common to evaluate one
compound for its potential effects in several diseases
that are all associated with the same immunological
pathway. Since the discovery of the so called IL-23
immune pathway a decade ago, immunologists and
clinicians have diligently worked to bring novel
Antibodies and B cells
20Psoriasis skin cells
NEED TO FIND BETTER THERAPIES
IN IMMUNOLOGY
Take psoriasis. It develops when your own immune Boehringer Ingelheim’s most advanced compound BI
system mistakenly attacks and inflames or destroys healthy 655066, the frontrunner molecule, is a humanised antibody that
body tissue. It may cause red, scaly patches, often itchy or blocks the IL-23 pathway. Consequently it prevents binding
painful, all over the body. Psoriasis is often highly troublesome and signalling through the IL-23 receptor.
and results in a feeling of shame, unwil lingness to mingle
with other p eople, solitude and depression, thus making the lives Promising interim clinical study results from a Phase II
of patients miserable. study that included patients with moderate to severe psoriasis
have been presented at the American Academy of Dermatology
The understanding of psoriasis has advanced in recent Annual Meeting (AAD). The primary endpoint analysis at week
years to the point where it is now no longer considered a cosme- 12 showed an unexpectedly high response rate to BI 655066: it
tic problem or an unpleasant skin condition. It is rather un- nearly doubled the percentage of patients achieving at least
derstood as a chronic, systemic, immune-mediated disease that “almost clear” skin (a PASI 90 status) compared to the active
affects up to four per cent of the Western populations at all comparator in this study, the biologic ustekinumab, an efficacious
ages. Up to a third of patients have moderate to severe psoria sis. therapy approved for this indication. Approximately 80 per
Plaque psoriasis is the most common form, affecting 80 to cent of patients reached an at least “almost clear” skin after
90 per cent of psoriasis patients. A third of these patients are 12 weeks and two doses of the substance. PASI is the clinical
additionally suffering from joint disease and there is a strong score to determine the severity and extent of skin involvement
link to diabetes, heart disease and depression. with psoriasis.
Researchers have made substantial progress in deciphering While results still have to be confirmed by further trial
pathways behind a range of immunological diseases, and data including the respective Phase III results, the medica–l com-
substantial scientific steps forward have been made in past years. munity at AAD considered these results as exceptional.
For example, interleukin 23 (IL-23) and the physiological pathw ay
that it activates, has emerged as a key driver of the chronic in-
flammatory process in psoriasis and other immunolog ical diseases.
AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001144 BBooeehhrriinnggeerr IInnggeellhheeiimm 2211LIVING CONTRASTS CARING
LIVING
CONTRASTS
SAFETY
1 &
CHALLENGE
COMMITMENT
2 &
PERFORMANCE
INDIVIDUALITY
3 &
STANDARDS
CHANCE
4 &
STRATEGY
22As a family-owned, research-driven pharmaceutical company, Boehringer Ingelheim
operates in a field of tension between various goals and values. Precisely this balance
between safety and challenge, commitment and performance, individuality and
standards, and not least chance and strategy is decisive to the company’s success.
“ WE WANT TO MANUFACTURE
MEDICINES TO THE HIGHEST
POSSIBLE SAFETY STANDARDS.”
P. 26
“ YOU CAN’T TAKE IT AT ALL FOR
GRANTED THAT PHARMACEUTICAL
COMPANIES DEVELOP MEDICINES
FOR SUCH A RARE DISEASE AS IPF.”
P. 32
“ WE WANT TO CREATE A CORPORATE
CULTURE THAT IS AWARE OF
DIFFERENCES, TRULY APPRECIATES
THEM AND RESPECTS THEM.”
P. 38
“A LBERT BOEHRINGER’S ATTITUDE
GUIDES US TO THIS DAY:
RECOGNISE YOUR OPPORTUNITIES
AND UTILISE THEM!”
P. 44
23LIVING CONTRASTS CARING
LIVING
CONTRASTS
SAFETY
1 &
CHALLENGE
COMMITMENT
2 &
PERFORMANCE
INDIVIDUALITY
3 &
STANDARDS
CHANCE
4 &
STRATEGY
24As a family-owned, research-driven pharmaceutical company, Boehringer Ingelheim
operates in a field of tension between various goals and values. Precisely this balance
between safety and challenge, commitment and performance, individuality and
standards, and not least chance and strategy is decisive to the company’s success.
“ WE MONITOR EVERY STEP IN THE USE
OF MEDICINES: WHEN A MEDICINE WAS
DISPENSED, WHICH PATIENTS TOOK IT,
IN WHAT DOSAGE, AND WHAT THEIR
HEALTH OUTCOMES WERE.”
P. 26
“ I’M VERY PROUD OF BRINGING
INNOVATIVE TREATMENTS TO PATIENTS
IN HIGH NEED. I ALSO FEEL THIS
PASSION IN MY TEAM MEMBERS.”
P. 32
“ IT’S ALL ABOUT PUBLIC HEALTH. FOR
THIS REASON, WE SEE STANDARDS AS
ABSOLUTELY INDISPENSABLE.”
P. 38
“ RESEARCH INTO NEW BIOLOGICAL ENTITIES
IS EXTREMELY TARGETED. GOOD STRATEGY
AND PLANNING HELP IDENTIFY WHICH
OPPORTUNITIES TO FOCUS ON AND INCREASE
THE PROBABILITY OF SUCCESS.”
P. 44INNOVATIVE
SA F ETY
&
CHAL L ENGE
YUKA NAGASHIMA
NARITA, JAPAN
AGE: 51
QUALITY MANAGER
SHE COLLABORATES CLOSELY WITH HER
COLLEAGUES SO THAT BOEHRINGER
INGELHEIM CAN SUPPLY EVER BETTER
AND SAFER PRODUCTS.
26PROF. SEBASTIAN SCHNEEWEISS
AGE: 49
PHYSICIAN AND PROFESSOR OF MEDICINE AND
PHARMACOEPIDEMIOLOGY AT HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL
BOSTON, USA
HE RESEARCHES MEDICAL RECORDS OF TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF PATIENTS TO GUARANTEE THE
SAFETY OF MEDICINES. AN ONGOING CHALLENGE.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 27LIVING CONTRASTS INNOVATIVE
“We want to manufacture
medicines to the highest
possible safety standards.”
EVERYTHING FOR SAFETY
Innovation among other things means watertight include the painkiller eve® a, hythiol® c-plus and the laxative
packages, easy-to-open blister packs and package leaflets that surulac® s. Whenever she and her colleagues discover some-
are easy to read. With ideas of this kind, Yuka Nagashima, thing that could affect the quality, she contacts the teams
Quality Manager at the production facility in Narita, Japan, is involved and suggests alternatives. Minor signs which could lead
making medicines even safer. to a problem should be picked up immediately.
Just recently, Nagashima had to face a new challenge When it comes to packaging, Nagashima sits down with
when the marketing department came up with a new packaging her colleagues in Development, Regulatory, Packaging and
idea. As it became clear that it possibly makes the lettering other relevant functions and together they develop a customer-
on the packaging more difficult to read, Nagashima and her friendly format. The Quality Manager is currently working
colleagues came in. “Marketing asked us to increase the with her staff on the development of new packaging designed to
at tractiveness of the packaging to patients as well as enhancing ensure that the medicines have a longer shelf life. “To achieve
the readability,” she recalls. this objective, we are experimenting with materials that exhibit
extremely low moisture permeability.”
Nagashima is Quality Manager at SSP Narita Plant, east of
Tokyo. SSP Co. Ltd. leads the Consumer Health Care (CHC) Nagashima coordinates the work carried out in the
business of Boehringer Ingelheim in Japan. The core task of her various departments, which means she communicates closely.
team of 15 colleagues is to secure the quality of raw materials, As a result, she spends almost a third of her working day in
packaging materials, bulk and final products there. These cross- functional communication and uses another 20 per cent
28INNOVATION NEEDS
SAFETY AND CHALLENGE
10
PHARMACOEPIDEMIOLOGISTS AT BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
They take care of the employment of real world data, that is to say
everyday clinical data, in order to obtain already in clinical
development a precise understanding of the patients to be treated
as well as to investigate the safety and efficacy of medicines
after they are launched on the market. For example, they test in
long-term studies whether side effects occur in patients. In their
studies they cooperate worldwide with renowned scientists, such
as Professor Samy Suissa and Professor Sebastian Schneeweiss.
There are well-practised procedures
for each product.
discus sing topics identified there with the mem- 3
bers of her team. She also keeps contact with her
colleagues in other countries to learn advanced
NEW MEDICATIONS IN 2014
analytical methods and to share learnings with each
other. And all this is in order to guarantee the Boehringer Ingelheim successfully expanded its product port folio
best possible product quality by finding better and in 2014. In all, the pharmaceutical company brought three new
innovative solutions. prescription medicines to the market. These were ofev® for the
treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), jardiance®
The Quality Operation Department only for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes and striverdi®
achieves this thanks to its adherence to well-practised (olodaterol) respimat® for the long-term treatment of patients
procedures for each product. Nothing leaves the with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
plant in Narita unless Nagashima’s team has given
its approval. The work she performs is vital for
the safety of the medicines, as the devil is often
in the detail. She is prepared for every eventuality
and has set herself a challenging goal: “We want
to manufacture med–icines to the highest possible
safety standards.”
jardiance® ofev® striverdi®
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 2299LIVING CONTRASTS INNOVATIVE
“We monitor every step in the
use of medicines: when
a medicine was dispensed,
which patients took it, in what
dosage, and what their health
outcomes were.”
INVESTIGATING UNCERTAINTY
In clinical trials that are required for market authorisation of a but, particularly in the case of new medicines, doctors have only
new medicine, it is rarely the case that all possible effects access to very few clinical trial results. Despite this lack of
can be identified. All the more reason, therefore, for pharmaco- certainty, they sometimes have to make decisions within minutes
epidemiologists, such as Sebastian Schneeweiss, to investigate or hours that are a matter of life or death. When prescribing,
unknown or undesired pharmacological effects. In this in- doctors weigh the differences between what they observe in an
terview, the Harvard clinical research scientist explains the most individual patient and the statistical findings that research
important aspects. scientists have gathered in clinical trials. I often say jokingly and
somewhat admiringly that doctors are heroes in generalising
Professor Schneeweiss, are newly authorised medicines safe statistically derived knowledge to individual patients.
or not?
That’s where you and your colleagues come in. You research
Yes, of course they’re safe, but only to the extent this can be into previously unknown side effects that occur in practice and
proven in clinical trials. However, by their very nature, they in this way increase the statistical knowledge gained from
have only a limited validity. On average, some 2,000 patients are clinical trials.
involved in a clinical trial. These patients are thought to be
representative for the majority of the population, but it will never Exactly. We analyse tens of thousands of electronically
be possible to carry out tests for every conceivable type of stored medical histories of patients who have been prescribed a
patient in this way. When a newly authorised medicine appears new medicine. As a result of our analyses, we are able to identify
on the market, therefore, it is possible that a very specific rare side effects with a much higher degree of probability than
type of patient has not been tested. is possible in clinical trials. We can also identify desired effects
in patient sub-groups.
Can doctors allow themselves the luxury of such a high degree
of uncertainty when prescribing new medicines? Where does the data come from?
Shortly after marketing they have no other choice, if they From electronic medical records, for example. We use
don’t want to miss the benefits that come from new products, doctors’ notes or the electronic bills they send to health insurance
30Sebastian Schneeweiss in
his office in Boston, USA.
There are too few pharma-
coepidemiologists, as they are
not only experts in medicine,
but are also trained in epide-
miology and biostatistics.
companies. This enables us to look at each step in the process: by means of a reporting system for side effects known as phar-
when and where the medicine was dispensed, which patients macovigilance, and by carrying out more systematic studies
took the medicine, in what dosage, and what their health out- following market authorisation. In this latter area, Boehringer
comes were. The data are de-identified to ensure that we cannot Ingelheim works closely with high calibre scientific institutions
trace back the information to individual persons. worldwide and its own group of pharmacoepidemiologists.
Unfortunately, there are still far too few experts in this field as a
How do you find out whether a patient is suffering from a side whole, not just in pharmaceutical companies.
effect?
Why is that?
We compare these medication use data with the results
of medical examinations obtained from hospitals. We then check We have a genuine problem finding well-trained people.
for a variety of things: was there an increase in the number We are not only experts in medicine, we are also qualified in
of patients who had taken a new medicine being admitted to a the fields of epidemiology and biostatistics. Only when you’ve
hospital with a stroke or with pulmonary embolism? If there completed your studies in all of that, are you in a position to
is an indication of such severe side effects, then we immediately reliably collect, analyse and interpret epidemiological data on
look into the matter. That’s the most important part of our job drug use and their effects. The training programmes are long
– identifying potentially dangerous side effects and interactions and expensive. At Harvard Medical School, we accept three doc-
that clinical trials have not revealed. But it is also equally im- toral and master’s students each year. And there ar–e only a
portant for the doctor and patient to confirm that there are no handful of comparable programmes worldwide.
such side effects.
How can the manufacturers help to make medicines even safer?
The pharmaceutical companies themselves must ensure You can read more on the subject of pharmacovigilance in the interview
that a high priority is given to identifying possible side effects as with Dr Christopher Corsico, Global Head of Clinical Development,
soon as possible after launching the product onto the market – Medicine and Regulatory at Boehringer Ingelheim, on page 42.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 31CARING
ASHLEY HULME
AGE: 68
FERNDOWN (DORSET), UK
RETIRED ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
FOR PEOPLE WITH RARE DISEASES, THE
COMMITMENT OF RESEARCH-DRIVEN
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES IS HIGHLY
SIGNIFICANT. THE PERFORMANCE THEY
DELIVER CAN DECISIVELY IMPROVE THE
PATIENTS’ SITUATION.
32C OMMITMENT
&
PE RFORMANCE
ANDREA SAMBATTI
GLOBAL TEAM LEADER IPF MARKETING
INGELHEIM, GERMANY
AGE: 42
BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM DELIVERS A
STRONG BUSINESS PERFORMANCE,
ENABLING US TO COMMIT OURSELVES TO
PATIENTS WITH RARE DISEASES.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 33LIVING CONTRASTS CARING
“You can’t take it at all for
granted that pharmaceutical
companies develop medicines
for such a rare disease as IPF.”
RENEWED ZEST FOR LIFE
Englishman Ashley Hulme suffers from the rare disease of treatment. It turned out to be extremely difficult, the 68-year-
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). He nevertheless tries to old recalls. “There is very little clearly presented information
live as normal a life as possible. available. The cause of the disease is also still unknown.” The
information provided on many of the specialist websites is very
Towards the end of 2011, it became clear to Ashley that difficult for patients to understand, while others give a com-
something was wrong. With increasing frequency, the electrical pletely false impression of the disease. Searching the internet
engineer from the little town of Ferndown in the South of initially made one thing become blatantly clear to him: IPF
England felt strangely short of breath – when speaking to a large is extremely rare. According to current estimates, there are 14 to
group of people or during physical exertion. He had never 43 cases per 100,000 of the population worldwide. In Germany,
ex perienced anything like it before. Ashley’s wife Jenny urged her there are approximately 20,000 IPF patients and in the USA
husband to see the doctor, who subsequently carried out a around 132,000. People who develop IPF suffer from shortness
lung function test, took an X-ray of Ashley’s chest, and then of breath and coughing. Their quality of life is severely impaired
re ferred him to a specialist in the nearby town of Poole, where a and they often have difficulties doing everyday things, such
high resolution computerised tomography (CT) scan revealed as going for long walks, doing housework or gardening. In
the reason for his distress: he was suffering from idiopathic advanced stages of the disease, even walking up stairs is difficult.
pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), explained the doctor. This is a rare
condition that causes progressive scarring of the lung tissue – The diagnosis of IPF hit the entire family hard – Ashley
and in most cases leads to the patient’s death within a few years. himself, his wife and his children, who live close to their parents.
The biggest shock, however, was learning of the limited life
Back home in Ferndown, Ashley sat down at his computer expectancy. “There is still no cure for IPF,” says Ashley. Half of
and began looking for information on IPF and possible forms all patients die from this devastating disease within just two
34Despite his serious illness,
Ashley Hulme is convinced
that his situation is relatively
good. “I’m not a typical case,”
he says.
to three years of diagnosis. Ashley and his family, however, with other IPF patients, and he quickly obtained access to a
decided they were going to fight. The engineer had always had a special IPF medicine. In addition, all the members of his family
zest for life and had an active lifestyle. And he still had lots are determined to fight the disease together and to support
of plans that included activities with his grandchildren and trips each other. And so Ashley and his wife Jenny continue to live as
abroad with his wife. normal a life as possible. And with some success: they are –
already planning to spend their next holiday in Germany.
His confidence has increased as a result of the fact that
there are now medicines available to alleviate the suffering. Since Ashley Hulme has received a reimbursement for the time and effort he required
for his input to this Annual Report.
the beginning of 2014, Ashley has been taking a medicine from
a US-based pharmaceutical company. With ofev®, based on the
active ingredient nintedanib, Boehringer Ingelheim itself has now
IMPACT OF IPF ON THE LUNG
launched an IPF medicine on the market in the USA and is
beginning to launch it in a number of European countries. This
means that the research-driven pharmaceutical company can
Normal IPF
now offer patients a new therapy option. Regulatory authorities
worldwide are currently examining applications for marketing Resultant scarring /
honeycombing in the
authorisation.
lung restricts breathing
and oxygen exchange.
Despite his severe illness, Ashley is convinced that his
situation is relatively good. “I am not a typical case,” he says.
His condition was diagnosed much faster than was the case
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 35LIVING CONTRASTS CARING
DOING THE RIGHT THING,
IN THE RIGHT WAY
The marketing specialist heads
up the global marketing team
and prepares ofev® for launch.
Andrea Sambatti works at Boehringer Ingelheim’s
global headquarters in Ingelheim, Germany.
Andrea Sambatti is leading the global launch of the new had shown promising results of nintedanib in IPF treatment. Her
medicine ofev® that offers new hope to patients with job would be to head up the global marketing team and pre -
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). pare the product for launch. “I saw this as a great and a unique
professional challenge but also as personal opportunity to be
After graduating from university, Andrea Sambatti had not exposed to a different culture and gain international experience,”
intended to work in the pharma ceutical industry. But after she recalls. So in 2011 she relocated with her husband and
having worked for several years in the automotive industry, the two sons to Germany.
production engineer enrolled for an MBA in marketing and met
a number of people working in pharmaceutical companies. A few years after Sambatti’s arrival, nintedanib was shown
“I was fascinated,” recalls the Brazilian, who originally comes to be an effective IPF treatment in two identical Phase III trials.
from an area near São Paulo. “It was exactly what I wanted Nintedanib slows disease progression by reducing the decline
to do, as it’s a very exciting and dynamic industry and offered me in lung function by 50 per cent. It also reduces the risk of sudden
the opportunity to have a positive impact on people’s lives.“ and severe worsening of the disease called acute IPF exacer-
bations. Such exacerbations are associated with a dramatic
For the last 15 years Sambatti has been working in different decline in lung function and can be fatal. ofev® is a very conven-
areas in pharmaceutical companies, including primary and ient oral medication; patients only have to take two capsules
specialty care, while increasing her expertise in sales, marketing a day.
and leadership positions. In 2009, she joined Boehringer
Ingelheim and was appointed Business Unit Head of Oncology Working closely with her team and the extended multi-
in Brazil. She was aware of a special atmosphere there: “As disciplinary teams, as well as with colleagues from all over the
a family-owned business with a long-term vision, Boehringer world, Sambatti has spent the last few years preparing for the
Ingelheim is especially committed to the well-being of patients.” launch of nintedanib, under the brand name ofev®. Shortly after
receiving Food and Drug Administration approval on 15 October
A full year into her new job, she was invited to work at the 2014, ofev® became commercially available as one of the
corporate headquarters in Ingelheim, Germany. Phase II trials
36COMMITTED TO
RARE DISEASES
“I’m very proud of bringing
innovative treatments to patients
in high need. I also feel this
passion in my team members.”
Interview with Dr Christian
Schilling, Head of Therapeutic
Areas at Boehringer Ingelheim
first pharmaceutical treatments for IPF patients in Does your commitment to research into rare diseases conflict
the USA and was approved in Europe in January with the pressure to develop a new medicine that pays its way?
2015. No, because most healthcare payers also expect that the price
of a medicine has to be higher when only a few people suffer from
Boehringer Ingelheim sees a strategic fit a disease. In addition, we develop most of our new modes of
of ofev® within its respiratory portfolio. “Bringing action in several indications, thereby having the opportunity for
a new treatment such as ofev® to patients when several indications to contribute towards recouping our invest-
there is such significant unmet medical need is the ments in research.
result of many years of research and demonstrates
our commitment to making a difference for pa- Why is Boehringer Ingelheim committed to helping people with
tients with respiratory diseases. And it’s a signific ant rare diseases in the first place?
commercial opportunity,” explains Sambatti. For many years, our corporate vision has been “Value through
Innovation”. Under this guiding principle we align our research
She is proud that ofev® can support thou- and commit ourselves to areas in which we see major unmet
sands of IPF patients and their families to deal with therapeutic need for which we have the required know-how in
this rare and fatal disease. In the USA, to support research and development. These include several quite rare
the launch, Boehringer Ingelheim has established diseases. Naturally, we also take commercial aspects into account.
OPEN DOORS™, a comprehensive patient support And there is no conflict of interests here, as only when we
programme that provides a broad range of financial ul timately achieve perceptible therapeutic progress can we also
and nursing support services. “We want patients have financial success.
to be given the best possible treatment,” says
Sambatti. That, after all, is why she moved to the Furthermore, being a research-driven pharmaceutical company
pharmaceutical industry–, and specifically, with a 130-year corporate history, we also see ourselves as
Boehringer Ingelheim. part of the healthcare system and want to make our contribution
to therapeutic progress even when it is not profitable per se.
AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001144 BBooeehhrriinnggeerr IInnggeellhheeiimm 3377RESPONSIBLE
AGE: 44
BIBERACH AN DER RISS,
GERMANY
DENISE HOTTMANN
MANAGER DIVERSITY &
INCLUSION GERMANY
A HIGH DEGREE OF INDIVIDUALITY IN THE
TEAM GENERATES NEW IDEAS. THIS ONLY
WORKS, HOWEVER, WHEN ALL THE MEMBERS
COMPLY WITH COMMON STANDARDS.
38INDIVIDUALITY
&
STANDARD S
INGELHEIM, GERMANY
DR CHRISTOPHER CORSICO
AGE: 52
GLOBAL HEAD OF CLINICAL DEVELOPMENT,
MEDICINE AND REGULATORY
WITHOUT STANDARDS, IT IS DIFFICULT TO
COMPLY WITH THE STRICT REGULATIONS
GOVERNING THE PHARMACEUTICAL
INDUSTRY. THERE IS LIMITED FLEXIBILITY
AVAILABLE FOR INDIVIDUALITY IN
GUARANTEEING THE SAFETY OF MEDICINES
FOR THE WELL-BEING OF PATIENTS.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 39LIVING CONTRASTS RESPONSIBLE
MUTUAL RESPECT BRINGS
OUT STRENGTHS
The cube represents the variety of topics
related to each other, such as
Diversity & Inclusion, talent management, life
balance and leadership culture.
Denise Hottmann shows the so-called cube of perspectives
developed by Boehringer Ingelheim in 2013.
Diversity & Inclusion Manager Denise Hottmann is developing a company and employees,” Hottmann explains. “Together with
corporate culture in which the employees can be themselves. my colleagues in Human Resources, I pay careful attention,
for example, to the wording of job advertisements.” They also
If you ask Denise Hottmann what Diversity & Inclusion offer workshops in which the various departments can
means to her, she emphasises that it’s all about appreciating prepare their own diversity strategies and which also enable
differences. “Therefore the definition of Diversity & Inclusion managers to develop a clearer understanding of a culture
at Boehringer Ingelheim is purposefully kept broad,” she that values differences, as Hottmann likes to put it. When choos-
explains. Diversity represents the differences and similarities ing the members of a team, for example, one has to ask
between people, be it regarding gender, culture, ethnicity, oneself the question: “Do I see someone as a troublemaker
education, religion or other dimensions – often resulting in who’s likely to put forward an opinion that’s completely
diversity of perspectives. dif ferent from all the others, or as someone I really want to listen
to because I’m interested in real alternatives?”
Hottmann, a graduate in International Management, is
Diversity & Inclusion Manager at Boehringer Ingelheim in According to current research, diversity is not some kind
Germany and has been heading up a special Centre of Expertise of social charity project but contributes to the company’s
since 2012. A very important aspect of her job is to keep the success. To begin with, diversity enables the company to maintain
right balance between individuality and standards, or more access to the markets: “If we want to help people who are ill
precisely, to maintain the balance between the personal in Brazil or Asia, we have to know what they need. Multicultural
strengths and needs of the individual on the one hand and the teams can help in such situations,” says Hottmann.
common goals and values of the company on the other.
Secondly, diversity makes Boehringer Ingelheim an
“Diversity & Inclusion means that we must make a attractive employer. “To remain successful, we also need in the
conscious effort to manage diversity in order to add value for our future a powerful multi-generational workforce, prepared to
40STANDARDS AND
INDIVIDUALITY ARE
COMPLEMENTARY
47
PER CENT WOMEN
Almost half of Boehringer Ingelheim’s more than 47,700 employees
are women. Germany, for example: among top executives the
“We want to create a corporate female share amounts to 12 per cent, and of total management
28 per cent are women. Furthermore, the workforce is highly
culture that is aware of
international: people from over 60 countries work at the head-
differences, truly appreciates
quarters in Ingelheim. More than 1,000 employees in Germany are
them and respects them.” over 55 years old and the trend is rising. And Boehringer Ingelheim
in Germany employs more than 440 people with disabilities.
engage in lifelong learning,” explains Hottmann. For 53%
this reason, the company places a high value on Boehringer Ingelheim MEN
Group 47%
the continuous training for all the members of its
WOMEN
workforce – also for employees in the later stages
of their career.
5,000
Thirdly, diversified teams, in which the
members are able to contribute their differences,
SIDE EFFECT NOTIFICATIONS
frequently come up with better solutions, the
diversity expert adds. “That’s why we want to create are received a month on average by Boehringer Ingelheim’s Phar-
a corporate culture that is aware of differences, macovigilance Department, concerning all of the products
truly appreciates them and respects them.” marketed and developed by the company. These are submitted to
the health authorities worldwide. More than 60 physicians test
By the same token, however, everyone must and analyse all information on potential side effects and initiate
comply with common standards to ensure pul- measures in order to ensure an optimal risk-benefit profile for
ling in the same direction. In this respect, for exam- Boehringer Ingelheim products as well as to continuously inform
ple a laid-back manner may not be used as an patients and prescribers about the current state of knowledge.
excuse to avoid getting involved. “If we focus on our
corporate values,” Hottmann is –convinced, “then
5,000 60
diversity will lead to success.” SIDE EFFECT PHYSICIANS TEST AND
NOTIFICATIONS ANALYSIS
AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001144 BBooeehhrriinnggeerr IInnggeellhheeiimm 4411LIVING CONTRASTS RESPONSIBLE
STANDARDS FOR THE WELL-BEING
OF OUR PATIENTS
“It’s all about public health. For
this reason, we see standards as
absolutely indispensable.”
Dr Christopher Corsico, Global Head of Clinical Development, Standards are an important factor in all phases of pharma-
Medicine and Regulatory at Boehringer Ingelheim, is respon- ceutical drug development, beginning with research and
sible, among other things, for drug safety surveillance, otherwise development. When a medicine is finally approved, after the
known as pharmacovigilance. Over 300 people employed in completion of extensive trials, our work is far from over. We
this group worldwide systematically monitor adverse side effects must systematically analyse the experience patients and health
and store the data in a large database. Fixed reporting care prescribers have with our medicines and use this infor-
standards are essential to ensure that, for the benefit of patients, mation to update package leaflets to communicate currently
data are systematically collected and that no information available scientific information about our products.
is lost.
How do you obtain this information? There’s no way of knowing
Dr Corsico, you work in a very strictly regulated industry. who uses your medicines.
Regulations are constantly becoming more stringent. The mem-
bers of your staff are required to implement the directives to  We have a comprehensive pharmacovigilance system
the letter. How much freedom do they have to express their that utilises standardised and systematic procedures to collect
own individuality? and to analyse side effect data reported to us by company
employees, doctors, patients, family members, health authorities
There are many areas in our company where individuality and those reported in the scientific literature, news media
and creativity are extremely important. We need people who and social media. We supplement this with pharmacoepidemio-
question long-held beliefs, propose new solutions and innovative logic data. Many of our pharmacoepidemiologic studies use
ideas. On the other hand, especially in the pharmaceutical statistical methods to assess data obtained from studies follow-
industry, there are areas in which employees need to follow well- ing marketing authorisation.
defined processes and procedures to maintain specific stand-
ards in order to guarantee the safety and quality of pharma- The pharmaceutical laws and regulations are the basic
ceutical products. principles that help define our processes, procedures and
42In Corsico’s office there is a
miniature model of a treatment
situation. It symbolises the
responsibility for patient safety
borne by the company.
Dr Christopher Corsico is,
among other things, responsible
for medicine safety at
Boehringer Ingelheim.
quality standards. Our job is to develop applicable global stand- And, of course, our pharmacovigilance team is responsible
ards and processes designed to ensure compliance with all for ensuring compliance with the standards and regulations in
local laws and regulations in force worldwide. By doing this, we each of the countries where Boehringer Ingelheim sells its
are able to define uniform global standards and processes medications.
to collect and to analyse information on the side effects of our
medicines. Thus, patients and doctors can ultimately rely on How do you ensure that all the employees comply with the most
the information printed in the medicine’s package leaflet. In the crucial standards?
end, we are the ones who bear responsibility for ensuring
patient safety and protecting public health as it relates to the use  All of our employees, regardless of where they work at
of our medicines. Boehringer Ingelheim, are responsible for reporting potential side
effects to our pharmacovigilance unit if they become aware
You record precisely what side effects have occurred, the extent of such events. We use a variety of methods to ensure that our
to which they have occurred, under which circumstance and employees are aware of their reporting obligations, including
when they occurred in the course of the treatment. Collecting the use of online training modules. In addition, we carry out
such data is a complex process. Are there differences in how checks at regular intervals to ensure that employees are
your people deal with standards worldwide? complying with these requirements. Moreover, health authorities
in local countries also regularly examine our drug safety
 The colleagues in pharmacovigilance all comply with the system. Precisely, it is all about compliance and public health.
same standards, the standards of Boehringer Ingelheim. How- This means abiding by the rules and en–suring the well-being
ever, our standards are flexible enough to allow individual of patients taking our medications.
countries to meet specific local reporting requirements. Some
of the strictest pharmaceutical laws and regulations in the More detailed information on pharmacoepidemiology is available on
world come from the European Union, Canada, Australia and the page 30 in the article on Professor Sebastian Schneeweiss, pharmaco­
USA. Our system is designed to comply with these standards. epidemiologist at Harvard Medical School in Boston / MA.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 43INDEPENDENT
DR MICHAEL SIEBLER
INGELHEIM, GERMANY
AGE: 58
HEAD OF THE
COMPANY ARCHIVE
CHANCE HAS ALSO ENABLED THE COMPANY
TO MOVE FORWARD. WITHOUT A STRATEGY,
HOWEVER, LITTLE WOULD HAVE COME OF IT,
SAYS THE HEAD OF THE COMPANY ARCHIVE.
44CHA NCE
&
ST RAT EGY
RIDGEFIELD, USA
DR RACHEL KROE-BARRETT
AGE: 42
DIRECTOR AT THE RESEARCH GLOBAL
SKILL CENTER FOR NEW BIOLOGICAL ENTITIES
HER SEARCH FOR THERAPEUTIC ANTIBODIES
IS BASED ON A CLEAR STRATEGY. VERY LITTLE
IS LEFT TO CHANCE.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 45LIVING CONTRASTS INDEPENDENT
“Albert Boehringer’s
attitude guides us to
this day: recognise
your opportunities
and utilise them!”
INDEPENDENT THINKING TURNS
CHANCES INTO SUCCESS STORIES
For many strategic planners, chance occurrences are annoying. journalist, Siebler is in charge of the historical archive of
And yet frequently it is precisely a chance occurrence that makes Boehringer Ingelheim in the “Gründervilla”, the founder’s resi-
many strategies possible in the first place. dence, at the company’s head office site in Ingelheim. He
presents the entrance hall to visitors and leads them up the
The discovery of catapresan® is one that entered the creaking staircase into the wood-panelled conference room.
annals of medicinal history. On 29 October 1962, a secretary
to the Head of Medico-Scientific Research put several It is a history that was repeatedly influenced by a creative
drops of clonidine – a new active ingredient against colds from attitude to chance discoveries, the Head of the Company
Boehringer Ingelheim’s research department – in her nose. Archive adds. And it also applied to the master stroke of the
young Albert Boehringer in 1893. His tartar factory in Nieder-
Experiments of this kind were quite common at the time. Ingelheim was not paying off. He searched desperately for new
She not only started breathing heavily, but also fell into a products and wanted to produce citric acid using fungi. The
deep sleep. With an extremely weak pulse and very low blood experiment failed. Since the wooden casks he was using were not
pressure, she then slept for 24 hours. The research managers sterile, bacteria had entered, leaving foul-smelling lactic acid
at Boehringer Ingelheim were astonished. Further experiments behind.
subsequently confirmed what had never previously been
observed in animal experiments: the research scientists by chance This did not discourage Boehringer, however, but fired his
had discovered an extremely effective way of lowering blood ambition instead. “He was obstinate, if not downright stubborn,”
pressure. In tablet form, the active ingredient, later named relates Siebler. “But he recognised his opportunity and made
catapresan®, proved a gift for both patients and the company. use of it.” Boehringer convinced tanneries, food manufacturers
and pharmaceutical companies of the practical benefits of
“There was strong demand for catapresan® from patients lactic acid and in the process created a market for his new
and physicians well into the 1980s,” explains Dr Michael product. Boehringer Ingelheim was soon producing it on an
Siebler. “It is an excellent example of how chance can influence industrial scale. Recognising that chance had offered an oppor-
the destiny of a company.” Essentially an archaeologist and tunity which turned out to be right and extremely lucrative.
46The blood pressure
treatment catapresan®
proved a gift for both
patients and the company.
The first patent was granted in
1895 for baking powder. The
original certificate is archived
in the founder’s villa.
“For the first time, the company was making real money,” com- an adrenaline substitute. Adrenaline was considered to be
ments Siebler. unstable and difficult to control, which was why the Austrians
had been unable to find a buyer until then. However, the
And this had far-reaching consequences: Boehringer now Medical Director at Boehringer Ingelheim at that time, Ernst
had sufficient funds available to begin the production of Oppenheimer, sensed that there was development potential
al kaloids and was also able to take even better care of the social in the preparation. Despite becoming the laughing stock of the
well-being of his employees. “If it had not been for the industry, he bought the licences.
chance discovery of the lactic acid, the company would perhaps
no longer exist,” says Siebler. “Not as we know it at least.” A short time later, it turned out that sympatol® was far
better than anyone had thought. The effect was weaker than
Boehringer’s way of dealing with the unforeseen discovery that of natural adrenaline, but it lasted longer. “Oppenheimer
presumably also influenced the strategy of some of his had been offered this product purely by chance. The fact
em ployees and later generations of researchers at the company, that he bought it, however, was an extremely far-reaching de-
comments Siebler: “An unexpected reaction didn’t necessa- cision,” says Siebler, describing the amazing story. “It says a
rily have to be regarded as an accident. But for this, the right lot for the corporate culture that he was allowed to do that.” The
colleague had to be in the right place, be able to recognise reward: in the 1930s, sympatol® became one of the company’s
the opportunity of a chance discovery and try to make something most important products and marked the entry into the treatment
of it. In addition, however, it called for, and to this day still of cardiovascular diseases.
calls for, a special degree of scientific experience, well-founded
knowledge and intuition.” For Boehringer Ingelheim, the work on adrenaline deriva-
tives also represented the start of modern, systematic drug re-
On more than one occasion, it was substances that had search, now known as high-throughput screening. Meanwhile
been discovered by chance that enabled Boehringer Ingelheim automated laboratory systems test tens of thousands of sub-
to progress. Such a case is sympatol®: in 1927, a small Austrian stances every day with so-called standardised target proteins to
company offered Boehringer Ingelheim the licences to produce which the entities can attach themselves until an effect appears
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 47LIVING CONTRASTS INDEPENDENT
“Research into new biological
entities is extremely targeted.
Good strategy and planning
help identify which opportunities
to focus on and increase the
probability of success.”
in one of the variants. This is known as a hit. On the basis of extremely rare,” says Dr Rachel Kroe-Barrett, speaking from
such hits, drug developers then continue their research in an experience. The American biochemist has been working for
attempt to improve the statistical chance of discovering some- almost ten years in pharmaceutical research with Boehringer
thing new. Ingelheim in the USA. Since completing her studies, she has
been fascinated by research into biological substances, such as
Even in systematically controlled research of this kind, the proteins. This has subsequently resulted in her becoming
unexpected repeatedly happens. For example, when it turns one of the first scientists to perform research into new biological
out that the anti-HIV medicine viramune® can also be used to entities (NBEs) for Boehringer Ingelheim in a small team
protect the children of mothers with AIDS from infection that was set up in 2006.
during birth1 – or when nintedanib, an active ingredient against
cancer, also proves to be effective for the treatment of idio- In contrast to traditional medicines such as sympatol®,
pathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). “In this way, new indications the active molecule of which consists of just 15 atoms, the
sometimes only show up at the second or third look and only if reference in this case is to large molecules such as proteins,
scientists ask the right questions,” explains Siebler. which contain more than 25,000 atoms. NBEs, such as
antibodies, unfortunately have a downside – they cannot be
Research into new biological entities swallowed in tablet form, since they would then be digested
and become ineffective in the stomach. They have to be injected.
The search for new small molecule entities in traditional The upside, however, is that their development can be per-
pharmaceutical research is a painstaking process. “Hits are formed in a significantly more targeted and strategic fashion.
“This is due to the nature of NBEs,” explains Kroe-Barrett,
1 Due to changed scientific standards, the active ingredient nevirapine (viramune®)
alone is no longer a recommended treatment option for this indication. now Director Biotherapeutics at Boehringer Ingelheim’s
48“We try to minimise reliance on
luck as much as possible.”
High-throughput screening
represented the start of modern
systematic drug research.
global skill center for NBEs in Ridgefield, Connecticut, where she “In today’s competitive and cost conscious world, we try
heads up a team of 25 research scientists. “It starts with a to minimise reliance on luck as much as possible,” says
very specific protein which we know causes damage or disease Kroe-Barrett. The path to be followed on the way from the target
in a patient,” Kroe-Barrett explains. The researchers then protein to finding the specific, optimised antibody is clearly
isolate this protein and administer it to laboratory animals that defined. The biochemist and her colleagues have meanwhile
subsequently produce antibodies to fight off the invader. “We perfected the entire sequence of steps in the process. Even
end up with a whole range of antibody variants,” says Kroe- so, each researcher is given sufficient freedom to do things differ-
Barrett. These are then tested on the protein one after the other ently and try out something new.
in the test tube.
“The only way to ensure that innovations remain possible,”
This process is similar to high-throughput screening in she adds, “is by allowing the unexpected to happen. It also
traditional medical research. The only difference is that, instead means that scientists need to be prepared for the unexpected
of testing millions of variants, NBE researchers only test a and ready to seize scientific opportunities.” Kroe-Barrett
few tens of thousands. “We know what we’re looking for at a says this because, even in a highly technology-driven, structured
much earlier stage,” adds Kroe-Barrett. When the best antibodies research department in the 21st century, chance repeatedly
have been selected, she and the members of the global skill helps her and her team to stay one step ahead: when researchers
centre begin to alter the protein sequence of each antibody in were looking for an antibody to combat rheumatoid arthritis,
such a way that it will be accepted by the human body. With which is a chronic, systemic inflammatory disorder that primarily
this strategy, the team has already contributed to the develop- affects joints, implementation of the screening strategy
ment of three antibodies, in cluding a specific reversal agent al lowed the identification of the antibody after only 20 tests.
for the anticoagulant pradaxa® which has been submitted for “Chance definitely played a r–ole to help accelerate success,
regulatory approval in the USA and in Europe. but good planning is key.”
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 4950GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
GROUP MANAGEMENT
REPORT 2014
Information about the group of companies 52
Report on economic position 61
Report on post-balance sheet date events 66
Report on opportunities and risks 67
Report on expected developments 69
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 51GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT INfORMATION ABOUT ThE GROUP Of cOMPANIEs
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT 2014
INFORMATION ABOUT THE
GROUP OF COMPANIES
The Group’s business model
Boehringer Ingelheim is a family-owned company, Boehringer Ingelheim is also one of the world’s leading
founded in 1885, which is based in Ingelheim, Germany. providers of veterinary medicines. The veterinary product
The company is focussed on the research and development, with the highest net sales is the swine vaccine Ingelvac
production and sale of innovative pharmaceutical prod- circoflex®, which is used against porzine circovirus type 2.
ucts that help to improve health and quality of life and
that bring about major therapeutic advances. With 146 Another major growth driver for Boehringer Ingelheim is
affiliated companies and approximately 47,700 employ- the field of biopharmaceuticals. This segment deals with
ees, the Group achieved net sales of EUR 13.3 billion in the research and development of biosimilars and con-
2014, making it one of the world’s top 20 pharmaceutical
companies. Boehringer Ingelheim’s business activities
cover prescription medicines, consumer health care, ani- Net sales by business (in EUR million)
mal health, biopharmaceuticals and industrial customers.
Prescription Medicines
Boehringer Ingelheim's major focus is on prescription
2014 10,101
medicines for respiratory disease, cardiovascular disease, 2013 10,891
metabolic disease, oncology, diseases of the central
nervous system and immunology. As in previous years, Consumer Health Care
spiriva®, which is used to treat chronic obstructive
2014 1,437
pulmonary disease (COPD), was once again the biggest 2013 1,473
revenue contributor in 2014. micardis®, which has been
well established for over 15 years and is used to treat Animal Health
high blood pressure, and pradaxa®, used to prevent
2014 1,130
stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation and thrombo- 2013 1,070
embolic disease, also account for a large part of the com-
pany’s success. trajenta®, which is on an upwards tra- Biopharmaceuticals
jectory and is used to treat type 2 diabetes, is also driving
2014 501
growth at Boehringer Ingelheim. 2013 449
In terms of consumer health care, mucosolvan®, Industrial Customers and other sales
buscopan®, dulcolax® and pharmaton® are the top-
2014 148
selling products. 2013 182
52Net sales by region (in EUR million) Research and Development (R&D)
Building on the company’s mission statement, Boehringer
Ingelheim’s primary aim is to develop innovative medi-
cines and therapies for diseases for which there is as yet
no satisfactory treatment available. Our aim at all times is
to make a major contribution in areas where the need for
treatment is high and to occupy a leading position in the
Europe 4,081 4,267
2014 2013 major indication areas.
Asia, In order to achieve these goals, strategically essential tech-
Australia,
Africa nologies are continuously improved and new technologi-
Americas 5,937 6,411 (AAA) 3,299 3,387
2014 2013 2014 2013 cal approaches are systematically examined. To do this,
Boehringer Ingelheim draws on a global network, the exper-
tise of academic groups and its interaction with public
research institutions and biotech companies. In addition,
we are expanding our product portfolio with partnership
agreements and the systematic in-licensing of technolo-
gies and products. For example, Boehringer Ingelheim
tract manufacturing. In terms of its business in this field, launched a partnership with CureVac in the 2014 finan-
Boehringer Ingelheim is one of the world’s leading con- cial year in order to develop an immunotherapy for the
tract manufacturers of biopharmaceuticals. treatment of lung cancer.
The majority of Boehringer Ingelheim’s net sales in 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim’s successful research and develop-
were again achieved in the regions of America (44%) ment activities and its innovativeness were the basis for
and Europe (31%). However, the importance of Asia/ the Group’s positive growth in previous years. In-house
Australia/Africa (AAA) is continuing to increase, with research and development will also continue to be a top
25% of net sales coming from the AAA region in 2014. priority in the future. An example of the consistent
The three biggest markets, the USA, Japan and Germany implementation of our strategy is the technology centre in
accounted for 55% of sales last year. Biberach, which was inaugurated in December 2014. In
the future, this pilot facility will manufacture innovative
The aim of Boehringer Ingelheim is to drive the develop- substances that are required for clinical trials. Invest-
ment of the existing product portfolio through organic ments in the facility amounted to around EUR 50 million.
growth, progressing in cooperation with a network of
external partners. To do this, Boehringer Ingelheim oper- In the 2014 financial year, we employed an average of
ates major research and development centres in Biberach, 8,104 people at our research and development sites.
Hanover and Ingelheim (Germany), Ridgefield and A total of around EUR 2.7 billion was invested in the
St. Joseph (USA) and Vienna (Austria), supported by two research and development of new medicines, corre-
smaller facilities in Kobe (Japan) and Milan (Italy). sponding to 19.9% of the Group’s net sales and thus
also to same level of the previous year, as forecasted.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 53GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT INfORMATION ABOUT ThE GROUP Of cOMPANIEs
Research and development 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Expenditure in EUR million 2,654 2,743 2,795 2,516 2,453
– as % of net sales 19.9 19.5 19.0 19.1 19.5
Prescription Medicines expenditure in EUR million 2,333 2,444 2,563 2,372 2,306
– as % of Prescription Medicines net sales 23.1 22.4 22.5 23.5 23.8
Average number of employees 8,104 7,741 7,492 7,159 7,093
Investments in tangible assets (without investments in infrastructure) in EUR million 78 114 139 112 83
Human Pharmaceuticals the phase III clinical trial programm TOviTO®. Key phase
Boehringer Ingelheim carried out research and develop- III data were reported in 2014 from this trial program.
ment in 2014 for its businesses prescription medicines and Results from the 6 week VIVACITO® study demonstrated
consumer health care at facilities in the USA, Germany, significant improvement in lung function over 24 hours
Austria, Italy and Japan. Last year many registrations of with tiotropium + olodaterol respimat® compared to
new products were obtained or submitted. The key focus mono-components or placebo. Data from the 52 week
of our research work in 2014 was on the following indica- pivotal TONADO® studies showed tiotropium + olo-
tion areas: daterol respimat® provided a significant improvement in
lung function and health- related quality of life over
• Respiratory diseases mono-components.
• Cardiometabolic disorders (cardiovascular and
metabolic disorders) Furthermore, results from the ANHELTO™ 1&2 studies
• Oncology which investigated striverdi® (olodaterol) respimat®
• Diseases of the central nervous system in combination with spiriva® (tiotropium) handi-
• Immunology haler® in COPD were also reported in 2014. The results
showed that, compared to mono-therapies, combining
Expenditure for R&D in prescription medicines accounted striverdi® respimat® and spiriva® handihaler®
for 23.1% of net sales generated in this business. enabled more patients to breathe better and cope more
easily with daily life.
Boehringer Ingelheim has a long history in the treatment
of respiratory diseases. Having been a leader in this field for Every second asthma patient still suffers from symptoms
over 90 years, we have continued to develop innovative despite current standard medication. With spiriva®
products that provide significant medical benefit to respimat® we are offering the first new class of inhaled
patients. Beside spiriva® (tiotropium), the most prescribed asthma treatments in over a decade. New phase III data
maintenance therapy in chronic obstructive p ulmonary were reported from the comprehensive UniTinA-asthma®
disease (COPD) worldwide, the company has a broad clinical trial programme designed to evaluate the efficacy
respiratory portfolio on the market and also in research and safety of spiriva® respimat® in patients with asthma.
and development. The study showed that once-daily tiotropium delivered
via the respimat® inhaler was effective and well tolerated
Since for many seriously ill patients with COPD therapies in adult patients across all asthma severities.
with single substances do not lead to a sufficient improve-
ment of the lung function, the effectiveness and safety of In addition, further results from the pivotal PrimoTinA-
tiotropium + olodaterol respimat® will be investigated by asthma® phase III trials demonstrated that spiriva®
54respimat®, as an add-on to ICS/LABA (inhaled corticos- In stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation (AF), the FDA
teroid/long-acting beta2-agonists) maintenance therapy, conducted a study of pradaxa® in everyday clinical prac-
significantly improved asthma symptoms, and patients tice using data from 134,000 Medicare patients. The data
were 68% more likely to improve asthma control compared showed remarkably consistent results when compared to
to usual care alone. Results add to existing evidence of the RE-LY® study findings, which established the positive
the efficacy and safety of spiriva® respimat® in patients risk-benefit profile of pradaxa® for stroke prevention in
who remained symptomatic despite treatment with at AF. Additionally, results from two further studies of
least ICS/LABA. everyday clinical practice data conducted by the Walter
Reed National Military Medical Center and the Brigham
The first data from the phase III CadenTinA-asthma™ and Women’s Hospital were also consistent with the results
52-week study in Japanese patients were also reported in of RE-LY®.
2014 and showed that spiriva® respimat® treatment
improved lung function in adult patients with asthma As part of its commitment to improving patient care,
who continue to experience symptoms despite ICS with Boehringer Ingelheim further extended its RE-VOLUTION™
or without LABA therapy and that its safety was balanced clinical study programme in 2014. The RE-CIRCUIT™,
as compared to placebo. RE-DUAL PCI™ and RE-SPECT ESUS™ studies will fur-
ther investigate dabigatran in different indications, and
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a rare, severely the RE-VERSE AD™ study investigates idarucizumab, the
debilitating and fatal lung disease. The first results of the specific reversal agent to dabigatran, in the clinical setting
pivotal phase III INPULSIS® trials were presented in in patients taking pradaxa®.
2014 at the American Thoracic Society (ATS), the biggest
respiratory congress in the USA. The INPULSIS® trials In the indication area metabolic disorders, the focus of
enrolled 1,066 patients across 24 countries evaluating research and development is on drugs for the treatment
the effect of oral nintedanib 150 mg twice daily on the of diabetes. Together with our alliance partner Eli Lilly
annual rate of decline in forced vital capacity (FVC) in and Company, we continue to conduct studies to further
patients with IPF over 52 weeks. Pivotal data from the define the efficacy and safety profile of our oral antihyper-
INPULSIS®-1&-2 trials showed that nintedanib slows glycemic agents empagliflozin (jardiance®) and linagliptin
disease progression by reducing the decline in lung (trajenta®, jentadueto® in combination with metformin).
function by 50% in a broad range of IPF patient types Results of several phase III clinical trials were published
and significantly reduces the risk of adjudicated acute in 2014, showing that empagliflozin, a sodium glucose
exacerbations by 68%. cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor, in combination with
certain other diabetes therapies, including insulin, reduced
A further focus of Boehringer Ingelheim’s research blood glucose, body weight and blood pressure. Compared
activities is the field of cardiovascular disorders. In 2014 to glimepiride, a commonly used treatment to improve
pradaxa® (dabigatran etexilate) was approved by the blood sugar control, empagliflozin led to a statistically
US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Euro- significant reduction in blood sugar, with weight loss
pean Medicines Agency (EMA) for the treatment and pre- after two years and improvements in systolic blood pres-
vention of recurrence of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and sure. Glimepiride was associated with an increase in body
pulmonary embolism (PE). For this new indication, the weight and systolic blood pressure. In 2015, the cardio-
treatment is already approved in over 45 countries world- vascular outcomes trial EMPA REG OUTCOME™ with
wide with additional approvals expected during 2015. empagliflozin will be the first cardiovascular outcomes
study of a SGLT2 inhibitor to read out. Study data for the
investigational empagliflozin/lina gliptin combination
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 55GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT INfORMATION ABOUT ThE GROUP Of cOMPANIEs
tablet first presented at major congresses showed clinically In the indication area immunology promising interim
important and sustained reductions in blood glucose in clinical study results from a phase II study, that included
people with type 2 diabetes that were either previously patients with moderate to severe psoriasis were p resented
untreaded or treated with metformin. Phase I and phase at the American Academy of Dermatology (AAD) Annual
III study data for the new insulin glargine product which Meeting. The primary endpoint analysis at week 12
is part of our alliance with Eli Lilly and Company were showed a high response rate to Boehringer Ingelheim’s
also publically disclosed for the first time in 2014. These IL-23 inhibitor (with the code BI 655066), while there
data showed a similar safety and efficacy profile to currently was no safety issue. BI 655066 nearly doubled the per-
marketed insulin glargine. centage of patients achieving at least “almost clear” skin
(a PASI 90 status) compared to the active comparator in
In the indication area oncology Boehringer Ingelheim has this study, the biologic ustekinumab, an efficacious therapy
successfully advanced research and development of its approved for this indication. Approximately 80% of
pipeline compounds and marketed treatments, with the patients have reached an at least “almost clear” skin after
aim of providing new treatment options that may offer 12 weeks and two doses of the substance. PASI is the clin-
patients added therapeutic value and contribute to quality ical score to determine the severity and extent of skin
of life improvements. involvement with psoriasis. While results still have to be
confirmed by further trial data including the respective
Two independent phase III trials (LUX-Lung 3 and phase III results, the medical community at AAD consid-
LUX-Lung 6) showed that patients whose tumours have ered these results as exceptional.
the most common EGFR mutation (deletion in exon 19;
Del19) lived more than one year longer when treated with In consumer health care Boehringer Ingelheim received
first-line GIOTRIF® (afatinib, brand name GILOTRIF® in 74 new marketing authorisations globally in 2014. One of
the USA) compared to standard chemotherapy. Overall them was for mucoangin® (ambroxol), a sore throat spray
survival was a secondary endpoint. GIOTRIF®/GILOTRIF® which the company will now launch throughout Europe.
is the first and only epidermal growth factor receptor mucoangin® sore throat spray is indicated for pain relief
(EGFR) targeting agent to demonstrate an overall sur- in acute sore throat.
vival benefit compared to chemotherapy in the first-line
treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients Animal Health
with EGFR mutations. It is approved in more than In its research and development work in the field of animal
50 countries worldwide for patients in this indication. health, Boehringer Ingelheim focuses on innovative vac-
cines, primarily for the protection of livestock and pets, as
In the area of central nervous systems (CNS) diseases, well as on pharmaceutical products.
different compounds to potentially treat schizophrenia
or Alzheimer’s disease are in clinical development. For At our facilities in the USA, Germany, China, Mexico,
these two indications the clinical testing phase II is run- Japan, Denmark, India and the Netherlands, we focus on
ning. Deciphering brain circuitries of cognition and the research into new drugs and the development of future
underlying mechanism of actions in the human brain therapeutic solutions. Since many vaccines are based on
has been in focus of CNS discovery research with the local pathogens and pathogen variants, it is imperative
aim to finally develop effective innovative treatments that we are present in all key market regions with local
for many so-called neuropsychiatric disorders. In CNS, research and development and production facilities.
Boehringer Ingelheim includes research activities in
other fields of psychiatry, including treatment-resistant In addition, 2014 also saw around EUR 11 million
depression. invested in the expansion of existing facilities, as well as
56the construction of a centre for clinical research in China. products reliably and to high quality standards – both for
These investments demonstrate the company’s commit- internal Group customers as well as external industrial
ment and its intention to sustainably strengthen its posi- clients.
tion in animal health.
The chemical and pharmaceutical facilities are both
Animal health products at Boehringer Ingelheim received covered by the area of pharmaceutical and chemical man-
85 product authorisations around the world in 2014. In ufacturing (PCM). This area is the interface between our
December 2014, for example, the EU Commission issued development activities and batch production. The division
its approval of bovela®, an innovative cattle vaccine is responsible for compliance with our high quality stand-
against bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD). bovela® is the first ards when organising new product launches and for the
registered vaccine in Europe to protect against both vari- production of innovative products over their entire life
ants of the virus (BVD-1 and BVD-2). The vaccine is also cycle, which is challenging in terms of both the tech-
the first live virus for this disease, which can also be nology and the processes involved.
administered to pregnant animals.
Under the guidance of the third party management (3PM)
In Europe, approval documents were also submitted for division, our network of contract manufacturers focuses
two improved vaccines against porcine respiratory and on the GMP compliant manufacture of products that are
reproductive syndrome (PRRS). In addition, two salmo- already in an advanced stage of their life cycle.
nella vaccines for pigs (enterisol®) received approval in
the USA for the additional indication Salmonella enterica, In June 2014, Boehringer Ingelheim announced that the
thus expanding the protection available against these US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) had withdrawn
potentially zoonotic diseases. the warning letter of 2013, following an inspection of the
production facilities in Ingelheim in 2012. After the
Biopharmaceuticals warning letter was issued, Boehringer Ingelheim worked
The focus of Boehringer Ingelheim’s research activities intensively on measures to optimise its quality manage-
in biopharmaceuticals lies primarily on the research and ment systems and compliance processes, culminating in
development of biosimilars. In 2014, after finishing the the withdrawal of the warning letter. We will continue to
phase I study for BI 695502 (biosimilar to avastin®) in improve the quality of our processes in future in order to
2013, the phase I studies were completed for BI 695500 provide patients with high quality products.
(biosimilar to rituxan®/mabthera®) in patients with
rheumatoid arthritis and for BI 695501 (biosimilar to In 2014, plans to expand the respimat® production
humira®) in healthy volunteers were. The first biosimilar facilities in Dortmund were given the go-ahead follow-
programmes progressed in 2014 with several regulatory ing an investment of over EUR 100 million by Boehringer
interactions for phase III studies to start in 2015. Ingelheim. By increasing the production capacity for
the respimat® Soft inhaler to 44 million units per year
Production we will create around 100 new jobs by the end of 2015.
Human Pharmaceuticals The respimat® Soft inhaler is a propellant-free, soft mist
Our global production network in 2014 consisted of inhaler that will be used as the standard application
20 facilities in 11 countries. Between these production device for our future respiratory products.
locations, the Group operates 12 pharmaceutical facilities,
three chemical facilities, four biopharmaceutical locations In the 2014 financial year, the Boehringer Ingelheim
and one medical technology facility. Our many years of Chemicals Inc. production facility in Virginia, USA, was
experience at our production facilities enable us to produce closed. The company had previously produced pharma-
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 57GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT INfORMATION ABOUT ThE GROUP Of cOMPANIEs
ceutical substances there for the Group and for third-party The construction of the laboratory complex for the pro-
businesses. This was followed by the smooth transition duction of biopharmaceutical clinical trial supplies was
of our products to internal or external suppliers. successfully completed in 2014 and the facility has now
gone into operation.
In addition, the sale of assets held by Bedford Laboratories
and the Ben Venue facility to Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Safety and environmental protection
was successfully completed in the second half of the year. The protection of our employees, our facilities and our
Bedford Laboratories, the business unit responsible for environment, as well as the sustainable use of natural
generic injectables, owned by Ben Venue Inc. in the USA, resources and the promotion of environmental awareness
primarily worked with acute care clinics, purchasing are major components of our company’s mission statement
groups and cancer treatment centres. and are of prime importance to Boehringer Ingelheim.
Social and environmental responsibility has been anchored
Animal Health in our corporate philosophy for many years. The company
In animal health, Boehringer Ingelheim is predominantly strives to maintain natural resources and advocates environ-
active in North and Central America as well as Europe, mental awareness both inside and outside of the company.
with a production network consisting of four facilities for Observing social and ecological concerns is the only way
vaccine production and a network of contract manufac- to ensure that we can enjoy sustainable financial success.
turers for pharmaceutical products. With the construction
of a new Chinese facility in Taizhou that continued apace Group-wide, our company has developed binding stand-
in 2014, a location in Asia will soon be joining the pro- ards in terms of environmental protection, health and
duction network. As a major component of our animal safety at work. These internal guidelines reflect the respec-
health growth strategy, this facility will focus on the man- tive country-specific legal requirements and significantly
ufacture of vaccines against porcine and avian diseases exceed them in many cases.
for the Chinese market.
Within Boehringer Ingelheim, the infrastructure, safety,
Biopharmaceuticals environment and engineering (ISEE) division is responsible
The biopharmaceutical activities of Boehringer Ingelheim for introducing and reviewing the internal environmental
in Germany (Biberach), Austria (Vienna), the USA (Fremont) and occupational safety guidelines. Compliance with our
and China (Shanghai) comprise the manufacture of standards and the status of environmental and employee
own-brand marketable products (actilyse®, metalyse®, protection is examined in regular audits in order to con-
imukin® and beromun®), the development biosimilars, tinuously identify potential areas of improvement.
as well as – contract manufacturing for third-party cus-
tomers. The company covers the entire biopharmaceutical One example of the continuous improvements in environ-
value chain from the genetic development of the cell mental protection is the analysis and decontamination of
through to the manufacturing and filling of the finished the soil on and around our Ingelheim facility – a project
pharmaceutical product down to the product launch and initiated in 2012. This extensive undertaking was contin-
supplying the global market. In comparison to the previ- ued in 2014 in order to ensure the relevant environmental
ous year, 2014 saw an overall increase in capacity utilisa- protection. As a result of technical progress, issues such as
tion at production facilities. these can be analysed more precisely today. Experts in the
fields of geochemistry, environmental toxicology and
In 2014, we also pushed ahead with establishing our new engineering were consulted for advice on implementing
facility in Shanghai for various biopharmaceutical devel- the measures.
opment services for Chinese and international customers.
58In order to make a contribution towards reducing global we are ideally equipped to deal with the challenges ahead.
CO emissions, we have set ourselves the ambitious goal As part of a comprehensive training system, we place
2
of reducing our CO emissions by 20% by 2020 as com- great importance not only on the acquisition of technical
2
pared with 2010 values. We aim to do this by putting the skills, but also on the development of social expertise.
focus on potential energy savings and reductions in emis-
sions, promoting the exchange of expertise between the In addition to competitive salaries, Boehringer Ingelheim
company’s facilities and on coordinating projects at an offers other benefits to its employees. These include a
international level. range of company pension plans, flexible and home-based
work options and countless health-related benefits. Our
Health and safety of our employees is a top priority at talent management approach, which is a major element of
Boehringer Ingelheim. This is reflected in our high global our corporate strategy, helps to maintain the employabil-
safety standards and guidelines, as well as in the imple- ity of our staff, promote a wide range of opportunities for
mentation of our safety culture. The Group-wide BI SAFE innovation at work and enable our employees to nurture
initiative was launched in 2010 and aims to further their own talents and develop as individuals.
reduce the number of workplace accidents. It has since
been rolled out at almost all international facilities. In Vocational training has always been of major importance
order to achieve the related target of an accident frequency to Boehringer Ingelheim. By offering young people career
rate (AFR) of 1.6 accidents per million hours worked, the opportunities, we face up to our social responsibilities. At
focus of global measures was on human behaviour. As the same time, it also enables us to secure a talented and
part of this initiative, members of senior management and well-qualified workforce of young professionals against a
the entire workforce play a key role by proactively taking backdrop of demographic change. Every year, Boehringer
responsibility for their own safety and for the safety of Ingelheim takes on around 240 apprentices at its German
their colleagues. With an AFR of 1.8 in 2014, we saw a facilities in over 25 different scientific, technical and com-
further improvement on that of the prior year (2.2). mercial vocations.
Employee reporting One of the company's aims is to strengthen the appeal of
In 2014, 47,743 people were employed worldwide by our Boehringer Ingelheim as a top employer for our current
Group. In comparison to the previous year, this corre- and future employees. In 2014, the focus was on recruiting
sponds to an increase of 0.5%. From a regional point of specialists and management staff in the fields of produc-
view, the number of staff in America was reduced, while tion and quality. As part of this, the Boehringer Ingelheim
the number of employees in Europe and the AAA region careers website and social media presence have been
was increased. restructured as major digital communication channels.
Average number of employees by region 2014 2013 Boehringer Ingelheim was the recipient of various awards
Americas 14,033 15,038 in 2014, including an award of the Association of Employed
Europe 23,771 22,905 Academics and Executives in the Chemical Industry. This
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 9,939 9,549 award is proof of the pioneering approach and long-term
47,743 47,492 strategy of Boehringer Ingelheim’s human resources (HR)
work. In addition, our company was awarded with the
A major success factor for the positive growth of Boehringer “Career-enhancing, Fair Trainee Programme” seal for its
Ingelheim is its innovative, dedicated and reliable staff. DISCOVER trainee programme.
Accordingly, we are particularly committed to actively
developing and supporting our employees to ensure that
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 59GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT INfORMATION ABOUT ThE GROUP Of cOMPANIEs
REPORT ON EcONOMIc POsITION
Boehringer Ingelheim also received the “2014 Employer sector at their project facilities for a specific period of time.
of the Year” award in China in January, and in Germany The successful implementation of the EiR programme as
in March. We received top marks from the auditors of the part of the MMH initiative was rewarded with the
international, independent Top Employers’ Institute in high-profile HR Excellence Award in the management
major HR categories such as “primary benefits”, “second- development category.
ary benefits” and “corporate culture”. The seal is proof of
our great appeal and the development opportunities at By integrating a variety of experiences, cultural back-
our company – both for employees and for potential grounds and personalities, Boehringer Ingelheim creates
recruits. an openness to different approaches and opinions, living
up to its motto ‘Value through Innovation’. To create a
Corporate citizenship working environment that is open to diversity and differ-
Taking social responsibility seriously is a major part of the ences is one of the most fundamental pillars of our cor-
Boehringer Ingelheim corporate culture. Through a wide porate culture. For example, the company was the first
range of projects, we live up to our social responsibility in Germany to develop its own action plan in order to
towards our patients, employees and their families, as well implement the goals of the United Nations Disability
as people in need in countries and regions where our com- Rights Convention in the workplace. Boehringer Ingelheim
pany does business. All of the company’s activities also received government recognition for this work in 2014
focus on protecting and maintaining the environment. In with a commendation from the German Federal Ministry
2014, Boehringer Ingelheim received the Responsible Care of Labour and Social Affairs.
Award from the German Chemical Industry Association
for its commitment and responsible attitude. Boehringer Ingelheim showed its commitment once again
last year, with the ’1 Mission 1 Million – Getting to the
A major part of our commitment to social responsibility Heart of Stroke’ awareness-raising initiative, also initiat-
is the Making More Health (MMH) initiative – a partner- ing various projects and educational events. The initiative,
ship between Boehringer Ingelheim and the global non- which was launched by Boehringer Ingelheim in 2010,
governmental organisation Ashoka that has existed for promotes projects that raise awareness of atrial fibrillation
the past four years. The aim of the partnership is to inte- and the associated risk of stroke, as well as improving
grate health as a major factor in people’s lives around the public perception. Over 40 independent organisations
world, including within their families and their social from around the world were involved in the initiative.
environment, by identifying and supporting promising Awareness-raising events were carried out in 50 cities as
ideas that lead to improved health. In order to achieve part of the initiative, which was supported by the German
this, Making More Health currently promotes more than Cardiac Society.
60 selected social entrepreneurs around the world, who
are attempting to come up with effective solutions in the Boehringer Ingelheim has continued to actively support
health-care sector. research, science and culture for many years. Long-term
partnerships with academic institutions serve to under-
Social commitment within the company is also encour- line the Group’s systematic focus on research and devel-
aged at Boehringer Ingelheim. More than 3,500 Boehringer opment. Since 2007, for example, Boehringer Ingelheim
Ingelheim employees in more than 30 countries are com- has invested EUR 500,000 in 20 research projects investi-
mitted to the MMH initiative. One of its major pillars is gating infections with porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV-2)
the Executive in Residence (EiR) staff development pro- and associated diseases. In addition to supporting and
gramme. This programme gives young managers the oppor- sponsoring scientific activities, scientists are also awarded
tunity to support social entrepreneurs in the health-care the annual Boehringer Ingelheim FENS Research Award
60GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT INfORMATION ABOUT ThE GROUP Of cOMPANIEs
REPORT ON EcONOMIc POsITION
for neuroscience, or the Heinrich-Wieland-Prize of the With a view to 2015, it can be assumed that little will
Boehringer Ingelheim foundation for research into bio- change in terms of the restrained economic growth in
logically active substances and systems. Germany. Growth of 1.0% has been predicted, primarily
as a result of increased consumer confidence, supported
by a positive situation on the labour market and increasing
REPORT ON
real-term salaries.
ECONOMIC P OSITION
With an average rate of inflation of 0.9% in 2014, the
prices in Germany decreased compared with the previous
Macroeconomic environment year, as measured by the consumer price index. The pri-
In the 2014 financial year, the global economy grew by mary reason for this was the decrease in prices for food-
2.6%, thus exceeding the level of the previous year, but stuffs and energy. The rate of inflation for the whole
still slightly lower than expected. This was partly due to eurozone was 0.5% and, thus, also lower than in the pre-
the ongoing economic problems within the eurozone. In vious year.
addition, the rate of economic growth in the emerging
and developing countries continued to slow down. As a In addition to the euro, the major currencies for the
result of country-specific factors and the ongoing crisis Boehringer Ingelheim Group are the US dollar (USD) and
in Eastern Europe, some emerging economies showed a the Japanese yen (JPY). In relation to the US dollar, the
significantly sharper decline than expected. The main euro experienced an ongoing decrease in value, fluctuating
driver of global growth was strong domestic demand between 1.395 USD/EUR (May) and 1.214 USD/EUR
brought about by the upswing in the USA and the UK. (December). In the last financial year, the exchange rate
The improvements in the Japanese economy were largely between the euro and Japanese yen fluctuated between
triggered by monetary and fiscal policy. 135 JPY/EUR (October) and 149 JPY/EUR (December).
After reaching its lowest point in October, the yen signifi-
In 2015, the global economy is expected to grow at a cantly depreciated in value against the euro towards the
slightly higher rate of 2.9%. As was the case in 2014, three end of the year.
effects in particular will play a role: restrained growth
looks set to continue for the eurozone, which can expect a With growth of around 9% in the past financial year, the
slight increase to 1.0%. In addition, it can be assumed that global pharmaceuticals market also improved its perfor-
China’s growth will continue to slow with an increase in mance as compared with the previous year (4%). This trend
GDP of around 7.0%, negatively impacting other emerg- was driven by increasing demand for innovative drugs
ing economies. By contrast, the USA and the UK are and OTC medicines, as well as pharmaceuticals in emerg-
forecasted to experience growth rates of 3.1% and 2.6% ing economies such as China, Brazil, Russia and India,
respectively, once again making them growth drivers which all showed growth rates far above average. In the
among the advanced economies, which should lead to a established industrialised countries, the market was
slight increase in global growth. depressed by health policy measures and price regula-
tion, as well as increased cost pressure on their health
Economic performance in Germany increased by 1.5% systems. Patented pharmaceuticals in particular experi-
over the past year. After starting with a very positive first enced radical changes in the market environment. Over-
quarter, the German economy slowed down as the year all, growth rates in established regions were lower than
progressed. Major drivers were the positive developments average.
on the labour market on the one hand, dampened by
weak economic growth within the eurozone on the other.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 61GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT REPORT ON EcONOMIc POsITION
Course of business recorded a drop in sales of – 4.4%. With revenue of
Long-term and sustainably successful business develop- EUR 4,081 million, around 31% of the Group’s turnover
ment is the basis for the independence of the Group. was achieved in this region.
Combined with stable results and solid financing, it is
Net sales by region currency
the focus of Boehringer Ingelheim’s strategy. As in pre-
(in eur million) 2014 2013 Change adjusted
vious years, we based our approach on these principles in
Americas 5,937 6,411 – 7.4% – 5.7%
the year under review.
Europe 4,081 4,267 – 4.4% – 4.3%
Asia/Australia/Africa
For Boehringer Ingelheim, 2014 was a year that revealed (AAA) 3,299 3,387 – 2.6% + 4.2%
challenges in terms of decreasing net sales, but also a year
in which we took major steps towards securing our future. In total, the decreases in sales recorded in 2014 resulted
Challenges such as the warning letter from the FDA, the from a difficult market environment, particularly in the
US legal dispute regarding pradaxa® and the sale of USA, which was brought about by ongoing price reductions
major assets from our US subsidiary Ben Venue Laborato- as a result of high cost pressure in the health care system.
ries, Inc. were successfully managed and concluded. In We pushed ahead with the renewal of our product portfo-
addition, various measures and cost-saving initiatives lio with the successful launch of promising product inno-
have created an important basis for positive developments vations, including the oncology drug GIOTRIF®/
in the years to come. GILOTRIF®. These launches, along with a well-stocked
product pipeline in research and development, will ena-
Boehringer Ingelheim generated net sales of EUR 13,317 ble Boehringer Ingelheim to resume its growth course
million in the 2014 financial year. This fell short of the in the future.
previous year’s level (EUR 14,065 million), corresponding
to a decrease of – 5.3%. As was the case in 2013, develop- Boehringer Ingelheim achieved an operating result of
ments on the foreign exchange markets and the associ- EUR 2,140 million, corresponding to a return on sales of
ated exchange rate effects had a negative impact. Adjusted 16.1% – an increase in comparison with the previous
for these effects, net sales declined by – 3.2%, which meant year (15.0%), in line with our predictions. Negative effects
that the previous year’s forecast of stable sales was not such as the increased costs associated with the warning
achieved. letter from the FDA, restructuring costs and the US legal
dispute regarding pradaxa® were offset by positive effects
In the Americas region, the Group achieved net sales of from cost-saving measures and increased efficiency, as
EUR 5,937 million. This represents a decrease of – 7.4% well as proceeds from the sale of major assets from our
compared with the previous year. With around 44% of US subsidiary Ben Venue Laboratories, Inc.
our total sales, the Americas region is the biggest sales
market for Boehringer Ingelheim. The euro-dollar Key figures (in eur million) 2014 2013 Change
exchange rate had a negative impact on the earnings Net sales 13,317 14,065 – 5.3%
situation. Adjusted for currency effects, the decrease in Operating income 2,140 2,114 + 1.2%
sales amounted to – 5.7%. In the Asia/Australia/Africa Return on net sales 16.1% 15.0%
(AAA) region, which continues to grow in significance for
the Group, net sales were EUR 3,299 million (down Results from operations
– 2.6% on 2013). Adjusted for currency effects, Boehringer Boehringer Ingelheim’s business activities are divided
Ingelheim once again showed growth of 4.2% in this into prescription medicines, consumer health care, animal
region in the past financial year, where the company made health, biopharmaceuticals and industrial customers.
around 25% of its global sales. The Europe region also
62With regard to the regional distribution of sales in 2014,
Net sales by businesses currency
(in eur million) 2014 2013 Change adjusted none of the three regions registered growth in pre-
Prescription Medicines 10,101 10,891 – 7.3% – 5.2% scription medicines. The Americas, with a share of 47%,
Consumer Health Care 1,437 1,473 – 2.5% + 2.0% is by far the largest market. In this region, Boehringer
Animal Health 1,130 1,070 + 5.6% + 6.8% Ingelheim generated net sales of EUR 4,762 million, which
Biopharmaceuticals 501 449 + 11.5% + 11.4% corresponds to a change of – 9.5% compared with the
Industrial Customers and previous year (– 8.3% currency-adjusted). The sales per-
other sales 148 182 – 18.6% – 16.3%
formance in our most important market, the US, had the
Prescription Medicines greatest impact on our performance in the Americas. Sales
With around 76% of overall sales, prescription medicines there of EUR 3,896 million decreased by – 11.7%, pri-
is the main pillar of Boehringer Ingelheim’s business activ- marily as a result of the health care reforms, along with
ities. In 2014, sales amounted to EUR 10,101 million. the unfavourable exchange rate movements.
This is equivalent to a change of – 7.3% (– 5.2% currency-
Net sales by region
adjusted) compared with the previous year. The decrease
(in eur million) 2014 2013 Change
in sales was largely due to increased pressure on research-
Americas 4,762 5,262 – 9.5%
driven pharmaceutical companies as a result of health
Europe 2,732 2,919 – 6.4%
care reforms in the USA.
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 2,569 2,649 – 3.0%
As was the case in previous years, spiriva®, for the treat-
ment of COPD, was the biggest revenue contributor, The second-biggest market, Europe, accounted for 27%
accounting for sales of EUR 3,237 million in the report- with sales of EUR 2,732 million. The decrease in sales
ing period. However, this was down from the level compared with 2013 thereby amounted to – 6.4%
recorded for the previous year (EUR 3,522 million). There (– 5.9% currency-adjusted). Sales in Germany, France and
was a significant decrease in sales of spiriva® in the big- Spain in particular were lower than in the previous year.
gest sales market, the USA, as a result of price pressure.
The AAA region achieved net sales of EUR 2,569 million,
The second biggest revenue contributor for Boehringer which is equivalent to 26% of total sales of prescription
Ingelheim, the anticoagulant pradaxa®, recorded sales medicines. This region showed a slight decrease as com-
of EUR 1,198 million, which corresponds to the previous pared with last year (– 3.0%, + 2.6% currency-adjusted).
year’s level. This was primarily due to the currency-related decline in
sales in Japan, where Boehringer Ingelheim generated
micardis®, a drug used to treat high blood pressure, net sales of EUR 1,452 million, which corresponds to a
achieved sales of EUR 1,088 million, down – 20.8% on last change of – 5.3% compared with the previous year.
year. This expected decline resulted from the loss of ex-
clusivity in additional markets. Consumer Health Care
In a market environment with seasonal fluctuations and
Net sales (in eur million) 2014 2013 Change difficult business in Eastern Europe, sales in the con-
spiriva® 3,237 3,552 – 8.9% sumer health care business were down by – 2.5% (+ 2.0%
pradaxa® 1,198 1,206 – 0.7% currency-adjusted) compared with the previous year. In
micardis® 1,088 1,373 – 20.8% this business, Boehringer Ingelheim generated sales
combivent® 563 711 – 20.7% amounting to EUR 1,437 million.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 63GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT REPORT ON EcONOMIc POsITION
In 2014, the biggest revenue contributors in the consumer Sales of products for livestock accounted for the largest
health care segment were buscopan®, dulcolax®, share of this, EUR 710 million, corresponding to 62.8%
mucosolvan® and pharmaton®. All products generated of the entire animal health segment. As in the previous
sales of significantly more than EUR 100 million each. year, the biggest revenue contributor was the swine vac-
As was the case in the previous year, buscopan® was the cine ingelvac circoflex®, accounting for EUR 260 million.
strongest performer with EUR 222 million, growing Sales in the pet segment generated EUR 400 million, which
8.3%. dulcolax® also showed a positive development, corresponds to a share of 35.4%.
with sales increasing by 4.7% to EUR 200 million. By con-
trast, after experiencing a significant boost in 2013, Net sales (in eur million) 2014 2013 Change
mucosolvan® registered a decrease of – 12.0% this year, ingelvac circoflex® 260 260 + 0.2%
achieving net sales of EUR 162 million. metacam® 93 90 + 3.9%
ingelvac® prrs 74 79 – 6.9%
duramune® 69 52 + 32.3%
Net sales (in eur million) 2014 2013 Change
buscopan® 222 205 + 8.3%
dulcolax® 200 191 + 4.7% The growth of the animal health segment was most sig-
mucosolvan® 162 184 – 12.0% nificant in the Americas region. Overall, the biggest sales
pharmaton® 136 139 – 2.2%
market for Boehringer Ingelheim grew by 9.8% (+ 11.5%
currency-adjusted) to EUR 554 million. In the US market in
Considering the region as a whole, Europe generated the particular, net sales increased by 10.9% to EUR 453 million.
highest net sales of EUR 563 million. This corresponds to
a 39% share of global net sales in the consumer health With an increase of 4.7% (+ 7.5% currency-adjusted), the
care business. However, European business experienced a AAA region also achieved positive growth compared with
decrease in sales of – 6.1% (– 4.0% currency-adjusted). the previous year, registering sales of EUR 236 million.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s most significant market, Germany, China achieved impressive growth of + 18.9%, with net
also showed a dip in sales (– 3.2%). sales of EUR 73 million.
The AAA region ended the 2014 financial year with net In the Europe region, Boehringer Ingelheim once again
sales amounting to EUR 439 million and an increase of reported slight growth of 1.4% in the 2014 financial year
3.1% compared with the previous year (+ 9.7% currency- (+ 1.0% currency-adjusted). While net sales in Germany
adjusted). This region therefore accounted for 31% of remained stable at the level of the previous year, the UK
Boehringer Ingelheim’s consumer health care business. enjoyed significant growth (14.2%).
The Americas region, the third largest sales market in the Biopharmaceuticals
consumer health care business, ended the financial year The biopharmaceuticals business consists of contract
with a slight decline in sales of – 2.8% (+ 3.0% currency- manufacturing and biosimilars. Sales for 2014 in biop-
adjusted) compared with the previous year, achieving harmaceuticals amounted to EUR 501 million, which
total net sales of EUR 434 million. The decrease in sales is represented growth of 11.5% compared with the previous
mainly down to the largest market, the US (– 7.8%). year (+ 11.4% currency-adjusted).
Animal Health Industrial Customers and other sales
Sales from products in the animal health segment increased The industrial customer business consists of our third-
to EUR 1,130 million in 2014, corresponding to a 5.6% party businesses in the field of pharmaceutical and chem-
increase on the previous year (+ 6.8% currency-adjusted). ical production and our contract manufacturing business
64for pharma chemicals. Net sales of EUR 148 million were In the 2014 financial year, the net income of the Boehringer
achieved in 2014, corresponding to a decrease in revenue Ingelheim Group totalled EUR 1,047 million and was
of – 18.6% (– 16.3% currency-adjusted) compared with thus lower than the previous year’s level of EUR 1,324 mil-
the prev ious year. lion (– 20.9%).
Presentation of expenditure and income Financial position
Operating expenses at Boehringer Ingelheim decreased The Boehringer Ingelheim financial management strategy
to EUR 12,508 million in the 2014 financial year, repre- focuses on securing liquidity, minimising or limiting
senting a change of – 4.6% as compared with the previous financial and economic risks, and optimising the cost of
year. Material costs exceeded last year’s value by 2.5%, capital with a suitable capital structure. Our financial
coming in at EUR 1,937 million (EUR 1,890 million). As activities are therefore geared towards supporting the
a result of declining sales, material costs were above the business strategy.
level of the previous year and represented a 14.5% share
of total sales. Personnel costs amounted to As an international company, exchange rate volatility has
EUR 4,116 million, which was slightly higher than in a significant impact on Boehringer Ingelheim’s financial
2013 (EUR 4,071 million), corresponding to a personnel performance. The importance of our US business and the
cost ratio of 30.9%. associated supply relationships mean that the perfor-
mance of the US dollar constitutes the greatest single risk.
Depreciation accounting recorded a decrease of 25.5% to As a result of the international focus of our business
EUR 551 million. Other operating expenses declined by activities, foreign exchange risk is calculated within the
7.9% compared with the previous year, coming in at framework of our Group-wide financial reporting and
EUR 5,904 million. Among other things, this cost block hedged using derivative financial instruments. The nature
includes commission and licence payments which are and scope of these measures are set out in our Group
dependent on sales. As a result of cost-saving and effi- guidelines and are regularly discussed and approved by
ciency measures, the operating result was, as forecast, the relevant committee in a standardised process.
slightly higher than 2013 at EUR 2,140 million
(EUR 2,114 million). Investments are highly significant for Boehringer Ingelheim
from a strategic point of view in order to secure the long-
In the reporting period, the financial result amounted to term success and development of the Group. Ongoing
EUR – 416 million, down by EUR 265 million compared investments create the basis for profitable growth and the
with the previous year. This was largely attributable to strategic development of our businesses.
interest effects within pension commitments.
A total of EUR 605 million was invested in tangible and
Tax expenses amounted to EUR 660 million in the past intangible assets in the year under review.
financial year. It must be noted in this regard that under
the provisions of German commercial law, shareholders’ In order to meet the consistent positive demand for the
personal taxes arising from Group business activities may respimat® Soft Mist™ inhaler and to facilitate the upcoming
not be recognised as tax expenses. Instead, these taxes are launches of spiriva respimat and Spiolto, the company
presented as part of withdrawals from Group equity. Taking moved ahead with the expansion of production capacity
this extraordinary effect into account, the actual tax ratio at its Dortmund and Ingelheim sites in 2014 with
is markedly higher than the figure shown in the profit and investments amounting to EUR 35 million. The respimat®
loss statement. Soft Mist™ inhaler is manufactured by Boehringer
Ingelheim microParts GmbH in Dortmund and is filled
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 65GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT REPORT ON EcONOMIc POsITION
REPORT ON POsT-BALANcE shEET DATE EVENTs
REPORT ON OPPORTUNITEs AND RIsKs
with the relevant active substances from the pharmaceu- funds, including securities within current assets, stood at
tical production facility in Ingelheim for sale worldwide. EUR 3,294 million (2013: EUR 2,879 million).
In addition, EUR 40 million were invested in a new office
building in Ingelheim. This underlines the strategic role Due to the aforementioned changes, Group equity
and significance of the location for the Group. In its major amounted to EUR 8,111 million. In addition to equity, the
growth market China, Boehringer Ingelheim invested a pension provisions and long-term liabilities are also avail-
further EUR 34 million in 2014 in the expansion of its able to the Group in the long term. The total of these three
manufacturing facilities and in the chemical research and items amounted to EUR 11,983 million in 2014, represent-
development laboratory in Shanghai. Research and devel- ing a share of 59.8% of the total assets. Consequently,
opment in the fields of human and animal medicines will long-term disposable capital covers all intangible and
also remain a top priority for Boehringer Ingelheim in tangible assets, inventories and trade accounts receivable.
the future. As a result, additional investments were made
in the research and development facilities in Germany, While other provisions were around 14.9% higher than last
Austria and the USA in 2014. year at EUR 3,793 million, liabilities were reduced by 15.5%
to EUR 2,435 million in the past financial year, primarily
Cash flow stood at EUR 1,850 million in 2014. This con- as a result of decreased bank liabilities due repayment of
stitutes a decrease of 13.1% compared with 2013. As a bank loans.
result of the higher provisions for the period as compared
with the previous year, cash flow from operating activities The balance sheet and the respective balance sheet ratios
increased by EUR 196 million to EUR 2,015 million. As round off the positive picture already shown in the finan-
in previous years, this meant that investments could be cial position and results from operations. A combined
financed entirely through funds generated by the c ompany evaluation of the net assets, financial position and results
itself. A total of EUR 548 million was invested in tangible from operations shows that Boehringer Ingelheim is a
assets and EUR 57 million in intangible assets. In terms of soundly financed and profitable company.
cash flow from financing activities, we recorded an out-
flow of funds amounting to EUR 575 million as a result of
REPORT ON POST-BALANCE
repayments of loans. Overall, the changes in cash flow led
to an increase in liquid funds of EUR 993 million to SHEET DATE EVENTS
EUR 8,507 million (+ 13.2%).
Net assets Since the end of the 2014 financial year, we have not
In the 2014 financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim’s total become aware of any events that are of material signifi-
assets amounted to EUR 20,051 million, an increase of cance to the group of companies or that could lead to a
EUR 1,752 million or + 9.6% compared with the previous reappraisal of its net assets, financial position and results
year. Tangible and intangible assets totalled EUR 3,662 mil- from operations.
lion and were fully covered by consolidated equity.
At the end of the year, financial assets totalled EUR
5,312 million and were EUR 575 million higher than in
the previous year. Inventories showed an increase of 7.4%
to EUR 2,237 million. Trade accounts receivable rose by
EUR 100 million to EUR 2,777 million in 2014. Liquid
66GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT REPORT ON EcONOMIc POsITION
REPORT ON POsT-BALANcE shEET DATE EVENTs
REPORT ON OPPORTUNITEs AND RIsKs
REPORT ON OPPORTUNITES
Individual risks
AND RISKS The most important risks to which Boehringer Ingelheim
is exposed are broken down into the following specific
categories: financial risks, legal risks, production and envi-
Opportunity and risk management ronmental risks, personnel risks and sector-specific risks.
The aim of the risk management system implemented at
Boehringer Ingelheim is to identify business-specific risks Risks are identified below as being “concrete” when they
and, in particular, risks that jeopardise the continued appear to be controllable by means of specific manage-
existence of the company as early as possible, to assess ment procedures. The term “abstract” is used in the case
them and to reduce them to a reasonable level by means of risks that cannot be completely controlled, even by
of suitable measures. means of targeted management procedures, regardless of
the probability of their occurrence.
When assessing the risks in the context of holistic risk
management, we also endeavour to take into account the Financial risks
resulting opportunities. Opportunity management is Relevant financial risks are themselves broken down as
based on the strategies and objectives of the company, follows: currency risks, credit and country-specific risks,
individual businesses and operating business units and as well as the management of financial investment risks.
is an integral part of the Group-wide planning and manage-
ment systems. Those responsible for the businesses and Currency risks
functions bear direct responsibility for the early and sys- The global orientation of our business activities results in
tematic identification, analysis and use of opportunities. currency risks due to exchange rate volatility, particularly
For Boehringer Ingelheim as a research-driven and inno- with regard to the US dollar and Japanese yen. The Group
vative company, the current research and development monitors and quantifies these risks at regular intervals,
activities are naturally considered a relevant opportunity. making them predictable for future business by means of
A detailed description of these projects is illustrated in relevant hedging strategies and appropriate financial
the research and development chapter. instruments such as forward exchange contracts. The
resultant risks are subsequently designated as being con-
The persons responsible for the businesses and functions crete and therefore controllable.
are included in the process of calculating and assessing
risks. The Group-wide risk and information system Credit and country-specific risks
ensures that all identified risks are analysed and assessed Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to various credit and
carefully. Following an appropriate classification into country-specific risks as a result of its international busi-
various categories, adequate countermeasures are initi- ness activities. From the portfolio of trade accounts
ated and their implementation is consistently monitored. receivable and trade accounts payable, we have not identi-
fied any extraordinary risks for the Group beyond the
In the year under review, internal auditing performed tar- usual level in the sector. The same applies to possible default
geted routine audits as well as extraordinary audits around risks for receivables, which are largely hedged against
the world. In addition to adherence to legal requirements economic and political risks. We will continue to carefully
and internal Group guidelines, the main focal points were track credit and country-specific risks to be in a position
the functionality of systems, the effectiveness of internal to respond to negative changes in a timely manner. These
controls for the prevention of loss of assets and the effi- risks are therefore regarded as concrete.
ciency of structures and processes. Corresponding adjust-
ments or optimisations were initiated as necessary.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 67GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT REPORT ON OPPORTUNITEs AND RIsKs
REPORT ON EXPEcTED DEVELOPMENTs
Management of financial investment risks us to detect threats at an early stage and, by commencing
The Group pursues a defensive investment strategy in the appropriate countermeasures, defend our legal position
management of its financial assets. This is reflected in the using all legal means available to us so that these risks are
orientation of its portfolio, which is focused on European regarded as concrete.
Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) government bonds
with top credit ratings and short-term investments at Production and environmental risks
selected banks, so that this results in a concrete risk. Although the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
withdrew the warning letter that it had issued in 2013
Legal risks following an inspection of the Ingelheim manufacturing
The business activities of the Group are exposed to legal facility, this risk remained of high significance to the
risks. A distinction is made between regulatory, liability Group and is classified as abstract. The quality manage-
and patent protection risks. ment systems and compliance process were optimised in
close cooperation with the FDA in order to ensure com-
Regulatory risks pliance with current good manufacturing practices
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to risks arising from legal (cGMP) in future.
disputes and proceedings as well as official investiga-
tions. As the legal or administrative decisions in ongoing In order to guarantee the supply of our products to the
or future proceedings cannot be predicted, we regard the market, we have implemented measures that guarantee
resultant risks as being abstract. reliable and high-quality supplies for internal and exter-
nal customers. In addition to supplier management on the
Liability risks procurement side, this also involves building up internal
The marketing and sale of pharmaceuticals are exposed to standby capacities. As a result, we see the risk as concrete.
a potential product liability risk. Boehringer Ingelheim
currently has product liability insurance for the company’s Risks in the areas of infrastructure, safety, environment
risk profile. There is absolutely no guarantee, however, and engineering (ISEE) are proactively minimised by
that this insurance coverage can be maintained at reason- ensuring global adherence to our high safety standards.
able cost and acceptable conditions, or that it is sufficient Appropriate emergency plans have been drawn up for
to protect Boehringer Ingelheim against a claim or loss, or possible incidents of any kind and are practised and sub-
against all potential claims or losses. jected to comprehensive quality testing at regular inter-
vals. As a result of these measures, these risks are classed
Furthermore, product liability claims could tie up sub- as concrete.
stantial financial resources and management capacity and
be detrimental to the company’s image in the event that Personnel risks
the market considers the product to be unsafe or ineffec- Boehringer Ingelheim, like other companies, is exposed to
tive as a result of unexpected side effects. We regard this demographic change and the resultant risk of being affec-
risk as abstract. ted by a lack of appropriately qualified personnel. This
risk can have a substantial impact on the company’s
Patent protection risks business activities. This potential risk has therefore been
Protection of innovations through trademark, brand and included in the long-term planning process for many
patent rights is of particular importance to Boehringer years and has acquired strategic significance as a result.
Ingelheim as a research company. These commercial pro- Boehringer Ingelheim counters the risk by means of a
tective rights are increasingly the target of attacks and comprehensive personnel concept. Regardless of their
breaches. We have taken the necessary precautions to allow ethnic background, gender or religion, we offer all com-
68GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT REPORT ON OPPORTUNITEs AND RIsKs
REPORT ON EXPEcTED DEVELOPMENTs
pany employees development opportunities based on their pharmaceutical industry and will continue to require sig-
vocational skills, social expertise, personal aptitudes and nificant attention from Boehringer Ingelheim in 2015.
willingness to take on responsibility in accordance with With a view to competitiveness, measures taken to reduce
the needs of the company. In view of the countermeasures costs and enhance efficiency have been successfully
described above, the risk is regarded as concrete. launched, thus creating a solid basis for the future.
Sector-specific risks We will continue to renew our product portfolio in the
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to business risks specific 2015 financial year. The company already set out on its
to the pharmaceutical industry. Some of these risks current course back in 2013 with its entry into the thera-
materialised in the past financial year (changes in the US peutic area oncology following the approval of giotrif®
health-care system) and are increasing in significance as a and the further expansion of its activities in the field of
result of their impact on Boehringer Ingelheim. They will diabetes with empagliflozin, and respiratory disease with
continue to be classed as abstract. olodaterol. This is the path it continues to follow. Further
approvals were obtained from the US and European
In addition to the loss of exclusivity of products estab- authorities in 2014: ofev® for the treatment of the lung
lished on the market and risks associated with the devel- disease IPF, pradaxa® for the therapy of deep vein throm-
opment and registration of new products, these risks bosis and pulmonary embolism, striverdi® respimat®
increasingly include changing and restrictive requirements for COPD and jardiance® for diabetes. In addition, our
relating to pricing and reimbursement on many sales second cancer drug vargatef® also received EU approval.
markets. Frequently, the prices of pharmaceutical prod- Thanks to the growth of these new products, the expected
ucts are subject not only to state monitoring and regula- decrease in net sales resulting from the loss of exclusivity
tion, but also to price pressure from cheaper generic drugs rights for other medicines we provide should be offset,
caused by the state reimbursement systems. Boehringer leading to moderate growth over the medium term.
Ingelheim is therefore keeping a close eye on the various
changes in its sales markets and has already started to Besides jardiance®, which has developed very positively,
respond to current developments with cost-saving and our product trajenta® (linagliptin), which is used for the
efficiency-improving measures initiated in 2014. treatment of type 2 diabetes as well, has further growth
potential and is being marketed as part of the alliance
Overall statement on the risk situation between Boehringer Ingelheim and Eli Lilly and Company.
From current perspective, we are not aware of any risks The long-term collaboration for the joint development
that alone or in conjunction with other risks could lead to and marketing of diabetes active ingredients is being con-
an impairment of the company’s assets, financial position tinued and also comprises other active ingredients that
or earnings which could jeopardise the continued existence will be ready for the market in the next few years.
of Boehringer Ingelheim.
In light of the many changes in the health system, there
will not be any significant growth impetus for the phar-
REPORT ON EXPECTED
maceutical industry in the coming year. Furthermore, as a
DEVELOPMENTS result of changing conditions in Boehringer Ingelheim’s
major markets, further upheavals can be expected. Despite
difficult market conditions, we are expecting an overall
The past financial year was an intense and challenging increase in sales for 2015 compared with the previous year
one for Boehringer Ingelheim. The increasingly difficult on a currency-neutral basis, following two years of
market environment posed major challenges for the entire
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 69GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT REPORT ON EXPEcTED DEVELOPMENTs
declining sales. This is due to the new product approvals sustainable organic growth therefore still takes prece-
listed above. dence over short-term profit targets. We are confident that
we will achieve our ambitious targets thanks to our great
R&D costs remained high in 2014, in keeping with our innovative strength based on a comprehensive portfolio
strategy to drive growth and promote new products in the of prospective products, our global presence and the
future primarily with products from our own R&D facili- support of our highly qualified and motivated employees.
ties. We invest in this area with care after close investiga- We will continue to stand by our vision “Value through
tion of the therapeutic benefit and the associated prospects Innovation”, research and develop innovative products
for success. Our portfolio of prospective products with that offer high medical benefits and bring them to the
promising study outcomes, along with newly approved market. The aim of our endeavours is to make new drugs
products with significant sales potential, justifies our high available that will enable doctors to treat patients more
level of investment in R&D. In 2015, we plan to invest effectively than is currently possible.
into the research and development of new pharmaceutical
products on a similar level to the year under review.
In addition to patent expiry and attacks on patents, the
major challenges facing the research-driven pharmaceuti-
cal industry are the increasing amount of investment in
R&D as well as bigger hurdles and increased costs asso-
ciated with product approvals. In this context, it is the
increasing cost pressure in the healthcare system that
should be singled out in particular as a reason why
fewer and fewer companies are prepared to invest large
amounts in the proper development of new medicines.
Legislative intervention in the pricing of prescription
medicines is having a negative impact in various markets.
Increasing cost pressure and pricing difficulties already
influenced the result in the 2014 financial year. As a
result, Boehringer Ingelheim started to react to changes in
the pharmaceutical market last year and launched its
‘Journey’ cost-saving initiative. The point of the programme
is to lower the cost base in order to create potential for
investments and to secure the company’s long-term success.
The company will continue to work on the ‘Journey’
initiative in the coming year. As a result, initial outlays are
necessary in order to implement the measures effectively.
We are expecting an operating result for 2015 on the same
level as last year.
As a family-owned company with a long history,
Boehringer Ingelheim’s primary aim is to maintain the
firm’s independence and competitiveness. Long-term
70CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS 2014
Overview of the major consolidated companies 72
Consolidated balance sheet 74
Consolidated profit and loss statement 75
Cash flow statement 76
Statement of changes in group equity 77
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 78
Auditor’s report 98
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 71OvERvIEw OF ThE MAjOR CONSOLIDATED COMpANIES
OVERVIEW OF THE MAJOR CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES
C. H. BOEHRINGER SOHN
AG & CO. KG*
BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM GMBH
EUROPE GMBH INTERNATIONAL GMBH
GERMANY D P R AUSTRIA D P R AUSTRIA R
Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim RCV Forschungsinstitut für Molekulare
Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, GmbH & Co. KG, Vienna Pathologie Gesellschaft mbH,
Ingelheim Vienna
Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma Ges.m.b.H., Vienna
Vetmedica GmbH, Ingelheim
BELGIUM D
Boehringer Ingelheim
microParts GmbH, Dortmund CZECH REPUBLIC D SCS Boehringer Ingelheim
Comm. V., Brussels
Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim s.r.o.,
Biopharmaceuticals GmbH, Prague
Ingelheim CHINA D P
Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary
FINLAND D Boehringer Ingelheim
Research Center GmbH & Co. KG,
International Trading (Shanghai)
Hannover Boehringer Ingelheim
Co. Ltd., Shanghai
Finland Ky, Espoo
PHILIPPINES D
NORWAY D
Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim
(Phil.), Inc., Manila
Norway KS, Asker
POLAND D
Boehringer Ingelheim Sp.zo.o.,
Warsaw
D Distribution
P Production
R Research and Development
* Sole, personally liable, managing shareholder:
Boehringer AG
72C. H. BOEHRINGER SOHN
GRUNDSTÜCKSVERWALTUNG GMBH & CO. KG
BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
AUSLANDSBETEILIGUNGS GMBH
ARGENTINA D R FRANCE D P THE NETHERLANDS D P TAIWAN D
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim B.V., Alkmaar Boehringer Ingelheim
Buenos Aires France S.A.S., Paris Taiwan Ltd., Taipeh
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Operations B.V., Alkmaar
AUSTRALIA D GREECE D P THAILAND D
Boehringer Ingelheim Pty. Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim Ellas AE, NEW ZEALAND D Boehringer Ingelheim
North Ryde Athens (Thai) Ltd., Bangkok
Boehringer Ingelheim
(N.Z.) Ltd., Auckland
BRAZIL D P INDIA D TURKEY D
Boehringer Ingelheim do Brasil Boehringer Ingelheim PORTUGAL D Boehringer Ingelheim Ilac
Quimica e Farmaceutica Ltda., India Private Ltd., Mumbai Ticaret A.S., Istanbul
São Paulo Boehringer Ingelheim Lda., Lisbon
Solana Agro Pecuaria Ltda., Unilfarma Lda., Lisbon
INDONESIA D P UNITED KINGDOM D
Arapongas
PT Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim Ltd.,
SINGAPORE D
Indonesia, Jakarta Bracknell
CANADA D
Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim Singapore Pte. Ltd., Singapore
IRELAND D USA D P R
(Canada) Ltd., Burlington
Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim Corp.,
SOUTH AFRICA D
Ireland Limited, Dublin Ridgefield, Connecticut
CHILE D
Boehringer Ingelheim (Pty.) Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim Ltda., Randburg Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
ITALY D P R
Santiago de Chile Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals (Pty.) Ridgefield, Connecticut
Boehringer Ingelheim Ltd., Randburg Boehringer Ingelheim
Italia S.p.A., Reggello USA Corporation,
CHINA D P
Bidachem S.p.A., Ridgefield, Connecticut
SOUTH KOREA D
Boehringer Ingelheim Shanghai Fornovo S. Giovanni Roxane Laboratories, Inc.,
Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd., Shanghai Boehringer Ingelheim Korea Ltd., Columbus, Ohio
Boehringer Ingelheim (China) JAPAN D P R Seoul Boehringer Ingelheim
Investment Co. Ltd., Shanghai Vetmedica, Inc.,
Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim SPAIN D P St. Joseph, Missouri
(China) Investment Co. Ltd., Shanghai Co. Ltd., Tokyo Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health SSP Co. Ltd., Tokyo Boehringer Ingelheim Roxane, Inc., Columbus, Ohio
España S.A., Barcelona
Operations (China) Co. Ltd., Taizhou Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim
Vetmedica Japan Co. Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Barcelona Fremont, Inc.,
COLUMBIA D P Tokyo Europharma S.A., Barcelona Fremont, California
Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Seiyaku Co. Ltd., Yamagata Laboratorios Fher S.A., Barcelona
Bogotá VENEZUELA D
Boehringer Ingelheim
Japan, Inc., Tokyo SWEDEN D Boehringer Ingelheim C.A.,
Caracas
DENMARK D P Boehringer Ingelheim AB, Stockholm
Boehringer Ingelheim MEXICO D P R
Danmark A/S, Copenhagen
Boehringer Ingelheim SWITZERLAND D
Promeco S.A. de C.V.,
Boehringer Ingelheim
ECUADOR D Mexico City (Schweiz) GmbH, Basel
Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica,
Boehringer Ingelheim del Ecuador Pharmaton S.A., Lugano
S.A. de C.V., Guadalajara
Cia. Ltda., Quito
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 73CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE ShEET
CONSOLIDATED pROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
Assets (in millions of eur) Notes 1) 31.12.2014 31.12.2013
Intangible assets (3.1) 592 582
Tangible assets (3.2) 3,070 2,887
Financial assets (3.3) 5,312 4,737
Fixed assets 8,974 8,206
Inventories (3.4) 2,237 2,083
Accounts receivable and other assets (3.5) 3,751 3,555
Securities 760 601
Cash and cash equivalents 2,534 2,278
Current assets 9,282 8,517
Deferred charges and prepaid expenses 155 110
Deferred taxes 1,640 1,466
Total assets 20,051 18,299
Liabilities and equity (in millions of eur) Notes 1) 31.12.2014 31.12.2013
Shareholders’ capital 178 178
Group reserves 7,026 5,829
Balance sheet currency conversion difference — 142 — 210
Net income 1,047 1,324
Equity 8,109 7,121
Minority interests 2 1
Group equity 8,111 7,122
Negative difference from acquisition of companies 91 104
Provisions (3.6) 8,535 7,539
Accounts payable (3.7) 2,435 2,878
Liabilities 10,970 10,417
Deferred charges 574 378
Deferred taxes 305 278
Total liabilities and equity 20,051 18,299
1) For explanation, see relevant section in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
74CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE ShEET
CONSOLIDATED pROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
(in millions of eur) Notes 1) 2014 2013
Net sales (4.1) 13,317 14,065
Changes in inventories 180 23
Other internal work performed and capitalised 12 3
Other operating income (4.2) 1,139 1,137
Total revenues 14,648 15,228
Material costs (4.3) — 1,937 — 1,890
Personnel costs (4.4) — 4,116 — 4,071
Amortisation of intangible and depreciation of tangible assets (4.5) — 551 — 739
Other operating expenses (4.6) — 5,904 — 6,414
Operating income 2,140 2,114
Financial income (4.7) — 416 — 151
Holding income (4.8) — 18 — 9
Income before taxes 1,706 1,954
Taxes 2) (4.9) — 660 — 630
Income after taxes 1,046 1,324
Third-party share 1 0
Net income (4.10) 1,047 1,324
1) For explanation, see relevant section in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
2) Due to legal requirements the disclosure of the shareholders’ personal taxes arising from consolidated business activities as tax expenses is not
allowed. These taxes are shown as withdrawals from the accrued group capital.
Items of the consolidated profit and loss statement that show no value due to rounding in millions of EUR will be disclosed.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 75CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CASh FLOw STATEMENT
STATEMENT OF ChANGES IN GROUp EQUITY
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(in millions of eur) 2014 2013
Income after taxes (including third-party share) 1,046 1,324
Write-downs/write-ups on fixed assets 1) 551 730
Change in provisions for pensions 253 75
Cash flow 1,850 2,129
Change in other provisions 452 190
Other non-cash income and expenses 152 — 30
Gain / loss on disposals of fixed assets — 144 86
Change in inventories — 93 — 62
Change in accounts receivable and other assets not related to investing or financing activities — 61 — 571
Change in trade accounts payable and other liabilities not related to investing or financing
activities — 141 77
Cash flow from operating activities 2,015 1,819
Investments in intangible assets — 57 — 47
Investments in property, plant and equipment — 548 — 558
Investments in non-current financial assets 1) — 19 — 18
Proceeds from disposals of intangible assets 169 0
Proceeds from disposals of tangible assets 15 12
Proceeds from disposals of non-current financial assets 1) 6 19
Cash receipts from the disposal of subsidiaries 7 0
Cash flow from investing activities — 427 — 592
Cash receipts from/cash payment to owners and minority shareholders — 189 — 201
Cash proceeds from borrowings/repayments of loans — 386 35
Cash flow from financing activities — 575 — 166
Change in liquid funds from cash relevant transactions 1,013 1,061
Changes in liquid funds due to exchange rate movements and changes in group structure — 20 — 14
Financial funds 2) as of 1.1. 7,514 6,467
Financial funds 2) as of 31.12. 8,507 7,514
1) Excl. fixed-asset securities
2) Liquid funds, securities within fixed and current assets
(+) = source of funds, (–) = use of funds
76CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CASh FLOw STATEMENT
STATEMENT OF ChANGES IN GROUp EQUITY
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN GROUP EQUITY
Sharehol- Accrued thereof cur- Minority thereof cur-
(in millions of eur) ders’ capital 1) group capital rency effects Equity interests rency effects Group equity
Balance as of 31.12.2012 178 6,000 — 1 6,178 0 0 6,178
Withdrawals 0 — 172 0 — 172 0 0 — 172
Net income 0 1,324 0 1,324 0 0 1,324
Other changes 0 — 209 — 209 — 209 1 0 — 208
Balance as of 31.12.2013 178 6,943 — 210 7,121 1 0 7,122
Contributions 0 40 0 40 2 0 42
Withdrawals 0 — 167 0 — 167 0 0 — 167
Net income 0 1,047 0 1,047 — 1 0 1,046
Other changes 0 68 68 68 0 0 68
Balance as of 31.12.2014 178 7,931 — 142 8,109 2 0 8,111
1) The shareholders’ capital consists of the equity of C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG and C. H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG. As of
31.12.2014, the capital consists only of the limited partner’s capital contribution. The shareholders’ personal taxes arising from consolidated business activities are
shown as withdrawals from the accrued group capital.
Items of the statement of changes in equity that show no value due to rounding in millions of EUR will be disclosed.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 77CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
1 General principles
1.1 General principles
The consolidated financial statements of Boehringer Ingelheim for the 2014 financial year were prepared in
accordance with Section 264a of the German Commercial Code (HGB), in line with the legal requirements to
prepare consolidated financial statements and a group management report under Section 290 et seq. HGB.
In accordance with Section 297 (1) HGB, the consolidated financial statements consist of the consolidated
balance sheet, the consolidated profit and loss statement, the notes to the consolidated financial statements,
the cash flow statement and the statement of changes in group equity.
The consolidated financial statements were prepared in euro in accordance with Section 298 (1) in conjunc-
tion with Section 244 HGB.
To improve the clarity of the consolidated financial statements, individual items of the consolidated balance
sheet and the consolidated profit and loss statement have been combined. These items are presented and
explained separately in the notes. The additional disclosures required for the individual items can also be
found in the notes.
1.2 Information on consolidated companies
The parent company of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim.
Boehringer AG, Ingelheim, is the sole, personally liable, managing shareholder of this company.
Besides C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, there is C. H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH
& Co. KG whose general partner is controlled by C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG.
The Boehringer Ingelheim Group consists of a total of 146 affiliated companies in Germany and abroad. In
addition to C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG and C. H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH
& Co. KG, a further 122 companies in which C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG directly or indirectly holds
the majority of voting rights have been included in the consolidated financial statements under full consoli-
dation rules.
In accordance with Section 296 (2) HGB, 20 companies were not included in the consolidation in the reporting
year, as they are individually and collectively insignificant in terms of the net assets, financial position and
results of operations of the Group. The total amount of the sales, equity and net income of the companies not
included in consolidation account for less than 1% of the aggregated Group financial statements totals. These
companies were also not classified as associates in accordance with Section 311 (2) HGB due to a lack of
78significance. There are ongoing restrictions on disposal at two other companies on account of their articles of
association. These were not consolidated in accordance with Section 296 (1) (1) HGB.
The total number of affiliated companies increased by four compared to the previous year:
• One company was sold.
• Four companies were founded.
• One former related company is now considered as an affiliated company.
The following subsidiaries were exempted from the reporting and disclosure obligations of Section 264 (3) HGB:
• Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Europe GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Secura Versicherungsvermittlungs GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Grundstücksgesellschaft mbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Finanzierungs GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim R&D Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund GmbH, Ingelheim
The following subsidiary companies are exempt from the duty to prepare and disclose annual financial state-
ments and management reports in accordance with Section 264b HGB:
• C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
• C. H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim
• C. H. Boehringer Selbstmedikation KG, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary Research Center GmbH & Co. KG, Hanover
1.3 Consolidation methods
For inventories and fixed assets, receivables, liabilities, and income and expense items, transactions between
the companies included in consolidation were eliminated as part of debt consolidation procedures in accord-
ance with Section 303 HGB, procedures to eliminate intercompany profits in accordance with Section 304
HGB and income and expenses consolidation procedures in accordance with Section 305 HGB.
The revaluation method was applied when including subsidiary companies in the consolidation for the first
time in accordance with Section 301 HGB. Each of these companies was consolidated for the first time on the
date on which the company became a subsidiary.
The carrying amount of the shares held by the parent company was offset against the corresponding equity of
the subsidiary. Equity is carried at the amount of the fair value of the assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses and
deferred income, and special reserves included in the consolidated financial statements as at the time of con-
solidation. Any remaining balance after offsetting was capitalised as goodwill.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 79CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1.4 Currency translation
Assets and liabilities resulting from foreign currency transactions were translated using the middle spot
exchange rate as at the balance sheet date. The realisation principle (Section 298 (1) in conjunction with
Section 252 (1) (4) (2) HGB) and the historical cost convention (Section 298 (1) in conjunction with
Section 253 (1) (1) HGB) were applied to items with a remaining term of more than one year.
In these consolidated financial statements, the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries domiciled in a
state outside the eurozone which are denominated in a foreign currency have been converted into euro in
accordance with Section 308a HGB using the modified closing rate method.
Using the modified closing date rate method, the asset and liability items of the annual financial statements
prepared in foreign currency were translated into euros using the average spot exchange rate as at the closing
date, with the exception of equity, which was translated using the historical rate. Items included in the profit
and loss statement were translated into euros using the average rate. The resulting translation difference was
generally reported within consolidated equity below the reserves in “Difference in equity from currency
translation”. For annual financial statements from countries with hyper inflation, parts of the difference have
been recognized in the profit and loss statement to improve the true and fair view of the consolidated finan-
cial statements. The most important currencies for the Group developed as follows during the reporting year
(basis: EUR 1):
Year-end rate Average annual rate
31.12.2014 31.12.2013 2014 2013
US dollar 1.21 1.38 1.33 1.33
Japanese yen 145.23 144.72 140.38 129.67
Pound sterling 0.78 0.83 0.81 0.85
Canadian dollar 1.41 1.47 1.47 1.37
802 Accounting Policies
2.1 Fixed assets
Acquired intangible assets and tangible assets were carried at cost, less scheduled straight-line amortisation and
depreciation determined under consideration of the technical and economic circumstances. This is based on the
following useful lives:
Intangible assets 2 to 15 years
Buildings 20 years
Technical equipment and machinery 10 years
Other equipment, operating and office equipment 3 to 10 years
Only straight-line depreciation and amortisation are used in the consolidated financial statements. Addi-
tional write-downs are recorded to reflect impairments when the value of assets was considered permanently
impaired. Production costs include materials and labourmanufacturing costs, an appropriate portion of
materials and labour overheads, and the depreciation of fixed assets (to the extent caused by production).
All capitalised intangible assets have finite useful lives.
Goodwill from the first-time consolidation of shares is usually amortised over a period of five years.
A useful life of ten years was applied to the goodwill for Boehringer Ingelheim Korea Ltd., acquired in
2007, as past experience of products and sales markets together with the business conditions of Boehringer
Ingelheim Korea Ltd. indicates that this presents a true and fair view.
Financial assets essentially include shareholder rights, securities and loans and are carried at the lower of
cost or fair market value, if impaired.
2.2 Current assets and prepaid expenses
Inventories were carried at the lower of cost and fair market value.
Raw materials, consumables and supplies were capitalised at the lower of average acquisition prices or fair
market value on the balance sheet date.
Finished goods and work in progress were measured at production cost on the basis of individual calcula-
tions, taking into account the directly attributable costs of materials, direct labour costs, other direct costs, an
appropriate share of production and materials overheads, and depreciation.
Goods for resale are valued at the lower of either purchase cost or fair market value.
All identifiable risks in inventory assets arising from above-average storage periods, diminished marketability
and lower replacement costs were taken into account by appropriate valuation adjustments.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 81CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Inventories are valued loss-free, i.e. deductions were made from the expected sales prices to reflect costs yet
to be incurred.
Receivables and other assets were recognised at cost less allowances for specific risks and general credit risk.
Low-interest or non-interest-bearing receivables with a term of more than one year were discounted.
Securities classified as current assets include other securities and were recognised at the lower of cost or
quoted/market prices on the reporting date.
Cash and cash equivalents, consisting of cash, balances at banks and cheques, were recognised at the lower
of cost or fair market value.
Deferred charges and prepaid expenses recorded in accordance with Section 250 (1) HGB include expenses
paid in advance for a certain period after the balance sheet date.
Deferred charges recorded in accordance with Section 250 (2) HGB include proceeds which are income for a
certain period after the balance sheet date.
2.3 Negative difference from the acquisition of companies
The negative difference from the acquisition of companies was recognised following the acquisitions on
March 31, 2011 and August 1, 2012 in which the value of the net assets acquired exceeded the purchase
prices that were paid. The value of the negative difference from the acquisition of companies amounted to
EUR 157 million as of January 1, 2012, and was increased by the acquisition of the company acquired on
August 1, 2012 by a further EUR 11 million. The amount of the release of the negative difference from acqui-
sition of companies is in line with the amortisation of the excess net assets recorded at the acquisition date.
The period of amortisation is currently estimated at ten years. The release of the negative difference from
acquisition of companies of EUR 13 million in the financial year 2014 to EUR 91 million is shown under
other operating income.
822.4 Group reserves
Group reserves include the retained earnings of the consolidated subsidiaries from prior years and consolida-
tion entries that affect earnings related to previous years.
2.5 Provisions
Tax provisions and other provisions include all uncertain liabilities and expected losses from executory con-
tracts. They were carried at the amount required to settle the obligation based on reasonable business judge-
ment in accordance with the prudence principle (i.e. including future cost and price increases). Provisions
with a remaining term of more than one year are discounted using the matched-term, average market interest
rate for the last seven years (in accordance with the Rückstellungsabzinsungsverordnung – German Regulation
on the Discounting of Provisions).
2.6 Liabilities
Liabilities are recognised at settlement amount.
2.7 Deferred taxes
To calculate deferred taxes arising from temporary or quasi-permanent differences between the carrying
amounts of assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses and deferred charges in the commercial balance sheet and
their carrying amounts for tax purposes or tax loss carryforwards, the amounts of the resulting tax benefits
and expenses at the time that the differences were reversed were measured using tax rates specific to the
respective consolidated company (12 – 44 %) and not discounted. Differences due to consolidation measures
in accordance with Sections 300 to 305 HGB were also measured using company-specific tax rates at the time
of the expected reversal of the difference. Deferred tax assets on loss carryforwards were taken into account
if it is likely that they will be used within the next five years.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities were reported without being netted.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 83CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3 Notes to the consolidated balance sheet
3.1 Intangible assets
Acquired
concessions/ Advance
(in millions of eur) similar rights Goodwill payments Total
Procurement/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2013 1,470 573 16 2,059
Currency conversion difference — 59 0 0 — 59
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0
Additions 41 0 6 47
Disposals — 53 0 0 — 53
Reclassifications 107 0 — 8 99
Balance as of 31.12.2013 1,506 573 14 2,093
Currency conversion difference 112 1 0 113
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0
Additions 54 0 3 57
Disposals — 55 0 — 2 — 57
Reclassifications 20 0 — 12 8
Balance as of 31.12.2014 1,637 574 3 2,214
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1.1.2013 826 551 0 1,377
Currency conversion difference — 35 1 0 — 34
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0
Additions 94 5 0 99
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 16 0 0 — 16
Reclassifications 85 0 0 85
Balance as of 31.12.2013 954 557 0 1,511
Currency conversion difference 57 0 1 58
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0
Additions 97 5 0 102
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 49 0 0 — 49
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2014 1,059 562 1 1,622
Book value as of 31.12.2013 552 16 14 582
Book value as of 31.12.2014 578 12 2 592
843.2 Tangible assets
Advance pay-
Technical facili- Other facilities/ ments/const-
Land and buil- ties and machi- operating ruction in
(in millions of eur) dings nes equipment progress Total
Procurement/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2013 2,780 3,173 2,114 497 8,564
Currency conversion difference — 128 — 96 — 59 — 12 — 295
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 39 55 126 338 558
Disposals — 40 — 53 — 129 — 18 — 240
Reclassifications 145 130 — 49 — 325 — 99
Balance as of 31.12.2013 2,796 3,209 2,003 480 8,488
Currency conversion difference 133 98 59 21 311
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 2 0 2
Additions 68 98 129 253 548
Disposals — 156 — 265 — 195 — 2 — 618
Reclassifications 196 61 74 — 339 — 8
Balance as of 31.12.2014 3,037 3,201 2,072 413 8,723
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1.1.2013 1,585 2,230 1,646 0 5,461
Currency conversion difference — 82 — 72 — 48 0 — 202
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 207 263 170 0 640
Write-ups — 4 0 — 5 0 — 9
Disposals — 34 — 51 — 119 0 — 204
Reclassifications 16 — 19 — 82 0 — 85
Balance as of 31.12.2013 1,688 2,351 1,562 0 5,601
Currency conversion difference 78 69 42 0 189
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 1 0 1
Additions 107 183 159 0 449
Write-ups 0 — 8 0 0 — 8
Disposals — 140 — 261 — 178 0 — 579
Reclassifications 27 — 39 12 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2014 1,760 2,295 1,598 0 5,653
Book value as of 31.12.2013 1,108 858 441 480 2,887
Book value as of 31.12.2014 1,277 906 474 413 3,070
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 85CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3.3 Financial assets
Investments Loans Investments
in affiliated to affiliated in related Investment Other
(in millions of eur) companies companies companies securities loans Total
Procurement/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2013 37 0 120 4,091 20 4,268
Currency conversion difference 0 0 — 2 — 7 — 1 — 10
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 1 0 9 586 9 605
Disposals — 35 0 — 3 — 34 — 6 — 78
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2013 3 0 124 4,636 22 4,785
Currency conversion difference 0 0 1 17 0 18
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 13 632 6 651
Disposals 0 0 0 — 42 — 5 — 47
Reclassifications 1 0 — 1 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2014 4 0 137 5,243 23 5,407
Accumulated amortisation
Balance as of 1.1.2013 — 1 0 45 — 2 4 46
Currency conversion difference 1 0 — 2 0 — 1 — 2
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 1 2 0 3
Write-ups 0 0 0 0 0 0
Disposals 0 0 0 1 0 1
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2013 0 0 44 1 3 48
Currency conversion difference 0 0 0 0 0 0
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 18 30 0 48
Write-ups 0 0 0 0 0 0
Disposals 0 0 0 — 1 0 — 1
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2014 0 0 62 30 3 95
Book value as of 31.12.2013 3 0 80 4,635 19 4,737
Book value as of 31.12.2014 4 0 75 5,213 20 5,312
As in the previous year, the “Other loans” item does not include any loans to shareholders.
863.4 Inventories
(in millions of eur) 31.12.2014 31.12.2013
Raw materials and supplies 486 474
Unfinished products 1,002 837
Finished products and goods for resale 749 766
Advance payments to suppliers 0 6
2,237 2,083
3.5 Accounts receivable and other assets
Residual Residual
term over term over
(in millions of eur) 31.12.2014 1 year 31.12.2013 1 year
Trade accounts receivable 2,777 1 2,677 3
Receivables from affiliated companies 9 0 9 0
Receivables from related companies 25 0 23 0
Other assets 940 27 846 27
3,751 28 3,555 30
The “Other assets” item includes receivables from shareholders of EUR 98 million (previous year:
EUR 27 million).
Receivables from affiliated companies, as in the previous year, almost exclusively consist of receivables
from loans.
Receivables from related companies essentially consist of trade accounts receivable.
3.6 Provisions
(in millions of eur) 31.12.2014 31.12.2013
Pension provisions 3,739 3,414
Tax provisions 1,003 823
Other provisions 3,793 3,302
8,535 7,539
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 87CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations
The provisions for pensions and similar obligations were determined on the basis of actuarial calculations
using the projected unit credit method, taking into account future adjustments in salaries and pensions.
In addition to local biometric data (e.g. for Germany, mortality tables 2005 G published by Prof. Dr. Klaus
Heubeck), pension obligations in the significant countries were calculated on the basis of the following actu-
arial parameters:
(in % as of 31 December 2014) Germany USA Japan
Discount rate 4.55 4.84 1.73
Salary increase 4.0 4.0 4.0
Pension increase 2.0 3.0 2.9
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations were discounted using the average market interest rate on a
remaining term of 15 years in accordance with the German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions of
18 November 2009. The interest rates used to discount significant foreign pension obligations (USA and
Japan) were determined with comparable parameters, in line with the German Regulation on the Discount-
ing of Provisions of 18 November 2009.
The plan assets intended solely to cover pension and similar obligations that are unavailable to all other
creditors (cover assets as defined in Section 246 (2) (2) HGB) were measured at fair market value, which is
essentially derived from stock market prices, and offset against the underlying pension and similar obligations.
The fair market value of the plan assets on the balance sheet date was EUR 1,256 million. The corresponding
amount required to settle offset pension obligations and similar obligations was EUR 4,995 million. Gains
and losses from plan assets and interest expense relating to pension and similar obligations were offset in
accordance with Section 246 (2) (2) HGB. In total, EUR 41 million gains from plan assets and EUR 459 mil-
lion interest expense relating to pension and similar obligations are included in the financial income.
883.7 Liabilities
Residual term Residual term
less than less than
(in millions of eur) 1 year 1 – 5 years over 5 years 31.12.2014 31.12.2013 1 year
Bank loans 180 802 7 989 1,369 531
Other accounts payable 1,233 87 126 1,446 1,509 1,311
of which:
- Trade accounts payable 733 0 0 733 878 877
- Advance payments 67 0 0 67 44 36
- Accounts payable
to affiliated companies 24 0 0 24 27 27
- Accounts payable
to related companies 1 0 0 1 1 1
- Other liabilities * 408 87 126 621 559 370
1,413 889 133 2,435 2,878 1,842
* Of which:
- from taxes (EUR million) 146 139
- social security liabilities (EUR million) 11 15
As in the previous year, there were no liabilities secured by mortgages or similar collateral rights on the
balance sheet date.
At the end of the year, there were liabilities to shareholders of EUR 10 million (previous year: EUR 1 million)
within the item “Other liabilities”.
Payables to affiliated companies consist of payables from loans amounting to EUR 24 million (previous year:
EUR 22 million) and trade accounts payable amounting to EUR 1 million (previous year: EUR 4 million).
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 89CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4 Notes to the consolidated profit and loss statement
The structure of the consolidated profit and loss statement was based on the total cost format.
4.1 Net sales
by business and business segment (in millions of eur) 2014 2013
Prescription Medicines 10,101 10,891
Consumer Health Care 1,437 1,473
Animal Health 1,130 1,070
Biopharmaceuticals 501 449
Industrial Customers and other sales 148 182
13,317 14,065
by geographic region (in millions of eur) 2014 2013
Europe 4,081 4,267
of which: Germany 912 1,018
Americas 5,937 6,411
of which: USA 4,638 5,157
Asia / Australia / Africa 3,299 3,387
of which: Japan 1,736 1,830
13,317 14,065
4.2 Other operating income
Other operating income includes income from currency translation of EUR 581 million (previous year: EUR
658 million).
4.3 Material costs
(in millions of eur) 2014 2013
Costs of raw material, supplies and goods for resale 1,421 1,384
Expenditure on services 516 506
1,937 1,890
904.4 Personnel costs
(in millions of eur) 2014 2013
Salaries and wages 3,406 3,321
Social benefits and retirement benefits 710 750
of which: retirement benefits 143 184
4,116 4,071
All interest effects of the measurement of the provision for pensions and similar obligations were shown as a
separate item of financial income.
Average headcount 2014 2013
Production 13,878 13,856
Administration 5,694 5,489
Marketing and Sales 19,269 19,617
Research and Development 8,104 7,741
Apprentices 798 789
47,743 47,492
4.5 Amortisation of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets and depreciation of fixed tangible assets include no additional
impairment write-downs in 2014 (previous year: EUR 156 million).
4.6 Other operating expenses
Other operating expenses include expenses from currency translation of EUR 227 million (previous year:
EUR 604 million).
As in the past, other operating expenses primarily include third-party services for research, development,
medicine and marketing purposes, administrative expenses, fees and contributions, commissions, rent,
freight and expenses for repairs carried out by third parties.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 91CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4.7 Financial result
(in millions of eur) 2014 2013
Interest expense relating to pensions and similar obligations and other provisions — 436 — 192
Other interest expense and similar expenditure — 113 — 91
Interest expense and similar expenditure — 549 — 283
Amortisation of and loss on disposal on financial assets and short-term investments — 30 — 1
Income from other investment securities and from long-term loans 127 118
Other interest income and similar proceeds 36 15
— 416 — 151
4.8 Holding income
(in millions of eur) 2014 2013
Write-offs on financial assets — 19 — 21
Income from related companies 1 12
of which from affiliated companies 0 0
— 18 — 9
4.9 Taxes
(in millions of eur) 2014 2013
Income taxes 685 561
Deferred taxes — 25 69
660 630
Current income taxes essentially include the corporation and trade tax expense of the companies included in
consolidation.
As a result of the conclusion of profit transfer agreements, significant German corporations have been
included in the trade and corporation tax group of the parent company C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG
since January 1, 2004. As the income taxes of the shareholders of C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG aris-
ing on operating income cannot be reported in the consolidated profit and loss statement, only the trade
income tax of the companies concerned and other fully consolidated German partnerships is shown as tax
expenses.
92Total deferred tax assets amounted to EUR 1,640 million as of the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets
essentially relate to the different carrying amounts of provisions, fixed assets and inventories. Deferred tax
liabilities of EUR 305 million were recognised. They mainly relate to the differences in the carrying amounts
of tangible assets, inventories and provisions.
4.10 Net income
The net income for 2014 was positively influenced by operating income relating to other periods (primarily
from the reversal of other provisions) of EUR 163 million (previous year: EUR 189 million) and negatively
influenced by operating expenses relating to other periods of EUR 231 million (previous year: EUR 150 million).
5 Notes to the cash flow statement
The cash flow statement shows how the cash and cash equivalents (cash and long-term securities and invest-
ments classified as current assets that can be sold at any time) of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group changed as
a result of cash inflows and outflows in the reporting year. In accordance with German Accounting Standard
2 on the cash flow statement (GAS 2), the cash flow statement has been broken down according to cash flows
from operating activities and cash flows from investing and financing activities.
The changes in the balance sheet items of the affiliated companies included were translated using average
rates for the year. As on the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents are carried at the closing rate. The effect
of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents has been shown separately.
During the financial year, interest of EUR 110 million was received while interest of EUR 83 million (previous
year: EUR 77 million) was paid, while EUR 547 million (previous year: EUR 583 million) was paid for taxes.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 93CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6 Other disclosures
6.1 Contingent liabilities
(in millions of eur) 31.12.2014 31.12.2013
Liabilities from guarantees,
bills and cheque guarantees, warranties
and the granting of security for third-party liabilities 122 25
The risk of utilisation of the individual contingent liabilities is estimated as follows:
The risk of utilisation of guarantees for the liabilities to banks of affiliated companies is rated as low on
account of the solid net assets, financial position and results of operations of the subsidiaries in question.
6.2 Other financial commitments and off balance sheet transactions
(in millions of eur) 31.12.2014 31.12.2013
Rental and leasing obligations 298 283
Purchase commitment 698 1,047
996 1,330
There are obligations from rental and lease agreements of EUR 298 million (previous year: EUR 283 million),
EUR 37 million of which (previous year: EUR 26 million) relates to long-term rental agreements with sub-
sidiaries not included in the consolidation.
The purpose of the lease agreements is the lower capital commitment compared to buying property and the
absence of the resale risk. Risks could arise from the term of the lease if it were no longer possible to fully
utilise the properties, of which there are no indications at this time.
Other financial commitments include future expenses from follow-up investments, investments already
initiated and future major repairs. As at the balance sheet date, purchase commitments which result in future
cash payments for investments total EUR 543 million (previous year: EUR 893 million).
6.3 Derivative financial instruments and valuation units
Owing to its extensive international structure, the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is highly dependent on
developments in the world’s currencies and interest rates. To hedge these risks, particularly those emerging
from goods, services and financing, currency forwards and options are generally used for currency risks and
interest rate swaps, and options are used for interest rate risks.
94The use of derivative financial instruments and the organisational processes are set out in internal guide-
lines. There is a strict separation between trading, processing, documentation and control.
Risk positions are regularly tracked, analysed and measured in a special consolidated financial report. The
positions entered into are periodically re-evaluated and monitored. The fair market values of the derivative
financial instruments on the balance sheet date are calculated using standard market measurement methods
(currency and interest forwards using the net present value method, currency and interest options using rec-
ognised option pricing models) on the basis of the market data available on the balance sheet date.
Currency and interest options are recognised at fair market value not exceeding the option premium paid or
received. They are derecognised on maturity.
Provisions of EUR 23 million were recognised for currency forwards not included in hedge accounting for
which there was a negative fair market value within a currency as at the balance sheet date. In line with the
imparity principle, positive fair market values within a currency are not recognised.
On the balance sheet date, there were the following derivative financial instruments not included in hedge
accounting:
Nominal value Market value
(in millions of eur) 31.12.2014 31.12.2013 31.12.2014 31.12.2013
Foreign exchange forward contracts 1,458 1,302 20 21
If the requirements for hedge accounting of foreign exchange forward contracts with highly probable fore-
casted transactions in accordance with Section 254 HGB are met, the foreign exchange forward contracts are
not recognised in the balance sheet in line with the net hedge presentation method.
The following accounting policies apply in the recognition of hedges in accordance with Section 254 HGB:
Economic hedges are accounted for by hedge accounting. Hedges are recognised per foreign currency from the
net amount of highly probable forecasted transactions and currency forwards that match the forecasted net
cash flow in terms of maturity, nominal amount and foreign currency (macro hedge). The highly probable
forecasted transactions (incoming and outgoing payments for planned sales and purchases) are derived from
company planning. Ex-post analysis of planning has shown that the planned transactions are highly probable.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 95CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As the critical terms (maturity, nominal amount, foreign currency) match, the opposing changes in value of
the hedged item and the hedging instrument are fully offset. An effective hedge can therefore be assumed
both prospectively and retrospectively. The critical term match method is exclusively used to measure the
prospective and retrospective effectiveness of hedges.
As at 31 December 2014, hedges for highly probable forecast net cash flows were recognised as follows:
January to December 2015:
Net cash flow (in millions of eur) FX forward contracts (in millions of eur)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
USD 1,448 USD — 1,360 USD — 137
JPY 976 JPY — 872 JPY 156
AUD 112 AUD — 88 AUD 2
MXN 127 MXN — 39 MXN 1
CAN 131 CAN — 74 CAN — 3
GBP 261 GBP — 172 GBP — 9
January to December 2016:
Net cash flow (in millions of eur) FX forward contracts (in millions of eur)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
USD 1,435 USD — 868 USD — 90
JPY 1,007 JPY — 545 JPY 110
AUD 16 AUD — 11 AUD 0
MXN 16 MXN — 11 MXN — 0
CAN 132 CAN — 66 CAN — 1
GBP 261 GBP — 65 GBP — 3
January to December 2017:
Net cash flow (in millions of eur) FX forward contracts (in millions of eur)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
USD 1,315 USD — 431 USD — 34
JPY 1,059 JPY — 313 JPY 76
CAN 22 CAN — 11 CAN — 0
GBP 44 GBP — 7 GBP — 0
96January to February 2018:
Net cash flow (in millions of eur) FX forward contracts (in millions of eur)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
USD 305 USD — 56 USD 1
JPY 131 JPY — 30 JPY 2
The amount of the hedged foreign currency risk correlates to the relative change in the exchange rate between
the planning date and the realisation date of the forecasted transactions. If all currencies were to appreciate
or depreciate against the euro by 10.0%, there would be a foreign currency risk of plus or minus EUR 880 mil-
lion without hedging.
As at balance sheet date, there is one floating-rate loan amounting to EUR 100 million. Interest rate swaps
with matching amounts and matching maturities were concluded to hedge the interest rate risk associated
with this. As this only involves transforming the floating-rate loan portions into a fixed interest rate, use
is made of hedge accounting (micro hedges). The opposing changes in value of the hedged item and the
hedging instrument will fully offset until 2017. The interest rate swaps, including accrued interest had a
negative fair market value of EUR 6 million at the balance sheet date. The carrying amount (equal to deferred
accrued interest) was EUR 1 million and is reported under liabilities to banks. The net hedge presentation
method was used.
6.4 Research and Development expenses
(in millions of eur) 2014 2013
Research & Development expenses 2.654 2.743
The Research and Development expenses not capitalised include costs for phase IV clinical studies.
6.5 Total auditor fees
Total fees charged to the Group by the auditor for the financial year was EUR 2.0 million. EUR 1.1 million of
this relates to audits of financial statements and EUR 0.9 million to other services.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 97CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AuDITOR ’S REpORT
Auditor’s Report
We have audited the consolidated financial state- We conducted our audit of the consolidated finan-
ments prepared by C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & cial statements in accordance with § (Article) 317
Co. KG, Ingelheim – comprising the balance sheet, HGB (German Commercial Code) and German
the income statement, statement of changes in generally accepted standards for the audit of
equity, cash flow statement and the notes to the financial statements promulgated by the Institut
consolidated financial statements, together with der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors
the group management report for the business in Germany) (IDW). Those standards require that
year from 1 January to 31 December 2014. The we plan and perform the audit such that misstate-
preparation of the consolidated financial state- ments materially affecting the presentation of the
ments and the group management report in net assets, financial position and results of opera-
accordance with German commercial law is the tions in the consolidated financial statements in
responsibility of the Managing Directors of the accordance with (German) principles of proper
managing cor porate general partner. Our responsi- accounting and in the group management report
bility is to express an opinion on the consolidated are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowl-
financial statements and the group management edge of the business activities and the economic
report based on our audit. and legal environment of the Group and expecta-
tions as to possible misstatements are taken into
account in the determination of audit procedures.
The effectiveness of the accounting-related inter-
nal control system and the evidence supporting
the disclosures in the consolidated financial state-
ments and the group management report are
examined primarily on a test basis within the
framework of the audit. The audit includes assess-
ing the annual financial statements of the compa-
nies included in consolidation, the determination
of the companies to be included in consolidation,
the accounting and consolidation principles used
and significant estimates made by the Managing
Directors of the managing corporate general part-
ner, as well as evaluating the overall presentation
of the consolidated financial statements and the
group management report. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
98With the exception of the following qualification,
our audit has not led to any reservations: Contrary
to § (Article) 314 (1) Nos.6 (a) and (b) HGB the total
remuneration granted to the members, the former
members of the board of managing directors and
the members of the supervisory body as well as the
pension provisions recognized and not recognized
for the former members of the board of managing
directors are not disclosed in the notes to the con-
solidated financial statements.
In our opinion based on the findings of our audit,
with the qualification mentioned above, the con-
solidated financial statements comply with the
legal requirements. The consolidated financial state-
ments give a true and fair view of the net assets,
financial position and results of operations of the
Group in accordance with (German) principles of
proper accounting. The group management report
is consistent with consolidated financial statements
that comply with the legal requirements and as a
whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s
position and suitably presents the opportunities
and risks of future development.
Frankfurt am Main, 31 March 2015
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
/s/ dr. ulrich störk /s/ michael conrad
Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Certified (German Certified
Public Accountant) Public Accountant)
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 99100PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
A SELECTION
Branded Prescription Medicines 102
Consumer Health Care 112
Animal Health 122
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 101PRODUCT PORTFOLIO BRANDED PRESCRIPTION mEDICINES
RESPIRATORY DISEASES
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and bron- Bronchial asthma
chial asthma are among the most prevalent chronic dis- Bronchial asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder
eases affecting the lungs, and a frequent cause of morbid- of the airways. Chronic inflammation of the airways is
ity and premature deaths worldwide. accompanied by airway hyperresponsiveness, which leads
to a narrowing of the airways and recurrent episodes of
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a rare disease which wheezing, breathlessness and coughing, particularly at
is severely debilitating and ultimately lethal. night or in the early hours of the morning. It is now
known that asthma can be triggered by genetic and envi-
COPD ronmental factors (e.g. allergens and viral infections).
COPD is a chronic disease of the lungs in which the air- Quite variable breathing difficulties may occur. In the
ways become narrowed. This leads to a limitation of air- early stages of the disease, this airflow limitation is nor-
flow, causing shortness of breath and other respiratory mally fully reversible and patients can be free of symp-
symptoms. The airflow limitation is only partially reversi- toms between attacks. In contrast to COPD, asthma can
ble and usually worsens gradually over time. Destruction occur in childhood.
of lung tissue (mainly affecting the alveoli and thus gas
exchange) and excessive mucus in the airways inducing Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF)
chronic cough contribute to the burden of disease. These IPF is a chronic, progressive, severely debilitating and
complaints are the main reasons why COPD is very stress- ultimately lethal lung disease for which there are limited
ful for patients. Lung emphysema and chronic bronchitis treatment options. IPF affects as many as 14 – 43 people
are the main manifestations of COPD. per 100,000 worldwide. It is characterised by progressive
scarring of lung tissue and loss of lung function over time.
COPD is caused by continuous damage to the lungs Development of scarred tissue is called fibrosis. Over time,
resulting from inhaling pollutants, primarily cigarette as the tissue thickens and stiffens with scarring, the lungs
smoke, but also by environmental pollutants in the air or lose their ability to take in and transfer oxygen into the
other irritants to the lungs. The course of COPD, which is bloodstream, and vital organs do not get enough oxygen.
a disease that occurs in the second half in a human’s life, As a result, individuals with IPF experience shortness of
is characterised by an accelerated loss of lung function breath, a non-productive cough and often have difficulty
compared to normal ageing and occasional sudden wors- participating in everyday physical activities.
ening of symptoms and function – referred to as acute
exacerbations.
102INDICATIONS BRAND NAmES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Chronic obstructive spiriva® tiotropium bromide Maintenance treatment of patients with
pulmonary disease (COPD) spiriva® handihaler® COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary
spiriva® ® disease, including chronic bronchitis
and emphysema), the maintenance
treatment of associated dyspnoea and
for prevention of exacerbations.
– Bronchial asthma spiriva® respimat® tiotropium bromide An add-on maintenance treatment in
adult patients with asthma who are
currently treated with the maintenance
combination of inhaled corticosteroids
(≥800 µg budesonide/day or equivalent)
and long-acting ß agonists and who
2
experienced one or more severe exacer-
bations in the previous year.
– Chronic obstructive striverdi® respimat® olodaterol Maintenance treatment of patients with
pulmonary disease (COPD) chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD).
– Bronchospasms associated combivent® respimat® ipratropium bromide, A combination of a short acting anticho-
with reversible obstructive salbutamol, linergic and beta-adrenergic for the
airway diseases sulphate management of reversible bronchos-
pasms associated with obstructive air-
way diseases in patients requiring more
than one bronchodilator.
– Chronic obstructive atrovent® ipratropium bromide Treatment of acute bronchospasm asso-
pulmonary disease (COPD) ciated with chronic obstructive pulmo-
– Chronic bronchitis nary disease (COPD) including chronic
– Bronchial asthma bronchitis and asthma when used con-
comitantly with inhaled beta-agonists.
Treatment of reversible airways obstruc-
tion, as in acute and chronic asthma
when used concomitantly with inhaled
beta-agonists.
– Chronic obstructive airway berodual® ipratropium bromide, Prevention and treatment of symptoms
disorders bronchodual® fenoterol, in chronic obstructive airway disorders
duovent®
hydrobromide with reversible airflow limitations, such
as bronchial asthma, and especially
chronic bronchitis, with or without
emphysema.
– Bronchial asthma berotec® fenoterol hydrobromide Symptomatic treatment of acute asthma
attacks and other conditions with re-
versible airway narrowing, e.g. chronic
obstructive bronchitis, and prophylaxis
of exercise-induced asthma.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 103PRODUCT PORTFOLIO BRANDED PRESCRIPTION mEDICINES
RESPIRATORY DISEASES (CONTINUED)
CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASES
Cardiovascular diseases are the leading causes of death in Acute myocardial infarction
many countries and are still increasing in prevalence. An acute myocardial infarction, or heart attack, is an
acute event that occurs when a thrombus or clot suddenly
Stroke prevents blood flow to an area of the heart muscle. Unless
A stroke is the rapidly developing loss of brain functions the blood flow is restored quickly, the affected section of
due to a reduced blood flow to the affected brain tissue. heart muscle becomes permanently damaged. Heart attack
This can be due to ischaemia (lack of blood supply) caused is a leading cause of death in all developed countries.
by thrombosis or embolism, or due to a bleeding. As a
result, the affected area of the brain is unable to function
and the damage quickly becomes permanent, if untreated.
A stroke is an acute event requiring emergency diagnosis
and intervention. Worldwide, stroke is one of the leading
causes of death and long-term disability. Symptoms of a
transient ischaemic attack (TIA) are similar to stroke, but
last for only a few minutes or hours. As a TIA may precede
a stroke, emergency medical care and subsequent preven-
tive treatment is necessary.
104INDICATIONS BRAND NAmES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Bronchial asthma alesion® epinastine Prophylactic treatment of bronchial
– Allergic rhinitis flurinol® asthma. Prophylaxis and symptomatic
treatment of allergic rhinitis.
– Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ofev® nintedanib A kinase inhibitor for the treatment of
(IPF) idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).
INDICATIONS BRAND NAmES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– H ypertension micardis® telmisartan; Treatment of hypertension.
– Cardiovascular prevention micardisplus® telmisartan, hydrochlorothiazide For the reduction of the risk of myocar-
micardis plus® dial infarction (heart attack), stroke or
death from cardiovascular (CV) causes in
micardis®hct
patients 55 years of age or older at high
co-micardis®
risk of developing major CV events who
are unable to take ACE inhibitors (USA).
For the reduction of cardiovascular
morbidity in patients with manifest
atherothrombotic cardiovascular disease
(history of coronary heart disease, stroke
or peripheral arterial disease), or type 2
diabetes mellitus with documented
target organ damage (EU).
– Hypertension twynsta® telmisartan, amlodipine Treatment of hypertension alone or with
micamlo® other antihypertensive agents. As initial
micardis amlo® therapy in patients likely to need multi-
ple antihypertensive agents to achieve
micardis® duo
their blood pressure goals (USA).
Add-on therapy in adult patients with
not adequately controlled blood pres-
sure on amlodipine, and replacement
therapy in adult patients receiving tel-
misartan and amlodipine from separate
tablets (EU).
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 105PRODUCT PORTFOLIO BRANDED PRESCRIPTION mEDICINES
CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASES (CONTINUED)
Hypertension and cardiovascular diseases Atrial fibrillation
Hypertension, also referred to as high blood pressure, is a Patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) are at higher risk of
chronic disease in which the blood pressure is chronically developing blood clots, which can cause a disabling stroke
elevated. Hypertension is one of the major risk factors for if the clots travel to the brain. AF is the most common type
strokes, heart attacks, heart failure and chronic renal failure. of arrhythmia. It is associated with a hypercoagul able
state, which predisposes to stroke and systemic embolism.
About one billion people worldwide are affected by This can be prevented by effective chronic anticoagulation.
hypertension. The prevalence of hypertension increases
steadily with age. As the world population is ageing and Prevention of venous thromboembolism
preventive strategies in terms of lifestyle changes are Patients undergoing orthopaedic surgery are at consider-
so far failing, the prevalence of hypertension is set to able risk of developing deep vein thrombosis in the legs or
increase even further. a potentially fatal pulmonary embolism. Both are also
known as venous thromboembolism (VTE). In the longer
Hypertension is a major risk factor for cardiovascular term, thromboembolic events may recur and chronic
morbidity and mortality. The organs at risk are primarily venous insufficiency and/or pulmonary hypertension may
the heart, the main blood vessels, the brain and the kidneys. occur. To prevent VTE events and their consequences, pa-
The primary goal of any antihypertensive treatment is to tients should receive some kind of thromboprophylaxis.
prevent cardiovascular events, such as heart attacks or
strokes, and finally to reduce cardiovascular mortality. Treatment of venous thromboembolism
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is responsible for nearly one VTE is an umbrella term that encompasses deep vein
in three deaths worldwide and is the number one cause of thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE). DVT is
death. a process that occurs when a thrombus (blood clot) forms
in a deep vein, most commonly in the calf or leg, and par-
Proper control of treatable risk factors and the disease is tially or completely blocks the flow of blood. One of the
vital for the prevention of cardiovascular events. major contributing factors to DVT pathogenesis is venous
stasis. As the thrombus grows, a portion may break away
from the main clot and travel in the circulatory system to
the lungs. The lodging of a blood clot in the arteries of the
lung is called a PE. VTE is a serious disorder with poten-
tially fatal consequences. Patients who already suffer from
a VTE require anticoagulant treatment and secondary
prevention of a recurrent thromboembolic event.
106INDICATIONS BRAND NAmES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Secondary prevention of aggrenox® dipyridamole, Prevention of stroke following a first
stroke or transient ischaemic asasantin® acetylsalicylic acid stroke or transient ischaemic attacks.
attacks (TIA) asasantin® retard
– H ypertension catapresan® clonidine; Treatment of hypertension.
catapres® hydrochloride clonidine
catapressan®
catapres-tts®
dixarit®
– Acute ischaemic stroke actilyse® alteplase Fibrinolytic treatment of acute ischae-
– Acute myocardial infarction actilyse® cathflo® mic stroke, acute myocardial infarction,
– Acute massive pulmonary acute massive pulmonary embolism and
embolism for catheter clearance due to thrombotic
– Catheter clearance due to occlusion.
thrombotic occlusion
– Acute myocardial infarction metalyse® tenecteplase Fibrinolytic treatment of acute myocar-
dial infarction.
– Hypertension motens® lacidipine Treatment of hypertension.
– Stroke prevention in atrial pradaxa® dabigatran etexilate Prevention of strokes and blood clots in
fibrillation pradaxar® patients with abnormal heart rhythm
– Primary prevention of venous prazaxa® (atrial fibrillation).
thromboembolic events after Primary prevention of venous thrombo-
orthopaedic surgery embolic events (VTE) in adults after
– Treatment and secondary elective total hip or knee replacement
prevention of venous throm- surgery.
boembolic events Treatment of deep vein thrombosis
(DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE),
and secondary prevention of recurrent
DVT and PE in adults.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 107PRODUCT PORTFOLIO PRESCRIPTION mEDICINES
METABOLIC DISEASES
Diabetes
Type 2 diabetes is a chronic, progressive condition that can tion and management, it is estimated that the number of
cause long-term complications if it is not well controlled. cases will reach 592 million by 2035.
Every year, 4.9 million deaths worldwide are linked directly Long-term complications of diabetes include: nephropathy,
to the long-term effects of diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is the leading to renal failure with potential risk for dialysis;
most common form and accounts for up to 95% of all retinopathy with potential loss of vision, an increased
cases in the developed world: it now affects 387 million incidence of stroke and cardiovascular diseases; periph-
people worldwide and is imposing an enormous burden eral neuropathy with the risk of foot ulcers and of foot
on health care systems globally. Without effective preven- and leg amputations; autonomic neuropathy causing gas-
trointestinal, genitourinary and cardiovascular symptoms
and sexual dysfunction.
ONCOLOGY
Cancer is a threat to global health. In 2012, an estimated Lung cancer is more than just one disease. There are differ-
14.1 million new cases of cancer were diagnosed world- ent subtypes such as small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and
wide and 8.2 million people died from their malignant non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). More than 10 differ-
disease. The most common newly diagnosed cancer types ent molecular genetic aberrations (mutations) present in
were lung cancer (13%), breast cancer (10%), and colorectal the tumour have been identified. By focusing on molecular
cancer (9%). changes that are specific to the specific subtype of lung
cancer, targeted therapies may be more effective than other
Lung Cancer treatments and less harmful to normal cells, thereby reduc-
Lung cancer or bronchogenic carcinoma refers to malig- ing side effects on normal cells.
nant abnormal cell growth inside the lung tissue, forming
a cluster or tumour. It is the most common cancer with an
estimated 1.8 million new cases per year worldwide (2012).
Smoking is the primary cause of the disease, contributing
to 85% of the cases. Recently, the incidence of lung cancer
among non-smokers and women has increased. Lung can-
cer has a negative prognosis, with 1.6 million deaths per
year, representing 20% of all cancer deaths. Lung cancer
signs are unspecific and may take many years to appear.
Late diagnosis in an advanced stage of the disease results in
a negative prognosis, with only 4% of lung cancer patients
surviving five years or more following diagnosis.
108INDICATIONS BRAND NAmES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus trajenta® linagliptin Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus
tradjenta® to improve glycaemic control in adults
trazenta® used in monotherapy (if metformin is
not tolerated or contraindicated) or in
trayenta®
combination therapy.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus jentadueto® linagliptin, metformin hydrochloride Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus
trayenta duo® to improve glycaemic control in adults
trajenta duo® when treatment with metformin does
not lead to sufficient control or when
trajentamet®
patients are treated with trajenta® and
metformin.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus jardiance® empagliflozin Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus
jardianz® to improve glycaemic control in adults
used in monotherapy (when diet and
exercise alone do not provide adequate
glycaemic control, and if metformin is
considered inappropriate due to intoler-
ance) or in combination therapy.
INDICATIONS BRAND NAmES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Non-small cell lung cancer giotrif® afatinib For the treatment of patients with
(NSCLC) gilotrif® metastatic non-small cell lung cancer
(NSCLC) whose tumors have activating
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)
mutations.
– Non-small cell lung cancer vargatef® nintedanib Combination therapy with docetaxel
(NSCLC) for the treatment of adult patients with
locally advanced, metastatic or locally
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) of
adenocarcinoma tumour histology after
first-line chemotherapy.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 109PRODUCT PORTFOLIO BRANDED PRESCRIPTION mEDICINES
DISEASES OF THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM
Mental and neurological diseases such as depression and Restless legs syndrome (RLS)
Parkinson’s disease significantly impact patients and their Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common neurological
families and are a substantial burden to society. disorder characterised by an uncontrollable urge to move
the legs, primarily occurring in the evening and night
Parkinson’s disease hours. It is usually accompanied by unpleasant and some-
Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a degenerative disorder of the times painful sensations in the legs as well as disturbed
central nervous system. Patients usually notice motor sleep resulting in daytime tiredness or sleepiness. The
symptoms like hand tremor (shaking) as their first sign of sensations are felt deep within the legs and are described
the disease, which progresses eventually to include shaking as creeping, crawling or aching.
of the arms, legs or head. Other motor symptoms that may
develop over time include stiffness that often results in
loss of facial expression and a gradual slowing or loss of
motion, or “freezing”. About 30 – 40% of patients also suffer
from non-motor symptoms associated with PD, such as
dementia, depression and sleep disorders. The primary
symptoms are the result of a lack of the neurotransmitter
dopamine in distinct areas of the human brain.
INFECTIOUS DISEASES
HIV infection/AIDS
Acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a set of
symptoms and infections resulting from the damage to
the human immune system caused by the human immu-
nodeficiency virus (HIV). If untreated, this condition pro-
gressively reduces the effectiveness of the immune system
and leaves individuals susceptible to opportunistic infec-
tions and tumours. Babies of infected mothers are at risk
of getting the virus during pregnancy, childbirth or
breastfeeding.
110INDICATIONS BRAND NAmES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Parkinson’s disease (PD) sifrol® pramipexole Symptomatic treatment of idiopathic
– Restless legs syndrome (RLS) mirapex® Parkinson’s disease. It may be used as
mirapexin® monotherapy or in combination with
levodopa. Symptomatic treatment of
pexola®
idiopathic moderate to severe restless
legs syndrome.
– Sleep disorders lendormin® brotizolam Short-term treatment of disorders
lindormin® of initiating and maintaining sleep.
Insomnia requiring pharmacological
intervention.
INDICATIONS BRAND NAmES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– HIV/AIDS viramune® nevirapine For the combination therapy of HIV-1
viramune® xr infection and (in several countries) for
the prevention of mother-to-child trans-
mission of HIV-1 in pregnant women
who are not taking antiretroviral therapy
at time of labour. Prolonged release
tablets for once-daily dosing within
combination therapy.
– HIV/AIDS aptivus® tipranavir Indicated for combination antiretroviral
treatment of HIV-1-infected patients,
co-administered with 200 mg of ritona-
vir, who are treatment-experienced and
infected with HIV-1 strains resistant to
more than one protease inhibitor.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 111PRODUCT PORTFOLIO CONSUmER hEALTh CARE
COUGH AND COLD
mucosolvan® (ambroxol) and bisolvon® (bromhexine) bisolvon® has been on the market since 1963. Bromhex-
are both indicated for secretolytic therapy in broncho- ine is contained in various formulations of bisolvon®. It
pulmonary diseases associated with abnormal mucus has been shown to increase the proportion of serious
secretion and impaired mucus transport. bronchial secretion, making it more easily expectorated.
Bromhexine also enhances mucus transport by reducing
Cough is the most common symptom of clinical impor- mucus viscosity and by activating the ciliated epithelium.
tance and a frequent reason for consulting a doctor or
visiting a pharmacy. The clinical symptoms of cough and Dextromethorphan, which is a symptomatic treatment of
expectoration have led to the development of drugs that irritable, non-productive cough, is marketed under a vari-
affect respiratory mucus, i.e. the mucoactive agents. ety of tradenames in specific countries.
mucosolvan®, which promotes mucus clearance, facili- mucoviral® and bisolviral® antiviral nasal sprays were
tates expectoration and eases productive cough, allowing launched in 2013. These sprays contain iota-carrageenan
patients to breathe freely and deeply. It is available in many which is extracted from natural red seaweed. When
different product forms and formulations and typically applied nasally, iota-carrageenan acts like a protective
based on the active igredient ambroxol. layer which physically inhibits infection of nasal epithe-
lial cells by cold viruses since the viruses cannot dock to
Ambroxol is an active metabolite of bromhexine, which their specific receptors at the cell surface. In clinical trials,
itself is a synthetic derivative of the herbal active ingredient use of mucoviral®/bisolviral® has been shown to re-
vasicine extracted from the plant species Adhatoda vasica. duce the viral load in the patients’ nasal secretion and to
Ambroxol is a mucoactive drug with several properties, relieve the symptoms of the cold.
including secretolytic and secretomotoric actions that restore
the physiological clearance mechanisms of the respiratory In 2013, boxagrippal® was launched in Germany follow-
tract, which play an important role in the body’s natural ing a successful switch from prescription to over-the-
defence mechanisms. Ambroxol also stimulates synthesis counter (OTC) medicine status. The cold remedy combines
and release of surfactant by type II pneumocytes. the anti-inflammatory pain reliever (NSAID) ibuprofen
and the oral decongestant pseudoephedrine hydrochlo-
ride to treat the most troublesome symptoms of a cold:
blocked nose and sinuses in combination with headache,
fever and cold-related pain.
112INDICATIONS BRAND NAmES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Acute and chronic broncho- mucosolvan® ambroxol Secretolytic therapy in acute and chronic
pulmonary diseases mucosan® bronchopulmonary diseases associated
surbronc® with abnormal mucus secretion and
impaired mucus transport.
lasolvan®
mucopect®
– Acute and chronic broncho- bisolvon® bromhexine Secretolytic therapy in acute and chronic
pulmonary diseases bronchopulmonary diseases associated
with abnormal mucus secretion and
impaired mucus transport.
– Irritable cough silomat® dmp dextromethorphan Symptomatic treatment of irritable,
bisoltussin® non-productive cough.
bisolvon® dry
bisolsek®
bisolvon® antitusivo
mugotussol™
mucotussin®
– Common cold mucoviral® iota-carrageenan Antiviral treatment of common cold.
bisolviral® Also to be used for sustained moisturi-
surbroncviral® sation of the nasal mucosa.
– Common cold boxagrippal® ibuprofen, Symptomatic treatment of nasal conges-
bisolfren® pseudoephedrine tion in combination with headache and/
or fever.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 113PRODUCT PORTFOLIO CONSUmER hEALTh CARE
SORE THROAT
The main brands for the tratment of sore throat are In addition to its secretolytic activity, ambroxol is a potent
mucoangin® and lysopaine®. inhibitor of the neuronal sodium channels. Therefore,
mucoangin® has shown a local anaesthetic effect, which
mucoangin® (ambroxol) is indicated for pain relief in was described first in the late 1970s, but explained and
acute sore throat. Pain in sore throat is the hallmark of confirmed in more recent work.
acute pharyngitis, usually caused by a viral infection. The
infection is, as a rule, self-limiting and the patient nor- lysopaine® (cetylpyridinium) is a local adjuvant antibac-
mally recovers in a couple of days. What is most bother- terial treatment indicated for limited infections of the
some for the patient is the continuous pain in the throat, buccal and oropharynx mucosa such as mild sore throat,
which is maximised when swallowing. The main goal of aphtae, and small oral wounds.
the treatment is thus to reduce pain.
PAIN
The brand thomapyrin® comprises products for the and migraines. thomapyrin® is positioned as the expert
treatment of acute pain of mild to moderate intensity. treatment for headaches. Several line extensions are
available: thomapyrin® classic for normal headache,
thomapyrin® classic is the core product, which is com- thomapyrin® intensiv for stronger headache, and
posed of a triple combination of acetylsalicylic acid, pa- thomapyrin® effervescent tablets as a galenic alter native.
racetamol and caffeine. The three components suppress
pain synergistically via interaction with several pain- Alongside thomapyrin®, Boehringer Ingelheim also offers
related molecular mechanisms. As a result, thomapyrin® analgesics in a combination of ibuprofen, allylisopropylac-
classic offers faster and superior efficacy compared etylurea, dehydrated caffeine and magnesium oxide in
with its single components which has been proven by Japan under the tradename eve®, and as a mono active
state-of-the-art clinical studies. ingredient with metamizole in Brazil under the tradename
anador®.
For this reason, the triple combination is recommended
by many national and international medical societies as Another brand is finalgon®(nonivamid and nicoboxil), a
first choice acute treatment for tension-type headaches topical cream for joint and muscle pains.
114INDICATIONS BRAND NAmES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Sore throat mucoangin® ambroxol Pain relief in acute sore throat.
lysopadol®
lysopain® dol
isodinemint®
zerinol® gola
– Sore throat lysopaine® cetylpyridinium Pain relief in sore throat.
INDICATIONS BRAND NAmES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Pain thomapyrin® acetylsalicylic acid, For adults and adolescents older than
thomapyrin® paracetamol, caffeine 12 years for acute treatment of mild to
classic moderate headache, migraine attacks,
thomapyrin® with and without aura, and for the treat-
intensiv(*) ment of tension-type headache.
* Only available in
Germany.
– Pain eve®(*) ibuprofen; For adults older than 15 years for reduc-
eve® a(*) allylisopropylacetylurea, dehydrated tion of fever and temporary relief of mild
eve® quick(*) caffeine, magnesium oxide* to moderate aches and pains associated
with: headache, menstrual pain and
other body pains.
* Only available in Japan. * Only in eve® quick.
– Pain anador®(*) metamizole For adults and adolescents older than
lisalgil® 12 years for acute treatment of mild to
nolotil® moderate headache.
prodolina®
* Only available in Brazil.
– Pain finalgon® salbe nonivamid, nicoboxil To stimulate blood flow in the skin for
finalgon® wärme- thick extract from treating joint and muscle complaints.
creme stark chili pepper*
finalgon® cpd
wärmecreme*
* Only available in Germany. * Only in Finalgon ® CPD Wärmecreme.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 115PRODUCT PORTFOLIO CONSUmER hEALTh CARE
GASTROINTESTINAL DISEASES
In our gastrointestinal portfolio, we offer several brands buscopan® is an antispasmodic product with the active
such as dulcolax®, surulac®, laxoberal®, guttalax®, ingredient hyoscine butylbromide. The product is derived
buscopan®, as well as the heartburn brands zantac® and from scopolamine (hyoscine), a natural substance ex-
buscopan® antiacido and gastol®. tracted from Duboisia plant species and chemically modi-
fied to the quaternary ammonium compound hyoscine
Constipation is a common problem. dulcolax® is the butylbromide. As an antispasmodic product, buscopan® acts
leading over-the-counter (OTC) laxative remedy for con- directly on the site of abdominal pain by relaxing the
stipation relief worldwide. smooth muscles of the gastrointestinal, biliary, urinary
and genital tracts.
dulcolax® tablets have a special enteric “comfort
coating” which ensures that the active ingredient in This means buscopan® relieves abdominal pain by
dulcolax® tablets, bisacodyl, is taken to where it needs directly treating its main cause – abdominal cramp or
to act – the colon. Here, in the colon, the colonic juices spasm.
activate the key ingredient, which then relieves consti-
pation. It stimulates the natural movement of the bowels Today, buscopan® is available in several line extensions –
to provide gentle, predictable relief within 6 – 12 hours. the mono variant and different combinations with anal-
One to two tablets taken before going to bed will provide gesics (paracetamol, ibuprofen and metamizole/dipyrone) –
relief the next morning. and different formulations (tablets, drops, suppositories,
syrup and solutions for intravenous injection).
Other products within the dulcolax® range include
dulcoease®, dulcoenema® and dulcogas®. The umbrella brand buscopan® also offers buscofem®
for menstrual pain relief as well as buscopan® antiacido
surulac® is the constipation brand in Japan, where and buscopan® reflusso for heartburn relief.
consumers are offered surulac® as a laxative tablet.
laxoberal® and guttalax® are the brands offering In 2013, we extended our gastrointestinal portfolio with
consumers constipation relief with a flexible dosage vaprino®, a self-medication product for diarrhoea. Its
format – namely drops. active ingredient, racecadotril, is effective in various
forms of acute diarrhoea by reducing excessive secretion
Abdominal cramping, pain and discomfort are common from the gut without changing gastrointestinal transit
ailments. Approximately one in four persons worldwide time or motility. That is why vaprino® provides a new
suffers on a regular basis. mode of action that enables fast relief from diarrhoea
without blocking the bowels.
116INDICATIONS BRAND NAmES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Constipation dulcolax® bisacodyl; Laxative for use in patients suffering
surulac® s bisacodyl, sennoside from constipation. In preparation for
diagnostic procedures, in pre- and
post-operative treatment, and in condi-
tions that require defecation to be facili-
tated.
– Constipation laxoberal® sodium picosulphate Laxative for use in cases of constipation
laxoberon® and in conditions that require defeca-
guttalax® tion to be facilitated.
dulcolax® np
– Gas and bloating dulcogas® simethicone Fast-acting granules that relieve gas and
bloating and prevent flatulence.
– Abdominal pain buscopan® hyoscine butylbromide; Treatment for the relief of abdominal
buscapina® hyoscine butylbromide, paracetamol cramping, pain and discomfort.
buscopan® plus
buscapina® plus
– Heartburn zantac® (*) ranitidine Relieves heartburn associated with acid
buscopan® antiacido indigestion and sour stomach. Prevents
heartburn associated with acid indiges-
tion and sour stomach brought on by
certain foods and beverages.
* Only available in the USA.
– Acute diarrhoea vaprino® racecadotril Treatment of symptoms of acute diar-
rhoea for adults.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 117PRODUCT PORTFOLIO CONSUmER hEALTh CARE
VITAMINS AND SUPPLEMENTS
pharmaton® is a multivitamin and mineral supplements pharmaton® kiddi®, a range of products designed for
brand developed to support physical and mental well- children, contains selected vitamins, minerals and the
being. A full range of products adapted to the needs of essential amino acid lysine, which are important during
different target audiences has been developed that work the period of growth. It is also recommended in the pre-
in harmony with the body. ventive treatment of vitamin deficiencies.
pharmaton® vitality, a range of products for adults, pharmaton® matruelle® is indicated for women who
contains a selected blend of vitamins, minerals and trace are actively planning to get pregnant, pregnant women
elements plus the standardised Ginseng extract G115®. and breastfeeding women. It contains all important
The main target indications are: exhaustion, tiredness, micronutrients for mother and baby such as vitamins,
decreasing concentration and mental alertness, as well as minerals and omega-3 fatty acids to cover the increased
in cases of deficient nutrition, loss of appetite, debility due needs for these substances in those particular periods.
to illness and convalescence. Numerous clinical studies Moreover, it helps to protect against embryonal neural
have shown that a regular intake of pharmaton® has a tube diseases of the foetus and against iron and folic acid
positive effect on mental and physical performance and anaemia during pregnancy and breastfeeding.
well-being.
118INDICATIONS BRAND NAmES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Tiredness, decreasing concen- pharmaton® standardised ginseng To improve general well-being.
tration, in cases of deficient pharmaton® vitality extract, vitamins,
nutrition, loss of appetite, pharmaton® geriavit® minerals, trace
debility due to illness and elements
geriatric pharmaton®
convalescence
gericomplex®
pharmaton complex®
pharmaton® fizzi
pharmaton® active life®
– Increased demand for vita- pharmaton® kiddi® vitamins, Increased demand for vitamins, minerals
mins in childhood minerals, and amino acids, especially during the
amino acids period of growth. Preventive treatment
in cases of vitamin deficiencies, e.g.
restricted diets, convalescence, loss of
appetite following illness, infection or
surgery.
– Prophylaxis of iron and folic pharmaton® matruelle® vitamins, minerals, For women during and after pregnancy,
acid deficiency during preg- trace elements, preventing deficiency symptoms and
nancy omega-3 fatty acids covering the increased needs for vita-
[docosahexaenoic mins, minerals, trace elements and DHA.
acid (DHA)] To provide protection against embryonal
neural tube diseases of the foetus, and
prophylaxis of iron and folic acid anae-
mia during pregnancy and breastfeeding.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 119PRODUCT PORTFOLIO CONSUmER hEALTh CARE
LEG VEIN HEALTH
Under the brand name antistax®, Boehringer Ingelheim treatment of the described symptoms. antistax® helps to
markets a range of products developed for the prevention keep the fluid that flows out of the small venous vessels
and treatment of symptoms attributable to chronic venous (venules) into the surrounding tissue at normal levels,
insufficiency. The most common symptoms of venous even when standing or sitting for a long time.
insufficiency observable for consumers are varicose veins,
oedema of the lower leg, heavy or tired legs, sensation of Red vine leaf extract, the active ingredient in antistax®
tension, tingling, cramps and pain. antistax® capsules products, has an anti-inflammatory effect and works on
and tablets are scientifically proven to help maintain the endothelium inside the venules by sealing them from
healthy leg vein circulation. the inside, thereby reducing the swelling and the sensa-
tion of pain and heaviness.
Heavy, aching and tired legs often occur after long periods
of standing or sitting, and increase at the end of the day Products available in the antistax® range include
or during the summer when outdoor temperatures rise. antistax® tablets, antistax®capsules and antistax®
antistax® tablets and antistax® capsules offer effective creme, as well as the cosmetic product antistax® leg
chilling gel.
UROLOGICAL DISEASES
Benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) refers to an enlargement
of the prostate in middle-aged and elderly men, which can
lead to lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) such as fre-
quent nighttime urination, urge to urinate every few hours,
weak flow and feeling of unfinished urinating.
120INDICATIONS BRAND NAmES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Chronic venous insufficiency antistax® red vine leaf extract Prevention and treatment of symptoms
of chronic venous insufficiency; varicose
veins, leg oedema, painful swollen legs,
tingling legs, tired and heavy legs.
– Heavy, tired legs antistax® cooling, caring Symptomatic treatment of heavy, tired
substances, red vine legs.
leaf extract
INDICATIONS BRAND NAmES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Benign prostate hyperplasia flomax relief® (*) tamsulosin Treatment of lower urinary tract symp-
(BPH) toms (LUTS) of a common condition
called benign prostate hyperplasia
(BPH).
* Only available in UK as
over-the-counter (OTC)
medication.
Annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 121PRODUCT PORTFOLIO anImaL heaLTh
FOOD-PRODUCING ANIMALS – SWINE
Infectious respiratory diseases ingelvac mycoflex® is licensed for the active immunisa-
ingelvac circoflex® is the first single-dose piglet vac- tion of pigs against enzootic pneumonia (EP) in a single-
cine for the control of porcine circovirus disease (PCVD). dose regimen. Through its advanced adjuvant system, it
This vaccine provides significant reduction of mortality in provides long-lasting and effective protection, proven
the acute phase of PCVD as well as improved growth rates even in high-challenge situations.
in the chronic phase of the disease. ingelvac circoflex®
protects with minimal systemic adverse reactions or injec- Infectious enteric diseases
tion site swellings. ingelvac® prrs mlv is licensed for ac- enterisol® ileitis is the first and only vaccine against
tive immunisation against the respiratory and reproductive ileitis caused by Lawsonia intracellularis. It is licensed to
form of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome improve weight gain and to reduce growth variability
(PRRS). associated with the disease. enterisol® ileitis helps to
reduce the total antimicrobial use in pork production.
FOOD-PRODUCING ANIMALS – POULTRY
volvac® is the umbrella brand of the Boehringer Ingel- influenza, infectious bronchitis, Newcastle disease, infec-
heim Animal Health poultry vaccine range. It consists of tious bursal disease, egg drop syndrome and avian coryza.
a wide range of live and inactivated vaccines for broilers The volvac® vaccines also allow the birds to express their
and layers. The vaccines provide protection of the birds full potential, and increase their well-being.
against various viral and bacterial diseases like avian
122InDICa TIOnS BRanD nameS aCTIVe InGReDIenTS
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac circoflex® recombinant vaccine For the active immunisation of pigs over
d iseases (porcine circovirus the age of two weeks against porcine
type 2, PCV 2) circovirus type 2 to reduce mortality,
clinical signs – including weight loss –
and lesions in lymphoid tissues asso­
ciated with porcine circovirus diseases
(PCVD).
In addition, vaccination has been shown
to reduce PCV 2 nasal shedding, viral
load in blood and lymphoid tissues, and
duration of viraemia.
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac® prrs mlv attenuated live vaccine For the active immunisation of swine
d iseases (PRRS virus) from the age of three weeks against the
respiratory and reproductive form of
PRRS virus infection (porcine reproduc­
tive and respiratory syndrome).
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac mycoflex® inactivated vaccine For the active immunisation of pigs from
d iseases (Mycoplasma the age of three weeks against lung
hyopneumoniae) lesions following infections with Myco­
plasma hyopneumoniae.
– Infectious enteric diseases enterisol® ileitis attenuated live For the active immunisation of pigs from
vaccine (Lawsonia the age of three weeks against intestinal
intracellularis) lesions caused by Lawsonia intracellula­
ris infection and to reduce growth varia­
bility and loss of weight gain associated
with the disease.
InDICa TIOnS BRanD nameS aCTIVe InGReDIenTS
– Various viral and bacterial volvac® polyvalent attenuated live For vaccination of healthy chickens
diseases in poultry and inactivated vaccine against diseases caused by the included
containing antigens for antigens. For the most common diseases
vaccination against avian responsible for losses in egg production
influenza, Newcastle disease, in layers and affecting the health of
avian coryza, egg drop broiler chickens.
syndrome, infectious
bronchitis, infectious bursal
disease, bacterium anatis
annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 123PRODUCT PORTFOLIO anImaL heaLTh
FOOD-PRODUCING ANIMALS – CATTLE
Mastitis
Mastitis is the inflammation of the udder in dairy cattle,
mainly caused by bacterial infection. Prevention and
treatment of mastitis in these animals is key to producing
healthy milk and minimising the symptoms associated
with this clinical situation. ubrolexin® and today® are
two products for the treatment of acute bacterial mastitis,
whereas ubrostar® and tomorrow® are used to prevent
mastitis during drying-off in dairy cattle at the end of
their lactation period. mamyzin® is an effective injectable
antimicrobial for the treatment of acute mastitis, and
metacam® is used to reduce acute pain associated with
this syndrome.
124InDICa TIOnS BRanD nameS aCTIVe InGReDIenTS
– M astitis mamyzin® penethamate hydroiodide For the treatment of mastitis in dairy
cows.
– M astitis benestermycin® penethamate hydroiodide, Treatment of subclinical mammary in­
ubrostar® framycetin sulphate, fections present at drying­off.
b enethamine penicillin
– M astitis ubrolexin® cefalexin (as monohydrate), Treatment of clinical mastitis in lactating
kanamycin (as monosulphate) dairy cows caused by bacteria.
– M astitis today® cephapirin sodium For intramammary infusion into lactat­
ing cows (US only).
– M astitis tomorrow® cephapirin benzathine For intramammary infusion into the dry
cow (US only).
annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 125PRODUCT PORTFOLIO anImaL heaLTh
FOOD-PRODUCING ANIMALS – CATTLE (CONTINUED)
Pain and inflammatory diseases
metacam® is a member of the class of non-steroidal metacam® is licensed for use in cattle suffering from
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) and addresses the need respiratory disease. It is also indicated in calves affected
for maintained profitability and the concern for animal by diarrhoea and as adjunctive therapy in the treatment
welfare in animal production. Due to its long-acting of mastitis in lactating cows.
nature and its outstanding efficacy in controlling in-
flammatory symptoms, it helps to minimise losses from Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) is one of the major
inflammation and maintain profitability in animals economically important cattle pathogens with a world-
suffering from disease. At the same time, metacam® wide distribution. The disease caused by BVDV results in
effectively controls pain and supports the restoration of marked production losses in dairy and beef herds.
well-being in farm animals. The use of metacam® is bovela® is a vaccine that is designed to reduce some of
convenient and inflicts minimal stress on animals due to the clinical signs typical for BVD, and to prevent the birth
its low-volume, one-shot dosage. of so-called persistently infected animals caused by trans-
placental infection with BVDV. Vaccination with bovela®
is expected to provide protection within the herd against
the disease and against the circulation of the virus.
126InDICa TIOnS BRanD nameS aCTIVe InGReDIenTS
– Pain and inflammatory metacam® meloxicam Alleviation of inflammation and pain in
d iseases muscolo­skeletal disorders (dog, cat,
pigs, horse) after surgery (dog, cat, pigs)
and during colic (horse).
As adjunctive treatment of diarrhoea,
respiratory disease, acute mastitis and
dehorning (cattle), as well as masti­
tis­metritis­agalactia syndrome (pigs).
– Cattle infectious diseases pyramid® attenuated vaccine against bovine For vaccination of healthy dairy or beef
presponse® rhinotracheitis-virus, diarrhoea, cattle as an aid in prevention of diseases
parainfluenza 3, respiratory syncytial caused by included antigens (US and
virus, Mannheimia haemolytica Canada only).
toxoid
– Bovine Viral Diarrhoea bovela® modified live BVDV *-1 strain, modi- For active immunisation of cattle from
fied live BVDV *-2 strain three months of age to reduce hyper­
thermia and to minimise the reduction
of leukocyte count caused by Bovine
Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV­1 and BVDV­
2), and to reduce virus shedding and
viraemia caused by BVDV­2. For active
immunisation of cattle against BVDV­1
and BVDV­2, to prevent the birth of
persistently infected calves caused by
* Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus transplacental infection.
annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 127PRODUCT PORTFOLIO anImaL heaLTh
COMPANION ANIMALS – HORSE
The main horse products focus on the therapeutic areas of lack of dopamine in the pituitary pars intermedia. Clinical signs
respiratory disease, lameness, colic and hormonal disorders. are hypertrichiosis, laminitis, change in body conformation and
lack of performance. Treatment with prascend® is life-long.
ventipulmin® is a treatment of acute and chronic respi-
ratory disease in which airway obstruction due to bron- vetera® vaccines are the first vaccine portfolio that include
chospasm and/or mucus accumulation is a contributing multiple convenient combinations of disease protection for
factor and improved mucociliary clearance is desirable. horses from as young as four months of age. The vaccines protect
ventipulmin® can be used alone or as adjunctive therapy against as many as nine infectious organisms including influ-
in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and in enza, herpes, the West Nile virus, tetanus and others. This en-
acute, sub-acute and chronic respiratory allergic conditions. ables customised protection for each horse with limited needle
injections. All vetera® vaccines are formulated utilising the
prascend® is indicated for the treatment of pituitary pars Ultrafil™ Purification Technology, removing most of the extraneous
intermedia dysfunction (PPID), which is also known as proteins and allowing the horse’s immune system to focus on
Equine Cushing’s Disease. prascend® substitutes for the the relevant antigens.
128InDICa TIOnS BRanD nameS aCTIVe InGReDIenTS
– Acute and chronic obstructive ventipulmin® clenbuterol Respiratory diseases attended by bron­
respiratory diseases chial spasms, like subacute and chronic
bronchitis and bronchiolitis, chronic­
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD),
auxillary with acute bronchitis and
pneumonia of bronchia.
– Pituitary pars intermedia prascend® pergolide mesylate For the treatment of clinical signs asso­
dysfunction (PPID) ciated with pituitary pars intermedia
dysfunction (PPID; also known as Equine
Cushing’s Disease).
– Up to 9­way combination vetera® Eastern, Western and Venezuelan For vaccination of healthy horses as an
vaccines against common encephalomyelitis, tetanus, aid in the prevention of diseases caused
diseases in horses West Nile virus, by included antigens (US and Canada
equine herpes only).
virus, equine
influenza viruses
annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 129PRODUCT PORTFOLIO anImaL heaLTh
COMPANION ANIMALS – SMALL ANIMALS
The main small animal products address major chronic prozinc® is an aqueous protamine zinc (PZI) suspension
diseases: heart failure, kidney disease, epilepsy and osteo- of recombinant human insulin that is used to reduce
arthritis. hyperglycaemia in cats with diabetes mellitus.
As the first of a new class of heart treatments termed in- semintra® is an angiotensin II antagonist which is
odilators, vetmedin® has been shown to significantly approved for reduction of proteinuria associated with
improve clinical signs and extend life expectancy in dogs chronic kidney disease (CKD) in cats. semintra® de-
with congestive heart failure origin ating from dilated creases mean arterial blood pressure and proteinuria
cardiomyopathy or valvular insufficiency (mitral and/or and is available as an oral solution.
tricuspid regurgitation). vetmedin® works through two
complementary modes of action: it opens up the blood pexion® is an alternative treatment for canine epilepsy. The
vessels taking blood to and away from the heart, thereby active substances imepitoin primarily inhibits seizures via
lowering the pressure on the heart and reducing the work potentiation of GABAA-receptor-mediated inhibitory
the heart has to do to pump blood around the dog’s body. effects on neurons. pexion® is approved for reduction of
At the same time, vetmedin® has a direct effect on the generalised seizures due to idiopathic epilepsy, and it has
heart muscle, helping it to beat stronger and pump blood potential safety benefits over existing standard treatment.
more efficiently.
duramune® is a vaccine designed to aid in the prevention
metacam® is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug of a wide spectrum of common infectious diseases in
(NSAID). It is available as an oral suspension, tablets and dogs. These diseases can be very serious and in some
injectable solution for dogs and as an oral suspension cases even fatal. Effective prevention including appro-
and injectable solution for cats. In dogs, the indications priate vaccination reduces the impact of these diseases
include the alleviation of inflammation and pain in both on dogs.
acute and chronic musculo-skeletal disorders, as well as
the reduction of postoperative pain following surgery. In
cats, the indications include the alleviation of inflamma-
tion and pain in acute and chronic musculo-skeletal dis-
orders, as well as for alleviation of mild to moderate post-
operative pain following surgical procedures. The variety
of formulations offers veterinarians and owners the flexi-
bility to use the formulations they prefer to manage the
various levels of inflammation and pain associated with
the licensed indications.
130InDICa TIOnS BRanD nameS aCTIVe InGReDIenTS
– Congestive heart failure vetmedin® pimobendan Treatment of canine congestive heart
failure originated from dilatative cardio­
myophathy or valvular insufficiency
(mitral and/or tricuspid regurgitation).
– Pain and inflammatory metacam® meloxicam In dogs, the indications include the
d iseases alleviation of inflammation and pain in
both acute and chronic musculo­skeletal
disorders, as well as the reduction of
post­operative pain following surgery.
In cats, the indications include the
alleviation of inflammation and pain in
acute and chronic musculo­skeletal
disorders, as well as the alleviation of
mild to moderate postoperative pain
following surgical procedures.
– Feline diabetes mellitus prozinc® Protamine zinc For the reduction of hyperglycaemia and
recombinant hyperglycaemia­associated clinical signs
human insulin in cats with diabetes mellitus.
– Feline chronic kidney disease semintra® telmisartan Reduction of proteinuria associated with
chronic kidney disease (CKD) in cats.
– Canine idiopathic epilepsy pexion® imepitoin For the reduction of the frequency of
generalised seizures due to idiopathic
epilepsy in dogs after careful evaluation
of alternative treatment options.
– Canine infectious diseases duramune® inactivated and attenuated vaccine For vaccination of healthy dogs as an aid
against canine distemper, canine in the prevention of diseases caused by
adenovirus type 2, coronavirus, included antigens (US, Canada and
parainfluenzavirus, parvovirus, borrelia Australia only).
burgdorferi, leptospira canicola/
grippotyphosa/icterohaemorrhagiae/
pomona
annual Report 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim 131ImPRInT
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUERIES OR COMMENTS,
PLEASE DO NOT HESITATE TO CONTACT US.
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
Binger Straße 173
55216 Ingelheim
Germany
Telephone + 49 6132 77-0
Fax + 49 6132 72-3000
Contact
Corporate Division Communications
E-mail webmaster@boehringer-ingelheim.com
Internet www.boehringer-ingelheim.com
Issued by
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
Concept, design and layout
mpm Corporate Communication Solutions
www.digitalagentur-mpm.de
Photos
Fotolia (p. 17), Lennart Nilsson (p. 19), Getty Images (p. 19), Science Photo (p. 20, 21),
Masahiko Uchiyama (p. 26, 28, 29),
© 2014 Jonathan Kannair (jonathankannair.com) (p. 27, 30, 31),
Stewart Turkington (p. 32, 34, 35),
dieth + schröder fotografie (p. 33, 36 – 44, 46, 47),
Secundino Paulino, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals Inc. (p. 45, 48, 49)
Printed by
Süddeutsche Verlagsgesellschaft, Ulm
Copyright
© Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, 2015
All rights reserved. No part of this Annual Report 2014 may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic
or photocopy, without permission in writing from Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH. Figures from third parties used in the annual
report are based on data available at the time the financial statement was drawn up.
With the CO emission reduction certificates we support a project that distri­
2
butes water treatment units to households in rural districts in Kenya.
The project improves public health significantly, inasmuch as it guarantees
access to clean drinking water.
132C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
COMPARISON OF BALANCE SHEETS 2005 ― 2014
(in millions of eur)
COMPARISON
OF
BALANCE
SHEETS
/
FINANCIAL
DATA
2005
—
2014
Assets (as of December 31) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Intangible assets 233 554 547 539 745 736 710 682 582 592
Tangible assets 2,900 2,886 2,972 3,177 3,219 3,314 3,442 3,103 2,887 3,070
Financial assets 3,396 3,043 1,638 1,739 1,699 3,168 3,953 4,222 4,737 5,312
Fixed assets 6,529 6,483 5,157 5,455 5,663 7,218 8,105 8,007 8,206 8,974
Inventories 1,229 1,280 1,387 1,561 1,801 1,850 1,998 2,095 2,083 2,237
Accounts receivable (incl. deferred charges and deferred taxes) 3,013 3,137 2,912 3,496 3,663 4,047 4,652 4,814 5,131 5,546
Liquid funds 1,247 945 1,015 1,312 3,877 3,118 3,903 2,374 2,879 3,294
Current assets (incl. deffered charges and deferred taxes) 5,489 5,362 5,314 6,369 9,341 9,015 10,553 9,283 10,093 11,077
Total assets 12,018 11,845 10,471 11,824 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051
Liabilities and equity (as of December 31) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Shareholders’ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178
Reserves (incl. currency conversion difference) 2,940 3,275 1,385 3,101 3,964 5,408 5,812 4,763 5,619 6,884
Net income 1,491 1,722 1,809 1,424 1,759 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,047
Total equity 4,609 5,175 3,372 4,703 5,901 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,121 8,109
Minority interests 216 188 167 190 179 0 0 0 1 2
Group equity 4,825 5,363 3,539 4,893 6,080 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,122 8,111
Negative difference from acquisition of companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 157 134 104 91
Provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 4,958 4,641 4,726 5,120 5,731 6,598 7,402 7,749 7,817 8,840
Liabilities (incl. deferred charges) 2,235 1,841 2,206 1,811 3,193 3,161 3,633 3,229 3,256 3,009
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred charges) 7,193 6,482 6,932 6,931 8,924 9,759 11,035 10,978 11,073 11,849
Total liabilities and equity 12,018 11,845 10,471 11,824 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051
Summary of selected financial data 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Net sales 9,535 10,574 10,952 11,595 12,721 12,586 13,171 14,691 14,065 13,317
Operating income 1,923 2,140 2,100 1,980 2,239 1,896 2,272 1,853 2,114 2,140
Operating income as % of net sales 20.2 20.2 19.2 17.1 17.6 15.1 17.3 12.6 15.0 16.1
Income after taxes 1,514 1,729 1,812 1,428 1,764 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,046
Income after taxes as % of net sales 15.9 16.4 16.5 12.3 13.9 7.1 11.2 8.4 9.4 7.9
Return on shareholders’ equity (in %) 34.2 37.4 35.0 42.2 37.4 15.0 22.8 16.6 21.4 14.7
Equity ratio (in %) 38.4 43.7 32.2 39.8 39.3 39.9 40.0 35.7 38.9 40.4
Cash flow 2,069 2,317 2,392 1,997 2,409 2,234 2,378 2,225 2,129 1,850
Financial funds 4,585 3,934 2,581 2,932 5,384 6,113 7,711 6,467 7,514 8,507
Personnel costs 2,671 2,836 2,886 3,004 3,221 3,358 3,664 4,024 4,071 4,116
Personnel costs as % of net sales 28.0 26.8 26.4 25.9 25.3 26.7 27.8 27.4 28.9 30.9
Average number of employees 37,406 38,428 39,800 41,300 41,534 42,224 44,094 46,228 47,492 47,743
Research and development costs 1,360 1,574 1,900 2,109 2,215 2,453 2,516 2,795 2,743 2,654
R & D as % of net sales 14.3 14.9 17.3 18.2 17.4 19.5 19.1 19.0 19.5 19.9
Investments in tangible assets 532 596 654 665 630 519 458 562 558 548
Depreciation of tangible assets 439 419 432 453 470 498 535 793 640 449WWW.BOEHRINGER-INGELHEIM.COM
ANNUALREPORT.BOEHRINGER-INGELHEIM.COM