B O E H R I N G E R I N G E L H E I M
2 0 1 6
Value
THROUGH
PARTNERSHIPC O N T E N T S
02 — TRUST 22
Patients have to be able to rely on receiving
the best possible therapies and medicines.
ENQUIRED 04
Back to a life 24
Why partnerships are important for
How to successfully regain confidence in your
Boehringer Ingelheim.
own body after a stroke.
01 — PROGRESS 08 03 — SPACE 32
Partnerships play a major role for Boehringer An even balance between security and space
Ingelheim’s Research & Development. is the best basis for good ideas that benefit
patients.
Open to ideas 10
Powered by our people 34
Why innovation also calls for strong
scientific partners. Two HR managers discuss the limits of
indi viduality and diversity.
Exploring new horizons – 14
together we are stronger
How Research & Development cooperations
contribute to success.
Working together to 30
combat counterfeiting
What pharmaceutical companies are doing
against counterfeit medicines.
Success from tradition 40
Space for a special corporate culture.
Imprint 48
Learning from science fiction 16
Looking into the future, beyond
medication.
Long-term partnerships to 18
benefit patients
Why pharmaceutical companies and payer
organisations should work together as long-
term partners.
Passion for Animal Health 20
What Boehringer Ingelheim‘s new Animal
Health business looks like.Value
T H R O U G H P A R T N E R S H I P
Today, the research-driven pharmaceutical company Boehringer Ingelheim focuses
more than ever on a variety of partnerships. Intensive networking within the company
is thereby just as important as the exchange and cooperation with external partners.
Boehringer Ingelheim is one of the world’s 20 leading pharmaceutical companies.
Headquartered in Ingelheim, Germany, Boehringer Ingelheim operates globally and
currently has a total of some 50,000 employees. The focus of the family-owned
company, founded in 1885, is researching, developing, manufacturing and market-
ing new medications of high therapeutic benefit to people and animals.
Embracing social responsibility is an important element of Boehringer Ingelheim’s
corporate culture. This includes worldwide commitment to social projects, such as
the “Making More Health” initiative, as well as paying close attention to employees.
Respect, equal opportunity and reconciling career and private life form the founda-
tion of togetherness. The company also focuses on environmental protection and
sustainability in everything it does.
In 2016, Boehringer Ingelheim achieved net sales of about 15.9 billion euros. R&D
expenditure corresponds to 19.6 per cent of net sales.
03ENQUIRED
W H Y P A R T N E R S H I P S
A R E I M P O R T A N T F O R
B O E H R I N G E R I N G E L H E I M
For Boehringer Ingelheim today, partnerships are more important than ever.
We asked the Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee and the Members of
the Board of Managing Directors what value partnerships have for the company
and how they contribute to success.
04ENQUIRED
T
he establishment of the Scien-
tific Department in cooperation
with Heinrich Wieland in 1917
and cooperations with Pfizer,
Novo and Geigy around 1950 with
the aim of building up an international
business, are just two important
historic examples of partnerships.
Partnerships will continue to play a sig-
nificant role in future efforts to offer
customers measurable, affordable
»ACTING
therapeutic progress beyond purely
innovative medicines. Only when the
TOGETHER
most innovative companies act together
can we find solutions – and at the same
time remain an independent, family- AND FINDING
owned company.
SOLUTIONS.«
CHRISTIAN BOEHRINGER
Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee
05ENQUIRED
I
n our Animal Health business
partnerships have become vital for
success in many key dimensions:
we supply additional services to
»IMPROVING OUR our customers in order to provide value
beyond the product. Regarding R&D, we
ABILITY TO work together with several external
partners to develop innovative tech- »HAVING AN
nologies and research approaches.
INNOVATE AND
Many ideas for products and solutions IN-DEPTH UNDER-
are only possible in diverse teams com-
COMPETE.«
bining different skills and capabilities
STANDING OF
worldwide. Building global hubs for
intensified cooperation is therefore part
HUBERTUS VON BAUMBACH OUR CUSTOMERS’
of our Animal Health strategy that will
Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors
be vastly accelerated through the inte-
gration of Merial. NEEDS.«
ALLAN HILLGROVE
P Member of the Board of Managing
artnering helps us to »DEVELOPING
Directors with responsibility for
strengthen our capabilities and Human Pharma
serve our customers better.
INNOVATIVE
Partners allow us to improve
our ability to innovate, our ability to
TECHNOLOGIES I
compete and to look beyond our own see partnerships as central to the
horizon. Partnering is decisive in build- future success of Boehringer
ing strong relations with our customers, AND RESEARCH Ingelheim. For me, partnerships
better understanding their needs and require, firstly, having an in-depth
allowing them to improve their results, APPROACHES.« understanding of our customers’ needs
hence bringing more health to patients. and then meeting these needs in a
mutually beneficial way. Future partner-
DR JOACHIM HASENMAIER ships are likely to include cooperating
Member of the Board of Managing with payers and reimbursement bodies
Directors with responsibility for
to define the value of our products to
Animal Health
society, and being paid on the delivery
of this value. Partnerships will also
involve gaining expertise from outside
the company and employing this to be
more competitive and responsive.
06ENQUIRED
P
artnerships are key to the
success of our company. When
I think about partnerships I
think about partnerships both
internally as well as externally, at all
»TOGETHER levels within and outside of our organi-
sation. I think about partnerships with
ACHIEVING our customers, patients, stakeholders
and our employees. If we work together,
collaborate and foster an inclusive
OPTIMISED
culture we will drive diverse thinking »BEING THE
and innovation in our organisation. In a
RESULTS.«
true partnership you are a team, striving PARTNER OF
for the same goal. TEAM is another
way of saying “Together Everyone
SIMONE MENNE CHOICE FOR
Achieves More”.
Member of the Board of Managing
Directors with responsibility for
EXTERNAL
Finance
P artnership means supporting »DRIVING INNOVATORS.«
each other by sharing knowledge
and combining strengths. In DIVERSE
DR MICHEL PAIRET
the Finance Division this does
Member of the Board of Managing
not apply only to our external partners, THINKING AND
Directors with responsibility for
but to our internal business partners in
Innovation
particular. Together with them, we can
INNOVATION.«
overcome the challenges of major projects
P
and thereby achieve optimised results. artnerships are the key to inno-
DR ANDREAS NEUMANN vation. Discoveries are not
Member of the Board of Managing made by individuals acting on
Directors with responsibility for their own. They usually begin
Human Resources
with a single person’s idea that is tested
experimentally and, in discussions and
exchange with other creative minds
both internally and externally, is further
developed into a true solution. Our
aspiration at Boehringer Ingelheim is to
be the partner of choice for external
innovators. Establishing a creative and
cooperative environment, bringing
together scientists from diverse back-
grounds, is the key to our ambition for
breakthrough innovation valued by
patients, their families and society.
0701
P R O G R E S S
T H R O U G H
P A R T N E R S H I P
For Boehringer Ingelheim as a research-driven
pharmaceutical company, progress is essential
to sustained success. Partnerships play an increasingly
important role here: with external researchers,
health insurers and, not least, the patients themselves.
This is because progress for Boehringer Ingelheim
first and foremost means helping people and animals
with innovative medicines worldwide.
08P R O G R E S S
T H R O U G H
P A R T N E R S H I P
09PROGRESS THROUGH PARTNERSHIP
O P E N
T O
I D E A S
Developing new medicines calls for the power to innovate – and
strong scientific partners: why Boehringer Ingelheim’s new research strategy
is backing open innovation, how interaction with external specialists is
inspiring research, and what openness means for recruiting outstanding
scientists.
10PROGRESS THROUGH PARTNERSHIP
DR CLIVE R. WOOD This is ‘open innovation’ in the
best sense, as Boehringer Ingelheim
understands it. “We’re looking for the
medicines of the future,” says Wood.
is Corporate Senior Vice “And we’re open to the best new ideas
President Human Pharma and concepts to inspire our research
Discovery Research and has and development from wherever they
been working with Boehringer emerge. We are heading with our eyes
Ingelheim since 2014. open to precisely where innovation
happens – be that internally or exter-
nally – and in this way are building an
perhaps even reversed. This is one of the ideal cradle for innovation.”
core causes of the disease. The experts
from Weill Cornell, on the one hand,
contribute a profound understanding of »WE’RE ON THE
chronic pulmonary diseases and extensive
experience of lung research. The team
FRONT LINE WHEN
from Boehringer Ingelheim, on the other
hand, has particular expertise when it
S
NEW RESEARCH
comes to discovering and developing new
respiratory therapies. “We complement
hortness of breath and each other perfectly – it’s an excellent FIELDS EMERGE.«
a persistent cough: combination that enables us to rapidly
these are usually the translate new scientific findings into
first signs of chronic pharmaceutical research and develop-
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). ment,” says Dr Clive R. Wood. As In 2015, Boehringer Ingelheim
It is a truly widespread disease. A great Corporate Senior Vice President Disco- reshaped its Discovery Research strategy.
number of people over the age of 40 are very Research, Wood is essentially Research into new medicines has since
affected or at high risk. An estimated the company’s head of research for been divided into four research areas:
210 million people worldwide suffer from human pharma. immunology and respiratory diseases,
it – the disease is thus more prevalent “Scientists from both academic cardiometabolic diseases, oncology, and
than diabetes. Experts estimate that in research and the company share the diseases of the central nervous system.
2030, every third fatality will be attribut- passion for new discoveries and work The ability to modulate the body’s own
able to COPD. The disease is incurable, together to translate them into new immune system has opened new exciting
but there are treatments that can improve medicines,” says Wood, explaining why ways to treat cancer. Consequently, the
the symptoms and thereby counter the partnerships like these are so promising. Discovery Research organisation of
dangerous downward spiral of increasing The researcher, who grew up and stud- Boehringer Ingelheim plans to further
ailments and physical inactivity. ied in the UK and then spent the majority increase its investment in oncology
To help patients, researchers from of his career in the USA, has been work- with an additional research therapeutic
Boehringer Ingelheim and Weill Cornell’s ing at Boehringer Ingelheim’s headquar- area focused on immuno-oncology.
Department of Genetic Medicine in the ters in Ingelheim, Germany since 2014. Boehringer Ingelheim has also estab-
USA are now breaking completely new “We’re on the front line when new lished overarching scientific platforms
ground. Together, they are conducting research fields emerge and are constantly such as immune modulation to focus
research into how the deterioration of engaged in intensive interactions with expertise and resources in areas cutting
the small airways can be stopped or external experts.” across multiple therapeutic areas.
11PROGRESS THROUGH PARTNERSHIP
_BIBERACH,_
_GERMANY_
_RIDGEFIELD,_
_CT, USA_
_VIENNA,_
_AUSTRIA_
_KOBE,_
_JAPAN_
Boehringer Ingelheim’s
major global Research &
Development sites for
human pharmaceuticals.
With ‘Research Beyond Borders’, the of-the art capabilities in protein bio- possible. In 2016 alone, the company’s
company has also established a pro- therapeutics which are now delivering researchers published several hundred
gramme to explore emerging scientific about one-quarter of new candidates in scientific articles – many in prestigious
approaches and technologies in collab- our early pipeline,” says Wood. journals. Wood is proud of this large
oration with external partners both number and believes it is a key perfor-
within and beyond its core research »WHEN THE mance indicator for innovation. It is
therapeutic areas. also important for recruiting the next
Boehringer Ingelheim is committed generations of talented scientists into
TIME IS RIGHT
to developing the next generations of the company. “Today the best young
pioneering medicines with the goal of minds are attracted to publications in
WE CAN GET
improving the lives of patients with high top journals to find those places doing
medical need. “New insights into the the great science that brings new medi-
pathways that drive diseases are critically FULLY INVOLVED.« cines to patients.”
important to identify the breakthrough ‘Research Beyond Borders’ serves as
medicines of the future,” says Wood. a radar for the next big wave of innovation:
“The creativity and commitment to such “Open innovation requires active by collaborating with external research
insights are centrally important to the two-way communication with the external institutions, Boehringer Ingelheim
‘drug-hunting’ spirit.” world,” he explains. “Whilst we must ensures that its own scientists keep
Once a new drug target has been ensure appropriate protection of our their fingers on the pulse, do not miss
identified, researchers decide how best innovations, there is an enormous out on any new research methods that
to approach it for therapeutic purposes. amount of our work that can be shared.” are emerging, and are connected with
“From our history, we have developed Wood believes that such external engage- the best partners. Long-term partnerships
exceptional abilities in discovering and ment and participation in the greater with universities, such as Kyoto Univer-
developing small molecule drugs. These scientific community is essential to create sity in Japan and Harvard in the US (see
have contributed to our leading pipeline and expand connections and facilitate page 15), are at the heart of ‘Research
successes and I am sure will continue to the path to future opportunities. So he Beyond Borders’.
be a critical core driver of our future is convinced that scientific publications Boehringer Ingelheim is also active
success. However, large molecule drugs are crucial for communication among in public private partnerships, such as
are also required to address a significant researchers and he encourages his col- the Structural Genomics Consortium, and
range of therapeutic targets. In more leagues at Boehringer Ingelheim to is seeking solutions for the most difficult
recent years, we have developed state- publish as many of their findings as medical problems through crowdsourcing
12PROGRESS THROUGH PARTNERSHIP
projects. “In this way, we can keep an BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM’S
eye on topics that are still at an early RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT
conceptual stage,” Wood continues.
“And, when the time is right, we’re ready
to get fully involved.” SINCE
1885
Immune modulation is an example
of the scientific platform approach at
Boehringer Ingelheim. “The immune
system is a common denominator for
Boehringer Ingelheim has been com-
many diseases across a wide variety of
mitted to Research & Development
medical areas,” Wood explains. Previ-
ously, the company would have had to
employ immunologists in all relevant
3.1
therapeutic area teams. “Now we’ve
brought them all together in a single unit
instead.” Around 200 specialists are sational units. Immune modulation and
carrying out research to identify novel the underlying mechanisms that drive
possibilities of influencing the immune BILLION EUROS fibrosis are examples of scientific platform
system. An immune pathway that must Research & Development approaches that Boehringer Ingelheim
expenditure in 2016
be turned off in a disease such as auto- is currently exploring. However, Wood
immunity – in which there is excessive and his colleagues are already discuss-
activation of the immune system – may ing further areas – regenerative medi-
be the same pathway that must be 8,055 cine being one such possibility.
turned on to fight cancer – in which there “A new culture of openness and
may be insufficient activation of the mutually beneficial partnership in
immune system. It creates enormous research now guides the company’s
value when the scientists work together PEOPLE research and development,” Wood states.
on these common problems as worked in Research & He mentions ofev® as an outstanding
opposed to working in different organi- Development in 2016 example in the company. This is one of
the medicines that is making a strong
contribution to sales growth. With the
tyrosine kinase inhibitor nintedanib,
Boehringer Ingelheim’s oncology research
division had originally developed a highly
effective lung cancer medicine. “And
then two talented scientists at our
Biberach site in Germany hit upon the
idea that the mechanisms that drive
cancer might also be effective against
idiopathic lung fibrosis,” he says.
“This, of course, implied that the active
ingredient nintedanib could be used for
treating this disease.” They demon-
strated this potential in a series of
experiments and successfully argued for
testing nintedanib in this additional
indication. “The importance of common
disease mechanisms has been shown
to be important over and over again.
An open mind and the ambition to
help patients is at the heart of drug
discovery.”
In 2015, Boehringer Ingelheim reshaped
its Discovery Research strategy.
13PROGRESS THROUGH PARTNERSHIP
E X P L O R I N G N E W
H O R I Z O N S —
T O G E T H E R W E A R E
S T R O N G E R
Transforming bright scientific ideas into new medicines for patients
in need requires staying power–and, increasingly, also a strong
international network of partners. This is why Boehringer Ingelheim
is continually seeking strong partners all over the world to pursue
new paths in drug discovery.
14PROGRESS THROUGH PARTNERSHIP
Oncolytic viruses are among the
most promising therapeutic
CROSSING BOUNDARIES approaches in cancer research.
In 2015 Boehringer Ingelheim launched a
new strategy for its global research organisa-
INNOVATION PARTNERSHIPS tion. It combines a focus on the company’s
IN BOSTON own strengths with increased use of internal
synergies and a bold commitment to external
Boehringer Ingelheim has an office in Boston, innovation. The ‘Research Beyond Borders’
USA with the goal of expanding its network of initiative represents a new approach, with the
scientists and organisations. As an example, aim to explore novel scientific approaches and
Boehringer Ingelheim is working with scien- innovative technologies within and beyond
tists at the Harvard Stem Cell Institute’s Boehringer Ingelheim’s core therapeutic areas
Fibrosis Network in order to study new treat- that could be future focus areas for the company.
ment options for fibrotic diseases. Life science research in Asia is rapidly
Fibrosis is characterised by a patholog- growing in importance, offering significant
ical proliferation of fibrous connective tissue new opportunities for pharmaceutical discov-
in organs. The Boehringer Ingelheim and ery research in particular areas of focus.
Harvard University scientists carry out Regenerative medicine is one of these areas COLLABORATION TO
research into diseases such as idiopathic pul- of excellence. A three-year partnership with COMBAT CANCER
monary fibrosis, chronic kidney failure and Kyoto University in Japan is now under way.
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. They look for Together, scientists from Boehringer Ingelheim The goal of Boehringer Ingelheim’s cancer
the pathophysiological mechanisms that are and Kyoto University investigate novel thera- research is to develop new therapies to imp rove
at the root of fibrosis and that could prove peutic approaches to restore the hearing ability patients’ lives. To achieve this, the company
game-changing in treating fibrotic diseases. of people with disabling hearing loss. Over continues to expand its network of partner-
The advantages of this partnership are that 360 million people live with this severe condi- ships with academic institutions and biotech-
the researchers are now able to pursue their tion and 32 million of them are children. Due nology companies. These relationships focus
work in much greater depth than before, to the worldwide aging population, a dramatic on early, emerging science and technology
leverage synergies and share resources increase in frequency of the condition is aimed at true breakthroughs in therapy. The
efficiently. expected as hearing loss increases with age. needs of patients and caregivers as well as
There is no effective treatment that could healthcare system requirements guide the
restore hearing loss and sufferers have to rely researchers.
on hearing aids. One example is the strategic partner-
The joint research team pursues a new ship with ViraTherapeutics, a biotech com-
Hair cells in the inner ear. idea, aiming to understand the mechanisms pany located in Innsbruck, Austria which
for the regeneration of damaged hair cells in investigates virus-based immunotherapeu-
the inner ear. In hearing-impaired people, tics for cancer treatment. In April 2015, the
these sensory cells no longer work properly. Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund became
New therapeutic approaches are intended to the lead investor in ViraTherapeutics, as
restore them, overcoming the limitations of oncolytic viruses are among the most prom-
hearing aids. ising emer ging therapeutic approaches in
Boehringer Ingelheim opened an office cancer research. Together, the two companies
in September 2016 at Kyoto University’s Med- have pursued early-stage research examining
ical Innovation Center to establish other col- cancer-destroying oncolytic viruses since
laborations with scientists in Japan. September 2016.
To broaden Boehringer Ingelheim’s Oncolytic viruses act by infecting and
research in the field of hearing loss, the destroying cancer cells. This process also leads
‘Research Beyond Borders’ team has recently to the release of tumor antigens, which are
launched another partnership with China normally hidden from the immune system in
Southeast University in Nanjing that will the body’s cells. This so-called in situ vaccina-
focus on complementary approaches to tion effect triggers a sustained response of the
restoring the hearing ability. adaptive immune system against tumour cells.
15PPRROOGGRREESSSS TTHHRROOUUGGHH PPAARRTTNNEERRSSHHIIPP
GUEST CONTRIBUTION
L E A R N I N G
F R O M
S C I E N C E
on this basis, several different trends
can be identified that are highly likely to
become reality over the next few years.
F I C T I O N
TREND 1: SELF-
AWARE PATIENTS
Patients’ self-image is already evolving.
Healthcare is set to undergo revolutionary changes. In just
However, it will undergo an even more
a few years’ time, pills produced by a 3D printer will be part of
radical transformation. Not only are
everyday life – just like virtual-reality applications in hospitals. patients more self-aware and more crit-
ical of what doctors and pharmaceutical
Healthcare companies must prepare for the new era by becoming
manufacturers tell them than they used to
patients’ partners.
be. There is more intent on informing
themselves – both prophylactically as
well as about diseases they have been
diagnosed with, and possible treat-
ments. The internet enables patients to
achieve a level of knowledge approaching
that of doctors, if only they invest
enough time. And what is more, ever more
patients will in future insist on playing
A
nyone interested in what the At first sight, the healthcare sector a more active role in deciding what hap-
future holds should read science is facing an era of change. A real tsuna mi pens to them. For companies in the
fiction stories and watch science is approaching, but its full impact will healthcare sector and for doctors, this
fiction films. While the future will only be felt in a few years. Many different means adapting to the fact that patients
not turn out quite like in Star Trek or the examples give an idea of how severe will demand to be treated as partners.
movie Ex Machina, such stories can serve these changes will be. Today, paralysed
as a valuable source of inspiration for people are able to walk again thanks to TREND 2:
us. Science fiction is the glue which binds an exoskeleton, 3D printers enable VICTORY PARADE
today and tomorrow. It helps us with custom-fit casts and splints for individual OF THE SENSORS
the exponential thinking we need to make patients, and there are plans for drones
meaningful assumptions about what to deliver defibrillators to emergency Sensors that measure and assess the
the future is likely to bring. Linear think- patients should a doctor be unable to get vital functions of many people will
ing – which simply extrapolates current there in time. All this would have been spread rapidly over the next few years.
developments into the future – will not considered science fiction just a few years So-called electronic tattoos are already
take us forward. This is already evident ago. Today, it is reality. available on the market. They continu-
from a glance at the many industries For those who are inspired by ously measure the body temperature,
that have undergone radical changes science fiction and are familiar with current pulse rate and blood pressure of the per-
over the past few years due to the trends in healthcare and information son to whose skin the tattoo is attached.
internet, such as retail and the media. technology, and who think exponentially Sensors might soon be installed in bath-
16PPRROOGGRREESSSS TTHHRROOUUGGHH PPAARRTTNNEERRSSHHIIPP
rooms in people’s homes. They could, TREND 5:
for instance, analyse people’s urine every AUGMENTED AND
day. This offers many new opportunities VIRTUAL REALITY
for health insurers; for example people
who follow a health-conscious lifestyle
could be offered discounts. Moreover, Augmented reality has been on every-
increasing numbers of people are seeking body’s lips for many months now due to
to optimise their health themselves. For the Pokémon Go smartphone game – in
example, they can record the number of future, it will be an everyday occurrence
deep sleep periods they have during the in the healthcare industry. There are
night – and adjust their daytime behaviour various possible applications: augmen-
so as to achieve better recovery at BERTALAN MESKÓ ted reality will enable doctors to partici-
night-time. pate in operations – or even to perform
MD, PhD
them – remotely. Data glasses will
enable significantly more effective sha-
TREND 3: red training for junior medics than was
3D PRINTING possible in the past, such as in a virtual
dissecting room. And during an opera-
Even now, cancer medications are fre- tion performed under local anaesthetic,
also known as
quently produced on a customised basis patients will wear data glasses that
‘The Medical Futurist’
for each individual patient. In future, the show them pictures of their home so
same approach will be followed for that they feel at ease, despite the unfa-
is an Amazon Top 100
many other medicines. Once a doctor has miliar environment.
author, keynote speaker and
determined the right combination of
researcher. With more than
active ingredients, he will send this data CONCLUSION
500 presentations (e.g. courses
to a pharmacy, which will use a 3D printer
at the Harvard, Stanford and
to produce customised pills for the pati- All of these radical changes have one
Yale universities; Singularity
ent concerned. Initial trials using this thing in common: at first glance, they
University’s Futuremed course
method have already been successfully appear to be the consequences of a
at NASA Ames campus and
completed – they show that these pills technological revolution. Yet in actual
organisations including the
even break down particularly quickly in fact, they reflect a cultural revolution,
ten biggest pharmaceutical
the patient’s body. Soon, 3D printers above all, in the sense that people are at
companies), he is one of the
will no longer just be used to manufacture the heart of things. This is especially
pills but also, for instance, to produce top voices globally on health- true of patients, who will enjoy a part-
entire body parts, which patients will care technology. Dr Meskó nership of equals with the protagonists
receive as transplants. was featured by dozens of top in healthcare. Their needs and wishes
publishers, including CNN, will shape the development of the
National Geographic, Forbes, healthcare sector as never before.
TREND 4: Time magazine, the BBC, and Healthcare companies must adapt
VIRTUAL TESTING the New York Times. so as to keep up with these rapid
OF NEW ACTIVE changes – and ideally help to push them
INGREDIENTS forward themselves. To do so, they must
welcome the new opportunities that
Currently, pharmaceutical research com- information technology affords. They
panies have to conduct a laborious testing without the involvement of actual must ensure that new ideas are imple-
series of trials in order to test new active patients. A further advantage is that mented quickly. They must urge the reg-
ingredients. This process takes many computers could test thousands of differ- ulatory authorities to make rapid and
years and requires the participation of a ent combinations of active ingredients pragmatic decisions. And, above all,
large number of patients, who are often within a very short space of time and they must transform their self-image.
exposed to a certain degree of risk. This identify the best ones. This would save Even a big company will in future be
might soon be a thing of the past, how- pharmaceutical manufacturers a lot of increasingly less capable of safeguard-
ever, thanks to computers that are able to time and bring new medicines onto the ing its success on its own. To achieve
process large amounts of data – experts market much faster than in the past. It this, it will require a network of many
call this “big data”. In future, new active may even soon be possible to use artificial partners, first and foremost among
ingredients might thus undergo virtual intelligence for testing active ingredients. them: patients.
17PROGRESS THROUGH PARTNERSHIP
L O N G - T E R M
P A R T N E R S H I P S T O
B E N E F I T P A T I E N T S
Partnerships are increasingly gaining importance throughout
Boehringer Ingelheim. Professor Dr Dorothee Bartels has spent the last few months
travelling around the USA on behalf of the company in order to forge close
contacts with doctors, healthcare organisations and insurers. The epidemiologist’s
conclusion: “Nowadays, cooperation has to begin much earlier than it did just a couple
of years ago – the objective is to build genuine, trustful and long-term partnerships.”
18PROGRESS THROUGH PARTNERSHIP
PROF. DR DOROTHEE
BARTELS
Prof. Bartels, what exactly is different today? has been Global Head of Epide- quently already been through a long ordeal
PROF. BARTELS Previously, as a phar- miology at Boehringer Ingelheim before the right medicine was found, if at all.
maceutical company, we only talked to since 2010. She holds a Master’s For patients, this is both a a great strain and
health insurers or pharmacists shortly degree in epidemiology from possibly even life-threatening, while it’s
before the launch of a medicine – and then Harvard School of Public Health, also very expensive for the health insurer.
mainly about commercial issues such as USA and a doctorate from Hanover Today, we seek to jointly characterise patient
pricing. Today, trustful partnerships start with Medical School, Germany where groups very early on so as to be able to offer
disease-related discussions rather than with she is Professor of Epidemiology individual therapies. The analysis of data from
product-related discussions. Only in this way and Public Health. She has been routine clinical practice comes into play here.
can we optimally pursue our common goal Adjunct Professor at McGill This is data already available prior to
as partners: helping sick people with per- University, Canada since 2013. approval, from, for example, electronic med-
sonalised medicines. ical records or claims data which can be
used to identify and characterise patients
In practical terms, how do pharmaceutical with unmet medical need before launch.
companies notice this change?
PROF. BARTELS Today, health insurers no longer wish to For this purpose, for example, we’ve licensed the same analyti-
pay per visit to the doctor or per prescription of medicines. cal platform as Humana, the fifth-largest health plan in the
Increasingly, their criterion is rather quality and whether a USA. We’re now able to work jointly on Humana’s patient data
treatment was successful. For their relationship with pharma- as well as on databases licensed by Boehringer Ingelheim –
ceutical companies, this means that instead of pure volumes – without any breach of data protection. This increases the data
that’s to say discounts – insurers are now negotiating reim- pool, helps with the search for suitable patient subgroups and
bursements which depend on the effectiveness and safety of a enables close, partnership-based cooperation within the
medicine for routine clinical use. So-called “value-based framework of evidence- based medicine.
contracts” are therefore gaining ground. The paradigm shift is
“from volume to value”. So the model of a pharmaceutical company going solo is on the
way out?
What role does personalised medicine play here? PROF. BARTELS I prefer to put it this way: in general, going
PROF. BARTELS A critical one. Nowadays, the question is solo is no longer expedient. Neither pharmaceutical companies
much more about which medicine is the best to help which nor health insurers, pharmacists, IT providers or patients’ organi-
individual patient. That’s also the main reason why coopera- sations are on their own able to improve human’s health and
tion between health insurers and pharmaceutical companies achieve progress. That is only possible with joint effort,
must today begin much earlier. Until now, patients had fre- through trustful and long-term partnership-based cooperation.
19PROGRESS THROUGH PARTNERSHIP
P A S S I O N
F O R
A N I M A L
H E A L T H
January 2017 saw our union with Sanofi’s animal health business, Merial. The
combined Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Business Unit is the world’s second
largest animal health operation, with over 10,000 employees, products available
in more than 150 markets, and a global presence in 99 countries.
20PROGRESS THROUGH PARTNERSHIP
As a leader in vaccines and anti- BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
parasitics, we will continue our special ANIMAL HEALTH
#1
focus on prevention while addressing
the spectrum of treatment needs. We
aim to develop new, effective medicines
and diagnostics for diseases with high
unmet medical needs. We will continue
to invest in our existing market-leading
positions in swine, equine and pets, PETS
while expanding our offering in cattle,
poultry and other livestock.
SWINE
We now have the increased exper-
tise and resources to offer our custom-
ers more innovation and a wider set of
BY DR JOACHIM products and services. We want to sup-
HASENMAIER, MEMBER OF THE EQUINE
BOARD OF MANAGING DIRECTORS port farmers to raise and care for ani-
WITH RESPONSIBILITY FOR
mals in a healthy, sustainable and
ANIMAL HEALTH
financially viable way, which builds con-
fidence with consumers.
»WE KNOW THAT
T
he combined strength of #2
Boehringer Ingelheim’s and WHEN ANIMALS
Sanofi’s animal health organi-
sations will improve our com-
ARE HEALTHY,
petitiveness in the animal health busi-
ness, which is strategically important to
HUMANS ARE
our company. Complementary portfo-
GLOBAL PLAYER
lios make our two businesses a perfect
HEALTHY TOO.«
fit. Together, we can serve customers
and partners even better by offering a
broader range of health solutions in more We’re committed to helping com- PRODUCTS AVAILABLE
countries, while continuing the excellent panion animals live longer and better, IN MORE THAN
150
service delivery our customers expect. as most owners today have lifelong
The combined Animal Health emotional connections with their pets
team is committed to using our combined and consider them family members. As
scale, resources and deep R&D capabili- a family-owned business, we can take
ties to lead the industry in improving a long-term perspective to achieve this COUNTRIES
animal well-being. Welcoming Merial into for the benefit of our employees and
the Boehringer Ingelheim family reflects customers.
our passion for animal health and com- Boehringer Ingelheim is committed SHARE
mitment to making the industry even to ensuring a smooth transition and 8
%
POULTRY
better at improving both human and ani- business continuity as the organisations 16 54
% %
SWINE PETS
mal health. We have combined two integrate. A deeply experienced new
leading industry players with a common leadership team drawn from both
41
%
vision, which is to recognise the critical Boehringer Ingelheim and Merial back- LIVESTOCK
59
importance of serving animal health grounds will steer the Business Unit’s %
COMPANION
ANIMALS
needs globally, with a focus on preven- strategy and bear out our commitment 17
%
tion. We know that when animals are to customer and partner relationships CATTLE
5
healthy, humans are healthy too. and innovation in 2017 and beyond. %
EQUINE
2102
P A R T N E R S H I P
B A S E D
O N T R U S T
Patients have to be able to trust in doctors and
pharmaceutical companies together ensuring that they
are provided with the best possible therapies as well
as effective and safe medicines. Boehringer Ingelheim
has striven to maintain this trust for over 130 years.
22P A R T N E R S H I P
B A S E D
O N T R U S T
23PARTNERSHIP BASED ON TRUST
24PARTNERSHIP BASED ON TRUST
B A C K T O A L I F E
At the age of 24, Anna
Higgs suffered a serious
stroke which paralysed
one side of her body. The
British woman struggled
with the physical and
psychological effects for
many years. She knows
that the path back to a
life is easier if you have
the right partners by
your side.
A
nna Higgs had been looking
forward to a nice Christmas.
She celebrated Christmas Day
2004 with her whole family in
her father’s house in Harlow, north of
London. Anna’s new-born son Henry,
then just one month old, was also with
them. But suddenly Anna didn’t feel
well and had difficulty speaking and also
walking. Her family took her home and
put her to bed. It was only the following
morning that Anna’s sister noticed that
something was seriously wrong and
called an emergency doctor. His devas-
tating diagnosis: stroke, at the age
of just 24.
25PARTNERSHIP BASED ON TRUST
»AT SOME POINT, ONE OF
THE NURSES TOLD ME THAT
I’D PROBABLY NEED AN
ELECTRIC WHEELCHAIR
WHEN I LEFT HOSPITAL.
THAT TOTALLY KNOCKED
ME OVER.«
Once the young mother had been
transferred to her local hospital in Harlow
two weeks later, she received physio-
therapy every day. She initially concen-
trated on her right leg, since she wanted
Anna Higgs at her home in Harlow.
to learn to walk again as quickly as pos-
sible. But progress was slow and Anna
repeatedly suffered bitter setbacks, such
The local hospital in Harlow only as contracting a hospital infection
had a skeleton staff over Christmas. This which weakened her further. “At some
meant that it was not possible to per- point, one of the nurses told me that I’d
form a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) probably need an electric wheelchair
scan there. Anna was therefore trans- when I left hospital,” Anna remembers.
ferred to another hospital further away “That totally knocked me over.”
for emergency treatment and initial She spent six months in hospital.
tests. Even though her husband Craig, her Afterwards, she could not go back to her
parents and other relatives visited her old flat, as it was on the third floor. The
every day, Anna became increasingly local authority found her a flat on the
desperate. She could no longer move ground floor. This was the start of a par-
her right arm or her right leg, and no ticularly difficult period for Anna. She
longer had any sight in her right eye. “I had to learn to cope with everyday life,
was really worried,” says Anna. “The despite her paralysis. “That was ex-
more I understood what had happened tremely difficult with a small child,” she
to me, the greater my fear. It looked as says. “I had to use only my left hand for
though my entire life hitherto was over.” everything, including changing Henry’s
She would have liked to have looked nappies.” Although her family did all
after her young son, but that was not that they could to support her, Anna felt
possible. Anna’s husband Craig had no that she was on her own. In hospital,
choice but to give up his job in order other people had looked after everything
to stay at home. for her and there were clear times for
26PARTNERSHIP BASED ON TRUST
She won the struggle for control of
her leg and today Anna can walk
normally again.
27PARTNERSHIP BASED ON TRUST
»DESPITE MY DIFFICULT
SITUATION, I WAS ABLE TO
GET A LOT DONE MYSELF
AND ORGANISE THINGS.«
can’t use it,” she jokes. Anna fought her HELPING ANGELS
way back to life. Despite her physical
limitations, she took up dancing a few
years ago. She now organises an annual
dance and cabaret show in aid of a self-
help group for stroke victims.
The support of her family and,
above all, her relationship with her hus-
treatments and physiotherapy. “But band Craig have helped Anna to escape
almost immediately after I left hospital, from the deep hole which she had fallen
communication broke down com- into after her stroke. However, her way
pletely.” From one moment to the next, back to a contented and independent
Anna had to cope with everything on life would have been much easier for her
her own. if she had been able to rely more on Strokes are on the rise around the globe.
A complete mental breakdown professional partners. “When you leave Over the past 20 years, there has been a
followed. For two years, the young hospital after a serious stroke, you significant increase in the number of
woman no longer left the house. “I had urgently need a safety net to fall into,” patients. In 2013 alone, 10.3 million
given up all hope,” she says. “And I was she says. There is a need for doctors, people worldwide were affected. Many
seriously worried that I’d have another carers and therapists who talk to one patients lack access to a specialised
stroke.” That was precisely what happened, another, discuss things and follow a hospital and therefore do not receive
but the second stroke was less severe joint plan. As Anna knows all too well optimum treatment and care. Experts
than the first one. from her own experience, patients are estimate that roughly every 30 minutes
The turning point came when hardly capable of dealing with things a stroke patient who could have been
Anna decided to take an antidepressant. themselves in such situations. saved in a specialised hospital either
Things slowly improved after this, and Looking back, Anna actually dies or suffers serious complications.
her deep despair faded into the back- thinks that she was lucky compared to Boehringer Ingelheim is helping
ground. Anna found the strength to others, despite her bad experience. to change this situation. The comp any’s
fight. With iron discipline, she worked “Because I was so young, I definitely got “Angels Initiative” works with leading
to regain control of her right leg. “My more help and attention than older organisations and experts to improve
son helped me,” she says. “I wanted to patients.” That was true not only of doctors access to specialist stroke hospitals
be able to treat him like any other and therapists, but also of her friends. around the world. The initiative aims
mother treated her child. That was what Only recently, friends raised £2,000 to to build a community of at least
motivated me.” She won the struggle buy Anna a device which helps to 1,500 new stroke centres and special-
for control of her leg and today Anna strengthen the muscles in her right leg ised hospitals by 2019 in Europe
can walk normally again. By contrast, using electrical impulses. alone. To this end, the initiative is
the physiotherapy for her right arm was Still, Anna knows that the fact training nurses and carers as stroke
disappointing and she can hardly move that she has now regained a life she can specialists, offers simulation-based
it to this day. “At some point, I gave up enjoy is to a great extent due to herself. training and equips hospitals with
because I had used up all my strength,” “Despite my difficult situation, I was stroke boxes. This is in keeping with
the 36-year-old says. A few years ago, able to get a lot done myself and organ- the motto of the Angels Initiative:
she had all of her right arm tattooed. ise things. This is because, fortunately, “Giving life a chance”.
“That way it at least looks nice, even if I I’m a very open and direct person.”
28PARTNERSHIP BASED ON TRUST
IN CASE OF STROKE — BE FAST
BALANCE EYES FACE
Loss of balance, Blurred vision One side of the face
WHAT IS A STROKE?
headache or is drooping
dizziness
ARMS SPEECH TIME
Arm or leg weakness Speech difficulty Time to call an
ambulance
TIME IS BRAIN
immediately
A stroke is a disruption of the brain
function of more than 24 hours.
It is due to an insufficient supply of a
brain region with oxygen.
FACTS ABOUT STROKE
Clot retrieval treatment increases the
chance of a good outcome by more than
50
STROKE IS
TREATABLE
CLOGGED BLOOD VESSEL % Stroke is a complex
medical issue, but there
In 80 per cent of cases a blood vessel
are ways to significantly
clogged by a clot (embolus) or calcifi-
reduce its impact.
cation (arteriosclerosis) is the cause.
Recognizing the signs of
stroke early, treating it
as a medical emergency
17 with admission to a
MILLION
specialised stroke unit,
strokes per year
and access to the best
worldwide
professional care can
substantially improve
outcomes.
5
MILLION
NO OXYGEN of them cause
disability
The function of the affected brain
area is temporarily or permanently Source: www.worldstrokecampaign.org
impaired.
29PARTNERSHIP BASED ON TRUST
W O R K I N G
T O G E T H E R
T O C O M B A T
C O U N T E R -
F E I T I N G
The monitoring and traceability of medicines are of particular importance to
Boehringer Ingelheim, as counterfeit products can endanger the health of patients.
This is why the company works together with retailers and other manufacturers
to make medicines more secure against counterfeiting. Boehringer Ingelheim also
gives a high priority to pursuing any suspected cases.
C
omplaints resulting from effect is not experienced or there are responsible for protection against coun-
suspicions of counterfeiting unexpected side effects. In short, there terfeiting at Boehringer Ingelheim. The
occur between 100 and 200 is a suspicion that someone may have products that are sent in will then be
times a year. A doctor, pharma- provided the doctors or patients with forwarded to the facility that manufac-
cist, hospital or patient contacts one of counterfeit medicine. tures the corresponding original for
Boehringer Ingelheim’s national subsid- “In order for us to be able to inves- Boehringer Ingelheim. “Our colleagues
iaries to say that the packagings or the tigate such cases, we ask that any suspi- there can compare the packaging with
tablets look different to the usual ones. cious products are sent to us. Only then the retention samples and submit the
The batch number and expiry date details will we be able to come to a reliable con- products for chemical analysis,” says
on the packaging do not match the clusion. In some cases, photos can already Schön. In more than 90 per cent of cases,
details on the blister packs or on the bot- provide initial indications of counterfeit- the suspicion turns out to be unfounded.
tle label, and possibly the expected ing,” explains Johannes Schön, who is However, if there is something amiss,
30PARTNERSHIP BASED ON TRUST
this can range from the manipulation of launched the securPharm initiative in
the expiry date on the packaging to 2012. securPharm has developed a sys-
complete counterfeiting of products with HOW SECURPHARM WORKS tem for the unique labelling of medicine
alien ingredients. “Luckily, our product packaging. A data matrix code, familiar
portfolio isn’t as badly affected by from train tickets for example, contains
counterfeiting as those of other manu- encrypted information about the manu-
facturers,” says Schön. This is because facturer and the medicine, the batch
counterfeiters focus more on antimalari- number and expiry date. The same infor-
als, antibiotics and lifestyle products mation is stored in a central database.
such as medicines to treat erectile dys- As soon as a pharmacist scans a pack
function, dieting aids or hair restorers. prior to selling it, the system checks
Counterfeit medicines represent a whether the data is valid and records the
growing problem – not least because sale of the product. “This means that no
the internet makes it easy for criminals one can sell the same pack twice,”
to trade in counterfeits: “Operation explains Schön. “And the pharmacist
Pangea”, which is coordinated every recognises a pack with an incorrect code
SCAN CODE
year by Interpol, seized more than five immediately.”
times as many counterfeit drugs and A pharmacist scans a pack prior to selling it.
prohibited medicines in 2016 than in ENORMOUS LEAD
2011, with almost ten times the value. The securPharm system has been tested
Frequently, tablets or solutions contain at around 400 pharmacies in Germany
no active ingredient at all. Sometimes, since January 2013, and 40 products
they do actually contain the active from Boehringer Ingelheim now feature
ingredient, but in much lower concen- the code, with more in the pipeline.
trations than they should. What is worse “When the EU directive makes these
is that many criminals also use toxic kinds of anti-counterfeit systems man-
substances to manufacture counterfeits. datory in 2019, we will already have an
enormous lead,” says Schön. The com-
MORE SUPPLY CHAIN SECURITY pany also takes part in anti-counterfeit
Boehringer Ingelheim has been invol- initiatives outside Germany, enabling, for
ved in combating counterfeit medicines example, the detailed tracking of deli-
for years – not only through the inter- very parcels and pallets. Special seals
DATABASE
departmental work of Johannes Schön were designed to prevent packs from
The system checks whether the data is valid
and his colleagues, but also primarily by being opened unnoticed prior to sale.
and records the sale of the product.
undertaking from the outset a whole Boehringer Ingelheim also puts
range of measures to make the supply emphasis on providing information. For
chain for medicines more secure. The instance, patients can also detect coun-
company campaigned intensively for terfeits if they keep a number of typical
the implementation of the new Coun- warning signs in mind. Is the seller
terfeit Protection Directive of the Euro- trustworthy, or was the offer really too
pean Union (EU) through the European good to be true? Does the pack look as
Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries INFORMATION if it has been tampered with? Are there
and Associations (EFPIA). This directive spelling mistakes in the text? Do the
The pharmacist recognises an original pack
is due to be implemented across Europe tablets or capsules differ from their
immediately.
by February 2019. While the precise usual colour or form? If a medicine actu-
regulations were being drawn up by EU ally tastes or smells different to usual,
politicians, Boehringer Ingelheim patients should make sure that they ask
already started the implementation of their pharmacist or contact the manu-
the new regulations, piloting in facturer directly – even more so in the
Germany and Sweden. absence of any effect or if the medicine
In partnership with a major com- produces unusual side effects. “Counter-
petitor and with representatives of feiters will keep trying,” says Schön.
pharmaceutical, wholesale and pharma- “But together, we can make it as hard
cists’ associations, Boehringer Ingelheim for them as possible.”
3103
P A R T N E R S
N E E D
S P A C E
An even balance between security and space is the
best basis for good ideas that benefit patients. This
principle is crucial to Boehringer Ingelheim’s corporate
culture. It is reflected not just in the respectful
way in which employees – our most important partners
in-house – are treated, but also in the company’s
social commitment to improved health worldwide.
3233Partners need sPace
P O W E R E D
B Y O U R
P E O P L E
34Partners need sPace
Maria Tereno, Global Head of Diversity & Inclusion, discusses
Boehringer Ingelheim’s corporate culture with her colleague
Shawn Liu, Global Head of Human Resources (HR) Strategy &
Transformation: what it takes to motivate top, young
talent, the role that leaders play, and the limits of individuality
and diversity.
M
so everything is perfect? thinking ensures a pipeline always filled
s tereno, Mr Liu, TERENO (laughs) Well, we do have a with good ideas. This ultimately also
why are employees so great corporate culture. But what’s deci- leads to market share growth.
crucial to the success sive is not our current success but that LIU Diversity of society and the work-
of Boehringer Ingelheim? we continue to be successful in the force is simply a fact that cannot be
TERENO Quite simply because this coming years. As a company that oper- ignored. To respond to diversity, we
company has always been driven by its ates worldwide, Boehringer Ingelheim need to embrace inclusion in our culture
capacity for innovation. The pharmaceu- has a highly diverse workforce. We’ve as, without inclusion, diversity doesn’t
tical industry is an increasingly competi- people from a wide range of nationalities contribute all that much. In the worst
tive business. So it’s more important in our organisation, with very different case, it may even lead to chaos. We
than ever to remain innovative on a long- cultural backgrounds, from every age need a working environment that values
term basis – and that’s only possible group and with different experiences. partnership and diversity of thought in
with dedicated, motivated employees. We can leverage this diversity to drive which colleagues trust one another and
LIU True. Successful companies focus innovation and business growth. don’t need to watch out for everything
particularly on people and on taking they say.
their well-being and engagement very What do you mean by that? TERENO Exactly. Diversity is the mix
seriously. We’re proud that this has TERENO Strong, diverse teams are and inclusion is making the mix work.
been part of who we are as a company for our most important resource, as they in Everybody needs to feel valued. We
a long time. Across businesses, no mat- particular can generate good ideas. require an inclusive leadership culture
ter whether in Human Pharma or Animal Studies show that many companies dis- where leaders can provide honest, con-
Health, and across countries, no matter courage difference in their workforce: structive feedback and recognition on
whether in Europe, America or Asia, around 40 per cent of all marketable achievements. This can be as simple as,
employees are at the very heart of our ideas are left on the table, mainly due “Thank you, that was great work.”
company worldwide. to lack of endorsement. Diversity of
35Partners need sPace
»We MUst
Learn tO
enaBLe OUr
dIVerse
eMPLOYees tO
acHIeVe tHeIr
Best PerFOr -
Mance .«
LIU This leads to another important and ambitions. As a company, we must with different personal and family back-
topic – “moments that matter”. learn to enable our diverse employees grounds can make their best contribu-
Boehringer Ingelheim employees have to achieve their best performance. tion to the company. Simple examples
numerous interactions with the company Naturally, it wouldn’t be realistic to cre- that are in place in Germany are childcare
and other colleagues within the com- ate individualised approaches to our or flexible working hours. Another possi-
pany. Supervisor and employee perfor- about 50,000 employees. With our cus- bility could be by allowing time for spe-
mance feedback is one obvious example. tomised employee experience we aim to cial “innovation labs” where people
As an organisation, we need to identify look at the different needs of different meet in order to work together creatively
those critical moments that matter to groups of employees and create tailored on projects. This is, by the way, one of
employees and deal with them extremely approaches about how each group the key projects in development by the
well. To respond to the diversity of our works and performs at its best. global Diversity & Inclusion Office.
workforce, we need to provide custom-
ised employee experience at those Let’s talk more about inclusion. Let’s turn to one of the challenges in
moments that matter. By doing so, we How can you successfully establish today’s Hr work. Is Boehringer Ingelheim
have the chance to engage each and an inclusive culture? finding enough young talent? after all,
everyone in the organisation to be the TERENO First, leaders and teams need the company does have an excellent
best they can. to consciously demonstrate inclusive reputation.
behaviours aiming to foster innovative LIU Very true. However, that alone is
What does that mean precisely? ideas. Secondly, our organisation needs not enough, unfortunately. We’re in a
TERENO People work in very different to continuously create the right frame- “war for talent”, and we have to accept
ways and are driven by different goals work and infrastructure so that people that genuine talents are now able to
36Partners need sPace
choose their ideal employer. So we can’t
simply sit back and “recruit” employees
in the traditional way. Instead, we need
to think about how we “sell” our jobs
and opportunities to talented people.
It’s increasingly important, particularly
A PARADIGM
in emerging markets. To achieve this, we
SHIFT
need to underline what we are offering:
a working environment that values
MarIa terenO
diversity, with challenging and interest- from giving people equal access and benefits
ing roles, and development and career to tailored choices for different people
opportunities. And, above all, the fact who have different needs and different expectations.
that we treat our employees with
has been in charge of respect.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s FrOM One sIZe FIts aLL
the “best employer” awards that
global Diversity &
Boehringer Ingelheim regularly picks up
Inclusion Office since
must surely help?
March 2016.
LIU They’re certainly helpful, particu-
larly from a branding perspective. How-
Brazilian by birth and with
ever, we don’t see it just as a “brand”
Japanese and Portuguese
thing, it’s actually an accumulation of
roots, she has a Master of
many good efforts to treat employees
Business Administration
well at Boehringer Ingelheim, like the
from the University of
few aspects I’ve just mentioned.
Toronto. She joined
Boehringer Ingelheim in
What about gender diversity and female
Brazil in 2001; her roles in-
leadership?
cluded Brand Management tO cUstOMIsatIOn
TERENO First of all, diversity is not
and Head of Marketing for just about gender, although, however,
various products globally gender is the most visible diversity
and locally. In October 2013, dimension to be leveraged. We should
she was appointed Regional increase the gender balance in our lead-
Business Head for Human ership to reflect our diverse markets
Pharma for Japan and Aus- and customers: 80 per cent of all
tralia. In this role, she was healthcare decisions in the family are
part of the team that devel- taken by women. We’ve great female
oped the “People Strategy”, leadership talents, we need to continue to
which is one of the com- foster their development, but most
pany’s core priorities. important, develop our female talent
pipeline. Another diversity opportunity is
leveraging the different generations,
ranging from the baby boomers, now
around the age of 60, who are very fit and
have an enormous amount of knowledge
and experience, to the “millennials”, now
around the age of 30, who are developing
in their career and are the potential talent
of the future.
37Partners need sPace
DIVERSITY IS NOT
ONLY ABOUT
MINORITY INDIVIDUAL COMPLIANCE/
ETHICS
BALANCE TEAM INNOVATION/
COMPOSITION GROWTH
»dIVersItY
Is tHe MIX and
DIVERSITY IS
ALSO ABOUT
IncLUsIOn Is
MaKInG tHe MIX
WOrK.«
Where are the limits of diversity then? LIU There are also our company values, Where are the big challenges for
surely, not everyone can do and get which we’ll not give up under any cir- Hr strategy?
whatever they want? cumstances. We’ve colleagues from LIU Primarily, we’re concentrating
TERENO No, of course not. That many different countries and with many strategically on those areas in which we
would produce the chaos which Shawn different nationalities, and we treat cul- can actually create a competitive advan-
previously mentioned. First of all, every- tural background, age and gender, etc. tage for Boehringer Ingelheim: effective
one has to understand and strive for all equally. But we don’t have any room leadership, customised employee expe-
achieving the same goals. Everyone has for anyone who opposes our values – rience and a diverse and inclusive
to accept that we need results. And respect, trust, empathy and passion. organisation. At the same time, we need
lastly, we need to make sure that our TERENO We aim to set a good example to run HR like a business – the day-to-
colleagues all enjoy working together on the Human Resources team … day activities that are similar in most
in teams. LIU (laughs) Exactly. Some of our companies: staff records, recruitment or
meetings involve passionate debates. But staff IT, just to name a few. It’s about
we always benefit from the exchanges. customer satisfaction, continuous
improvement and professionalism.
38Partners need sPace
»We ’re cOncentratInG
On areas In WHIcH We
can actUaLLY create a
cOMPetItIVe adV antaGe .«
sHaWn LIU
has been Global Head of
HR Strategy &
Transformation at
Boehringer Ingelheim
since January 2016.
Before, the Chinese
manager held several
leadership roles at
Boehringer Ingelheim
both at country and
corporate level.
Previously, he worked in
several consulting and
industrial Fortune 500
organisations. He has been
with Boehringer Ingelheim
for more than six years. In
his new role, he works with
his colleagues to achieve
greater effectiveness and thank you both. One last question: LIU In five years’ time, I’d really like to
efficiency in the work of HR What would you like to have achieved see Boehringer Ingelheim become a true
and to secure a strategic in five years’ time? pioneer and innovator, not only in busi-
role in the company. TERENO I hope that in five years’ ness, but also in people management.
time, Boehringer Ingelheim continues to And as long as we keep marching on both
be as competitive as it is today. For that the effectiveness and efficiency fronts
we need our best talents. Leveraging diver- of human resource management, we’ll
sity and inclusion is one way to attract get there.
and retain them.
39PPaarrttnneerrss nneeeedd ssPPaaccee
S U C C E S S
F R O M
T R A D I T I O N
The history of Boehringer
Ingelheim is a history shaped
by long-term, strong, successful
partnerships. From the very first days,
social interaction had been important
to the founder of the company – inter-
action based on respectful and trusting
cooperation within the company and
with outside partners. This has marked
our corporate culture, which puts
people first. Partnerships arise when
people are ready to assist one another
and to help one another in order to
mutually progress. At the same time, it
is also important to create the neces-
sary space for personal development.
Boehringer Ingelheim has worked
according to this principle for over
130 years.«
cHrIstIan BOeHrInGer
Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee
40PPaarrttnneerrss nneeeedd ssPPaaccee
SPACE FOR
MORE HEALTH
According to the World Health
Organisation (WHO), 42 per cent of
Mexico’s rural population mainly rely on
wood as fuel for heating and cooking.
Burning wood produces large quantities of
harmful substances such as small soot
particles, which directly enter the lungs. As
most houses are very poorly ventilated, the
soot concentration in them exceeds by
up to one hundred times the level at which
it is no threat to health. Constantly breath-
ing in these soot particles indoors can
result in diseases for those affected –
mainly women and children – for example
in COPD, asthma and lung cancer. Together
with the “Fondo para la Paz” charity,
Boehringer Ingelheim in Mexico has set
the goal of not only improving the quality
of life of patients with respiratory diseases
but also of tackling the causes. To this
end, Boehringer Ingelheim has since 2007
installed more than 1,600 ecological
stoves in poorer communities in Mexico,
enormously improving the lives of more
than 6,000 people. The project also reduces
greenhouse gases and delivers an
improved carbon footprint.
41Partners need sPace
Space for culture: in 1959, Ernst Boehringer established the “International Days” in Ingelheim, Germany in order
to provide an insight into the life and culture of other nations and peoples. Since then, the annual series of cultural
events has guided visitors through history and around the globe, from Greek antiquity to the modern era.
42Partners need sPace
Space for patient
emp owerment:
Boehringer Ingelheim
employees in the USA have
long served as volunteers
at a local Americares free
clinic for people without
health insurance. In 2016,
the Boehringer Ingelheim
Cares Foundation and
Americares launched a new
health coach programme
there that grew out of com-
munity conversations
about unmet needs. Health
coaches who speak Span-
ish and English work
one-on-one with patients
with chronic diseases, such
as high blood pressure,
high cholesterol or diabetes,
and help them develop
action plans to reach their
health goals.
Space for more togetherness: every
year, people with disability and
Boehringer Ingelheim employees cele-
brate a togetherness festival at the
company’s Biberach site in Germany.
They come together to get to know one
another, exchange views and learn
from each other. For over ten years,
Boehringer Ingelheim has been part-
nering a local social organisation for
people with disability in Biberach. More
than 150 employees have since worked
as volunteers on various projects.
43Partners need sPace
Space for good ideas: why not use open source
technology to manufacture electronically controlled
artificial limbs at low cost? In 2015, the “FunMove”
team from South Korea took first place with this good
idea in the “Making More Health Changemaker”
competition. The background to this project is that
in South Korea, artificial limbs are generally much
too expensive in relation to the average income level.
Boehringer Ingelheim launched this competition in
2014 together with the charitable organisation Ashoka.
44Partners need sPace
Space for creativity: since 2010, Boehringer Ingelheim has
supported the “People with disability paint” (Behinderte Menschen
malen) project initiated by the State Office for Social Affairs, Young
People and Care in Mainz, Germany. One highlight is the annual
exhibition in the company’s staff restaurant in Ingelheim, where
people with disability present their paintings.
45Partners need sPace
Space for the family: already
before the First World War,
Boehringer Ingelheim began
building flats and houses near
the plant site in Ingelheim,
Germany for employees with
their families.
46Partners need sPace
Space for team spirit: on the occasion of the company’s
25th anniversary in 1910, this photomontage of all of
the company’s employees was made. The picture was a
present from the workforce to Albert Boehringer and
hung for many years above his desk.
Space for rest and relaxation: as one of the
first companies in Germany, Boehringer
Ingelheim in 1910 introduced paid holidays
for employees.
Space for ideals: in September
1913, Albert junior, the older son of
the company’s founder, wrote
a letter to his brother Ernst, who
was still at school at the time.
Among other things, he advised
his younger brother, “Don’t per-
ceive your ideals solely in making
money, but also in the common
good, in which, for example, you as
an industrialist practice social wel-
fare among your workers.”
47IMPRINT
I F Y O U H A V E A N Y Q U E R I E S
O R C O M M E N T S , P L E A S E D O N O T
H E S I T A T E T O C O N T A C T U S .
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
Binger Straße 173
55216 Ingelheim
Germany
Telephone + 49 6132 77-0
Fax + 49 6132 72-0
CONTACT
Corporate Division Communications and Public Affairs
E-mail press@boehringer-ingelheim.com
Internet www.boehringer-ingelheim.com
ISSUED BY
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
CONCEPT, DESIGN AND LAYOUT
MPM Corporate Communication Solutions, Mainz
www.mpm.de
PHOTOS AND ILLUSTRATIONS
©Boehringer Ingelheim (Cover, page 19, 21, 30, 42, 44, 46, 47), Adobe Stock (page 4–9, 18, 21, 22/23, 32/33,
37), Tim Wegner (page 10), Rainer Mirau (page 13), Getty Images (page 14, 18), Shutterstock (page 15
top), Science Photo Library (page 15 bottom), plainpicture (page 20), Stewart Turkington (page 24–28),
dieth + schröder fotografie (page 34–36, 39), Fondo para la Paz, IAP (page 40/41), Alex Ostasiewicz/
Americares (page 43 top), St. Elisabeth Stiftung/Heggbacher Wohnverbund (page 43 bottom), Sabine
Haase (page 45 left top), German Siedler (page 45 left bottom), Susanne Herbst (page 45 right), Andreas
Secci (page 46 bottom)
PRINTED BY
Neue Süddeutsche Verlagsdruckerei GmbH, Ulm
COPYRIGHT
© Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, 2017
All rights reserved. No part of this Annual Report 2016 may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or
by any means, electronic or photocopy, without permission in writing from Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH.
Figures from third parties used in the annual report are based on data availa ble at the time the financial
statement was drawn up.
48WWW.BOEHRINGER-INGELHEIM.COM
ANNUALREPORT.BOEHRINGER-INGELHEIM.COMB O E H R I N G E R I N G E L H E I M
2016
ANNUAL REPORT
Value through Innovationf i na n ci a l h ig h li g h ts s u mm a ry r ep o r t
Amounts in millions of EUR,
unless otherwise indicated 2016 2015 Change
Net sales 15,850 14,798 + 7%
by region
Europe 32% 28%
Americas 41% 47%
SUMMARY
Asia, Australia, Africa 27% 25%
by business REPORT
Prescription Medicines 76% 76%
Consumer Health Care 10% 10%
Animal Health 9% 9%
Biopharmaceuticals 4% 4%
Industrial Customers and other sales 1% 1%
Research and development 3,112 3,004 + 4% 2016
Personnel expenses 4,570 4,518 + 1%
Average number of employees 45,692 47,501 – 4%
Operating income 2,872 2,269 + 27%
Operating income as % of net sales 18.1% 15.3%
Group profit 1,853 1,577 + 18%
as % of net sales 11.7% 10.7%
Group equity 11,327 9,603 + 18%
Return on Group equity 19.3% 19.4%
Cash flow 2,484 2,605 – 5%
Investments in tangible assets 645 591 + 9%
Depreciation of tangible assets 516 475 + 9%
Top 4 products — Prescription Medicines Top 4 products — Consumer Health Care
Net sales 2016 in millions of EUR Change Net sales 2016 in millions of EUR Change
spiriva® 2,995 – 16% dulcolax® 237 + 5%
pradaxa® 1,385 + 8% buscopan® 236 + 6%
trajenta® / jentadueto® 1,128 + 24% pharmaton® 145 + 4%
micardis® 959 + 0% mucosolvan® 136 – 19%O V E R V I E W
OUR COMPANY
01
THE SHAREHOLDERS’ PERSPECTIVE
02
KEY ASPECTS 2016
04
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
09
CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
61O U R C O M P A N Y
The Boehringer Ingelheim Group is one of the world’s 20 leading pharmaceutical
companies. Headquartered in Ingelheim, Germany, Boehringer Ingelheim
operates globally with 143 affiliates and a total of more than 45,600 employees
in 2016. The focus of the family-owned company, founded in 1885, is researching,
developing, manu facturing and marketing new medications of high therapeutic
value for human and veterinary medicine.
Social responsibility is an important element of the corporate culture at Boehringer
Ingelheim. This includes worldwide involvement in social
projects, such as the initiative “Making More Health” and caring for the employees.
Respect, equal opportunities and reconciliation of work and family life
form the foundation of the mutual cooperation. In every thing it does, the company
focuses on environmental protection and sustainability.
01c o n t e n t
OUR COMPANY 01 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO 61
The Shareholders’ Perspective 02 PRESCRIPTION MEDICINES 62
Key Aspects 2016 04 Respiratory diseases 62
Corporate bodies 07 Cardiovascular and metabolic diseases 66
Oncology 72
GROUP Diseases of the central nervous system 74
MANAGEMENT REPORT 09
Infectious diseases 74
Information about the Group 10
Report on economic position 20 ANIMAL HEALTH 76
Risk Report 26 Livestock – swine 76
Report on expected developments 28 Livestock – poultry 76
Livestock – cattle 78
CONSOLIDATED Companion animals – horse 82
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 Companion animals – small animals 84
Overview of the major
consolidated companies 32
Consolidated balance sheet 34
Consolidated profit and loss statement 35
Cash flow statement 36
Statement of changes in group equity 37
Notes to the consolidated
financial s tatements 38
Auditor’s report 59T H E S H A R E H O L D E R S ’
P E R S P E C T I V E
Christian Boehringer, Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee
02THE SHAREHOLDERS’ PERSPECTIVE
As independent entrepreneurs, Boehringer Ingelheim’s shareholders together aim to contribute
to improved health for people and animals. A global workforce of around 50,000 people now
shares this ambition.
The maxims of keeping the company in family ownership and of maintaining its independence,
as well as its readiness to focus on core businesses where we can secure our competitiveness
through organic growth, have been an anchor across generations.
The past few years have been characterised by agility, momentum and the willingness to
change. Time and again in Boehringer Ingelheim’s more than 130-year history there have been
such phases when our markets have been shaped by major changes. At these times especially,
our shareholders’ readiness to bear entrepreneurial risks has successfully enabled our employees
to explore new avenues.
The strength of our company lies in its capacity for innovation. This is the key to our competitive-
ness. Innovation sometimes results from a few major steps, but most often from many small
steps along the value chain.
The shareholders are only able to create a long-term, reliable framework. Innovation and the will
to change are borne by our employees. Clear targets and space for implementation create the
foundation on which our employees are prepared to take responsibility for adopting new paths
and making their personal contributions.
2016 was a successful year for Boehringer Ingelheim in which our company recorded profitable
growth. The success of the past year is the success of all of our employees – the result of their
tireless commitment to Boehringer Ingelheim. On behalf of the shareholders, I would like to take
this opportunity to express our heartfelt thanks.
signed by
christian boehringer
Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee
03K E Y A S P E C T S
2 0 1 6
Andreas Neumann, Simone Menne, Joachim Hasenmaier, Hubertus von Baumbach, Allan Hillgrove, Michel Pairet (left to right), the Board of Managing Directors
04KEY ASPECTS 2016
If you compare the Group of today with Boehringer Ingelheim of just a few years ago,
you will observe significant changes. As part of a comprehensive transformation, we
have focused on human pharmaceuticals, animal health and manufacturing biophar-
maceutical products. Correspondingly, we have further developed our corporate
structure, aligning it with these business units.
Value through innovation drives us forward. Our persistently high investment in
research and development, as in previous years, is proof of Boehringer Ingelheim’s
clear focus on innovation.
Value chains are changing and require new networks. Our capacity for innovation
and partnerships here combine as a crucial success factor. We will therefore seek to
collaborate with partners even more intensely than in the past. Our goal is to con-
tinue to make a significant contribution to human and animal health in the future,
thereby serving our customers’ interests.
In the current financial year, we will focus on implementing the steps outlined above.
By acquiring Merial at year-end, we have reached the last milestone for the realign-
ment of our animal health business. The outcome of months of successful effort is a
globally highly competitive organisation. Integration of our two animal health
organisations will now have a high priority in order to consistently expand our new
market position.
In our human pharmaceuticals business, we are continuously working on safeguarding
the market success of our new and established medicines. The further innovative
concepts in our portfolio fill us with confidence.
praxbind® was brought onto the market in many countries in 2016. It enables doc-
tors in rare emergency situations to reverse the effect of the pradaxa® oral anticoag-
ulant in a few minutes. pradaxa® is thereby the only product in its class which
offers this option.
05KEY ASPECTS 2016
In the field of diabetes, we are continuing to work highly successfully with our alliance partner
Eli Lilly and Company. Through our cardiovascular long-term outcome study empa-reg outcome®,
we have been able to demonstrate that jardiance® for the treatment of type 2 diabetes sig-
nificantly reduces the risk of dying of cardiovascular diseases. It has even been approved by
the US Food and Drug Administration. The European authorities have also seen the huge
potential of jardiance® and have updated their product information.
Another milestone will be the ground-breaking for the expansion of our biopharmaceutical
production site in Vienna (Austria) which we want to expand considerably. Due to the com-
petence that we have developed over many decades, biopharmaceutical production is an
increasingly significant and recognised cornerstone of our company.
In the medium term, we will give priority to the further development of our human and
animal health product portfolio. Further technological development will lead to fundamental
changes in the healthcare sector, too, and we intend to take part in shaping them.
In the long term, we want to achieve significant progress wherever there is an urgent need
for major therapeutic advances. In the past, we have time and again been able to help
patients through innovative medicines – in the prevention and acute treatment of strokes,
Parkinson’s disease or severe pulmonary diseases, lung cancer and, not least, diabetes.
Drawing on these successes, we are confident of our future ability also to take away the fear
associated with diseases such as Alzheimer’s or schizophrenia.
In the past year, the changes outlined above have posed significant challenges for the organ-
isation. They have entailed major personal changes for many people. Unaffected by these
enormous additional efforts, we were able to close the financial year very successfully. We
would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our employees for their commitment,
their creativity and their passion for Boehringer Ingelheim.
signed by signed by signed by
hhhuuubbbeeerrrtttuuusss vvvooonnn bbbaaauuummmbbbaaaccchhh jjjoooaaaccchhhiiimmm hhhaaassseeennnmmmaaaiiieeerrr aaallllllaaannn hhhiiillllllgggrrrooovvveee
signed by signed by signed by
sssiiimmmooonnneee mmmeeennnnnneee aaannndddrrreeeaaasss nnneeeuuummmaaannnnnn mmmiiiccchhheeelll pppaaaiiirrreeettt
06CORPORATE BODIES
C O R P O R A T E B O D I E S
Shareholders’ Committee Board of Managing Directors
christian boehringer hubertus von baumbach
Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee Chairman of the Board (from 01.07.2016)
Corporate Board Division Finance (until 31.08.2016)
christoph boehringer
prof. dr dr andreas barner
erich von baumbach jr Chairman of the Board (until 30.06.2016)
isabel boehringer dr wolfgang baiker (until 30.06.2016)
Corporate Board Divisions Biopharmaceuticals
dr mathias boehringer and Operations
prof. dr dr andreas barner (from 01.07.2016) dr joachim hasenmaier
Corporate Board Division Animal Health
Corporate Board Division Consumer Health Care
(until 31.12.2016)
Advisory Board
allan hillgrove
egbert appel Corporate Board Division
Chairman of the Advisory Board Pharma Marketing and Sales (until 30.06.2016)
Trustee, Martin Hilti Family Trust Corporate Board Division Human Pharma
President, Hilti Foundation (from 01.07.2016)
kurt beck simone menne
Former Minister-President Corporate Board Division Finance (from 01.09.2016)
dr nikolaus von bomhard (from 01.07.2016) dr andreas neumann
Chairman of the Board of Management Corporate Board Division Human Resources
Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft
dr michel pairet
dr andreas kreimeyer Corporate Board Division Research and
Former member of the Board of Executive Directors non-clinical Development (until 30.06.2016)
and Research Executive Director BASF SE Corporate Board Division Innovation (from 01.07.2016)
jan rinnert
Chairman of the Board of Management
Heraeus Holding GmbH
07GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
08GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T
R E P O R T 2 0 1 6
Information about the Group 10
Report on economic position 20
Risk Report 26
Report on expected developments 28
09GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT INFORMATION ABOUT THE Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
GROUP OF COMPANIES
INFORMATION ABOUT THE
GROUP OF COMPANIES
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT 2016
INFORMATION ABOUT
THE GROUP
The Group’s business model
Boehringer Ingelheim is a family-owned company which treat type 2 diabetes, also made significant contributions
was established in 1885 and is based in Ingelheim, Ger- to Boehringer Ingelheim’s success. ofev®, which was
many. The focus of the company is on the research and newly introduced in 2015 and which offers people with
development, production and sale of innovative pharma- the rare, fatal respiratory disease idiopathic pulmonary
ceuticals improving health and quality of life and contrib- fibrosis (IPF) a new treatment option, also achieved
uting great therapeutic benefit to both human medicine strong growth.
and animal health. With 143 affiliated companies and more
than 45,600 employees worldwide, the Group achieved net The business aim of Boehringer Ingelheim is to continue
sales of EUR 15.9 billion in 2016, making it one of the to drive forward with the innovative development of
world’s top 20 pharmaceutical companies. In the 2016 its existing product portfolio through organic growth,
financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim’s business activities
covered prescription medicines, consumer health care,
animal health, biopharmaceuticals and industrial custom- Net sales by business (in EUR million)
ers. At the start of 2017, the exchange of Boehringer Ingel-
heim’s consumer health care business (CHC) for Sanofi’s Prescription Medicines
animal health business (Merial) took place as scheduled
2016 12,036
and is thus not included in the figures for the financial year 2015 11,201
2016. This step marks the successful conclusion of this
strategic transaction, which was started through exclusive Consumer Health Care
negotiations in December 2015.
2016 1,578
2015 1,513
Prescription medicines form the core of Boehringer Ingel-
heim’s activities. Medicines from Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
have long been standard treatments for cardiovascular
2016 1,460
diseases, respiratory disorders, oncology, diseases of the 2015 1,363
central nervous system and immunology. In 2016, the
company’s biggest revenue contributor was once again Biopharmaceuticals
spiriva®, which is used to treat chronic obstructive pulmo-
2016 613
nary disease (COPD) and asthma. Moreover, pradaxa®, 2015 576
which is used to prevent strokes in patients with atrial
fibrillation, as well as for the prevention and treatment of Industrial Customers and other sales
thromboembolic disorders, and trajenta® and jardiance®,
2016 163
which remain on an impressive trajectory and are used to 2015 145
10CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
Net sales by region (in EUR million) Once again, Boehringer Ingelheim achieved the majority
of its sales in 2016 in the Americas (41%) and Europe
(32%) regions. However, revenue from the region of Asia /
Australia /Africa (AAA) is also gaining significance, making
up 27% of the Group’s total net sales in 2016. The three
biggest markets, the USA, Japan and Germany accounted
for around 53% of sales last year.
Europe 5,082 4,127
2016 2015
Research and development (R&D)
Asia, In line with its mission statement, Boehringer Ingelheim’s
Australia,
Africa primary goal is to research and develop innovative medi-
Americas 6,542 6,923 (AAA) 4,226 3,748
2016 2015 2016 2015 cines and therapies for the treatment of diseases for which
there are as yet no satisfactory treatments available. Our
aim at all times is to make a major contribution in areas
where the need for treatment is high and to occupy a lead-
in cooperation with its external partners. To do this, ing position in major indication areas.
Boehringer Ingelheim operates a global research network
with major facilities in Biberach, Hanover and Ingelheim To achieve this aim, Boehringer Ingelheim can, besides its
(Germany), Ridgefield and St. Joseph (USA) and in Vienna own R&D activities, draw on a global network comprising
(Austria), supported by two smaller facilities in Kobe (Japan) academic groups, public research institutions and biotech
and Milan (Italy). companies. In addition, we are expanding our product
portfolio with partnership agreements and the systematic
Within consumer health care, dulcolax®, buscopan®, inlicensing of technologies and products. In the year under
pharmaton® and mucosolvan® were among the compa- review, for example, Boehringer Ingelheim agreed a long-
ny’s best selling medicines in the past financial year. term partnership for the development of a next-generation
oncolytic virus platform with the Austrian company
Animal health is another major pillar of Boehringer Ingel- ViraTherapeutics, with a purchase option agreement en-
heim’s business. The swine vaccine ingelvac circoflex®, titling Boehringer Ingelheim to acquire ViraTherapeutics
used to treat porcine circovirus type 2, is the most signifi- upon completion of phase I of clinical development.
cant product in animal health in terms of sales. To boost
its competitiveness in this area over the long term, Boehringer Ingelheim’s R&D activities are the basis for the
Boehringer Ingelheim acquired the animal health business company’s success. Together with our innovative prowess,
(Merial) of the French company Sanofi in January 2017. it has been the primary driver behind the Group’s positive
growth in recent years. In-house research and develop-
The biopharmaceuticals business is another important ment – supplemented by external cooperation and partner-
growth area for Boehringer Ingelheim. Boehringer Ingel- ships – will also continue to be a top priority in the future.
heim’s biopharmaceutical activities comprise the manu-
facture of own-brand marketable products (such as In the 2016 financial year, we employed an average of
actilyse®, metalyse® and praxbind®), the process devel- 8,055 people at our R&D sites. A total of more than
opment of new biological entities (NBEs) and biosimilars, EUR 3.1 billion was invested in the research and devel-
and – as one of the world’s leading companies – process opment of new medicines, corresponding to 19.6% of
development and contract manufacturing in commercial the Group’s net sales and thus, as forecast, to the same
production for third-party industrial customers. level as the previous year.
11GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT INFORMATION ABOUT THE Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
GROUP OF COMPANIES
Research and development 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Expenditure in EUR million 3,112 3,004 2,654 2,743 2,795
– as % of net sales 19.6 20.3 19.9 19.5 19.0
Prescription Medicines expenditure in EUR million 2,870 2,780 2,333 2,444 2,563
– as % of Prescription Medicines net sales 23.8 24.8 23.1 22.4 22.5
Average number of employees 8,055 7,895 8,104 7,741 7,492
Investments in tangible assets (without investments in infrastructure) in EUR million 92 77 78 114 139
Human pharmaceuticals A further key treatment goal in this therapeutic area is to
Boehringer Ingelheim carried out research and develop- reduce the risk of exacerbations. Two post-hoc analyses of
ment in 2016 for its prescription medicines businesses at the WISDOM study published in 2016 suggested that the
facilities in the USA, Germany, Austria, Italy and Japan. gradual reduction in the dosage of inhaled corticosteroids
(ICS) did not result in an increased risk of exacerbation in
The key focus of our research work in 2016 was on the most patients if they continued to receive spiriva® (tiotro-
following indication areas: pium) and an LABA (salmeterol). This only appeared to
harm a small group of patients with severe or very severe
• Immunology and respiratory disorders COPD, an increased eosinophil blood count and frequent
• Cardiometabolic diseases (cardiovascular and exacerbations.
metabolic diseases)
• Oncology and immuno-oncology The new large-scale DYNAGITO® study is also examining
• Diseases of the central nervous system the effect of spiolto® respimat® by comparison to
spiriva® respimat® in the case of COPD exacerbations.
Expenditure for R&D in prescription medicines accounted The first results are expected in 2017.
for 23.8% of net sales generated in this business.
The TOviTO® trial programme and the WISDOM study
In 2016, Boehringer Ingelheim continued to pursue inten- are part of the current study evidence which has served as
sive research into chronic respiratory disorders such as the basis for the updated position paper of the GOLD com-
asthma, COPD and IPF, to be able to offer affected mittee (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung
patients the best possible treatment. Disease) on the treatment of COPD. The GOLD update
2017 recommends therapy with a long-acting anticholin-
A key goal of COPD therapy is to enable patients to remain ergic (LAMA) and a long-acting beta2-agonist (LABA),
physically active for longer. In September 2016, the find- the combination as included in spiolto® respimat®, for a
ings of the phase III study PHYSACTO® were presented broad range of COPD patients in GOLD stages B to D.
at the congress of the European Respiratory Society (ERS).
They show that the combination of spiolto® respimat®, The clinical UniTinA-Asthma® trial programme, which
physical training and a change of behaviour significantly examined spiriva® (tiotropium) respimat® in asthma,
improved the functional capacity of COPD patients. was completed in 2016. The new data supplement the
The PHYSACTO® study forms part of the TOviTO® trial existing evidence and confirm that spiriva® respimat®
programme, which examines the efficacy and safety of is well-tolerated and effective for many asthma patients
spiolto® respimat® in treating COPD. with continuing symptoms, despite a basic therapy of
12CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and/or long-acting beta- is approved for use with children 12 years of age and
agonists (LABA). older and was included in the “Global Strategy for Asthma
Management and Prevention” of the Global Initiative for
The phase II and large-scale UniTinA-Asthma® trial pro- Asthma (GINA) in 2016.
gramme included 18 clinical studies worldwide at more
than 150 study centres with over 6,000 patients, including Since its market approval in 2014, more than 20,000 patients
1,800 children and young people aged between 1 and 17. worldwide suffering from IPF have been treated with
ofev® (nintedanib).
New post-hoc analyses were presented at the annual
meeting of the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & In 2016, new analyses of the pivotal phase III INPULSIS®
Immunology (AAAAI). They demonstrated that spiriva® studies and the INPULSIS-ON® follow-up study, as well
respimat® is effective as an add-on therapy in addition to as data from everyday practice provided further evidence
other basic therapies, irrespective of the individual of the efficacy of ofev® for a broad range of patients. These
subtype of an allergic asthma. analyses showed that ofev® consistently slowed the course
of the disease, with a considerable reduction in the rate of
These data were supported by the publication of a new FVC decline, while also significantly reducing the risk of
analysis of the PrimoTinA-Asthma® studies, which showed acute IPF exacerbations. The INPULSIS®-ON follow-up
that spiriva® respimat® is effective independently of a study also confirmed the side-effects profile of INPULSIS®
broad range of baseline characteristics, if used as an add-on in the case of a maximum exposure time of more than
therapy in patients who continue to display symptoms four years. No new safety concerns were identified here.
despite ICS/LABA.
Moreover, in June 2016 the first of 350 IPF patients were
A further pooled data analysis of seven studies (phase II enrolled in a new study. This international phase IV study
and phase III) found that the safety and tolerability profile (INMARK™) is investigating the effect of ofev® on the
of spiriva® respimat®, as an add-on therapy for at least change in certain biomarkers in the blood and examines
ICS, was comparable with that of a placebo. whether biomarkers can predict the individual clinical
course of IPF.
At the annual meetings of the American Thoracic Society
(ATS) and the European Respiratory Society (ERS), data With SENSCIS™ (Safety and Efficacy of Nintedanib in
from the paediatric studies of the UniTinA-Asthma® pro- Systemic SClerosIS), the largest-ever study of sufferers of
gramme showed that spiriva® respimat® is also effective, systemic sclerosis (SSc) who have developed interstitial
in addition to a basic therapy for children and young peo- lung disease (ILD) in connection with this, Boehringer
ple with symptomatic asthma between the ages of 6 and Ingelheim is continuing to pursue its commitment to
17, and for children with symptomatic asthma, is already examine the potential that ofev® offers for other forms
well-tolerated from the age of one. of progressive fibrotic interstitial lung diseases. In Sep-
tember 2016, the European Commission (EC) and the
These new data form part of applications in the EU and U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) both granted
the USA with the goal of extending the indications for nintedanib orphan drug status for the treatment of SSc-ILD.
spiriva® respimat® in the case of asthma.
In July 2016, Boehringer Ingelheim pooled its cardiovas-
In the EU, spiriva® respimat® is approved for the treat- cular and metabolic diseases therapeutic areas to create
ment of adults who continue to display asthma symptoms, the new, combined therapeutic area cardiometabolic
despite ICS/LABA therapy. In the USA, spiriva® respimat® diseases.
13GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT INFORMATION ABOUT THE Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
GROUP OF COMPANIES
A key milestone in the past year was the inclusion of the anticoagulant effect of pradaxa®, updated data from the
EMPA-REG OUTCOME® study data in the product char- RE-VERSE AD® study and from subanalyses were pre-
acteristics information for jardiance® (empagliflozin) sented at various congresses. praxbind® is now approved
in countries around the world, including in the USA and in more than 50 countries worldwide.
Canada. In January 2017, the European Commission
decided to include these data in the European product In the indication area oncology Boehringer Ingelheim has
characteristics information. Further subanalyses of the successfully advanced research and development of its
EMPA-REG OUTCOME® study were presented at major pipeline compounds and marketed treatments, with the
international congresses over the course of the year. An aim of providing new treatment options that may offer
analysis which examined the effect of jardiance® on new patients added therapeutic value and contribute to quality
or deteriorating kidney disease was presented at the Ameri- of life improvements.
can Diabetes Association (ADA) 76th Scientific Sessions
and published in the New England Journal of Medicine at In 2016, we made huge progress in the highly competitive
the same time. In order to pursue further research into the lung cancer market while also continuing our activities in
potential of jardiance® in the field of cardiovascular the area of research and development for other cancers
disease, Boehringer Ingelheim and Eli Lilly announced where the need for treatment is high. Afatinib (giotrif®/
that they would initiate two new clinical studies in 2017. gilotrif®), a second-generation medicine for the treat-
These two sister studies are intended to examine empagli- ment of a specific type of non-small cell lung cancer
flozin for the treatment of chronic cardiac insufficiency in (NSCLC), has been available to patients since 2013. This
patients with and without diabetes. The other studies product became a market leader in many markets in 2016.
underway in the company’s diabetes portfolio are pro- The results of two major studies from the LUX-Lung trial
gressing to schedule. They include the two cardiovascular programme and the commitment of Boehringer Ingel-
outcome trials for trajenta® (linagliptin) CARMELINA® heim’s teams worldwide played a key role here. In the
and CAROLINA®. Both jardiance® and trajenta® are LUX-Lung 8 study, afatinib was compared with erlotinib
jointly marketed by Boehringer Ingelheim and Eli Lilly. (Tarceva®) for patients with squamous cell carcinoma of
the lung. An improved overall survival rate with afatinib
In the field of anticoagulation, further data from clinical therapy was demonstrated, with a safety profile compara-
practice have been published for pradaxa® (dabigatran ble with that of previous studies. These data resulted in
etexilat). This includes an independent analysis of data the approval of afanitib in this new indication. Moreover,
from clinical practice provided by authors who work for data from the further advanced LUX-Lung 7 study were
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The initial find- presented in 2016 which confirmed an improved profile
ings of phase II of the GLORIA-AFTM register study for patients by comparison with gefitinib (Iressa®).
were presented at various congresses over the course of
the year. Two randomised clinical studies for pradaxa®, In the second half of 2016, Boehringer Ingelheim decided
RE-DUAL PCI® and RE-CIRCUIT® completed their to return the rights for the joint development and marketing
recruitment of patients in 2016. The results will be pre- of olmutinib, a third-generation active substance for the
sented at medical congresses in 2017 and will provide treatment of NSCLC, to Hanmi Pharmaceuticals. This deci-
further insights into the efficacy and safety profile of sion was made following a reassessment of all the clinical
pradaxa®. These studies examined patients undergoing data for olmutinib and while considering the current pro-
percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with a stent gress in the area of lung cancer with a positive EGFR
implantation (RE-DUAL PCI®) and patients with atrial mutation.
fibrillation ablation (RE-CIRCUIT®). For praxbind®
(idarucizumab), the specific drug for the reversal of the
14CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
Boehringer Ingelheim’s second product on the market for In order to drive forward the two substances in its portfo-
the treatment of advanced NSCLC, nintedanib (vargatef®), lio that have made the most progress, Boehringer Ingelheim
was approved in further markets worldwide in 2016. To signed a global cooperation agreement with AbbVie in
examine the effect of nintedanib on other types of cancer, March 2016. The substances risankizumab and BI 655064
the pivotal LUME-Meso phase III study for malignant are being examined for various immunological diseases
pleural mesothelioma, a rare type of cancer triggered (e.g. psoriasis and Crohn’s disease). This development and
by contact with asbestos over a period of many years, marketing partnership offers the best means of ensuring
began in 2016. that these two medicines reach the largest possible number
of the right patients and thereby achieve their full potential.
In addition to the products already approved, significant
progress was made in the oncological development pipe- Several other active substances are in the early clinical
line in 2016. The company has established a series of development stage and are already showing signs of offer-
important partnerships and strategic agreements on both ing strong therapeutic potential for patients with various
sides of the Atlantic, with the goal of further strengthen- immunological diseases, such as inflammatory bowel
ing its oncology portfolio. This has already delivered impor- disease or lupus nephritis.
tant results in clinical development.
Animal health
In the therapeutic area of the central nervous system, In its research and development work in the field of ani-
Boehringer Ingelheim focuses in its research on identifying mal health, Boehringer Ingelheim concentrates on inno-
the functions in the brain that are responsible for key vative vaccines for the protection of livestock and pets,
symptoms of the main psychiatric illnesses. These include as well as on pharmaceutical products focusing on the
schizophrenia, Alzheimer’s disease and depression. treatment of pets’ chronic diseases.
We continue to operate in a complex research field in which At our facilities in the USA, Germany, China, Mexico,
a number of other companies have recently suffered Japan, Denmark and India, we focus on research into new
setbacks. However, we are confident that our symptom- drugs and the development of future therapeutic solu-
based approach will help to develop effective therapies tions. Since many vaccines are based on local pathogens
that may be useful for a whole range of diseases. Therefore, and pathogen variants, it is imperative that we are present
we are focussing on initially achieving a better under- in key market regions with local R&D and production
standing of the biology of the brain as well as of its rele- facilities.
vant circuitry.
In the past year, we again invested in the expansion of
Our research portfolio includes substances which influence existing facilities, as well as the construction of a centre
the disruption of the glutamatergic signalling pathway for clinical research in China. In Ames (Iowa, USA) – an
which occurs in the case of cognitive impairments. In established site for animal health research – the company
connection with this, we are examining substances, such as has moved into a new research building, which offers space
phosphodiesterase inhibitors, which influence the transmis- for around 100 employees, in the immediate vicinity of
sion of signals in the brain through cAMP and/or cGMP. Iowa State University. These investments demonstrate the
company’s commitment and its intention to sustainably
Boehringer Ingelheim has been active in the area of immu- strengthen its position in animal health.
nology research and development for many years and is
set to invest in this important therapeutic area and to A large number of extensive pivotal clinical studies were
expand its capacities. launched in 2016 and, in some cases, have already been
15GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT INFORMATION ABOUT THE Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
GROUP OF COMPANIES
successfully completed. This serves as the cornerstone for Production
further regulatory submissions in 2017. In addition to our Human pharmaceuticals
internal research and development, external projects and The overarching aims in the production of human phar-
products are also assessed and in some cases integrated maceuticals are the reliable market launch of our prod-
into our portfolio. Activities for the preservation of existing ucts and the routine care of our patients using high-qual-
products and for the expansion of their geographical dis- ity pharmaceuticals at competitive prices. Therefore,
tribution are another important aspect of our R&D work. Boehringer Ingelheim optimised its supply strategy in 2015.
In early 2016, the company began to implement this strat-
Globally, Boehringer Ingelheim’s animal health business egy throughout its value chain and at all of its facilities.
received 70 new product authorisations in 2016.
With the motto “From Volume to Value”, our supply net-
Biopharmaceuticals work is set to be rigorously focused and made more flexi-
Boehringer Ingelheim is committed to its strategic deci- ble in the next few years to reflect the requirements of our
sion of actively entering into the biosimilars business businesses. At our own production facilities, we manufac-
and thereby increasing the access to high-quality biolog- ture the products of particular relevance to our Group or
ics for patients around the world. Biosimilars will increase whose manufacturing technology requires unique exper-
the range of treatment options for doctors and their tise. We operated 19 own production facilities in nine coun-
patients in the health sector while providing a vital con- tries in the year under review. These can be divided into
tribution to the efficiency of health care systems through- eleven pharmaceutical, three chemical and four biophar-
out the world to patients' benefit. We are currently con- maceutical facilities, as well as one production facility for
centrating, in particular, on our first biosimilar monoclonal medical products.
antibodies in immunology and oncology. Here, two bio-
similar candidates are at the late clinical development Our own production capacities are supplemented by
stage: BI 695501, a biosimilar candidate for Humira® external contract manufacturers, which primarily focus
(adalimumab) and BI 695502, a biosimilar candidate for on the manufacture of products that are in an advanced
Avastin® (bevacizumab). stage of their life cycle. This ensures a reliable and com-
petitive supply of prescription medicines and consumer
In November 2016, we published the first results of our health care products. The close cooperation with external
pivotal phase III study for BI 695501. In this study, BI partners secures Boehringer Ingelheim access to technol-
695501 demonstrated a similar level of efficacy and safety ogies that are not currently available in our internal pro-
in comparison to Humira® (adalimumab) for patients with duction portfolio and enables us to focus our investments
rheumatoid arthritis. BI 695501 has now been accepted on those products that are particularly relevant for us.
for review by the relevant regulatory authorities in the USA
and Europe (the FDA and the EMA). In 2016, we also Boehringer Ingelheim therefore primarily invested in
published data from a phase I study for the biosimilar additional production capacity for the respiratory dis-
candidate BI 695502. They demonstrate bio-equivalence ease products spiriva® handihaler® and the respimat®
between BI 695502 and the reference product Avastin® platform in 2016. To cover the increasing demand for our
(bevacizumab). The ongoing pivotal phase III study is anti-diabetic portfolio, Boehringer Ingelheim invested a
examining the safety and efficacy of BI 695502 in com- further EUR 30 million in the production facilities in
parison to Avastin® for patients with advanced, non-small Mexico City and Koropi (Greece).
cell lung cancer.
16CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
Animal health development services for Chinese and international cus-
In the field of animal health, Boehringer Ingelheim is tomers will go into operation as planned in the first
primarily active with a production network comprising quarter of 2017.
four facilities for manufacturing vaccines and one facility
for nutraceuticals. This is supplemented by contract man- Occupational safety and environmental
ufacturers, primarily in North and Central America as protection
well as Europe. With the construction of a new Chinese The protection of the employees, the facilities and the
facility in Taizhou continuing apace in 2016, an Asian environment, as well as the sustainable use of natural
location will soon join our production network. As a major resources and the promotion of environmental awareness
component of our animal health growth strategy, this are major components of our company’s mission statement
facility will focus on the manufacture of vaccines against and are of prime importance to Boehringer Ingelheim.
porcine diseases for the Chinese market. Compliance with social and environmental aspects has
been anchored in our corporate philosophy for many years
Biopharmaceuticals now. The company strives to maintain natural resources
The biopharmaceutical activities of Boehringer Ingelheim and advocates environmental awareness both within
in Germany (Biberach), Austria (Vienna), the USA (Fremont) and outside the company. Observing social and ecological
and China (Shanghai) comprise the manufacture of own- concerns is the only way to ensure that we can achieve
brand marketable products (such as actilyse®, m etalyse® sustainable economic success for future generations.
and praxbind®), the process development of NBEs and
biosimilars, and – as one of the world’s leading compa- Group-wide, our company has developed binding stand-
nies – process development and contract manufacturing ards in terms of environmental protection, health and
in commercial production for third-party industrial cus- safety at work. These internal guidelines reflect the respec-
tomers. Thereby, Boehringer Ingelheim covers the entire tive country-specific requirements. In many cases, they go
biopharmaceutical value chain from genetic development far beyond the standards prescribed by law.
of the cell, followed by manufacturing of the active sub-
stance and of the finished pharmaceutical product Within Boehringer Ingelheim, Corporate Department
down to the product launch and global market supply. Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) is
responsible for our conceptual focus. For Boehringer
In 2016, use of capacity at production facilities was again Ingelheim, 2016 was characterised by the negotiations
at a very high level. Boehringer Ingelheim met increasing with Sanofi on the exchange of Boehringer Ingelheim’s
demand for actilyse®. Our active substance praxbind® consumer health care business for Sanofi’s animal health
was launched on further markets in the past financial division, Merial. From the very start, Corporate EHS&S
year, following its successful market introduction in the monitored the negotiations in order to ensure compliance
USA and Europe in 2015. with the company’s EHS&S duty of care. In addition, a
comprehensive environmental due diligence process was
Moreover, our industrial-scale cell culture facility in implemented for the facilities. Regular EHS&S audits,
Biberach was approved for the manufacture of a further both at Boehringer Ingelheim’s internal facilities and at
customer market product. The expansion project (a new the premises of suppliers and contract manufacturers,
industrial-scale biopharmaceutical production facility) likewise ensure compliance with our own as well as with
at our site in Vienna reached further milestones, such international standards (Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initi-
as the award of its first official permits, enabling the ative, PSCI). This programme is supplemented by the
ground breaking ceremony in 2017. Our commercial facil- code of conduct for all relevant suppliers. The status of
ity in Shanghai (China) for various biopharmaceutical environmental protection and occupational safety is con-
17GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT INFORMATION ABOUT THE Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
GROUP OF COMPANIES
tinuously reviewed and potential for improvement is
Average number of employees by region 2016 2015
identified on this basis.
Americas 11,469 13,623
Europe 24,164 23,817
As part of our sustainability efforts, we took part in an
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 10,059 10,061
independent assessment of our performance by EcoVadis
45,692 47,501
in 2016, for which we were awarded a silver medal. A fur-
ther example of our continuous improvements in the field
of environmental protection is our extensive work to A major success factor for the positive growth of the Group
analyse and decontaminate the soil at our Ingelheim site is its innovative and motivated staff. Accordingly, we are
in Germany. very committed to actively developing and supporting our
employees. In order to be best prepared for the chal-
As our contribution towards reducing global CO emis- lenges ahead and as part of a comprehensive training
2
sions, we have set ourselves the goal of reducing our system, we do not only set great store by the acquisition
entire CO emissions by 20% by 2020 as compared with of technical expertise but also by promoting social skills.
2
2010 values. As part of our Group-wide BE GREEN initi-
ative, we have achieved a reduction of 15% (per m2 of With the integration of various experiences, cultural
floor space) to date through energy savings and reductions backgrounds and personalities, Boehringer Ingelheim
in emissions. creates an openness to different approaches and opinions,
living up to its vision “Value through Innovation”. As a
The health and safety of our employees is a high priority global company, it is important to Boehringer Ingelheim
at Boehringer Ingelheim. This is reflected in our interna- that the diversity of the markets is reflected in its workforce.
tional safety standards and in the safety culture that we Creating a working environment that embraces diversity
practise. The Group-wide BE SAFE initiative, which aims and differences is one of the pillars of the corporate cul-
to further reduce the number of workplace accidents, has ture of Boehringer Ingelheim and is a contributing factor
been rolled out in a second wave since 2016, with a focus to the company’s success.
on safety in our global sales organisation. In 2016, our
global accident frequency rate (AFR) amounted to 1.8 acci- In addition to competitive salaries, Boehringer Ingelheim
dents per million hours worked. This represents a further offers further state-of-the-art benefits to its employees.
reduction of 0.1 points. These benefits include company pension plans, flexible
and home-based work options and numerous health-
Employee reporting related benefits. As a significant component of our corpo-
In 2016, Boehringer Ingelheim employed 45,692 people rate strategy, it is part of our talent management to ensure
worldwide. This represents a decrease of – 3.8% on the the employability of our staff, promote a wide range of
previous year. From a regional perspective, the number opportunities for innovation at work, and motivate our
of staff in America was reduced, mainly due to the sale employees to develop as individuals.
of our US generics business, while the number of employ-
ees in Europe increased and remained stable in the Vocational training has always been of major importance
AAA region. to Boehringer Ingelheim. As part of its understanding of
social responsibility, the company offers career opportuni-
ties to a great number of young people. At the same time,
we secure a talented and well-qualified workforce of young
professionals against a backdrop of demographic change.
In 2016, 224 young professionals started their careers with
18CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
Boehringer Ingelheim in Germany in over 27 different Social commitment within the company is also encouraged at
scientific, technical and commercial fields. More than Boehringer Ingelheim. Our employees in more than 30 coun-
700 young people are currently enrolled on our training tries work on the MMH initiative. In the MMH Youth Venture
programme in Germany. project, entrepreneurial skills are developed by working
together on designing social entrepreneurship projects,
One of the company’s aims is to strengthen the appeal of actively supported by mentors from our workforce. The initi-
Boehringer Ingelheim as a top employer for our current ative is supported by the Executive in Residence (EiR) and
and future employees. Boehringer Ingelheim was the recip- MMH Insight India staff development programmes. As part
ient of various awards for its efforts in this area in 2016. of a network of partnerships with nonprofit organisations
We received top marks from the auditors of the interna- and social entrepreneurs in the healthcare sector, this
tional, independent Top Employers’ Institute in major HR programme gives young managers the opportunity to sup-
categories, such as “talent strategy and executive develop- port the participants at their project facilities for a specific
ment”, “staff planning” and “performance management period of time and to jointly develop and implement projects.
and onboarding”. This is evidence of the strong appeal The goal is to develop and promote a socially aware and
and development opportunities at our company – both for innovative approach to business and to integrate new per-
employees and for potential recruits. spectives and approaches in everyday business.
Social responsibility As a manufacturer with tradition and high expertise
Taking social responsibility beyond our business activities in the field of stroke therapy and prevention, Boehringer
is also an important aspect of our corporate culture. Our Ingelheim is promoting broader public awareness and
commitment to the well-being of our patients, employees improved care. Together with patient organisations and
and their families is the focus of a range of projects. In politics, Boehringer Ingelheim has been providing infor-
addition, we support people in need through various mation on the causes and consequences of strokes,
initiatives, particularly in countries and regions where we options for their prevention and how to act in case of an
are active as a company. All of our company’s activities emergency for more than 13 years. Last year, Boehringer
also focus on protecting and maintaining the environ- Ingelheim was once again involved in the “Herzenssache
ment. In 2016, the German chemical industry association Schlaganfall” (taking stroke to heart) awareness-raising
presented Boehringer Ingelheim with its Responsible initiative and organised various projects and aware-
Care Award for the company’s own power station at its ness-raising events. The initiative, which was launched by
Ingelheim facility and the associated long-term improve- Boehringer Ingelheim in 2010, promotes projects that
ment in its carbon footprint. raise awareness of atrial fibrillation and the associated
risk of stroke, as well as improving public perception.
A major pillar of our social commitment is our MMH initi- With its “Herzenssache Lebenszeit” (taking life to heart)
ative. For over six years, Boehringer Ingelheim has been in awareness-raising campaign throughout Germany,
partnership with Ashoka, a global nonprofit organisation. Boehringer Ingelheim, together with various foundations
The aim of this partnership is to integrate health as a and associations in the stroke and diabetes fields, is pro-
major factor in people’s lives around the world, including viding information on the risks associated with these two
their families and their social environment. It aims to widespread diseases and the possibilities for their preven-
identify and support promising ideas for improving tion, through events in more than 120 towns and cities.
health. In order to achieve this, Making More Health The goal is to reduce the number of new cases.
currently promotes more than 80 selected social entrepre-
neurs around the world, who are attempting to come up To improve the European system for handling strokes,
with effective solutions in the healthcare sector. Boehringer Ingelheim in 2016 set up the “Angels Initiative”
19GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT INFORMATION ABOUT THE Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
GROUP OF COMPANIES
REPORT ON ECONOMIC POSITION
together with the European Stroke Organisation (ESO) , Positive economic development continued in 2016 in
with the goal of developing a European network of clinics Germany, with economic output rising by 1.9%. The upturn
equipped to handle strokes. was supported, in particular, by significantly greater private
and public consumer spending as well as housing invest-
Boehringer Ingelheim has always actively supported ments. Moreover, the increase in consumer spending also
research, science and culture. It continuously affirms this improved the situation on the labour market, meaning that
strategy through its partnerships with academic institu- the number of people in employment increased. With a
tions. In addition to supporting scientific activities, scien- growth rate of 3.3%, the rise in exports fell short of the
tists are also awarded the annual Boehringer Ingelheim previous year’s level and thereby reflects the still quite sub-
FENS Research Award for neuroscience, or the Heinrich dued economic recovery processes of the country’s key
Wieland Prize for research into biologically active sub- trading partners.
stances and systems.
With a view to 2017, we can assume that the positive eco-
nomic growth in Germany will continue, with forecast
REPORT ON ECONOMIC growth of around 1.4%. The slowdown in growth by com-
parison with the previous year is mainly attributable to
POSITION
the decrease in the number of working days in 2017. Only
a weak growth in global trade will prevent further eco-
Macroeconomic environment nomic expansion in Germany.
In 2016, the global economy grew by 2.5% on the pre-
vious year, and thereby fell slightly short of the previous With an average rate of inflation of 0.5% in 2016, prices
year’s increase as well as the expected trend. in Germany decreased compared with the previous year, as
measured by the consumer price index. The rate of infla-
The major industrialised countries’ economic recovery tion for the whole eurozone was 1.1% and, thus, higher
continued in 2016. While the unexpected Brexit vote did than the previous year.
temporarily increase uncertainty on the financial markets,
the effects on the real economy have been limited to date. In addition to the euro, the major currencies for the
In the eurozone and Japan especially, economic output rose Boehringer Ingelheim Group are the US dollar (USD) and
faster than production potential. The expansionary mon- the Japanese yen (JPY). At the end of the year, the euro
etary policy of the European Central Bank and the Bank devalued sharply against the US dollar but, as in the pre-
of Japan, as well as their decision to implement a negative vious year, fluctuated between USD/EUR 1.04 (December)
interest-rate policy and to expand their bond- buying pro- and USD/EUR 1.16 (May) overall.
grammes, acted as a stimulus. The economic situation for
the emerging economies also largely stabilised in 2016. The euro fluctuated relatively strongly against the Japa-
China and India, in particular, strengthened their economic nese yen in the past financial year. After reaching an
output. Due to the stabilisation of commodity prices, the annual high in January (JPY/EUR 132), the euro devalued
end of recession was in sight in Russia and Latin America. significantly against the yen over the course of the year
(low: JPY/EUR 111 in July), followed by an upward reval-
For 2017, the global economy is expected to maintain a uation in the fourth quarter.
moderate growth rate of 2.8%. The United States as well as
Japan and the eurozone are expected to maintain their sta- The global pharmaceuticals market registered growth of
ble levels of growth. For the emerging economies, too, the around 6% in the 2016 financial year. This trend was
ongoing process of stabilisation is expected to continue. driven by rising demand in the industrialised countries
20CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
for cancer medicines, products for the treatment of auto- With sales of EUR 6,542 million, the Americas region
immune diseases and anti-diabetic medicines. Due to the represents around 41% of our total sales and remains the
ageing population in the industrialised countries and the biggest market for Boehringer Ingelheim. The decline of
increasing level of prosperity in the emerging economies, 5.5% in sales compared with the previous year is mainly
the industry’s growth remained stable, albeit slightly due to the sale of our US generics business. Strong growth
weaker than in previous years. was recorded once more in the Asia /Australia /Africa
(AAA) region with 12.8%. Boehringer Ingelheim achieved
Course of business revenues of EUR 4,226 million in this region, correspond-
Long-term and sustainably successful development forms ing to a stable share of around 27% of the Group’s total
the basis for securing the company’s independence over revenues. The Europe region showed high sales growth
the long term. Combined with stable earnings and sound (+ 23.1%) to EUR 5,082 million. This also reflects the pay-
financing, this is at the core of Boehringer Ingelheim’s ment received for development and marketing rights within
strategic focus. As in previous years, we based our approach the scope of the company’s cooperation with AbbVie in
on these principles. the field of immune diseases. The Group made 32% of its
sales in Europe.
The year 2016 was characterised by significant changes for
Net sales by region currency
Boehringer Ingelheim; these were changes that also repre-
(in EUR million) 2016 2015 Change adjusted
sented important steps for the company’s future. The
Americas 6,542 6,923 – 5.5% – 1.6%
completion of the exchange of our consumer health care
Europe 5,082 4,127 + 23.1% + 19.0%
business (CHC) for Sanofi’s animal health business (Merial)
Asia/Australia/Africa
at the turn of the year was the biggest change within our (AAA) 4,226 3,748 + 12.8% + 9.7%
business portfolio of the past few years. This transaction
will significantly improve our future market position in In general, sales growth conformed to expectations. Sup-
the field of animal health and establish us in future as one ported by good results from clinical trials, we have been
of the largest global players in this segment. able to place promising new products on the market and
successfully push ahead with well-established products.
In addition, ownership of our US generics business was On the other hand, we are experiencing an increasingly
transferred to Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC in the first difficult market situation with constantly challenging mar-
quarter of 2016. A corresponding sales agreement had been ket access and growing price pressure in our key markets
signed in July 2015. of the USA, Japan and Europe. Overall, the company has
asserted itself well despite the difficult conditions and has
Together with the company AbbVie Boehringer Ingel- laid the foundations for future growth.
heim agreed on a long-term global collaboration for the
development of two compounds in the therapeutic area Boehringer Ingelheim recorded an operating income of
immunology. EUR 2,872 million, corresponding to a return on sales of
18.1%, which is 2.8 percentage points above the pre vious
Boehringer Ingelheim recorded net sales of EUR 15,850 year’s return on sales. The operating income includes
million in the 2016 financial year, which corresponds to significant positive and negative extraordinary effects
an increase of 7.1% compared with the previous year’s compared with the previous year and was increased in
figure of EUR 14,798 million. The exchange rate develop- absolute terms by EUR 603 million.
ments on the foreign exchange markets and the associated
exchange rate effects had only a slight impact. Currency
adjusted, Boehringer Ingelheim’s growth rate stood at 7.3%.
21GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT REPORT ON ECONOMIC POSITION Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
the USA, in particular, sales of spiriva® fell significantly
Key figures (in EUR million) 2016 2015 Change
due to price pressure.
Net sales 15,850 14,798 + 7.1%
Operating income 2,872 2,269 + 26.6%
The second biggest sales contributor for Boehringer
Return on net sales 18.1% 15.3%
Ingelheim, the anticoagulant pradaxa®, recorded sales of
Results from operations EUR 1,385 million, which corresponds to an increase
In the past financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim’s business over the 2015 level (+ 7.6%).
activities were divided into prescription medicines, con-
sumer health care, animal health, biopharmaceuticals At EUR 1,128 million, the medicine trajenta®, which is
and industrial customers. used for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, achieved sales
in excess of one billion euros for the first time in 2016
Net sales by businesses currency
(+ 24.1%).
(in EUR million) 2016 2015 Change adjusted
Prescription Medicines 12,036 11,201 + 7.5% + 7.4%
ofev®, which offers people with the rare, fatal respiratory
Consumer Health Care 1,578 1,513 + 4.3% + 5.5%
disease idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) a new treat-
Animal Health 1,460 1,363 + 7.1% + 8.5%
ment option and achieved product authorisation in 2015,
Biopharmaceuticals 613 576 + 6.4% + 6.4%
generated sales of EUR 613 million (+ 70.9%).
Industrial Customers and
other sales 163 145 + 12.4% + 12.8%
Net sales (in EUR million) 2016 2015 Change
Prescription medicines spiriva® 2,995 3,553 – 15.7%
With around 76% of total revenue, prescription medicines pradaxa® 1,385 1,287 + 7.6%
is the main pillar of Boehringer Ingelheim’s business trajenta® / jentadueto® 1,128 909 + 24.1%
activities. In 2016, revenues from prescription medicines micardis® 959 956 + 0.3%
amounted to EUR 12,036 million. This is equivalent to a
change of around + 7.5% (+ 7.4% currency adjusted) com- With regard to the regional distribution of sales, the Amer-
pared with the previous year. As well as the successful icas, with a share of around 45%, were once more by far
placement of innovative products and the good market the largest market. In this region, Boehringer Ingelheim
position of established medicines, the positive sales growth generated net sales of EUR 5,362 million, which corre-
is due to the receipt of a payment agreed within the scope sponds to a change of – 4.5% compared with the previous
of the company’s cooperation with AbbVie in the field year (– 3.3% currency adjusted) and was impacted by the
of immune diseases. We are continuing to experience sale of our US generics business.
increasing price pressure, however, particularly for estab-
lished medicines, in a number of major markets. Overall, The second-biggest market, Europe, accounted for 28%,
Boehringer Ingelheim was again able to assert itself well with revenues of EUR 3,383 million. Sales thus increased
in this difficult environment in 2016 and has laid the compared with 2015 (EUR 2,729 million) and were not
foundations for further growth. subject to any significant exchange rate effects.
Net sales by region
As in previous years, spiriva®, which is used to treat chronic
(in EUR million) 2016 2015 Change
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), was once again
Americas 5,362 5,613 – 4.5%
the biggest contributor to sales in 2016. It achieved reve-
Europe 3,383 2,729 + 24.0%
nues of EUR 2,995 million within the reporting period,
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 3,291 2,838 + 16.0%
but thus fell short of the level of the previous year (EUR
3,553 million). On the company’s biggest sales market,
22CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
The Asia /Australia /Africa (AAA) region achieved sales of adjusted) compared with the previous year, achieving
EUR 3,291 million, which is equivalent to about 27% of total sales of EUR 448 million.
total sales of prescription medicines. This region showed
an increase of + 16.0% as compared with last year (+ 10.7% Animal health
currency adjusted). Revenues from products in the animal health business
increased to EUR 1,460 million in 2016, corresponding to a
Consumer health care + 7.1% increase on the previous year (+ 8.5% currency
In consumer health care, sales increased by + 4.3% com- adjusted). Sales of products for livestock accounted for the
pared with the previous year (+ 5.5% currency adjusted). largest share of this, EUR 1,028 million, corresponding to
In this business, Boehringer Ingelheim generated reve- around 70% of the entire animal health segment. In the
nues amounting to EUR 1,578 million. pet segment, revenues amounted to EUR 432 million.
Net sales (in EUR million) 2016 2015 Change
In 2016, the biggest sales contributors in the consumer
ingelvac circoflex® 283 281 + 0.7%
health care segment were dulcolax®, buscopan®,
ingelvac® prrs 114 99 + 15.2%
pharmaton® and mucosolvan®. All products generated
metacam® 106 101 + 5.0%
revenue of significantly more than EUR 100 million each.
duramune® 100 88 + 13.6%
As in the previous year, dulcolax® was the biggest seller,
with sales of EUR 237 million (+ 5.3%). buscopan® also
showed an increase (+ 5.8%) in the past financial year and The growth of the animal health segment was most sig-
generated sales of EUR 236 million. Positive results were nificant in the Americas region. Accounting for about
also achieved with pharmaton®, with sales increasing by 50% of total sales, the biggest sales market for Boehringer
3.6% to EUR 145 million. Ingelheim in this business grew by 4.4% (+ 5.9% currency
adjusted) to EUR 729 million. In the US market, the most
Net sales (in EUR million) 2016 2015 Change
important country for Boehringer Ingelheim, sales
dulcolax® 237 225 + 5.3%
increased by 5.9% to EUR 612 million.
buscopan® 236 223 + 5.8%
pharmaton® 145 140 + 3.6%
Boehringer Ingelheim also saw revenues grow in Europe
mucosolvan® 136 168 – 19.0%
in 2016, increasing to EUR 394 million, or a rise of 7.7%
(+ 10.1% currency adjusted), and accounting for 27% of
Of all the regions, Europe generated the highest sales of total revenues of the animal health business. Sales increased
EUR 582 million. This corresponds to a 37% share of in every country, particularly in Germany.
global sales in the consumer health care business. As such,
sales here were up by 1.0% on last year. With an increase of 13.1% (+ 12.8% currency adjusted),
the AAA region also reported positive growth compared
The AAA region ended the 2016 financial year with sales with the previous year, recording sales of EUR 337 mil-
amounting to EUR 548 million and an increase of 8.3% lion, which corresponds to around 23% of Boehringer
compared with the previous year (+ 4.2% currency adjusted). Ingelheim's total animal health sales. China in particular
This market therefore accounted for just under 35% of was able to achieve a growth of + 9.1%, with net sales
Boehringer Ingelheim’s consumer health care business. amounting to EUR 108 million.
The Americas region, the third largest sales market in
the consumer health care business, ended the financial
year with a raise in revenues of + 3.9% (+ 11.4% currency
23GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT REPORT ON ECONOMIC POSITION Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
Biopharmaceuticals from changes in interest rates related to the conversion
Sales for 2016 in biopharmaceutical contract manufactur- of the average interest rate for discounting pension plan
ing amounted to EUR 613 million, which represents growth obligations.
of + 6.4% compared with the previous year.
Income before taxes developed in line with the operating
Industrial customers and other sales and financial result, increasing to EUR 2,792 million. Tax
The industrial customer business consists of our third- expenses amounted to EUR 943 million. The increase in
party businesses in the field of pharmaceutical and chem- comparison to 2015 (EUR 273 million) particularly results
ical production and sales of pharma chemicals. Sales of from higher results of the US companies and provision for
EUR 163 million were achieved in 2016, corresponding tax risks . It must be noted in this regard that under the
to an increase in revenue of 12.4% compared with the provisions of German commercial law, shareholders’ per-
previous year. sonal taxes arising from Group business activities may
not be recognised as tax expenses. Instead, these taxes are
Presentation of expenditure and income presented as part of withdrawals from Group equity.
Operating expenses at Boehringer Ingelheim increased Taking this extraordinary effect into account, the actual
to EUR 15,492 million in the 2016 financial year, repre- tax ratio is markedly higher than the figure shown in the
senting a rise of 10.7% compared with the previous year. profit and loss statement.
Cost of materials were 7.2% higher than the previous year
(EUR 2.466 million), coming in at EUR 2,643 million. In the 2016 financial year, the group profit of Boehringer
The corresponding cost of materials ratio makes up 16.7%. Ingelheim totalled EUR 1,853 million, corresponding to
Personnel expenses amounted to EUR 4,570 million an increase of 17.5% on the previous year’s level of
(+ 1.2%), corresponding to a personnel cost ratio of 28.8%, EUR 1,577 million.
which was – 1.7 percentage points lower than the pre-
vious year. Financial position
Boehringer Ingelheim’s financial management instruments
Depreciation and amortization recorded an increase of and methods are aimed at securing liquidity, minimising
EUR 34 million (+ 5.8%) to EUR 620 million. Other oper- financial and economic risks and optimising the cost of
ating expenses rose by 19.2% compared with the previous capital with an appropriate capital structure. Our finan-
year, coming in at EUR 7,659 million. Among other items, cial activities are therefore geared towards supporting the
this cost category includes commission and licence pay- business strategy.
ments that are dependent on sales.
As a global company, exchange rate volatility has a signifi-
The operating income amounted to EUR 2,872 million, cant impact on Boehringer Ingelheim’s financial perfor-
which was 26.6% up on the previous year (EUR 2,269 mil- mance. The importance of our US business and the asso-
lion). It was influenced by significant positive and nega- ciated supply relationships mean that the exchange rate
tive extraordinary and one-time effects (sale of US generic development of the US dollar constitutes the greatest indi-
business; license payments AbbVie; expenses for legal risks) vidual risk. Within the framework of Group-wide financial
and was, adjusted by these effects, on previous year’s reporting, foreign exchange risk is calculated and hedged
level. Thus, the operating income met our expectations. through derivative financial instruments. The nature and
scope of these measures are set out in our Group guidelines
In the reporting period, the financial result amounted and are regularly discussed and approved by the relevant
to EUR – 76 million, which is EUR 527 million above committee in a standardised process.
the previous year. This was largely due to the effect
24CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
Investments are of great importance to Boehringer Ingel- cash flow led to an increase in liquidity of EUR 1,789 mil-
heim from a strategic point of view. Continuous investment lion to EUR 11,989 million (+ 17.5%).
is a requirement for long-term success and the develop-
ment of the company and forms the basis for the profita- Net assets
ble growth of our business divisions. In the 2016 financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim’s total
assets amounted to EUR 26,139 million, an increase
A total of EUR 697 million was invested in tangible and of EUR 2,854 million (+ 12.3%) compared with the pre-
intangible assets in the year under review. vious year. Tangible and intangible assets totalled EUR
3,595 million.
In the 2016 financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim invested
further EUR 40 million in the expansion of production As at the end of the year, financial investments amounted
capacity for the respimat® Soft Mist™ inhaler at its Dort- to EUR 6,092 million, which corresponds to an increase
mund and Ingelheim facilities in Germany. Boehringer of EUR 159 million on the previous year’s value. Invento-
Ingelheim microParts GmbH in Dortmund manufactures ries showed growth of 5.1% to EUR 2,610 million. Trade
the respimat® Soft Mist™ inhalation system, which is receivables declined by EUR 162 million to EUR 3,055
then filled with the relevant active substances from the million in 2016. Liquid funds, including securities within
pharmaceutical production facility in Ingelheim, ready current assets, stood at EUR 7,005 million (previous year:
for global sales. EUR 4,536 million).
Boehringer Ingelheim once again invested in the signifi- Due to the aforementioned changes in cash and cash
cant growth market of China. The Group continued its equivalents, Group equity amounted to EUR 11,327 mil-
investment programme for the expansion of its biopharma- lion and therefore more than fully covers tangible and
ceutical and animal health manufacturing facilities in intangible assets. In addition to equity, the pension pro-
Shanghai and Taizhou. visions and long-term liabilities are also available to the
Group in the long term. The total of these three items
The investments made in the research facilities in Germany, amounted to EUR 15,762 million in 2016, representing a
Austria and the USA during 2016 reflect the top priority share of 60.3% of the total assets. Consequently, long-term
of research and development in the fields of human and disposable capital covers all intangible and tangible assets,
animal medicines for Boehringer Ingelheim. inventories and trade receivables.
Cash flow amounted to EUR 2,484 million in 2016. This While other provisions were 30.6% higher than last year
represents a decline of 4.6% on 2015. Cash flow from at EUR 6,450 million, liabilities were reduced by 20.5% to
operating activities increased by EUR 656 million to EUR EUR 1,984 million during the previous year.
2,888 million, which was mainly due to the receipt of a
payment agreed within the scope of the company’s coop- The status already shown in the financial position remains
eration with AbbVie in the field of immune diseases. As resoundingly positive on both the balance sheet and in
in previous years, this meant that investments could be the respective balance sheet ratios. To sum up, Boehringer
financed entirely through funds generated by the company Ingelheim’s net assets, financial and earnings position
itself. A total of EUR 645 million was invested in tangible confirm its credentials as a soundly financed and profita-
assets and EUR 52 million in intangible assets. In terms ble company.
of cash flow from financing activities, we recorded an out-
flow of funds amounting to EUR 1,027 million. This was
mainly due to loan repayments. Overall, the changes in
25GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT RISK REPORT Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
RISK REPORT
Individual risks
The most important risks to which Boehringer Ingelheim
Risk and opportunity management is exposed are broken down into the following specific cat-
The aim of the risk management system implemented at egories: financial risks, legal risks, production and environ-
Boehringer Ingelheim is to identify business-specific risks mental risks, personnel risks and sector-specific risks.
and, in particular, risks that jeopardise the continued exist-
ence of the company as early as possible, to assess them Risks are identified below as being “concrete” when they
and to reduce them to a reasonable level by means of suit- appear to be controllable by means of specific manage-
able measures. ment procedures. The term “abstract” is used in the case
of risks that cannot be completely controlled, even by
When assessing the risks in the context of holistic risk means of targeted management procedures, regardless of
management, we also endeavour to take into account the the probability of their occurrence.
resulting opportunities. Opportunity management is based
on the strategies and objectives of the company, individ- Financial risks
ual businesses and operating business units and is an inte- Relevant financial risks are themselves broken down as
gral part of the Group-wide planning and management follows: currency risks, credit and country-specific risks,
systems. Those responsible for the businesses and func- as well as the management of financial investment risks.
tions bear direct responsibility for the early and systematic
identification, analysis and use of opportunities. For Currency risks
Boehringer Ingelheim as a research-driven and innova- The global orientation of our business activities results in
tive, pharmaceutical company, the current research and currency risks due to exchange rate volatility, particularly
development activities are naturally considered a relevant with regard to the US dollar and Japanese yen. The Group
opportunity. Relevant projects have already been illus- monitors and quantifies these risks at regular intervals,
trated in the research and development chapter. making them predictable for future business by means of
relevant hedging strategies and appropriate financial
The persons responsible for the key businesses and func- instruments, such as forward exchange contracts. The
tions are included in the process of calculating and assess- resultant risks are subsequently designated as being con-
ing risks. The Group-wide risk and information system crete and therefore controllable.
ensures that all identified risks are analysed and assessed
carefully. Following an appropriate classification into Credit and country-specific risks
various categories, adequate countermeasures are initi- Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to various credit and
ated and their implementation is consistently monitored. country-specific risks as a result of its international business
activities. From the portfolio of trade accounts receivable
In the year under review, internal auditing performed tar- and trade accounts payable, we have not identified any
geted routine audits as well as extraordinary audits around extraordinary risks for the Group beyond the usual level
the world. In addition to adherence to legal requirements in the sector. The same applies to possible default risks for
and internal Group guidelines, the main focal points were receivables, which are largely hedged against economic
the functionality of systems, the effectiveness of internal risks. We will continue to carefully track credit and coun-
controls for the prevention of loss of assets and the effi- try-specific risks to be in a position to respond to negative
ciency of structures and processes. Corresponding adjust- changes in a timely manner. These risks are therefore
ments or optimisations were initiated as necessary. regarded as concrete.
26CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
Management of financial investment risks breaches. We have taken the necessary precautions to allow
The Group pursues a defensive investment strategy in the us to detect threats at an early stage and, by commencing
management of its financial assets. This is reflected in appropriate countermeasures, defend our legal position
the orientation of its portfolio, which is focused on Euro- using all legal means available to us so that these risks are
pean Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) government regarded as concrete.
bonds with top credit ratings and short-term investments
at selected banks, so that this results in a concrete and Production and environmental risks
thus controllable risk. Our quality management system and compliance pro-
cesses are continuously optimised in close cooperation
Legal risks with the relevant authorities in order to ensure compli-
The business activities of the Group are exposed to legal ance with cGMP standards (current good manufacturing
risks. A distinction is made between regulatory, liability practices) in future. Risks in this area continue to be of
and patent protection risks. high significance to the Group and are classified as
abstract.
Regulatory risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to risks arising from legal In order to guarantee the supply of our products to the
disputes and proceedings as well as official investigations. market, we have implemented measures that guarantee
As the legal or administrative decisions in ongoing or future reliable and high-quality supplies for internal and external
proceedings cannot be predicted, we regard the resultant customers. In addition to supplier management on the
risks as being abstract. procurement side, this also involves building up internal
standby capacities. As a result, we see the risk as concrete.
Liability risks
The marketing and sale of pharmaceuticals are exposed Risks in the areas of environment, health, safety and sus-
to a potential product liability risk. Boehringer Ingelheim tainability (EHS&S) are pre-emptively minimised by
currently has product liability insurance for the Company’s ensuring global adherence to our high safety standards.
risk profile. There is absolutely no guarantee, however, Appropriate emergency plans have been drawn up for
that this insurance coverage can be maintained at reason- possible incidents of any kind and are practised and sub-
able cost and acceptable conditions, or that it is sufficient jected to comprehensive quality testing at regular inter-
to protect Boehringer Ingelheim against a claim or loss, vals. As a result of these measures, these risks are classed
or against all potential claims or losses. as concrete.
Furthermore, product liability claims could tie up sub- Personnel risks
stantial financial resources and management capacity and Boehringer Ingelheim, as other companies, is exposed to
be detrimental to the company’s image in the event that demographic change and the resultant risk of being affected
the market considers the product to be unsafe or ineffec- by a lack of appropriately qualified personnel. This risk
tive as a result of unexpected side effects. We regard this can have a substantial impact on the company’s business
risk as abstract. activities. This potential risk has therefore been included
in the long-term planning process for many years and has
Patent protection risks acquired strategic significance as a result. Boehringer
Protection of innovations through trademark, brand and Ingelheim counters the risk by means of a comprehensive
patent rights is of particular importance to Boehringer personnel concept. Regardless of their ethnic background,
Ingelheim as a research company. These commercial pro- gender or religion, we offer all company employees devel-
tective rights are increasingly the target of attacks and opment opportunities based on their vocational skills, social
27GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT RISK REPORT Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS
REPORT ON EXPECTED
expertise, personal aptitudes and willingness to take on
responsibility in accordance with the needs of the com- DEVELOPMENTS
pany. In view of the countermeasures described above, the
risk is regarded as concrete.
The year under review was an intense and challenging
Sector-specific risks time for Boehringer Ingelheim, during which we laid the
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to business risks specific foundations for the sustainable development and long-
to the pharmaceutical industry. Some of these risks mate- term growth of our company with several major decisions.
rialised in the past financial year (changes to the health-
care system in the USA) and are increasing in significance The consistent focus of our business on innovation-ori-
as a result of their impact on Boehringer Ingelheim. They ented fields is attested by the strategic exchange of Sanofi’s
will continue to be classed as abstract. animal health business (Merial) and Boehringer Ingel-
heim’s consumer health care business (CHC). The contract
In addition to the loss of exclusivity of products estab- for this exchange was signed in June 2016 and the trans-
lished on the market and risks associated with the devel- action was successfully closed on 1 January 2017. This
opment and registration of new products, these risks transaction will improve the competitiveness of our ani-
increasingly include changing and restrictive require- mal health business in the industry’s important growth
ments relating to pricing and reimbursement on many markets. We will establish ourselves as one of the largest
sales markets. Frequently, the prices of pharmaceutical global players in this business, and we will be able to offer
products are subject not only to state monitoring and our customers worldwide even more innovation and
regulation, but also to price pressure from cheaper added value at a very high level by pooling the comple-
generic drugs caused by the state reimbursement sys- mentary product portfolios of Merial and Boehringer
tems. Boehringer Ingelheim is therefore keeping a close Ingelheim, the existing technology platforms for vaccines
eye on the various changes in its sales markets and has and anti-parasitics, as well as pharmaceutical speciality
already has responded to current developments with respec- products.
tive cost-saving and efficiency-improving measures.
Besides increasing political unreliableness and volatility,
Overall statement on the risk situation the difficult market environment and increased unpredict-
From a current perspective, we are not aware of any risks ability of doing business posed major challenges for the
that alone or in conjunction with other risks could lead to entire pharmaceutical industry and will continue to require
an impairment of the company’s assets, financial position significant attention from Boehringer Ingelheim in 2017,
or earnings which could jeopardise the continued exist- too. With regard to competitiveness, it is all the more
ence of Boehringer Ingelheim. important, therefore, that we retain our scope for growth
and innovation so that we can continue to be successful
on the market in the future.
With regard to the many changes in healthcare systems
and the increasing price pressure, particularly for well-
established medicines in many major markets, and with
regard to increasing challenges to market access for new
products, we only expect to see low growth impetus for the
pharmaceutical industry in the coming year. Boehringer
Ingelheim has asserted itself despite the difficult condi-
28CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
tions and has laid the foundations for further growth. our cost base in order to create potential for investments
Through the integration of Merial’s business, we assume and to secure the company’s long-term success. With the
that sales in our animal health division will more than difficult market environment on the one hand, and the
double in 2017 compared with the previous year, which potential resulting from the measures we have introduced
will more than make up for the countervailing effect of as well as promising new product launches on the other,
the sale of the company’s consumer health care business we plan to see a 2017 operating income before special
to Sanofi. This will make a significant contribution to the factors that is at last year’s level, based on our current
considerable year-on-year increase in revenues that we business structure. As for the results in 2016 we expect a
expect to see in overall terms in the current financial year, considerable impact of major one-off effects on the 2017
after adjustment for currency effects. results, essentially due to the sale of our consumer health
care business and simultaneously the acquisition of
Research and development costs remained high in 2016, Sanofi's animal health business. Overall, we anticipate a
in keeping with our strategy to drive growth and promote strengthening of the overall Group's financial capability
new products in the future primarily with products from by integrating the Merial business.
our own research and development facilities. We invest in
this area with care after close investigation of the thera- As a family-run company, Boehringer Ingelheim’s primary
peutic benefit and the associated prospects for success. Our aim is to maintain the firm’s independence and competi-
comprehensive portfolio of prospective products with tiveness. As such, long-term and sustainable organic
promising study outcomes, along with newly approved growth still takes precedence over short-term profit tar-
products with significant sales potential, justifies our high gets. We are confident that we will achieve our ambitious
level of investment in research and development. In 2017, targets thanks to our great innovative strength based on a
we plan to invest in the research and development of new comprehensive portfolio of prospective products, our global
pharmaceutical products at a similar level to the year presence and the support of our highly qualified and moti-
under review, based on our current business structure. vated employees. Current product launches and expansions
in emerging markets will boost growth in all our areas
In addition to patent expiry and attacks on patents, the of business. We will stand by our vision “Value through
major challenges facing the research-driven pharmaceutical Innovation”, research and develop innovative products
industry are the increasing amount of investment in R&D that offer high medical benefits and bring them to the
as well as bigger hurdles and increased costs associated market. The aim of our endeavours is to make new medi-
with product approvals. In this context, it is the increas- cines available that will enable doctors to treat patients
ing cost pressure in the healthcare system that should be more effectively than is currently possible.
singled out in particular, leading to decreasing willingness
to adequately recognise large amounts invested into the
development of new medicines. As a result, there is price
pressure in all major markets for prescription medicines.
This, in conjunction with longer planning and development
cycles for new products, makes business less predictable
and requires us to recognise and seize opportunities
quickly on the one hand, while subjecting strategies and
structures to continual monitoring and adjustments on
the other. To this end, we have instigated initiatives over
the past few years to accelerate our reaction to change and
to reduce organisational complexities as well as to lower
29CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
30CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
C O N S O L I D A T E D F I N A N C I A L
S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 6
Overview of the major consolidated companies 32
Consolidated balance sheet 34
Consolidated profit and loss statement 35
Cash flow statement 36
Statement of changes in group equity 37
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 38
Auditor’s report 59
31OVERVIEW OF THE MAJOR CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
OVERVIEW OF THE MAJOR CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES
C. H. BOEHRINGER SOHN
AG & CO. KG*
BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM GMBH
EUROPE GMBH INTERNATIONAL GMBH
GERMANY D P R AUSTRIA D P R AUSTRIA R
Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim RCV Forschungsinstitut für Molekulare
Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, GmbH & Co. KG, Vienna Pathologie Gesellschaft mbH,
Ingelheim Vienna
Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma Ges.m.b.H., Vienna
Vetmedica GmbH, Ingelheim
BELGIUM D
Boehringer Ingelheim
microParts GmbH, Dortmund CZECH REPUBLIC D SCS Boehringer Ingelheim
Comm. V., Brussels
Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim s.r.o.,
Biopharmaceuticals GmbH, Prague
Ingelheim CHINA D P
Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary
FINLAND D Boehringer Ingelheim
Research Center GmbH & Co. KG,
International Trading (Shanghai)
Hanover Boehringer Ingelheim
Co. Ltd., Shanghai
Finland Ky, Espoo
PHILIPPINES D
NORWAY D
Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim
(Phil.), Inc., Manila
Norway KS, Asker
POLAND D
Boehringer Ingelheim Sp.zo.o.,
Warsaw
D Distribution
P Production
R Research and Development
* Sole, personally liable, managing shareholder:
Boehringer AG
32PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
C. H. BOEHRINGER SOHN
GRUNDSTÜCKSVERWALTUNG GMBH & CO. KG
BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
AUSLANDSBETEILIGUNGS GMBH
ARGENTINA D R FRANCE D P THE NETHERLANDS D P TAIWAN D
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim B.V., Alkmaar Boehringer Ingelheim
Buenos Aires France S.A.S., Paris Taiwan Ltd., Taipeh
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Operations B.V., Alkmaar
AUSTRALIA D GREECE D P THAILAND D
Boehringer Ingelheim Pty. Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim Ellas AE, NEW ZEALAND D Boehringer Ingelheim
North Ryde Athens (Thai) Ltd., Bangkok
Boehringer Ingelheim
(N.Z.) Ltd., Auckland
BRAZIL D P INDIA D TURKEY D
Boehringer Ingelheim do Brasil Boehringer Ingelheim PORTUGAL D Boehringer Ingelheim Ilac
Quimica e Farmaceutica Ltda., India Private Ltd., Mumbai Ticaret A.S., Istanbul
São Paulo Boehringer Ingelheim Lda., Lisbon
Solana Agro Pecuaria Ltda., Unilfarma Lda., Lisbon
INDONESIA D P UNITED KINGDOM D
Arapongas
PT Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim Ltd.,
SINGAPORE D
Indonesia, Jakarta Bracknell
CANADA D
Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim Singapore Pte. Ltd., Singapore
IRELAND D USA D P R
(Canada) Ltd., Burlington
Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim Corp.,
SOUTH AFRICA D
Ireland Limited, Dublin Ridgefield, Connecticut
CHILE D
Boehringer Ingelheim (Pty.) Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim Ltda., Randburg Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
ITALY D P R
Santiago de Chile Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals (Pty.) Ridgefield, Connecticut
Boehringer Ingelheim Ltd., Randburg Boehringer Ingelheim
Italia S.p.A., Reggello USA Corporation,
CHINA D P
Bidachem S.p.A., Ridgefield, Connecticut
SOUTH KOREA D
Boehringer Ingelheim Shanghai Fornovo S. Giovanni Boehringer Ingelheim
Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd., Shanghai Boehringer Ingelheim Korea Ltd., Vetmedica, Inc.,
Boehringer Ingelheim (China) Seoul St. Joseph, Missouri
JAPAN D P R
Investment Co. Ltd., Shanghai Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim SPAIN D P Fremont, Inc.,
(China) Investment Co. Ltd., Shanghai Co. Ltd., Tokyo Fremont, California
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health SSP Co. Ltd., Tokyo Boehringer Ingelheim
España S.A., Barcelona
Operations (China) Co. Ltd., Taizhou Boehringer Ingelheim
Vetmedica Japan Co. Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Barcelona
COLOMBIA D P Tokyo Europharma S.A., Barcelona
Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Seiyaku Co. Ltd., Yamagata Laboratorios Fher S.A., Barcelona
Bogotá
Boehringer Ingelheim
Japan, Inc., Tokyo SWEDEN D
DENMARK D P Boehringer Ingelheim AB, Stockholm
Boehringer Ingelheim MEXICO D P R
Danmark A/S, Copenhagen
Boehringer Ingelheim SWITZERLAND D
Promeco S.A. de C.V.,
Boehringer Ingelheim
ECUADOR D Mexico City (Schweiz) GmbH, Basel
Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica,
Boehringer Ingelheim del Ecuador Pharmaton S.A., Lugano
S.A. de C.V., Guadalajara
Cia. Ltda., Quito
33CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED bALANCE SHEET Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND
LOSS STATEMENT
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
Assets (in millions of EUR) Notes 1) 31.12.2016 31.12.2015
Intangible assets (3.1) 550 606
Tangible assets (3.2) 3,045 3,264
Financial assets (3.3) 6,092 5,933
Fixed assets 9,687 9,803
Inventories (3.4) 2,610 2,483
Accounts receivable and other assets (3.5) 4,083 4,178
Securities 402 1,327
Cash and cash equivalents 6,603 3,209
Current assets 13,698 11,197
Deferred charges and prepaid expenses 334 163
Deferred taxes 2,420 2,122
Total assets 26,139 23,285
Liabilities and equity (in millions of EUR) Notes 1) 31.12.2016 31.12.2015
Shareholders‘ capital 178 178
Group reserves 9,367 7,938
Balance sheet currency conversion difference — 71 — 94
Group profit 1,853 1,577
Equity attributable to the parent company 11,327 9,599
Non-controlling interests 0 4
Group equity 11,327 9,603
Difference from capital consolidation 52 71
Provisions (3.6) 11,937 10,300
Accounts payable and loans (3.7) 1,984 2,495
Liabilities 13,921 12,795
Deferred charges 543 573
Deferred taxes 296 243
Total liabilities and equity 26,139 23,285
1) For explanation, see relevant section in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
34PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
(in millions of EUR) Notes 1) 2016 2015
Net sales (4.1) 15,850 14,798
Changes in finished goods and work in process 198 177
Other own work capitalized 10 7
Other operating income (4.2) 2,306 1,283
Total revenues 18,364 16,265
Cost of materials (4.3) — 2,643 — 2,466
Personnel expenses (4.4) — 4,570 — 4,518
Amortisation of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets (4.5) — 620 — 586
Other operating expenses (4.6) — 7,659 — 6,426
Operating income 2,872 2,269
Financial income (4.7) — 76 — 603
Holding income (4.8) — 4 183
Income before taxes 2,792 1,849
Income taxes 2) (4.9) — 943 — 273
Income after taxes 1,849 1,576
Net income (4.10) 1,849 1,576
Non-controlling interest 4 1
Group profit 1.853 1.577
1) For explanation, see relevant section in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
2) Due to legal requirements the disclosure of the shareholders‘ personal taxes arising from consolidated business activities as tax expenses is not
allowed. These taxes are shown as withdrawals from the accrued group capital.
35CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CASH FLOW STATEMENT Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
S TATEMENT OF CHANGES
IN GROUP EQUITY
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(in millions of EUR) 2016
Income after taxes (including third-party share) 1,849
Amortisation of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets 1) 620
Change in provisions for pensions 15
Cash flow 2,484
Change in other provisions 755
Other non-cash income and expenses — 46
Income due to divestiture of consolidated companies — 577
Gain / loss on disposals of fixed assets 35
Change in inventories — 249
Change in accounts receivable and other assets not related to investing or financing activities — 315
Change in trade accounts payable and other liabilities not related to investing or financing activities 151
Interest income / interest expenses (net) 10
Other income from investments — 11
Income/expenses of extraordinary magnitude or significance 170
Income taxes 943
Cash receipts of extraordinary magnitude or significance 525
Income taxes paid — 987
Cash flow from operating activities 2,888
Investments in intangible assets — 52
Investments in tangible assets — 645
Investments in non-current financial assets 1) — 50
Proceeds from disposals of tangible assets 12
Proceeds from disposals of non-current financial assets 1) 25
Cash receipts due to divestiture of consolidated companies 467
Interest received 99
Income from dividends 11
Cash flow from investing activities — 133
36PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(in millions of EUR) 2016
Cash receipts from grants 7
Interest paid — 109
Cash payment to owners of parent entity — 203
Cash repayments of loans — 722
Cash flow from financing activities — 1,027
Change in liquid funds from cash relevant transactions 1,728
Changes in liquid funds due to exchange rate movements 61
Financial funds 2) as of 1.1. 10,200
Financial funds 2) as of 31.12. 11,989
1) Excl. fixed-asset securities
2) Liquid funds, securities within fixed and current assets
(+) = source of funds, (-) = use of funds
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN GROUP EQUITY
Equity attri-
thereof butable to Non- thereof
Shareholders’ Accrued currency the parent controlling currency Group
(in millions of EUR) capital 1) group capital effects company interest effects equity
balance as of 31.12.2014 178 7,931 — 142 8,109 2 1 8,111
Contributions 0 0 0 0 3 0 3
Withdrawals 0 — 135 0 — 135 0 0 — 135
Net income 0 1,577 0 1,577 — 1 0 1,576
Other changes 0 48 48 48 0 0 48
balance as of 31.12.2015 178 9,421 — 94 9,599 4 1 9,603
Contributions 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Withdrawals 0 — 152 0 — 152 0 0 — 152
Net income 0 1,853 0 1,853 — 4 0 1,849
Other changes 0 27 23 27 0 0 27
balance as of 31.12.2016 178 11,149 — 71 11,327 0 1 11,327
1) The shareholders’ capital consists of the equity of C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG and C. H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG.
as of 31.12.2016, the capital consists only of the limited partner’s capital contribution. The shareholders’ personal taxes arising from consolidated
business activities are shown as withdrawals from the accrued group capital.
Items of the statement of changes in equity that show no value due to rounding in millions of EUR will be disclosed.
The shareholders’ capital includes only limited partners as of 31. December 2016. A negative capital account of one limited partner with the
amount of EUR 6 million was shown as a net item within the consolidated retained earnings. The liability of this limited partner reinstated in the
amount of EUR 10,000.
37CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
1 Principles and methods
1.1 General principles
The consolidated financial statements of Boehringer Ingelheim for the 2016 financial year were prepared
in accordance with Section 264a of the German Commercial Code (HGB), in line with the legal requirements
to prepare consolidated financial statements and a group management report under Section 290 et seq.
HGB. The provisions of the German Act on Transformation of the EU Directive (BilRUG) were applied for
the first time.
In accordance with Section 297 (1) HGB, the consolidated financial statements consist of the consolidated
balance sheet, the consolidated profit and loss statement, the notes to the consolidated financial statements,
the cash flow statement and the statement of changes in equity.
The consolidated financial statements were prepared in euro in accordance with Section 298 (1) in conjunc-
tion with Section 244 HGB.
To improve the clarity and transparency of the consolidated financial statements, individual items of the con-
solidated balance sheet and the consolidated profit and loss statement have been combined. These items are
presented and explained separately in the notes. The additional disclosures required for the individual items
can also be found in the notes.
1.2 Registry Information
The parent company is registered under the name C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, with its headquarters
in Ingelheim, in the commercial register of Mainz district court under the number HRA 21732.
1.3 Information on companies included in the consolidation
The parent company of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim.
Boehringer AG, Ingelheim, is the sole, personally liable managing shareholder of this company.
Besides C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, there is C. H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH
& Co. KG whose general partner is controlled by C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG.
The Boehringer Ingelheim Group consists of a total of 143 affiliated companies in Germany and abroad. In addi-
tion to C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG and C. H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG,
a further 119 companies in which C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG directly or indirectly holds the majority
of voting rights have been included in the consolidated financial statements under full consolidation rules.
38PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
In accordance with Section 296 (2) HGB, 20 companies were not included in the consolidation in the report-
ing year, as they are individually and collectively insignificant in terms of the net assets, financial position
and Group earnings. The total amount of the sales, equity and net income for the year of the companies not
included in consolidation account for less than 1% of the aggregated Group financial statements totals. For
two companies there are ongoing restrictions on control due to the terms of the articles of association. These
companies were not consolidated in accordance with Section 296 (1) No. 1 HGB. Associate companies have
not been valued as “at equity” in accordance with Section 311 (2) HGB due the lack of significance.
The total number of affiliated companies decreased by two compared to the previous year:
• Four companies were founded.
• Two companies were sold.
• Two companies were merged
• Two companies were liquidated.
The US-American companies Roxane Laboratories, Inc., Ohio and Boehringer Ingelheim Roxane, Inc.,
Ohio were sold with effective date 29th Februar 2016. As of the day of sale the net assets of these two compa-
nies amounted to EUR 542 million. This amount comprises tangible and intangible assets amounting to
EUR 336 million, inventories amounting to EUR 138 million, receivables and other assets amounting to
EUR 312 million, provisions amounting to EUR 200 million and liabilities amounting to EUR 44 million.
The effects from the sale of these companies have been commented in the respective notes to the profit and
loss statement, if significant.
The following subsidiaries were exempted from the reporting and disclosure obligations of Section 264 (3) HGB:
• Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Europe GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Secura Versicherungsvermittlungs GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Grundstücksgesellschaft mbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Finanzierungs GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim R&D Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Invest GmbH, Ingelheim
The following subsidiary companies were exempt from the duty to prepare and disclose annual financial
statements and management reports in accordance with Section 264b HGB:
• C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
• C. H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim
• C. H. Boehringer Selbstmedikation KG, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary Research Center GmbH & Co. KG, Hanover
39CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
1.4 Consolidation methods
For inventories and fixed assets, receivables, liabilities, and income and expense items, transactions between
the companies included in consolidation were eliminated as part of debt consolidation procedures in accordance
with Section 303 HGB, procedures to eliminate intercompany profits in accordance with Section 304 HGB
and income and expenses consolidation procedures in accordance with Section 305 HGB.
The revaluation method was applied when including subsidiary companies in the consolidation for the first
time in accordance with Section 301 HGB. Companies were included in the consolidation for the first time
on the date at which the company became a subsidiary.
The carrying amount of the shares held by the parent company was offset against the corresponding equity
of the subsidiary. Equity is carried at the amount of the fair value of the assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses
and deferred income and special reserves included in the consolidated financial statements as at the time of
consolidation. Any remaining balance after offsetting was capitalised as goodwill.
1.5 Currency translation
Assets and liabilities resulting from foreign currency transactions were translated using the average spot
exchange rate as at the balance sheet date. The realisation principle (Section 298 (1) in conjunction with
Section 252 (1) No. 4 halfsentence 2 HGB) and the historical cost convention (Section 298 (1) in conjunction
with Section 253 (1) sentence 1 HGB) were applied to items with a remaining term of more than one year.
In these consolidated financial statements, the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries domiciled in a
state outside the eurozone which are denominated in a foreign currency have been converted into euro in
accordance with Section 308 a HGB using the modified closing date rate method.
Using the modified closing date rate method, the asset and liability items of the annual financial statements
prepared in foreign currency were translated into euros using the average spot exchange rate as at the balance
sheet date, with the exception of equity, which was translated using the historical rate. Items included in the
profit and loss statement were translated into euros using the average rate. The resulting translation difference
was generally reported within consolidated equity below the reserves in “Balance sheet currency conversion
difference”. For annual financial statements from countries with hyperinflation, expected foreign currency
effects have already been recognised within the currency translation in accordance with section 256 a HGB
on financial statement II level to improve the true and fair view of the consolidated financial statements. The
exchange rates for the Group’s most important currencies changed as follows during the reporting year
(basis: EUR 1):
Closing rate Average annual rate
31.12.2016 31.12.2015 2016 2015
US dollar 1.05 1.09 1.11 1.11
Japanese yen 123.40 131.07 120.33 134.28
Pound sterling 0.86 0.73 0.82 0.73
Canadian dollar 1.42 1.51 1.47 1.42
40PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
2 Accounting policies
2.1 Fixed assets
Acquired intangible assets and tangible fixed assets are carried at cost, less scheduled straight-line amortisa-
tion and depreciation determined under consideration of the technical and economic circumstances. This is
based on the following useful lives:
Intangible assets 2 to 15 years
Buildings 20 years
Technical equipment and machinery 10 years
Other equipment, operating and office equipment 3 to 10 years
Only straight-line depreciation and amortisation are used in the consolidated financial statements. Additional
write-downs are recorded to reflect impairments when the value of assets has been considered permanently
impaired. Production costs include materials and labour manufacturing costs, an appropriate portion of
materials and labour overheads, and the depreciation of fixed assets (to the extent caused by production).
All capitalised intangible assets have finite useful lives.
A useful life of ten years was applied to the goodwill for Boehringer Ingelheim Korea Ltd., acquired in 2007, as
past experience of products and sales markets together with the business conditions of Boehringer Ingelheim
Korea Ltd. indicates that this presents a true and fair view.
Financial assets essentially included shareholder rights, securities and loans and are carried at the lower of
cost or fair market value, if impaired.
2.2 Current assets and prepaid expenses
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or fair market value.
Raw materials, consumables and supplies are capitalised at the lower of average acquisition prices or fair
market value on the balance sheet date.
Finished goods and work in progress are measured at production cost on the basis of individual calculations,
taking into account the directly attributable costs of materials, direct labour costs, special direct costs, and an
appropriate share of production and materials overhead costs and depreciation.
Goods for resale are valued at the lower of either purchase cost or fair market value.
All identifiable risks in inventory assets arising from above-average storage periods, diminished marketability
and lower replacement costs were taken into account by recording appropriate valuation adjustments.
Inventories are valued loss-free, i.e. deductions were made from the expected sales prices to reflect costs yet
to be incurred.
41CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
Receivables and other assets were recognised at cost less allowances for specific risks and general credit risk.
Low-interest or non-interest-bearing receivables with a term of more than one year were discounted.
Securities classified as current assets include other securities and were recognised at the lower of cost or
quoted/market prices on the reporting date.
Cash and cash equivalents, consisting of cash, balances at banks and cheques, were recognised at the lower
of cost or fair market value.
Deferred charges and prepaid expenses recorded in accordance with Section 250 (1) HGB include expenses
paid in advance in respect of a defined period of time after the balance sheet date.
Deferred charges recorded in accordance with Section 250 (2) HGB include proceeds which represent income
in respect of a defined period of time after the balance sheet date.
2.3 Difference from capital consolidation
The difference from capital consolidation was recognised following acquisitions on 31 March 2011 and
1 August 2012 in which the value of the net assets acquired exceeded the purchase prices that were paid.
The value of the negative difference from the acquisition of companies amounted to EUR 157 million as of
1 January 2012, and was increased by the acquisition of the company acquired on 1 August 2012 by a further
EUR 11 million. The negative difference from the acquisition of companies is amortised over an estimated
period of ten years. The release of the negative difference from the acquisition of companies of EUR 19 mil-
lion in the 2016 financial year to EUR 52 million is shown under other operating income. The release is
consistent with the depreciation and amortisation of the excess assets at the date of acquisition.
42PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
2.4 Group reserves
Group reserves include the retained earnings of the consolidated subsidiaries from prior years and consoli-
dation entries that affect earnings related to previous years.
2.5 Provisions
Tax provisions and other provisions include all uncertain liabilities and expected losses from executory con-
tracts. They were carried at the amount required to settle the obligation based on reasonable prudent com-
mercial judgement (i.e. including future cost and price increases). Provisions with a remaining maturity of
more than one year were discounted using the matched-term, average market interest rate. In the case of pen-
sion provisions this interest rate results from the last ten years and in the case of other provisions from the
last seven years (in accordance with the Rückstellungsabzinsungsverordnung - German Regulation on the
Discounting of Provisions).
2.6 Liabilities
Liabilities were recognised at settlement amount.
2.7 Deferred taxes
To calculate deferred taxes arising from temporary or quasi-permanent differences between the carrying
amounts of assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses and deferred charges in the commercial balance sheet and
their carrying amounts for tax purposes or tax loss carryforwards, the amounts of the resulting tax benefits
and expenses at the time that the differences will reverse were measured using tax rates specific to the
respective consolidated company (12% – 40%). Deferred tax balances are not discounted. Differences due to
consolidation measures in accordance with Sections 300 to 305 HGB were also measured using the company-
specific tax rates applicable at the time of the expected reversal of the difference. Deferred tax assets on loss
carryforwards were taken into account if it is likely that they will be used within the next five years.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities were reported without offsetting
43CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
3 Notes to the consolidated balance sheet
3.1 Intangible assets
Acquired
concessions/ Advance
(in millions of EUR) similar rights Goodwill payments Total
Procurement/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2015 1,637 574 3 2,214
Currency conversion difference 106 1 — 1 106
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0
Additions 56 0 13 69
Disposals — 49 — 5 0 — 54
Reclassifications 6 0 0 6
Balance as of 31.12.2015 1,756 570 15 2,341
Currency conversion difference 37 0 0 37
Changes in consolidated companies — 21 0 0 — 21
Additions 43 0 9 52
Disposals — 13 — 564 0 — 577
Reclassifications 13 0 — 12 1
Balance as of 31.12.2016 1,815 6 12 1,833
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1.1.2015 1,059 562 1 1,622
Currency conversion difference 58 0 0 58
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0
Additions 106 5 0 111
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 49 — 5 0 — 54
Reclassifications — 1 0 — 1 — 2
Balance as of 31.12.2015 1,173 562 0 1,735
Currency conversion difference 27 0 0 27
Changes in consolidated companies — 13 0 0 — 13
Additions 99 5 0 104
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 6 — 564 0 — 570
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2016 1,280 3 0 1,283
Book value as of 31.12.2015 583 8 15 606
Book value as of 31.12.2016 535 3 12 550
44PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
3.2 Tangible assets
Other Advance
Technical facilities/ payments/
Land and facilities and operating construction
(in millions of EUR) buildings machines equipment in progress Total
Procurement/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2015 3,037 3,201 2,072 413 8,723
Currency conversion difference 127 76 53 17 273
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 49 73 117 352 591
Disposals — 296 — 276 — 148 — 2 — 722
Reclassifications 63 140 32 — 241 — 6
Balance as of 31.12.2015 2,980 3,214 2,126 539 8,859
Currency conversion difference 41 23 20 0 84
Changes in consolidated companies — 218 — 227 — 54 — 122 — 621
Additions 94 93 137 321 645
Disposals — 32 — 60 — 118 — 26 — 236
Reclassifications 97 104 42 — 244 — 1
Balance as of 31.12.2016 2,962 3,147 2,153 468 8,730
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1.1.2015 1,760 2,295 1,598 0 5,653
Currency conversion difference 72 53 39 0 164
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 117 199 159 0 475
Write-ups — 7 — 4 0 0 — 11
Disposals — 284 — 268 — 136 0 — 688
Reclassifications 0 1 1 0 2
Balance as of 31.12.2015 1,658 2,276 1,661 0 5,595
Currency conversion difference 27 17 15 0 59
Changes in consolidated companies — 113 — 140 — 40 0 — 293
Additions 153 199 164 0 516
Write-ups 0 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 27 — 56 — 109 0 — 192
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2016 1,698 2,296 1,691 0 5,685
Book value as of 31.12.2015 1,322 938 465 539 3,264
Book value as of 31.12.2016 1,264 851 462 468 3,045
45CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
3.3 Financial assets
Investments Loans Investments
in affiliated to affiliated in related Advance Investment Other
(in millions of EUR) companies companies companies payments securities loans Total
Procurement/manufacturing
costs
Balance as of 1.1.2015 4 0 137 0 5,243 23 5,407
Currency conversion difference — 1 0 2 0 17 0 18
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 8 0 628 11 647
Disposals — 1 0 — 1 0 — 31 — 7 — 40
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2015 2 0 146 0 5,857 27 6,032
Currency conversion difference 1 0 0 1 — 2 7 7
Changes in consolidated companies 4 0 0 0 0 0 4
Additions 0 0 845 17 628 12 1,502
Disposals 0 0 — 26 0 — 1,327 — 6 — 1,359
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 — 156 156 0
Balance as of 31.12.2016 7 0 965 18 5,000 196 6,186
Accumulated amortisation
Balance as of 1.1.2015 0 0 62 0 30 3 95
Currency conversion difference 0 0 0 0 1 0 1
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 3 0 1 0 4
Write-ups 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Disposals 0 0 0 0 — 1 0 — 1
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2015 0 0 65 0 31 3 99
Currency conversion difference 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 21 0 7 0 28
Write-ups 0 0 0 0 — 9 0 — 9
Disposals 0 0 — 11 0 — 13 0 — 24
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2016 0 0 75 0 16 3 94
Book value as of 31.12.2015 2 0 81 0 5,826 24 5,933
Book value as of 31.12.2016 7 0 890 18 4,984 193 6,092
As in the previous year, the “Other loans” item does not include any loans to shareholders.
46PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
3.4 Inventories
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2016 31.12.2015
Raw materials and supplies 510 560
Unfinished goods 1,244 1,084
Finished goods and goods for resale 845 838
Advance payments to suppliers 11 1
2,610 2,483
3.5 Accounts receivable and other assets
Residual Residual
term over term over
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2016 1 year 31.12.2015 1 year
Trade accounts receivable 3,055 1 3,217 2
Receivables from affiliated companies 34 0 1 0
Receivables from related companies 31 0 20 0
Other assets 963 26 940 29
4,083 27 4,178 31
The “Other assets” item includes receivables from shareholders of EUR 111 million (previous year:
EUR 13 million).
Receivables from affiliated companies almost exclusively consist of receivables from loans.
Receivables from related companies essentially consist of trade accounts receivable.
3.6 Provisions
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2016 31.12.2015
Pension provisions and similar obligations 4,285 4,248
Tax provisions 1,202 1,113
Other provisions 6,450 4,939
11,937 10,300
47CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations
The provisions for pensions and similar obligations were determined on the basis of actuarial calculations
using the projected unit credit method, taking into account future adjustments in salaries and pensions.
In addition to local biometric data (e.g. for Germany, mortality tables 2005 G published by Prof. Dr Klaus
Heubeck), pension obligations in the significant countries were calculated on the basis of the following actu-
arial parameters:
(in % as of 31 December 2016) Germany USA Japan
Discount rate 4.00 4.68 1.58
Salary increase 3.75 4.00 3.44 - 4.18
Pension increase 1.88 3.00 0.00
Discounting rates were determined by reference to average market rates for 15-year maturities in accordance
with the German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions of 11 March 2016. The interest rates used to
discount significant foreign pension obligations (USA and Japan) were determined with comparable param-
eters, in line with the German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions of 11 March 2016.
The difference calculated in accordance with Section 253 (6) HGB amounts to EUR 589 million. The equiv-
ilant amount resulting from the modified period of the interest discount’s rate from seven to ten years was
offset against income from plan assets as well as interest expenses resulting from the increase of the provision.
The plan assets intended solely to cover pension and similar obligations that are unavailable to all other cred-
itors (plan assets as defined in Section 246 (2) sentence 2 HGB) were measured at fair market value, which is
essentially derived from stock market prices, and offset against the underlying pension and similar obliga-
tions. The fair market value of the plan assets on the balance sheet date was EUR 1,560 million. The related
amount of pension obligations and similar obligations was EUR 5,845 million. Gains and losses from plan
assets and interest expense relating to pension and similar obligations were offset in accordance with Sec-
tion 246 (2) sentence 2 HGB. In total, EUR 62 million earnings from plan assets and EUR 126 million inter-
est expense relating to pension and similar obligations are included in the financial result.
Tax provisions
The tax provisions also include provisions for double taxation risks, which have significantly increased
following the implementation into national tax law of the actions plans of the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development (OECD) as part of their international initiative known as the “Action Plan
on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting” (BEPS).
48PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
3.7 Accounts payable and loans
Residual term Residual term
less than greater than 1 greater than 5 31.12. 31.12. less than
(in millions of EUR) 1 year year years 2016 2015 1 year
Bank loans 221 84 0 305 1,003 496
Other accounts payable 1,481 198 150 1,679 1,492 1,286
of which:
- Trade accounts payable 902 1 0 903 759 759
- Advance payments received 99 0 0 99 51 51
- Accounts payable
to affiliated companies 6 5 5 11 90 90
- Accounts payable
to related companies 2 0 0 2 1 1
- Other liabilities* 472 192 145 664 591 385
1,702 282 150 1,984 2,495 1,782
* Of which:
- from taxes (EUR million) 188 149
- social security liabilities (EUR million) 21 17
As in the previous year, there were no liabilities secured by mortgages or similar collateral rights on the
balance sheet date.
At the end of the year, there were liabilities to shareholders of EUR 99 million (previous year: EUR 52 million).
These are presented within “Other liabilities”.
Accounts payable to affiliated companies include loans amounting to EUR 6 million (previous year:
EUR 89 million) and trade accounts payable amounting to EUR 5 million (previous year: EUR 1 million).
49CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
4 Notes to the consolidated profit and loss statement
The structure of the consolidated profit and loss statement was based on the total cost format. Other taxes
are included in other operating expenses.
The reported net sales are not comparable with the figures of the previous year as a result of the first-time
application of the German Act on Transformation of the EU Directive (BilRUG). If Section 277 (1) HGB
following the BilRUG amendments had been applied in the previous year, the net sales for the previous
year would have amounted to EUR 14,842 million. Other operating income would have decreased by the
same amount.
In order to provide a better insight into the earnings position, expenditure on services were reclassified from
other operating expenses to material expenses. To improve comparability the previous year’s figure was also
adjusted in the amount of EUR 355 million.
Revenues include EUR 525 million from one-off payments received in connection with a cooperation
agreement. Other operating income includes exceptional income from the sale of two US subsidiaries of
EUR 578 million. In addition, the group result of the fiscal year was impacted by expenses from the increase
in provisions for legal and tax risks at the amount of EUR 695 million.
4.1 Net sales
by business and business segment (in millions of EUR) 2016 2015
Prescription Medicines 12,036 11,201
Consumer Health Care 1,578 1,513
Animal Health 1,460 1,363
Biopharmaceuticals 613 576
Industrial Customers and other sales 163 145
15,850 14,798
by geographic region (in millions of EUR) 2016 2015
Europe 5,082 4,127
of which: Germany 956 902
Americas 6,542 6,923
of which: USA 5,360 5,746
Asia / Australia / Africa 4,226 3,748
of which: Japan 2,127 1,846
15,850 14,798
Net sales of the reporting period included net sales of the deconsolidated companies Roxane Laboratories,
Inc., Ohio and Boehringer Ingelheim Roxane, Inc., Ohio amounting to EUR 75 million (previous year:
EUR 496 million).
50PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
4.2 Other operating income
Other operating income includes income from currency translation of EUR 409 million (previous year:
EUR 446 million).
4.3 Cost of Materials
(in millions of EUR) 2016 2015
Costs of raw material, supplies and goods for resale 1,763 1,561
Expenditure on services 880 905
2,643 2,466
Cost of materials of the reporting period included cost of materials of the deconsolidated companies Roxane
Laboratories, Inc., Ohio and Boehringer Ingelheim Roxane, Inc., Ohio amounting to EUR 26 million (previ-
ous year: EUR 255 million).
4.4 Personnel expenses
(in millions of EUR) 2016 2015
Wages and salaries 3,722 3,762
Social benefits and retirement benefits 848 756
of which: retirement benefits 230 143
4,570 4,518
All interest effects of the measurement of the provision for pensions and similar obligations were shown as a
separate item of financial income.
Average headcount 2016 2015
Production 13,414 14,200
Administration 5,237 5,350
Marketing and Sales 18,265 19,234
Research and Development 8,055 7,895
Apprentices 721 822
45,692 47,501
4.5 Amortisation of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets
Amortisation of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible fixed assets include extraordinary write-downs
of EUR 59 million (previous year: EUR 4 million).
4.6 Other operating expenses
Other operating expenses include expenses from currency translation of EUR 548 million (previous year:
EUR 637 million).
51CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
In addition, other operating expenses also include the increase of provisions for legal risks and restructuring
as well as third-party services for research, development, medicine and marketing purposes, administrative
expenses, fees and contributions, commissions, rent, freight and expenses for repairs carried out by third
parties.
Other operating expenses of the reporting period included other operating expense of the deconsolidated
companies Roxane Laboratories, Inc., Ohio and Boehringer Ingelheim Roxane, Inc., Ohio amounting to EUR
30 million (previous year: EUR 314 million).
4.7 Financial income
(in millions of EUR) 2016 2015
Interest expense relating to pensions and similar obligations and other provisions — 79 — 667
Other interest expense and similar expenditure — 194 — 113
Interest expense and similar expenditure — 273 — 780
Amortisation of and loss on disposal on financial assets and short-term investments — 7 — 1
Income from other investment securities and from long-term loans 165 136
Other interest income and similar proceeds 39 42
— 76 — 603
4.8 Holding income
(in millions of EUR) 2016 2015
Write-offs on financial assets — 21 — 3
Income from related companies 17 186
of which from disposal of related companies 6 185
— 4 183
4.9 Income taxes
(in millions of EUR) 2016 2015
Income taxes 1,160 765
Deferred taxes — 217 — 492
943 273
Current income taxes essentially include the corporation and trade tax expenses of the companies included
in consolidation.
As a result of the conclusion of profit transfer agreements, significant German corporations have been
included in the trade and corporation tax group of the parent company C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG
since 1 January 2004. As the income taxes of the shareholders of C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG
incurred on operating income cannot be reported in the consolidated profit and loss statement, the tax
52PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
expenses represent only the trade income tax of the affected companies . The same applies primarily to other
fully consolidated German partnerships.
Total deferred tax assets amounted to EUR 2,420 million as at the balance sheet date (previous year: 2,122 mil-
lion). Deferred tax assets primarily relate to differences in the carrying amounts recognised for provisions for
pensions and rebates, intercompany elimination, claims relating to losses carried forward and tax credit,
fixed assets and inventories. Deferred tax liabilities of EUR 296 million (previous year: EUR 243 million) were
recognised. These primarily relate to the differences in the carrying amounts of tangible assets, inventories
and provisions.
4.10 Net income
The net income for 2016 was positively influenced by prior-period operating income (essentially from the
reversal of other provisions) of EUR 381 million (previous year: EUR 303 million) and negatively influenced
by prior-period operating expenses of EUR 217 million (previous year: EUR 262 million).
5 Notes to the cash flow statement
The cash flow statement shows the changes in cash and cash equivalents (cash and long-term securities and
investments classified as current assets that can be sold at any time) of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group
resulting from cash in- and outflows in the reporting year. In accordance with German Accounting Standard
21 on the cash flow statement (DRS 21), the cash flow statement has been broken down according to cash flows
from operating activities and cash flows from investing and financing activities.
The changes in the balance sheet items of the affiliated companies included were translated using average
rates for the year. As on the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents are carried at the closing rate. The effect
of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents has been shown separately.
The financial funds comprise financial assets with a remaining maturity in excess of 3 months on date of
acquisition. This financial assets can be converted into cash in short-term.
The financial funds as of 31.12.2016 comprise the following items:
(in millions of EUR) 2016
Cash and cash equivalents 6,603
Securities 402
Financial assets 4,984
11,989
The financial funds as of 31.12.2016 include cash equivalents of EUR 162 million, which were restricted on
disposal.
53CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
Furthermore, a payment was made on an escrow account of EUR 4.208 million. This escrow account is
included in the financial funds as of 31.12.2016.
During the financial year, interest of EUR 99 million (previous year: EUR 108 million) was received and
EUR 109 million (previous year: EUR 65 million) of interest was paid. Tax payments amounted to EUR 987
million (previous year: EUR 685 million).
In the course of the sale of the US generic business Boehringer Ingelheim received shares with a value of
EUR 824 million. The shares are shown as investments in related companies at year-end.
6 Other disclosures
6.1 Contingent liabilities
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2016 31.12.2015
Liabilities from guarantees,
bills and cheque guarantees, warranties
and the granting of security for third-party liabilities 59 69
The risk of utilisation of the individual contingent liabilities is estimated as follows:
The risk of utilisation of guarantees for the liabilities of affiliated companies to banks is rated as low on
account of the solid net assets, financial position and results of operations of the subsidiaries in question.
6.2 Other financial commitments and off-balance sheet transactions
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2016 31.12.2015
Rental and leasing obligations 276 325
Purchase commitment 476 670
752 995
There are obligations from rental and lease agreements of EUR 276 million (previous year: EUR 325 million),
EUR 25 million of which (previous year: EUR 31 million) relate to long-term rental agreements with sub-
sidiaries not included in the consolidation.
The purpose of the lease agreements is the lower capital commitment compared to buying property and the
absence of the resale risk. Risks could arise from the term of the lease should it not be possible to continue to
utilise the properties fully, of which there are no indications at this time.
Other financial commitments include future expenses from follow-up investments, investments already
initiated and future major repairs. As at the balance sheet date, purchase commitments include future cash
flow effects of investments totalling EUR 258 million (previous year: EUR 477 million).
54PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
6.3 Derivative financial instruments and valuation units
Due to its extensive international structure, the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is highly dependent on devel-
opments in the world’s currencies and interest rates. To hedge these risks, particularly those emerging from
goods, services and financing, currency forwards and options are generally used for currency risks. Interest
rate swaps and options are used for interest rate risks.
The use of derivative financial instruments and the organisational processes are set out in internal guide-
lines. There is a strict separation between trading, processing, documentation and control.
Risk positions are regularly tracked, analysed and measured in a special Group-wide financial report. The
positions entered into are periodically re-evaluated and monitored. The fair market values of the derivative
financial instruments are calculated using standard market measurement methods (currency and interest
forwards using the net present value method, currency and interest options using recognised option pricing
models) on the basis of the market data available on the balance sheet date.
Currency and interest options are recognised at fair market value not exceeding the option premium paid or
received. They are derecognised on maturity.
Provisions of EUR 60 million were recognised for currency forwards not included in hedge accounting for
which there was a negative fair market value within one currency as at the balance sheet date. In line with
the imparity principle, positive fair market values within one currency are not recognised.
On the balance sheet date, the derivative financial instruments not included in hedge accounting valuation
groups were as follows:
Nominal value Market value
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 31.12.2016 31.12.2015
Foreign exchange forward contracts 2,892 2,737 — 35 — 11
To the extent that the requirements for hedge accounting of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with
highly probable forecasted transactions in accordance with Section 254 HGB are met, the foreign currency
forward exchange contracts are not recognised in the balance sheet in line with the net hedge presentation
method.
The following accounting policies apply to the recognition of hedges in accordance with Section 254 HGB:
Economic hedges are accounted for in the financial statements by the use of valuation groups. The valuation
groups are recognised for each foreign currency based on the net amount of highly probable forecasted trans-
actions and currency forwards that match the forecasted net cash flow in terms of maturity, nominal amount
and foreign currency (macro hedge). The highly probable forecasted transactions (incoming and outgoing
payments for planned sales and purchases) are derived from company planning. Ex-post analysis of planning
has shown that the planned transactions are highly probable.
55CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
The opposing changes in value of the hedged item and the hedging instrument are fully offset as the critical
terms (maturity, nominal amount, and foreign currency) match. An effective hedge can therefore be assumed
both prospectively and retrospectively. The critical term match method is exclusively used to measure the pro-
spective and retrospective effectiveness of hedges. Exceeding hedges are not part of the valuation group.
As at 31 December 2016, hedges for highly probable forecast net cash flows were recognised as follows:
January to December 2017:
Net cash flow (in millions of EUR) FX forward contracts (in millions of EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
USD 1,167 USD — 1,154 USD — 179
JPY 1,055 JPY — 784 JPY 26
AUD 104 AUD — 70 AUD — 4
MXN 85 MXN — 69 MXN 5
CAD 183 CAD — 83 CAD — 3
GBP 232 GBP — 100 GBP 9
January to December 2018:
Net cash flow (in millions of EUR) FX forward contracts (in millions of EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
USD 1,413 USD — 1,088 USD — 68
JPY 974 JPY — 430 JPY — 19
AUD 16 AUD — 10 AUD — 1
MXN 14 MXN — 12 MXN 1
CAD 26 CAD — 5 CAD 0
GBP 229 GBP — 38 GBP 3
January to December 2019:
Net cash flow (in millions of EUR) FX forward contracts (in millions of EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
USD 1,431 USD — 530 USD — 31
JPY 1,000 JPY — 258 JPY — 4
January to February 2020:
Net cash flow (in millions of EUR) FX forward contracts (in millions of EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
JPY 230 JPY — 56 JPY 0
56PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
Furthermore as at 31 December 2016, hedges for foreign currency receivables were recognized as follows:
Receivables (in millions of EUR) Forward exchange contracts (in millions of EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
RUB 125 RUB — 52 RUB — 7
PLN 43 PLN — 7 PLN 0
The amount of the hedged foreign currency risk correlates to the relative change in the exchange rate between
the planning date and the realisation date of the forecast transactions. If all currencies were to appreciate or
depreciate against the euro by 10.0%, there would be a foreign currency risk of plus or minus EUR 833 million
without hedging.
A part of a loan agreement raised in 2009 with a variable interest rate was due in July 2016 and was fully
redeemed. The interest rate swaps congruent with amount and maturity that had been arranged to reduce the
associated risk of interest changes expired on schedule and the hedge accounting was ended.
6.4 Research and development expenses
(in millions of EUR) 2016 2015
Research and development expenses 3,112 3,004
Non-capitalised research and development expenses include, amongst other items, the costs associated with
phase IV clinical studies.
57CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
6.5 Report on post-balance sheet date events
Boehringer Ingelheim and Sanofi have confirmed the successful completion of the strategic business swap of
Sanofi’s animal health business (Merial) and Boehringer Ingelheim’s consumer health care business (CHC)
on 1 January 2017. After signing of the contract in June 2016 the closing was carried out as planned. This
step represents the successful completion of the business exchange, which had begun with exclusive negotia-
tions in December 2015.
As a research-based pharmaceutical company Boehringer Ingelheim improves its future market position in the
field of animal health significantly and will establish itself in future as one of the largest global players in
this segment. With the bundling of Merial’s and Boehringer Ingelheim’s complementary product portfo-
lios, as well as the existing technology platforms for vaccines and anti-parasitic and pharmaceutical specialty
products the company is placed in the key growth segments of the industry and offers its global customers
additional added value and innovation. It is expected that the current sales in animal health business are going
to be more than doubled through the transaction.
In return, the Consumer Healt Care Division was given to Sanofi. In 2016 this business unit generated sales
of EUR 1,578 million within Boehringer Ingelheim, corresponding to a share of around 10% of the total
turnover of the Group in the fiscal year.
Since the end of the 2016 financial year, we have not become aware of any further events that are of material
significance to the group of companies or that could lead to a reappraisal of its net assets, financial position
and results from operations.
6.5 Total auditor fees
Total fees charged to the Group by the auditor for the financial year was EUR 53.5 million. EUR 1.1 million
of this relates to audits of financial statements, EUR 1.8 million to other assurance services and EUR 50.6 mil-
lion to other services.
58PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
AUDITOR’S REPORT
We have audited the consolidated financial state- We conducted our audit of the consolidated finan-
ments prepared by the C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG cial statements in accordance with § (Article) 317
& Co. KG, Ingelheim, comprising the balance HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German Commercial
sheet, the income statement, statement of changes Code”) and German generally accepted standards
in equity, cash flow statement and the notes to the for the audit of financial statements promulgated
consolidated financial statements, together with by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of
the group management report for the business Public Auditors in Germany) (IDW). Those stand-
year from 1 January to 31 December 2016. The ards require that we plan and perform the audit
preparation of the consolidated financial state- such that misstatements materially affecting the
ments and the group management report in presentation of the net assets, financial position
accordance with German commercial law is the and results of operations in the consolidated
responsibility of the Managing Directors of the financial statements in accordance with (German)
managing corporate general partner. Our responsi- principles of proper accounting and in the group
bility is to express an opinion on the consolidated management report are detected with reasonable
financial statements and the group management assurance. Knowledge of the business activities
report based on our audit. and the economic and legal environment of the
Group and expectations as to possible misstate-
ments are taken into account in the determination
of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the
accounting-related internal control system and the
evidence supporting the disclosures in the consoli-
dated financial statements and the group manage-
ment report are examined primarily on a test basis
within the framework of the audit. The audit
includes assessing the annual financial statements
of the companies included in consolidation, the
determination of the companies to be included in
consolidation, the accounting and consolidation
principles used and significant estimates made by
Managing Directors of the managing corporate
general partner, as well as evaluating the overall
presentation of the consolidated financial state-
ments and the group management report. We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.
59CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
With the exception of the following qualification,
our audit has not led to any reservations: Contrary
to § (Article) 314 (1) Nos.6 (a) and (b) HGB the
total remuneration granted to the members, the
former members of the board of managing direc-
tors and the members of the supervisory body as
well as the pension provisions recognized and not
recognized for the former members of the board of
managing directors are not disclosed in the notes
to the consolidated financial statements.
In our opinion based on the findings of our audit,
with the qualification mentioned above, the con-
solidated financial statements comply with the
legal requirements and give a true and fair view of
the net assets, financial position and results of
operations of the Group in accordance with (Ger-
man) principles of proper accounting. The group
management report is consistent with the consoli-
dated financial statements, complies with legal
requirements, as a whole provides a suitable view
of the Group’s position and suitably presents the
opportunities and risks of future development.
Frankfurt am Main, 1 March 2017
PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
dr. ulrich störk michael conrad
Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Certified (German Certified
Public Accountant) Public Accountant)
60PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
P R O D U C T P O R T F O L I O
A S E L E C T I O N
Prescription Medicines 62
Animal Health* 76
* The Animal Health product overview is based on the portfolio as of 31.12.2016. As of 1.1.2017, the strate-
gic business swap between Boehringer Ingelheim and Sanofi was finalised: Boehringer Ingelheim’s
Consumer Healthcare business (CHC) was transferred to Sanofi, and Boehringer Ingelheim acquired
Sanofi’s Animal Health business (Merial). The Merial portfolio is not reflected in this overview.
61PRODUCT PORTFOLIO PRESCRIPTION MEDICINES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
RESPIRATORY DISEASES
Respiratory diseases are very common. Chronic obstructive Bronchial asthma
pulmonary disease (COPD) and bronchial asthma are Bronchial asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder of
among the most prevalent chronic diseases, and a frequent the airways. The inflammation is accompanied by airway
cause of morbidity and premature deaths worldwide. hyperresponsiveness, which leads to a narrowing of the
airways and recurrent episodes of wheezing, breathless-
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a rare disease which ness and coughing. These symptoms occur particularly
is severely debilitating and ultimately lethal. at night or in the early hours of the morning. It is now
known that asthma can be triggered by genetic and envi-
COPD ronmental factors (e.g. allergens and viral infections).
COPD is a chronic disease of the lungs that causes cough- Unlike COPD, asthma can occur very early in childhood;
ing, excessive mucus production and inflammation and it can also be present in adolescents or adults. Asthma is
ultimately destroys the lung tissue. The alveoli and thus gas often underestimated as an easy-to-manage condition.
exchange are the most affected. This leads to a limitation However, almost one in two patients with asthma still
of airflow, causing shortness of breath and other respira- experience symptoms while receiving maintenance ther-
tory symptoms. The airflow limitation is only partially apy, putting them at increased risk of potentially
reversible and usually worsens over time leading to disa- life-threatening asthma exacerbations.
bility and ultimately to death. Symptoms such as excess
cough and breathlessness are the main reasons why COPD
is very stressful for patients. Lung emphysema and chronic
bronchitis are the main manifestations of COPD.
COPD is caused by continuous damage to the lungs result-
ing from inhaling pollutants, primarily cigarette smoke.
However, other factors also need to be considered
includ ing indoor and outdoor air pollution. The course
of COPD, which is a disease that occurs in the second
half in a human’s life, is characterised by an accelerated
loss of lung function compared to normal ageing and
occasional sudden worsening of symptoms and f unction –
referred to as acute exacerbations. This can lead to a
downward spiral of worsening symptoms and thus fur-
ther inactivity.
62INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Chronic obstructive spiriva® tiotropium bromide Maintenance treatment of patients with
pulmonary disease (COPD) spiriva® handihaler® COPD (including chronic bronchitis and
spiriva® respimat® emphysema), maintenance treatment of
associated dyspnoea and for prevention
of exacerbations.
– Bronchial asthma spiriva® respimat® tiotropium bromide An add-on maintenance treatment in
adult patients with asthma who are
currently treated with the maintenance
combination of inhaled corticosteroids.*
* Spiriva® Respimat® is approved for use in asthma
in the EU, Japan, the USA and many other
countries. The label varies by country. Please refer
to the local product information.
– Chronic obstructive spiolto® respimat® tiotropium bromide, Maintenance treatment of airflow
pulmonary disease (COPD) stiolto® respimat® olodaterol obstruction in patients with chronic
inspiolto® respimat® hydrochloride obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
– Chronic obstructive striverdi® respimat® olodaterol Maintenance treatment of patients with
pulmonary disease (COPD) hyrochloride chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD).
– Reversible bronchospasms combivent® respimat® ipratropium bromide, A combination of a short-acting
associated with obstructive salbutamol, sulphate anticholinergic and beta-adrenergic for
airway diseases the management of reversible broncho-
spasms associated with obstructive
airway diseases in patients requiring
more than one bronchodilator.
– Chronic obstructive atrovent® ipratropium bromide Prevention and treatment of shortness
pulmonary disease (COPD) of breath in patients with chronic
– Chronic bronchitis obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
– Bronchial asthma and mild to moderate bronchial asthma
in adulthood and childhood as a supple-
ment to beta-agonists in cases of acute
asthma.
– Chronic obstructive airway berodual® ipratropium bromide, fenoterol Prevention and treatment of symptoms
disorders bronchodual® hydrobromide in chronic obstructive airway disorders
duovent® with reversible airflow limitation such as
bronchial asthma and especially chronic
bronchitis with or without emphysema.
63PRODUCT PORTFOLIO PRESCRIPTION MEDICINES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
RESPIRATORY DISEASES (CONTINUED)
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) Acute IPF exacerbations are defined as rapid deteriorations
IPF is a progressive lung disease associated with a markedly of symptoms and lung function within days or weeks. These
reduced life span and affecting as many as 14-43 people events can occur at any point in the course of the disease,
per 100,000 worldwide. IPF is characterised by progressive even at first presentation, and are associated with high mor-
scarring of lung tissue and a loss of lung function over tality. All patients with IPF are at risk of acute IPF exacer-
time. Development of scarred tissue is called fibrosis. Over bations.
time, as the tissue thickens and stiffens with scarring, the
lungs lose their ability to take in and transfer oxygen into
the bloods tream, and vital organs do not get enough oxy-
gen. As a result, individuals with IPF experience shortness
of breath, even when resting, and often have difficulty
participating in everyday physical activities.
64INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Bronchial asthma berotec® fenoterol hydrobromide Symptomatic treatment of acute asthma
attacks.
Prophylaxis of exercise-induced asthma
bronchiale.
Symptomatic treatment of allergic and
non-allergic asthma bronchiale and
other conditions with reversible airway
narrowing, e.g. chronic obstructive
bronchitis.
– Bronchial asthma alesion® epinastine hydrochloride Prophylactic treatment of patients with
– Allergic rhinitis flurinol® bronchial asthma. Prophylaxis and symp-
tomatic treatment of allergic rhinitis.
– Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ofev® nintedanib esylate Treatment of patients with idiopathic
(IPF) pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).
65PRODUCT PORTFOLIO PRESCRIPTION MEDICINES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
CARDIOVASCULAR AND METABOLIC DISEASES
Cardiovascular (CV) disease is the leading cause of death Prevention and treatment of venous
in many countries and is still increasing in prevalence. thromboembolism
Currently it is responsible for nearly one in three deaths Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is an umbrella term that
worldwide. One key risk factor for developing cardio- encompasses deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary
vascular disease is the presence of diabetes: people with embolism (PE). DVT is a process that occurs when a
diabetes are two to four times more likely to develop thrombus (blood clot) forms in a deep vein, most commonly
cardiovascular disease than people without diabetes, and in the calf or leg, and partially or completely blocks the
as a result, their life expectancy is up to 12 years shorter. flow of blood. As the thrombus grows, a portion may
Proper control of diabetes and other treatable risk factors break away from the main clot and travel in the circulatory
is therefore vital for the prevention of cardiovascular events. system to the lungs. The lodging of a blood clot in the
arteries of the lung is called a PE. VTE is a serious disor-
Stroke der with potentially fatal consequences.
Stroke is the rapidly developing loss of brain functions
caused by a reduced blood flow to the affected brain tis- Patients undergoing orthopaedic surgery are at considerable
sue. This can be due to ischaemia (lack of blood supply) risk of developing VTE, and chronic venous insufficiency
caused by thrombosis or embolism, or due to a bleeding. and/or pulmonary hypertension may develop in the longer
As a result, the affected area of the brain is unable to term. To prevent VTE events and their consequences after
function and the damage quickly becomes permanent, if orthopaedic surgery, patients should receive some kind of
untreated. A stroke is an acute event requiring emergency thromboprophylaxis. Patients who have already suffered
diagnosis and intervention. Worldwide, stroke is one of from VTE require anticoagulant treatment for secondary
the leading causes of death and long-term disability. prevention of a recurrent thromboembolic event.
Symptoms of a transient ischaemic attack (TIA) are similar
to stroke, but last for only a few minutes or hours and Reversing anticoagulation
usually do not result in permanent neurological damage. Anticoagulants offer important benefits to patients at risk
As a TIA may precede a stroke, emergency medical care of thromboembolic events. However, even though rare,
and subsequent preventive treatment may be necessary. there will be situations when rapid reversal of anticoagu-
lation could be medically necessary, e.g. if a patient taking
Atrial fibrillation an anticoagulant is involved in a severe car accident and
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained needs emergency surgery.
heart rhythm condition, affecting approximately two per
cent of the total population. One in four adults over
40 develops the arrhythmia in their lifetime. Patients with
AF are at higher risk of developing blood clots in their
upper left heart chamber, which can cause a disabling
stroke if the clot breaks loose and travels to the brain. AF
leads to a five-fold increase in the risk of stroke, result-
ing in up to three million patients worldwide suffering
AF-related strokes each year. The risk of stroke can be
reduced by effective chronic anticoagulation.
66INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Stroke prevention in atrial pradaxa® dabigatran etexilate Prevention of strokes and blood clots
fibrillation pradaxar® in patients with abnormal heart rhythm
– Primary prevention of venous prazaxa® (atrial fibrillation).
thromboembolic events after
orthopaedic surgery Primary prevention of venous thrombo-
– Treatment and secondary embolic events (VTE) in adults after
prevention of venous throm- elective total hip or knee replacement
boembolic events surgery.
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis
(DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE),
and secondary prevention of recurrent
DVT and PE in adults.
– Specific reversal of pradaxa® praxbind® idarucizumab praxbind® is a specific reversal agent for
(dabigatran etexilate) dabigatran and is indicated in adult
patients treated with pradaxa® (dab-
igatran etexilate) when rapid reversal of
its anticoaculant effects is required: for
emergency surgery/urgent procedures; in
life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding.
– Hypertension micardis® telmisartan; Treatment of hypertension. For the
– Cardiovascular morbidity and micardisplus® telmisartan, hydrochlorothiazide reduction of the risk of myocardial
mortality prevention micardis® plus infarction (heart attack), stroke or death
from cardiovascular (CV) causes in
micardis®hct
patients 55 years of age or older at high
co-micardis®
risk of developing major CV events who
are unable to take ACE inhibitors (USA).
For the reduction of cardiovascular
morbidity in patients with manifest
atherothrombotic cardiovascular disease
(history of coronary heart disease, stroke
or peripheral arterial disease), or
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus
with documented target organ damage
(EU).
– H ypertension twynsta® telmisartan, amlodipine Treatment of hypertension alone or with
micamlo® other antihypertensive agents. As initial
micardis® amlo therapy in patients likely to need multi-
ple antihypertensive agents to achieve
micardis® duo
their blood pressure goals (USA).
Add-on therapy in adult patients with
not adequately controlled blood pres-
sure on amlodipine, and replacement
therapy in adult patients receiving tel-
misartan and amlodipine from separate
tablets (EU).
67PRODUCT PORTFOLIO PRESCRIPTION MEDICINES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
CARDIOVASCULAR AND METABOLIC DISEASES (CONTINUED)
Hypertension and cardiovascular diseases
Hypertension, also referred to as high blood pressure, is a
chronic disease in which the blood pressure is chronically
elevated. Hypertension is also one of the major risk factors
for stroke, heart attacks, heart failure and chronic renal
failure. The primary goal of any antihypertensive treatment
is to prevent such cardiovascular events and to reduce
cardiovascular mortality.
Acute myocardial infarction
An acute myocardial infarction, or heart attack, is an
event that occurs when a thrombus or clot suddenly pre-
vents blood flow to an area of the heart muscle. Unless
the blood flow is restored quickly, the affected section of
heart muscle becomes permanently damaged. Heart
attack is a leading cause of death in all developed countries.
68INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Acute ischaemic stroke actilyse® alteplase Fibrinolytic treatment of acute ischae-
– Acute myocardial infarction actilyse® cathflo® mic stroke, acute myocardial infarction,
– Acute massive pulmonary acute massive pulmonary embolism.
embolism Fibrinolytic treatment of occluded
– Catheter clearance due to catheters.
thrombotic occlusion
– Secondary prevention of aggrenox® dipyridamole, Prevention of stroke following an initial
stroke or transient ischaemic asasantin® acetylsalicylic acid first stroke, or transient ischaemic
attacks (TIA) asasantin® retard attacks (TIA).
– Acute myocardial infarction metalyse® tenecteplase Fibrinolytic treatment of acute myocar-
dial infarction.
– Hypertension catapresan® clonidine; Treatment of hypertension.
catapres® hydrochloride clonidine
catapressan®
catapres-tts®
– Hypertension motens® lacidipine Treatment of hypertension.
69PRODUCT PORTFOLIO PRESCRIPTION MEDICINES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
CARDIOVASCULAR AND METABOLIC DISEASES (CONTINUED)
Diabetes Approximately 50 per cent of deaths in people with type 2
Type 2 diabetes is a chronic, progressive condition associated diabetes are caused by cardiovascular disease, indicating a
with elevated blood sugar levels that can cause long-term high unmet medical need.
complications if not treated.
In addition to cardiovascular disease, serious complications
Every year, 4.9 million deaths worldwide are linked directly of diabetes include: nephropathy, leading to renal failure
to the long-term effects of diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is the and potentially dialysis; retinopathy with potential loss of
most common form of diabetes and accounts for up to 95% vision; peripheral neuropathy with the risk of foot ulcers
of all cases in the developed world: it now affects 415 mil- and foot and leg amputations; autonomic neuropathy caus-
lion people worldwide and is imposing an enormous burden ing gastrointestinal, genitourinary and cardiovascular
on health care systems globally. Without effective preven- symptoms and sexual dysfunction.
tion and management strategies, it is estimated that the
number of cases will reach 642 million by 2040.
Type 2 diabetes is one of the major risk factors for cardio-
vascular disease. Life expectancy of people with type 2 dia-
betes at high cardiovascular risk is, on average, decreased
by up to twelve years.
70INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES* ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus trajenta® linagliptin Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus
tradjenta® to improve glycaemic control in adults,
trazenta® used in monotherapy (if metformin is
not tolerated or contraindicated) or in
trayenta®
combination therapy.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus jentadueto® linagliptin, metformin hydrochloride Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus
trayenta duo® to improve glycaemic control in adults
trajenta duo® when treatment with metformin does
not lead to sufficient control or when
trajentamet®
patients are treated with trajenta®
(linagliptin) and metformin.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus jardiance® empagliflozin Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes
jardianz® mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exer-
cise to improve glycemic control and to
reduce the risk of cardiovascular death
in patients with established cardiovas-
cular disease.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus synjardy® empagliflozin, Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus
metformin to improve glycaemic control in adults
hydrochloride when treatment with metformin does
not lead to sufficient control or when
patients are treated with jardiance®
(empagliflozin) and metformin.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus glyxambi® empagliflozin, linagliptin Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus
to improve glycaemic control in adults
when treatment with both empagliflozin
and linagliptin is appropriate (US).
* D iabetes portfolio in collaboration with Eli Lilly and Company.
71PRODUCT PORTFOLIO PRESCRIPTION MEDICINES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
ONCOLOGY
Cancer is a threat to global health. In 2014, an estimated that the disease may take many years to appear. Late diag-
14.1 million new cases of cancer were diagnosed world- nosis in an advanced stage of the disease results in an
wide and 8.2 million people died from cancer (Stewart, WHO often dismal prognosis, with only 10 – 15% of lung cancer
World Cancer Report 2014). The most common diagnosed patients surviving five years or more following diagnosis.
cancer types are lung cancer (nearly 14%), breast cancer
(almost 12%) and colorectal cancer (approx. 10%). Lung cancer is more than just one disease. There are dif-
ferent subtypes such as small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and
Lung cancer non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). More than 10 differ-
Lung cancer refers to malignant abnormal cell growth ent molecular genetic aberrations (mutations) present in
inside the lung tissue, forming a cluster or tumour. It is the the tumour have been identified. By focusing on molecular
most common cancer with an estimated 1.8 million new changes that are specific to the respective subtype of lung
cases per year worldwide (2014). Smoking is the primary cancer, targeted therapies have become more effective
cause of the disease, contributing to nearly 90% of the than other treatments. They show a survival benefit and
cases. Recently, however, the incidence of lung cancer among are at the same time less harmful to normal cells, thereby
non-smokers has increased. Lung cancer has a poor prog- reducing side effects.
nosis, with 1.6 million deaths per year, representing 20% of
all cancer deaths: lung cancer symptoms are unspecific so
72INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Non-small cell lung cancer giotrif® afatinib For the treatment of patients with meta-
(NSCLC) gilotrif® static non-small cell lung cancer
(NSCLC) whose tumours have activating
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)
mutations. For the treatment of patients
with locally advanced or metastatic
NSCLC of squamous histology progress-
ing on or after platinum based chemo-
therapy.
– Non-small cell lung cancer vargatef® nintedanib Combination therapy with docetaxel
(NSCLC) for the treatment of adult patients with
locally advanced, metastatic or locally
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) of
adenocarcinoma tumour histology after
first-line chemotherapy.
73PRODUCT PORTFOLIO PRESCRIPTION MEDICINES Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
DISEASES OF THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM
Mental and neurological diseases such as depression and dementia, depression and sleep disorders. The primary
Parkinson’s disease significantly impact patients and their symptoms are the result of a lack of the neurotransmitter
families and are also a substantial burden to society. dopamine in distinct areas of the human brain.
Parkinson’s disease Restless legs syndrome (RLS)
Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a degenerative disorder of the Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common neurological
central nervous system. Patients usually notice motor disorder characterised by an uncontrollable urge to move
symptoms like hand tremor (shaking) as their first sign of the legs, primarily occurring in the evening and night
the disease, which may progress to include shaking of the hours. It is usually accompanied by unpleasant and some-
arms, legs or head. Other motor symptoms that may times painful sensations in the legs as well as disturbed
develop over time include stiffness that often results in sleep resulting in daytime tiredness or sleepiness. The
loss of facial expression and a gradual slowing or loss of sensations are felt deep within the legs and are described
motion, or “freezing”. About 30-40% of patients also suf- as creeping, crawling or aching.
fer from non-motor symptoms associated with PD, such as
INFECTIOUS DISEASES
HIV infection/AIDS
Acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a set of
symptoms and infections resulting from the damage to
the human immune system caused by the human immu-
nodeficiency virus (HIV). If untreated, infection with HIV
progressively reduces the effectiveness of the immune
system and leaves individuals susceptible to opportunistic
infections and tumours. Babies of infected mothers are at
risk of getting the virus during pregnancy, childbirth or
breastfeeding.
74INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Parkinson’s disease (PD) sifrol® pramipexole Symptomatic treatment of idiopathic
– Restless legs syndrome (RLS) mirapex® Parkinson’s disease. It may be used as
mirapexin® monotherapy or in combination with
levodopa. Symptomatic treatment of
pexola®
idiopathic moderate to severe restless
legs syndrome.
– Sleep disorders lendormin® brotizolam Short-term treatment of disorders of
initiating and maintaining sleep.
Insomnia requiring pharmacological
intervention.
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– HIV/AIDS viramune® nevirapine For the combination therapy of HIV-1
viramune xr® infection and (in several countries) for
the prevention of mother-to-child trans-
mission of HIV-1 in pregnant women
who are not taking antiretroviral therapy
at time of labour.
Prolonged release tablets for once-daily
dosing within combination therapy.
– HIV/AIDS aptivus® tipranavir Indicated for combination antiretroviral
treatment of HIV-1-infected patients,
co-administered with 200 mg of ritona-
vir, who are treatment-experienced and
infected with HIV-1 strains resistant to
more than one protease inhibitor.
75PRODUCT PORTFOLIO ANIMAL HEALTH Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
Reference:
The Animal Health product overview is based on the port- (CHC) was transferred to Sanofi. Boehringer Ingelheim
folio as of 31.12.2016. As of 1.1.2017, the strategic business acquired Sanofi’s Animal Health business (Merial). The
swap between Boehringer Ingelheim and Sanofi was final- Merial portfolio is not reflected in this overview.
ised. Boehringer Ingelheim’s Consumer Healthcare business
LIVESTOCK – SWINE
Infectious respiratory diseases Infectious enteric diseases
ingelvac circoflex® is the first single-dose piglet vaccine enterisol® ileitis is the first and only vaccine against
for the control of porcine circovirus disease (PCVD). This ileitis caused by Lawsonia intracellularis. It is licensed to
vaccine provides significant reduction of mortality in the improve weight gain and to reduce growth variability
acute phase of PCVD as well as improved growth rates in associated with the disease. enterisol® ileitis helps to
the chronic phase of the disease. ingelvac circoflex® reduce the total antimicrobial use in pork production.
protects with minimal systemic adverse reactions or injec-
tion site swellings and can be used during pregnancy and
lactation. Our ingelvac® prrs products are licensed for
active immunisation against the respiratory and reproductive
form of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome
(PRRS).
ingelvac mycoflex® is licensed for the active immunisa-
tion of pigs against enzootic pneumonia (EP) in a single-
dose regimen. Through its advanced adjuvant system, it
provides long-lasting and effective protection, proven even
in high-challenge situations.
LIVESTOCK – POULTRY
volvac® is the umbrella brand of the Boehringer Ingelheim various viral and bacterial diseases like avian influenza,
Animal Health poultry vaccine range. It consists of a wide infectious bronchitis, Newcastle disease, infectious bursal
range of live and inactivated vaccines for broilers and lay- disease, egg drop syndrome and avian coryza.
ers. The vaccines provide protection of the birds against
76INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac circoflex® recombinant vaccine For the active immunisation of pigs over
d iseases (porcine circovirus the age of two weeks against porcine
type 2, PCV 2) circovirus type 2 to reduce mortality,
clinical signs – including weight loss
– and lesions in lymphoid tissues asso­
ciated with porcine circovirus diseases
(PCVD). In addition, vaccination has
been shown to reduce PCV 2 nasal shed­
ding, viral load in blood and lymphoid
tissues, and duration of viraemia.
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac® prrs mlv attenuated live vaccine (PRRS virus) Depending on product, for active
d iseases ingelvac prrsflex® eu type 2 (prrs mlv) immunisation of pigs at various ages
reprocyc® type 1 (prrsflex® eu against porcine reproductive and
and reprocyc®) respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV).
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac mycoflex® inactivated vaccine For the active immunisation of pigs from
d iseases (Mycoplasma the age of three weeks to reduce lung
hyopneumoniae) lesions following infections with Myco­
plasma hyopneumoniae.
– Infectious enteric diseases enterisol® ileitis attenuated live vaccine (Lawsonia For the active immunisation of pigs from
intracellularis) the age of three weeks against intestinal
lesions caused by Lawsonia intracellula­
ris infection and to reduce growth varia­
bility and loss of weight gain associated
with the disease.
INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Various viral and bacterial volvac® polyvalent attenuated live For vaccination of healthy chickens
diseases in poultry and inactivated vaccine against diseases caused by the
containing antigens for included antigens. For the prevention
vaccination against avian of the most common diseases in broiler
influenza, Newcastle chickens and of diseases responsible
disease, avian coryza, egg for losses in egg production in layers.
drop syndrome, infectious
bronchitis, infectious bursal
disease, bacterium anatis
77PRODUCT PORTFOLIO ANIMAL HEALTH Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
LIVESTOCK – CATTLE
Mastitis
Mastitis is the inflammation of the udder in dairy cattle,
mainly caused by bacterial infection. Prevention and
treatment of mastitis in these animals is key to producing
healthy milk and minimising the symptoms associated
with this clinical situation. mamyzin® is an effective
injectable antimicrobial for the treatment of acute masti-
tis. ubrolexin® and today® are two products for the
treatment of acute bacterial mastitis, whereas ubrostar®
and tomorrow® are used to prevent mastitis during dry-
ing-off in dairy cattle at the end of their lactation period.
78INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– M astitis mamyzin® penethamate hydroiodide Bovine mastitis caused by penicillin
sensitive organisms.
– M astitis ubrostar® penethamate hydroiodide, framyce- For the treatment of subclinical mastitis
benestermycin® tin sulphate, benethamine penicillin at drying­off, and the prevention of new
mamyzin® secado bacterial infections of the udder during
the dry period in dairy cows, caused by
bacteria susceptible to penicillin and
framycetin.
– M astitis ubrolexin® cefalexin, kanamycin combination Treatment of clinical mastitis in lactating
dairy cows for bacteria susceptible to
the combination of cefalexin and kana­
mycin.
– M astitis today® cephapirin sodium Treatment of clinical mastitis in lactating
cefa-lak® dairy cows (US/Canada).
– M astitis tomorrow® cephapirin benzathine For the treatment of subclinical mastitis
cefa-dri® at drying­off, and the prevention of new
bacterial infections of the udder during
the dry period in dairy cows (US/Can­
ada). For intramammary infusion into
the dry cow (US only).
79PRODUCT PORTFOLIO ANIMAL HEALTH Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
LIVESTOCK – CATTLE (CONTINUED)
Pain and inflammatory disorders Infectious diseases
metacam® is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug The pyramid® family of vaccines is providing a broad
(NSAID) and addresses the need for maintained profita- coverage against respiratory and reproductive diseases.
bility and the concern for animal welfare in animal pro- The range consists of several antigen combinations.
duction. Due to its long-acting nature and its outstand-
ing efficacy in controlling inflammatory symptoms, Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is one of the major
metacam® helps to minimise losses from inflammation and economically relevant cattle pathogens with a
and maintain profitability. At the same time, metacam® worldwide distribution. The disease caused by BVDV
effectively controls pain and supports the restoration of results in marked production losses in dairy and beef
well-being in farm animals. The use of metacam® is herds. bovela® is a vaccine that is designed to reduce
convenient and inflicts minimal stress on animals due some of the clinical signs typical for BVD, and to prevent
to its low-volume, one-shot dosage. the birth of so-called persistently infected animals
caused by transplacental infection with BVDV. Vaccina-
metacam® is licensed as adjunctive therapy in the treat- tion with bovela® is expected to provide protection
ment of mastitis in lactating cows. In most countries it is within the herd against the disease and against the cir-
also indicated for use in calves affected by diarrhoea culation of the virus.
and in cattle suffering from respiratory disease.
80INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Pain and inflammatory metacam® meloxicam In cattle, metacam® is used together
d isorders with appropriate antibiotic therapy to
reduce clinical signs of disease in acute
respiratory infection. It can be used in
diarrhoea in combination with oral
rehydration therapy to reduce clinical
signs of the disease in calves of over one
week of age, and young, non­lactating
cattle. It can also be used for the relief of
post­operative pain following dehorning
in calves and as supportive therapy in
the treatment of acute mastitis in com­
bination with antibiotics.
– Cattle infectious diseases pyramid® several multivalent vaccine combina- For vaccination of healthy dairy or beef
– Respiratory and reproductive presponse® tions including modified live viruses: cattle as an aid in prevention of diseases
diseases in cattle bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) types 1 caused by included antigens (US and
and 2, infectious bovine rhinotrache- Canada only).
itis (IBR), parainfluenza-3 (PI3) and
bovine respiratory syncytial virus
(BRSV), and bacteria: Pasteurella
multocida, Mannheimia haemolyt-
ica, L. canicola, L. grippotyphosa, L.
hardjo, L. icterohaemmorrhagiae,
and L. pomona
– Bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) bovela® modified live BVDV *-1 strain, bovela® is used to protect cattle against
modified live BVDV *-2 strain BVD viral infection.
* Bovine viral diarrhoea virus
81PRODUCT PORTFOLIO ANIMAL HEALTH Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
COMPANION ANIMALS – HORSE
Our main horse products focus on the therapeutic areas All vetera® vaccines are formulated utilising the ultrafil™
of respiratory disease, lameness, colic and hormonal dis- Purification Technology, removing most of the extraneous pro-
orders. teins and allowing the horse’s immune system to focus on the
relevant antigens.
prascend® is indicated for the treatment of pituitary pars
intermedia dysfunction (PPID), which is also known as In the respiratory segment two products are available on a global
equine Cushing’s disease. prascend® substitutes for the level: ventipulmin® and equisolon®. Both products are
lack of dopamine in the pituitary pars intermedia. Clinical licensed for the treatment of respiratory disease including airway
signs are hypertrichiosis, laminitis, change in body con- obstruction in which horses wheeze, cough and have difficulty
formation and lack of performance. Treatment with pras- breathing due to bronchospasm and/or mucus accumulation.
cend® is life-long. ventipulmin® and equisolon® can both be used alone or as
adjunctive therapy in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
vetera® vaccines are the first vaccine portfolio that (COPD) and in acute, sub-acute and chronic respiratory allergic
include multiple convenient combinations of disease pro- conditions.
tection for horses from as young as four months of age.
The vaccines protect against as many as nine infectious
organisms including influenza, herpes, the West Nile
virus, tetanus and others. This enables customised protec-
tion for each horse with limited needle injections.
82INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Pituitary pars intermedia prascend® pergolide mesylate Symptomatic treatment of clinical signs
dysfunction (PPID) associated with pituitary pars intermedia
dysfunction (PPID; also known as equine
Cushing’s disease).
– Combination vaccine against vetera® Eastern, Western and Venezuelan For vaccination of healthy horses as an
up to nine common diseases encephalomyelitis, tetanus, West aid in the prevention of diseases caused
in horses Nile virus, equine by the included antigens (US and Can­
herpes virus, equine ada only).
influenza viruses
– Acute and chronic obstructive ventipulmin® clenbuterol Treatment of respiratory disease in horses
respiratory diseases when airway obstruction is due to bron­
chospasm and/or accumulation of
mucus, and improved mucociliary clear­
ance is desirable.
– Recurrent airway obstruction equisolon® prednisolone For the treatment of recurrent airway
(RAO) or heaves obstruction (RAO) or heaves in horses
in combination with environmental
measures.
83PRODUCT PORTFOLIO ANIMAL HEALTH Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
COMPANION ANIMALS – SMALL ANIMALS
The main small animal products address major chronic prozinc® is an aqueous protamine zinc (PZI) suspension
diseases: heart failure, kidney diseases, epilepsy and of recombinant human insulin that is used to reduce
osteoarthritis. hyperglycaemia in cats with diabetes mellitus.
As the first of a new class of heart treatments termed semintra® is an angiotensin II antagonist which is
inodilators, vetmedin® has been shown to significantly approved for the reduction of proteinuria associated
improve clinical signs and extend life expectancy in dogs with chronic kidney disease (CKD) in cats. semintra®
with congestive heart failure originating from dilated decreases mean arterial blood pressure and proteinuria
cardiomyopathy or valvular insufficiency (mitral and/or and is available as an oral solution.
tricuspid regurgitation). vetmedin® works through two
complementary modes of action: it opens up the blood pexion® is an alternative treatment for canine epilepsy.
vessels taking blood to and away from the heart, thereby The active substance imepitoin primarily inhibits sei-
lowering the pressure on the heart and reducing the zures via potentiation of GABAA-receptor-mediated
work the heart has to do to pump blood around the dog’s inhibitory effects on neurons. pexion® is approved for
body. At the same time, vetmedin® has a direct effect on reduction of generalised seizures due to idiopathic epi-
the heart muscle, helping it to beat stronger and pump lepsy, and it has potential safety benefits over existing
blood more efficiently. standard treatment.
metacam® is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug
(NSAID). It is available as an oral suspension, tablets
and injectable solution for dogs and as an oral suspen-
sion and injectable solution for cats. In dogs, the indica-
tions include the alleviation of inflammation and pain in
both acute and chronic musculo-skeletal disorders, as
well as the reduction of pain following surgery. In cats,
the indications include the alleviation of inflammation
and pain in acute and chronic musculo-skeletal disor-
ders, as well as for alleviation of mild to moderate post-
operative pain. The variety of formulations offers veteri-
narians and owners the flexibility to use the formulation
they prefer in individual cases to manage the various
levels of inflammation and pain associated with the
licensed indications.
84INDICATIONS BRAND NAMES ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
– Congestive heart failure vetmedin® pimobendan Treatment of canine congestive heart
failure originating from dilatative cardio­
myopathy or valvular insufficiency
(mitral and/or tricuspid regurgitation).
For the treatment of dilated cardiomyopa­
thy in the preclinical stage (asymptomatic
with an increase in left ventricular
end­systolic and end­diastolic diameter)
in Doberman Pinschers following echo­
cardiographic diagnosis of cardiac disease.
– Pain and inflammatory metacam® meloxicam In dogs, metacam® is used to reduce
diseases post­operative pain and inflammation
following orthopaedic (e.g. fracture oper­
ation) and soft tissue surgery.
In cats, metacam® is used to reduce
post­operative pain and inflammation
after ovariohysterectomy (spay opera­
tion), orthopaedic and minor soft tissue
surgery.
Moreover, it is used for the alleviation of
pain and inflammation in acute and
chronic musculo­skeletal disorders (dogs
and cats).
– Feline diabetes mellitus prozinc® protamine zinc For the reduction of hyperglycaemia and
recombinant hyperglycaemia­associated clinical signs
human insulin in cats with diabetes mellitus.
– Feline chronic kidney disease semintra® telmisartan Reduction of proteinuria associated with
chronic kidney disease (CKD) in cats.
– Canine idiopathic epilepsy pexion® imepitoin For the reduction of the frequency of
generalised seizures due to idiopathic
epilepsy in dogs after careful evaluation
of alternative treatment options.
85COMPARISON OF BALANCE SHEETS 2007 ― 2016 Boehringer Ingelheim 2016
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
COMPARISON OF BALANCE SHEETS 2007 ― 2016
(in millions of EUR)
Assets (as of December 31) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Intangible assets 547 539 745 736 710 682 582 592 606 550
Tangible assets 2,972 3,177 3,219 3,314 3,442 3,103 2,887 3,070 3,264 3,045
Financial assets 1,638 1,739 1,699 3,168 3,953 4,222 4,737 5,312 5,933 6,092
Fixed assets 5,157 5,455 5,663 7,218 8,105 8,007 8,206 8,974 9,803 9,687
Inventories 1,387 1,561 1,801 1,850 1,998 2,095 2,083 2,237 2,483 2,610
Accounts receivable (incl. deferred charges and deferred taxes) 2,912 3,496 3,663 4,047 4,652 4,814 5,131 5,546 6,463 6,837
Liquid funds 1,015 1,312 3,877 3,118 3,903 2,374 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005
Current assets (incl. deferred charges and deferred taxes) 5,314 6,369 9,341 9,015 10,553 9,283 10,093 11,077 13,482 16,452
Total assets 10,471 11,824 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139
Liabilities and equity (as of December 31) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Shareholders‘ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178
Group reserves (incl. currency conversion difference) 1,385 3,101 3,964 5,408 5,812 4,763 5,619 6,884 7,844 9,296
Group profit 1,809 1,424 1,759 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,047 1,577 1,853
Equity attributable to the parent company 3,372 4,703 5,901 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,121 8,109 9,599 11,327
Non-controlling interests 167 190 179 0 0 0 1 2 4 0
Group equity 3,539 4,893 6,080 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,122 8,111 9,603 11,327
Difference from capital consolidation 0 0 0 0 157 134 104 91 71 52
Provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 4,726 5,120 5,731 6,598 7,402 7,749 7,817 8,840 10,543 12,233
Liabilities (incl. deferred charges) 2,206 1,811 3,193 3,161 3,633 3,229 3,256 3,009 3,068 2,527
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred charges) 6,932 6,931 8,924 9,759 11,035 10,978 11,073 11,849 13,611 14,760
Total liabilities and equity 10,471 11,824 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139
Summary of selected financial data 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Net sales 10,952 11,595 12,721 12,586 13,171 14,691 14,065 13,317 14,798 15,850
Operating income 2,100 1,980 2,239 1,896 2,272 1,853 2,114 2,140 2,269 2,872
Operating income as % of net sales 19.2 17.1 17.6 15.1 17.3 12.6 15.0 16.1 15.3 18.1
Income after taxes 1,812 1,428 1,764 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,046 1,576 1,849
Income after taxes as % of net sales 16.5 12.3 13.9 7.1 11.2 8.4 9.4 7.9 10.7 11.7
Return on equity (in %) 35.0 42.2 37.4 15.0 22.8 16.6 21.4 14.7 19.4 19.3
Equity ratio (in %) 32.2 39.8 39.3 39.9 40.0 35.7 38.9 40.4 41.2 43.3
Cash flow 2,392 1,997 2,409 2,234 2,378 2,225 2,129 1,850 2,605 2,484
Financial funds 2,581 2,932 5,384 6,113 7,711 6,467 7,514 8,507 10,200 11,989
Personnel expenses 2,886 3,004 3,221 3,358 3,664 4,024 4,071 4,116 4,518 4,570
Personnel expenses as % of net sales 26.4 25.9 25.3 26.7 27.8 27.4 28.9 30.9 30.5 28.8
Average number of employees 39,800 41,300 41,534 42,224 44,094 46,228 47,492 47,743 47,501 45,692
Research and development costs 1,900 2,109 2,215 2,453 2,516 2,795 2,743 2,654 3,004 3,112
R&D as % of net sales 17.3 18.2 17.4 19.5 19.1 19.0 19.5 19.9 20.3 19.6
Investments in tangible assets 654 665 630 519 458 562 558 548 591 645
Depreciation of tangible assets 432 453 470 498 535 793 640 449 475 516imprint
Assets (as of December 31) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Intangible assets 547 539 745 736 710 682 582 592 606 550
Tangible assets 2,972 3,177 3,219 3,314 3,442 3,103 2,887 3,070 3,264 3,045
Financial assets 1,638 1,739 1,699 3,168 3,953 4,222 4,737 5,312 5,933 6,092 Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
Binger Straße 173
Fixed assets 5,157 5,455 5,663 7,218 8,105 8,007 8,206 8,974 9,803 9,687
55216 Ingelheim
Inventories 1,387 1,561 1,801 1,850 1,998 2,095 2,083 2,237 2,483 2,610 Germany
Accounts receivable (incl. deferred charges and deferred taxes) 2,912 3,496 3,663 4,047 4,652 4,814 5,131 5,546 6,463 6,837 Telephone + 49 6132 77-0
Fax + 49 6132 72-0
Liquid funds 1,015 1,312 3,877 3,118 3,903 2,374 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005
Current assets (incl. deferred charges and deferred taxes) 5,314 6,369 9,341 9,015 10,553 9,283 10,093 11,077 13,482 16,452
CONTACT
Total assets 10,471 11,824 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 Corporate Division Communications and Public Affairs
E-mail press@boehringer-ingelheim.com
Internet www.boehringer-ingelheim.com
Liabilities and equity (as of December 31) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Shareholders‘ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 ISSUED BY
Group reserves (incl. currency conversion difference) 1,385 3,101 3,964 5,408 5,812 4,763 5,619 6,884 7,844 9,296 Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
Group profit 1,809 1,424 1,759 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,047 1,577 1,853
CONCEPT, DESIGN AND LAYOUT
Equity attributable to the parent company 3,372 4,703 5,901 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,121 8,109 9,599 11,327
MPM Corporate Communication Solutions, Mainz
Non-controlling interests 167 190 179 0 0 0 1 2 4 0
www.mpm.de
Group equity 3,539 4,893 6,080 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,122 8,111 9,603 11,327
Difference from capital consolidation 0 0 0 0 157 134 104 91 71 52 PHOTOS
Provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 4,726 5,120 5,731 6,598 7,402 7,749 7,817 8,840 10,543 12,233 dieth + schröder fotografie (p. 2, 4)
Liabilities (incl. deferred charges) 2,206 1,811 3,193 3,161 3,633 3,229 3,256 3,009 3,068 2,527
PRINTED BY
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred charges) 6,932 6,931 8,924 9,759 11,035 10,978 11,073 11,849 13,611 14,760
Neue Süddeutsche Verlagsdruckerei GmbH, Ulm
Total liabilities and equity 10,471 11,824 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139
COPYRIGHT
© Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, 2017
Summary of selected financial data 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
All rights reserved. No part of this Annual Report 2016 may
Net sales 10,952 11,595 12,721 12,586 13,171 14,691 14,065 13,317 14,798 15,850 be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means,
Operating income 2,100 1,980 2,239 1,896 2,272 1,853 2,114 2,140 2,269 2,872 electronic or photocopy, without permission in writing from
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH. Figures from third parties used
Operating income as % of net sales 19.2 17.1 17.6 15.1 17.3 12.6 15.0 16.1 15.3 18.1
in the annual report are based on data available at the time the
Income after taxes 1,812 1,428 1,764 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,046 1,576 1,849 financial statement was drawn up.
Income after taxes as % of net sales 16.5 12.3 13.9 7.1 11.2 8.4 9.4 7.9 10.7 11.7
Return on equity (in %) 35.0 42.2 37.4 15.0 22.8 16.6 21.4 14.7 19.4 19.3
Equity ratio (in %) 32.2 39.8 39.3 39.9 40.0 35.7 38.9 40.4 41.2 43.3
Cash flow 2,392 1,997 2,409 2,234 2,378 2,225 2,129 1,850 2,605 2,484
Financial funds 2,581 2,932 5,384 6,113 7,711 6,467 7,514 8,507 10,200 11,989
Personnel expenses 2,886 3,004 3,221 3,358 3,664 4,024 4,071 4,116 4,518 4,570
Personnel expenses as % of net sales 26.4 25.9 25.3 26.7 27.8 27.4 28.9 30.9 30.5 28.8
Average number of employees 39,800 41,300 41,534 42,224 44,094 46,228 47,492 47,743 47,501 45,692
Research and development costs 1,900 2,109 2,215 2,453 2,516 2,795 2,743 2,654 3,004 3,112
R&D as % of net sales 17.3 18.2 17.4 19.5 19.1 19.0 19.5 19.9 20.3 19.6
Investments in tangible assets 654 665 630 519 458 562 558 548 591 645
Depreciation of tangible assets 432 453 470 498 535 793 640 449 475 516WWW.BOEHRINGER-INGELHEIM.COM
ANNUALREPORT.BOEHRINGER-INGELHEIM.COM