2022
Value through
InnovationContent
Our Company 01 Consolidated Financial
Statements 53
The Shareholders’ Perspective 02
Key Aspects 2022 06 Overview of selected consolidated companies 54
Corporate Bodies 08 Consolidated balance sheet 56
Consolidated profit and loss statement 57
Consolidated cash flow statement 58
Group Management Report 11
Statement of changes in group equity 59
Information about the Group 12 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 60
Report on economic position 35 Independent auditor’s report 81
Report on opportunities and risks 46
Report on expected developments 51
Financial Highlights Top 4 products —
Human Pharma (Net sales 2022)
Amounts in million EUR,
unless otherwise indicated 2022 2021 Change
JARDIANCE®
Net sales 24,149 20,618 + 17 % OFEV®
Family
by region 5,832 3,227
million EUR
Americas 48 % 44 % million EUR
+ 29.5 %
Europe 31 % 32 % + 48.0 %
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 21 % 24 %
by business
TRAJENTA® / SPIRIVA®
Human Pharma 77 % 74 % JENTADUETO®
1,560
Animal Health 19 % 21 % 1,703 million EUR
million EUR
Biopharmaceutical Contract + 0.8%
+ 9.7%
Manufacturing 4 % 4 %
Other sales 0 % 1 %
Research and development
expenses 5,047 4,127 + 22 %
Top 4 products —
Personnel expenses 6,620 5,692 + 16 %
Animal Health (Net sales 2022)
Average number of employees 53,155 52,391 + 1 %
Operating income 4,770 4,705 + 1 %
Operating income NEXGARD® FRONTLINE®
as % of net sales 19.8 % 22.8 %
1,064 401
Group profit 3,181 3,406 – 7 % million EUR million EUR
Group proft as % of net sales 13.2 % 16.5 % + 16.2 % – 4.1 %
Group equity 19,185 19,331 — 1 %
Investments in tangible assets 1,021 968 + 5 %
INGELVAC
Depreciation of tangible assets 693 609 + 14 % HEARTGARD® CIRCOFLEX® /
323 FLEXCOMBO®
million EUR 236
+ 5.2 % million EUR
– 6.7 %Our
Company
Making new and better medicines for humans and animals is at the
heart of what we do. Our mission is to create breakthrough therapies
that change lives. Independent and family-owned, Boehringer
Ingelheim has the freedom to pursue its long-term vision, looking
ahead to identify the health challenges of the future and targeting
those areas of need where we can do the most good.
As a world-leading, research-driven biopharmaceutical company, more
than 53,000 employees create value through innovation for our Human
Pharma and Animal Health businesses. In 2022 Boehringer Ingelheim
realized net sales of 24.1 billion EUR. Investments of 5 billion EUR in
R&D drives innovation, enabling the next generation of medicines that
save lives and improve quality of life.
We realize more scientific opportunities by embracing the power of
partnership and diversity of experts across the life-science community.
By working together, we accelerate the delivery of the next medical
breakthrough that will transform the lives of patients now, and in
generations to come.2
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
The Shareholders’
Perspective3
Our Company — The Shareholders’ Perspective
2022 was a year that brought positivity after two pandemic COVID-19 years. People were
looking forward to meeting again and reconnecting. Our company culture thrives on in-person
interactions. Unfortunately, the year also brought war to Europe causing rising energy prices,
sharp increases in cost of living, and geopolitical tensions to escalate.
Despite the uncertainties this past year, Boehringer Ingelheim was able to touch more lives than
ever before. With a growing portfolio of potential new medicine approvals for the coming years,
the company has an exciting opportunity to make a profound and lasting impact on the lives of
many more people and animals.
Our purpose is to transform lives for generations. Our employees have made an extraordinary
effort to demonstrate this ambition. Our innovation powerhouse gives us every confidence that
we will be able to address more unmet patient needs in the years to come.
We have entered 2023 with optimism, knowing that everyone at Boehringer Ingelheim will
continue to drive positive change in healthcare. This commitment is the key to our success.
On behalf of the Shareholders’ Committee, I would like to thank all employees for their
determination and dedication.
signed by
Christian Boehringer
Chairman of the Shareholders’ CommitteeThe Board of
Managing Directors
Hubertus von Baumbach Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok Carinne BrouillonMichel Pairet Michael Schmelmer6
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Key Aspects 2022
Innovation drives us at Boehringer Ingelheim, to impact lives with new therapeutic solutions.
In 2022 we were able to help more people than ever before, despite economic and geopolitical
headwinds.
The pharmaceutical industry made significant progress in helping the world bring the COVID-19
pandemic to a halt. It raised awareness of the importance of vaccines, pandemic preparedness,
and the urgency to fight antimicrobial resistance.
For Boehringer Ingelheim 2022 was an important year. We were determined not to let market
uncertainties slow down the progress in our growing pipeline. In 2022 alone, we reached one
FDA Breakthrough Designation, three Fast Track Designations and two Orphan Drug Designations.
We launched SPEVIGO®, our monoclonal antibody treatment for patients with Generalized
Pustular Psoriasis. We also received approval for treating symptomatic chronic heart failure
patients with JARDIANCE®. In addition, we provided evidence that patients living with chronic
kidney disease significantly benefit from JARDIANCE®.
We delivered promising research results in key medical areas including oncology, the central
nervous system, retinal health and in metabolism. We are currently pursuing clinical proof for
more than 50 new medical products. Over the next seven years we expect 20 new medicine
approvals that will help us address unmet needs for many more patients. We will also launch
a range of new products for animals from 2023 onwards.
Our businesses performed well in 2022, delivering medicines and helping 30 million patients.
In Human Pharma we saw ongoing strong demand for our innovative medications, led by the
JARDIANCE® product portfolio and the respiratory medicine OFEV®. Our Animal Health business
felt the impact of the economic slowdown in Europe and North America, while at the same
time laying the groundwork for a range of new product launches.7
Our Company — Key Aspects 2022
Key to this overall strong performance is the commitment of our employees – from early research
to product supply, and our engagement with stakeholders. They are at the heart of everything
we do. Equally, we are grateful for the many successful scientific and commercial partnerships
we have. We truly appreciate and value their support.
The excitement about our growing pipeline and the success of our current portfolio, for patients
and animals alike, makes us confident about the future, energized to transform lives for
generations and reach ever more people who benefit from our products.
signed by signed by signed by
Hubertus von Baumbach Carinne Brouillon Dr. Michel Pairet
signed by signed by
Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok Michael Schmelmer8
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Corporate Bodies
Shareholders’ Committee
Christian Boehringer
Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee
Christoph Boehringer
Erich von Baumbach
Isabel Boehringer
Dr. Mathias Boehringer
Prof. Dr. Dr. Andreas Barner9
Our Company — Corporate Bodies
Board of Managing Directors Advisory Board
Hubertus von Baumbach Dr. Nikolaus von Bomhard
Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Chairman of the Advisory Board
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
Carinne Knoche-Brouillon Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG
Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
Human Pharma Dr. Hagen Duenbostel
Former Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
Dr. Michel Pairet KWS SE (until 6.12.2022)
Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
Innovation Dr. Frank Mastiaux
Former Chief Executive Officer
Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG (until 30.9.2022)
Member of the Board of Managing Directors, Chairman of the Advisory Board of Sunfire GmbH
Animal Health
Jan Rinnert
Michael Schmelmer CEO & Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors of
Member of the Board of Managing Directors, Heraeus Group
Finance & Group Functions
Angela Titzrath (from 1.1.2023)
Chairwoman of the Hamburger Hafen und Logistik AG‘s
Executive BoardGroup
Management
Report
12 Information about the Group
12 The Group’s business model
14 Research and development
23 Production
26 Employee reporting
28 Sustainable Development — For Generations
35 Report on economic position
35 Macroeconomic environment
37 Earnings position
39 Development of the businesses
43 Financial position
44 Net assets position
46 Report on opportunities and risks
46 Opportunities and risk management
46 Individual risks
50 Overall statement on the risk situation
51 Report on expected developments12
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Group Management
Report
Information about the Group
The Group’s business model
Boehringer Ingelheim develops breakthrough therapies that transform lives, today and for gen-
erations to come. Independent and family owned, we pursue our long-term vision to identify
challenges and develop solutions in areas where the medical and therapeutic needs of patients
are still unfulfilled or insufficiently addressed. Our aim is to transform the lives of patients –
across generations. This goal inspires all of our over 53,000 employees to make a real and
significant contribution to the life of humans and animals alike. Boehringer Ingelheim has stood
for innovation for more than 135 years. One of our strategic pillars is to make long-term,
competitive investments in innovation and patient well-being. This maxim makes us one of the
most research-intensive companies in Germany – across all sectors.
The Human Pharma business is the mainstay of our activities and accounts for 76.5 % of overall
sales. This business area is underpinned by an innovative portfolio, and in many cases its prod-
ucts are standard treatments in medicine. Our research focuses on cardiovascular and metabol-
ic diseases, oncology, respiratory diseases, immunology, diseases of the central nervous system
(CNS), and retinal health.
JARDIANCE® with JARDIANCE® – a medicine for treatment of type 2 diabetes that also reduces the risk of cardio-
two new indications vascular diseases for type 2 diabetics with pre-existing cardiovascular conditions – was the
in heart failure Group’s best-selling Human Pharma product in 2022.
Net sales by business
Human Pharma
7 6.5 % 18,461 million EUR
Animal Health
Group 1 8.9 % 4,559 million EUR
24,149
Biopharmaceutical
million EUR
Contract Manufacturing
4.2 % 1,024 million EUR
Other sales
0.4 % 105 million EUR13
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
Net sales by region
in million EUR
11,470
9,147
7,543
6,554
5,136 4,917
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
Americas Europe Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA)
At the beginning of 2022, JARDIANCE® was approved by the US (FDA) and the European (EMA)
regulatory authorities for the treatment of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. In
addition, the effectiveness of JARDIANCE® against chronic renal failure was proven in the
EMPA-KIDNEY study. OFEV®, which is used for the treatment of the rare respiratory disease
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and increasingly also in a further indication – systemic
sclerosis with interstitial lung disease (SSc-ILD) – recorded strong growth. Three other products
also played a significant role in Boehringer Ingelheim’s success: SPIRIVA®, which is used for the
treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) as well as asthma, TRAJENTA®,
which is used for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, and PRADAXA®, which is used to prevent
strokes in patients with atrial fibrillation and for the prevention and treatment of thrombo-
embolic disorders. Another milestone was reached in September 2022 with the approval of
SPEVIGO® (substance: spesolimab) in Japan and the USA. SPEVIGO® is the first product to re-
ceive FDA approval for the treatment of generalized pustular psoriasis (GPP) – a rare, life-threat-
ening neutrophilic disease.
In its Animal Health business, Boehringer Ingelheim is a leading provider of vaccines and thera-
peutics. Our portfolio includes products for pets and horses as well as livestock: swine, rumi-
nants, and poultry. Our core brands NEXGARD®, followed by FRONTLINE® and HEARTGARD®,
are the foundation of our success in the pets segment. The product portfolio for horses was
expanded in 2022 with the approval of RENUTEND™ in Europe. RENUTEND™ is the first ap-
proved product to enhance the healing of tendon and suspensory ligament injuries in horses,
complementing another equine stem cell product from Boehringer Ingelheim, ARTI-CELL®
FORTE, which is used to treat mild to moderate recurrent lameness associated with a non-sep-
tic joint inflammation in horses. In the swine segment, the established swine vaccine INGELVAC
CIRCOFLEX® – which is used to treat porcine circovirus type 2 – is an important component of
the company’s product portfolio.14
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Our Biopharmaceutical activities comprise the manufacture of our own human pharmaceutical
products (such as ACTILYSE®, METALYSE®, PRAXBIND®, and SPEVIGO®) and also – as one of
the world’s leading providers – process development and commercial production of biopharma-
ceuticals for third-party industrial customers.
Other sales mainly comprise discontinued operations.
In the 2022 financial year, we achieved the majority of our sales in the regions of the Americas
(47.5 %) and Europe (31.2 %). The Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) region includes countries such as
China and is of strategic significance for the Group’s future development, making up 21.3 % of
its sales.
Research and development
Our goal is to research and develop innovative medicines and therapies for the treatment of
diseases for which there are still no satisfactory treatments available. We aim to make a relevant
contribution in areas where the need for treatment is high, as well as in the human pharmaceu-
ticals segment and in the field of animal health.
More than We employed an average of 10,691 people in our global, cross-divisional research network in
5 billion EUR 2022. We are present in nine countries, with central facilities in Germany (Biberach and Ingel-
invested in R&D heim am Rhein), the USA (Ridgefield, Connecticut; Duluth, Georgia; and St. Joseph, Missouri),
Austria (Vienna), Japan (Kobe), and France (Lyon) as well as China (Shanghai). Through our ac-
tivities at these locations, we are continuing to expand and renew our existing product portfolio
in order to safeguard the Group’s organic long-term growth. Accordingly, we have increased our
research and development (R&D) expenses in recent years – in the past four years, their growth
has even outpaced our revenue trend. A total of approximately 5.0 billion EUR was invested in
the R&D of new medicines in 2022. This is above the level of the previous year and corresponds
to 20.9 % of the Group’s net sales in 2022 (2021: 20.0 %). Our R&D expenses in Human Pharma
amounted to 4.6 billion EUR.
Research and development
2022 2021 2020 2019 2018
Expenses in million EUR 5,047 4,127 3,696 3,462 3,164
– as % of net sales 20.9 20.0 18.9 18.2 18.1
Human Pharma expenses in million EUR 4,583 3,710 3,283 3,042 2,780
– as % of Human Pharma net sales 24.8 24.3 22.8 21.8 22.1
Animal Health expenses in million EUR 464 416 412 419 384
– as % of Animal Health net sales 10.2 9.7 10.0 10.4 9.7
Average number of employees 10,691 10,109 9,504 9,154 8,552
Investments in tangible assets in million EUR
(without investments in infrastructure) 298 242 181 183 13615
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
Long-term collaborations with academic institutions and other public research institutions,
biotech companies, and pharmaceutical companies are an integral part of our R&D work. In the
scientific field, we are collaborating on over 150 joint projects with more than 120 academic
institutions spanning four continents. We are continuously expanding and accelerating our R&D
portfolio through cooperation and license agreements as well as acquisitions. Our long-term
objective is for at least 30 % of our pipeline to be based on external innovation. In this way, we
are combining the strengths of our own research with our partners’ strengths. The acknowledged
high scientific standards, the business development relationships that we have forged over the
years, and the early investments made by the Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund contribute
significantly to this objective.
Boehringer Ingelheim also confirmed its attractiveness as a partner in 2022 through new part-
nerships and was able to strengthen the pipeline on this basis. For example, we are working with
Lifebit Biotech, Ltd. – a biomedical data analytics provider – to build a scalable data, analytics,
and infrastructure platform. The aim of this collaboration is to collect findings from large exter-
nal biobanks, thereby accelerating the development of new drugs. Together with Evotec SE and
bioMérieux, we also launched the company Aurobac Therapeutics SAS, which aims to develop
novel antibiotic precision therapies to combat anti-microbial resistance (AMR). A new grant
program in partnership with the University of Tübingen, Germany, aims to explore new ap-
proaches to improving human and animal health through AI and data science methods. After
the successful start of an initial joint development in 2020, we also started another collabora-
tion with the company Click Therapeutics, Inc., to develop another digital health application
(Digitale Gesundheitsanwendungen, DIGA) for prescribing to patients with schizophrenia, which
could be used alone or in combination with the drug therapy.
We have also established long-term partnerships in our Animal Health business. For example,
we are collaborating with the biopharmaceutical company MabGenesis Inc. to accelerate the
discovery and development of new monoclonal antibodies for potential canine therapies. A
research cooperation for the development of small-molecule therapies in canine oncology was
initiated with CarthroniX. This collaboration will focus on identifying new molecules to fight
cancer in dogs.
One form of basic research started in 2021 is the three-year cooperation agreement with Goog-
le in the field of quantum computing. As part of our digital transformation strategy, this partner-
ship aims to harness the computing power of this new technology and make it usable for
Boehringer Ingelheim’s R&D and thus pursue innovation in a more rapid and, above all, more
precise manner, while conserving resources at the same time.
As our Digital Lab, BI X further expanded the capabilities for the development and approval of
software medical devices and established itself as a center of excellence throughout the compa-
ny in 2022. BI X is also systematically expanding its external innovation network and developing
digital health products for the global market. A good example of this is Consanas Cloud: an in-
telligent digital platform for stroke patients that was recently launched in the Chinese market
and provides access to state-of-the-art rehabilitation measures. Consanas Cloud supports pa-
tients and their relatives on the often difficult journey back to everyday life with digital diagno-
sis and treatment methods. This solution therefore represents a milestone in the development
of digital health products in China.16
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
R&D sites
17
9 11 1013
20 12 19
21
18
15 16
14
7
1 22
8 5 2 6
3 23 25
4 24
AH Animal Health
HP Human Pharma
BIX BI X Digital Lab
Americas Europe Asia
USA Belgium China
1. Ames, Iowa (AH) 9. Evergem (AH) 22. Beijing (AH)
2. Athens, Georgia (AH) 23. Shanghai (AH, BI X)
Germany
3. Colbert, Georgia (AH) 24. Taizhou (AH)
10. Biberach (HP)
4. Duluth, Georgia (AH)
11. Ingelheim am Rhein (AH, HP, BI X) Japan
5. Fulton, Missouri (AH)
12. Kathrinenhof-Rohrdorf (AH) 25. Kobe (HP)
6. North Brunswick, New Jersey (AH)
13. Ochsenhausen (HP)
7. Ridgefield, Connecticut (HP)
8. St. Joseph, Missouri (AH) France
14. Lyon – Boreal (AH)
15. Lyon – Porte des Alpes (AH)
16. Saint-Vulbas (AH)
Netherlands
17. Lelystad (AH)
Austria
18. Innsbruck (HP)
19. Vienna (HP)
Switzerland
20. Basel (HP)
21. Geneva (HP)17
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
Since 2010, the Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund has driven innovation through investments
in young companies that are carrying out research into early-stage science and technology. Our
Venture Fund invests in biotech startup companies with innovative concepts and technologies
that have the potential to provide ground-breaking new therapeutic platforms. The Venture Fund
also creates companies when it identifies research projects in universities and academic insti-
tutions. In 2021, we established a Venture Fund Asia alongside our existing venture funds in
Germany and the USA.
The Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP) in Vienna is a biomedical research institute
and a Group company of Boehringer Ingelheim. With more than 220 scientists from approxi-
mately 40 countries, the IMP conducts research into molecular and cellular mechanisms that
form the basis of complex biological life processes as well as human diseases. The IMP is one of
the leading institutions of its kind: as of late 2022, ten of its 15 group leaders had received at
least one of the prestigious grants awarded by the European Research Council (ERC). Seven of
its 15 group leaders have been elected full members of the European Molecular Biology
Organization (EMBO).
With its open innovation platform opnMe.com, Boehringer Ingelheim is contributing to the pro-
cess of scientific collaboration in the pharmaceutical world: over 70 molecules in the preclinical
stage are currently being made available to academic researchers around the world free of
charge. This form of collaboration has already enabled new scientific findings in the field of
oncology, for example.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s R&D activities – the preclinical as well as clinical R&D – are the basis of
our sustainable success. The Group’s positive business development over the past years has
been underpinned by an organic process of renewing its portfolio based on its own R&D activ-
ities. In-house R&D – supplemented by external cooperation and partnerships – will also con-
tinue to be a top priority in the future. The high level of innovation is reflected in our pipeline.
After three FDA Breakthrough Therapy Designations (BTD) in 2021, another BTD for BI
1015550 – a novel experimental phosphodiesterase 4B (PDE4B) inhibitor – was confirmed in
the 2022 financial year. The decline in lung function in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibro-
sis (IPF) can be reduced with the help of BI 1015550.
Human Pharma
In 2022, the Human Pharma business and R&D contributed to our purpose to transform lives More than 50 new
for generations. We achieved important milestones in the pipeline and launches to new indi- active substances in
cations within different disease areas such as cardiometabolic diseases, oncology, respiratory our Human Pharma
diseases, immunology, and diseases of the central nervous system (CNS). portfolio
In 2022, the Human Pharma portfolio included overall around 90 clinical and preclinical projects
based on more than 50 new molecules.18
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Development pipeline end of 2022
Cardiometabolic diseases Phase
GLP-1/FGF21 agonist * Phase I
> Heart disease modulator * Phase I
> BI 764198 *
TRPC6 Inhibitor | FSGS Phase II
> BI 456906 *
GLP1/GCGR agonist | NASH Phase II
BI 456906 *
GLP1/GCGR agonist | Obesity Phase II
> BI 685509
sGC activator | CSPH Phase II
> Empagliflozin + BI 690517
SGLT2 inhibitor + Aldosterone synthase inhibtor | CKD Phase II
Empagliflozin / New indication **
SGLT2 inhibitor | Post MI Phase III
> Empagliflozin / New indication
SGLT2 inhibitor | CKD Registration
Oncology Phase
B7-H6/CD3 T-cell engager * Phase I
DLL3/CD3 T-cell engager * Phase I
CD137/FAP agonist * Phase I
Ezabenlimab (PD-1 antibody)† Phase I
HER2 TKI Phase I
KISIMA® cancer vaccine * Phase I
KRAS (G12C) inhibitor * Phase I
MDM2-p53-antagonist * Phase I
> VSV-GP * Phase I
> Heterologous prime boost vaccine * Phase I
SIRPα-antagonist * Phase I
pan KRAS SOS1 inhibitor *† Phase I
TRAILR2/CDH17-antibody Phase I
> BI 907828 MDM2-p53-antagonist * | DDLPS Phase II
Respiratory diseases Phase
> Ion channel inhibitor Phase I
> Lysophospholipase inhibitor Phase I
> BI 1291583 *
CatC inhibitor | nCFB Phase II
> BI 1015550
PDE4B inhibitor | PPF Phase II
> BI 1015550
PDE4B inhibitor | IPF Phase III19
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
Development pipeline end of 2022 (continued)
Immunology Phase
PD-1 antibody Phase I
> BI 706321
Kinase inhibitor | CD Phase II
Spesolimab
IL36R antibody | HS Phase II
> Spesolimab
IL36R antibody | GPP flare prevention Phase II
> Spesolimab ***
IL36R antibody | GPP flare treatment Registration
Central nervous system diseases Phase
Phosphodiesterase inhibitor * Phase I
> Digital therapeutic * Phase I
NMDA regulator Phase I
BI 1358894 *
MDD Phase II
BI 1358894
BPD Phase II
> BI 1358894 *
PTSD Phase II
Iclepertin
GlyT1 inhibitor | CIAS Phase III
Retinal diseases Phase
> Phospholipid modulator Phase I
> Vascular modulator Phase I
> BI 765128
Ischemia modulator | DMI Phase II
BI 764524
Sema3A antibody | DMI Phase II
† Being investigated only in combination with other therapies
> Key Pipeline Advances
Breakthrough Therapy Designation granted by the US Food and Drug Administration in 2022
* Partnered projects or acquired assets
** Prevention of HF post MI
*** Approved in the US, Europe, China, and Japan for the treatment of generalized pustular psoriasis (GPP) flares in adults.
Indication abbreviations:
BPD Borderline personality disorder DDLPS Dedifferentiated liposarcoma IPF Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
CD Crohn’s disease DMI Diabetic macular ischemia MDD Major depressive disorder
CIAS C ognitive impairment associated FSGS F ocal segmental glomerulo- MI Myocardial infarction
with schizophrenia sclerosis NASH N on-alcoholic steatohepatitis
CKD Chronic kidney disease GPP Generalized pustular psoriasis nCFB Non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis
COPD C hronic obstructive pulmonary HF Heart failure PPF Progressive pulmonary fibrosis
disease HS Hidradentis suppurtiva PTSD Post-traumatic stress disorder
CSPH Clinically significant portal
hypertension20
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Cardiometabolic diseases
The year 2022 began with an indication extension for empagliflozin in adults suffering from
heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. The EMA and US FDA approvals were based on the
first clinically proven benefit in patients with symptomatic chronic heart failure including those
with preserved ejection fraction.
In addition, in 2022, the phase III EMPA-KIDNEY study was stopped early due to the positive
efficacy of empagliflozin in adults with chronic kidney disease. The results of the study, present-
ed at the ASN congress, showed superior benefits of empagliflozin in patients with chronic
kidney disease (CKD) versus placebo. Submission for marketing authorization for this new em-
pagliflozin indication in CKD with regulators took place in core markets and is planned world-
wide.
Moreover, results from the DINAMO trial were presented at the IDF congress and showed that
empagliflozin is the first SGLT2 inhibitor to show a statistically significant reduction in blood
sugar levels in children and adolescents with type 2 diabetes.
In 2022, we completed the phase ll trial of the glucagon receptor /GLP-1 receptor dual agonist
BI 456906 in people with obesity. BI 456906 is also being investigated in another phase ll trial
in people with NASH and liver fibrosis (F1-F3). The aldosterone synthase inhibitor BI 690517 is
investigated in a phase ll trial alone or in combination with empagliflozin in people with chron-
ic kidney disease with and without type 2 diabetes. BI 690517 has received Fast Track Designa-
tion from the US FDA in October 2022.
Oncology
In Oncology, our aspiration is to improve the lives of people with cancer by delivering meaningful
advances with the ultimate goal to significantly and sustainably improve life expectancy in a num-
ber of types of cancer in the long term. We have a robust pipeline of homegrown and licensed/
partnered clinical assets with a diverse range of mode of actions, including cancer cell-directed
and immuno-oncology investigational therapies. The smart combination of these approaches
may offer the greatest benefit for people living with cancer.
In 2022, we have started two pivotal phase ll/lll trials with the MDM2-p53 antagonist BI 907828.
The so-called Brightline-1 trial investigates BI 907828 compared to doxorubicin as a first-line
treatment for people with advanced dedifferentiated liposarcoma – a rare and aggressive form of
liposarcoma. The US FDA has granted Orphan Drug Designation to BI 907828 for the treatment
of soft tissue sarcoma. In Brightline-2 we are investigating the drug as second-line treatment and
beyond, for people with a specific form of biliary tract carcinomas or pancreatic cancer.
Respiratory diseases
Another focus for Boehringer Ingelheim is the R&D of new therapeutic options for people with
respiratory diseases where there is high unmet need. Since 2014, OFEV® (nintedanib) has been
a treatment option for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) to slow down the decline in lung
function.
OFEV® now is approved as a treatment for IPF in 89 countries, for SSc-ILD (systemic sclero-
sis-associated interstitial lung disease) in 85 countries, and for PF-ILD (progressive fibrosing
interstitial lung disease) in 83 countries. In 2022, we published results from the InPedILD™ trial,21
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
investigating the dosing and safety profile of nintedanib in children and adolescents. Based on
these findings, regulatory applications were submitted to the European Medicines Agency and
will be followed by a submission to the US FDA. If accepted, nintedanib would become the first
approved treatment for pediatric patients with fibrosing interstitial lung disease, addressing a
high unmet need for this underserved patient population.
Despite these advances in therapy, new treatments are urgently needed to complement existing
therapies and to help stop, rather than slow, disease progression.
In 2022, the company reported promising 12-week phase II trial data with BI 1015550, a novel
investigational phosphodiesterase 4B (PDE4B) inhibitor, which showed a reduction in the rate
of lung function decline in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). The potential new
treatment builds on our leadership in lung fibrosis and BI 1015550 will be further investigated
in two phase III pivotal clinical trials initiated in 2022: FIBRONEER™-IPF in patients with idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis and FIBRONEER™-ILD in people living with other progressive fibrosing inter-
stitial lung diseases.
Immunology
Immunological diseases greatly impact patients’ lives both physically and psychologically.
Boehringer Ingelheim is dedicated to discovering and developing first-of-their-kind therapies
for these serious inflammatory diseases.
With a deep understanding of molecular pathways, we are pioneering scientific breakthroughs
that target, repair, and prevent inflammatory diseases of the skin, gut, and joints. Spesolimab,
marketed as SPEVIGO®, is the most advanced immunological compound out of the current
Boehringer Ingelheim pipeline and just received approvals in major markets for treatment of GPP
flares in adults. In 2022, we received marketing authorization with the US FDA, EMA, China and
Japanese authorities. The approvals are based on positive phase II data from our EFFISAYIL 1 trial.
Central nervous system diseases
Boehringer Ingelheim is evolving mental health research to enable people to thrive so that
people with mental health conditions and their carers benefit from a treatment experience that
provides more predictable outcomes. Within our approach, we link behavior to the underlying
neurobiology to develop targeted therapies. Through innovative approaches and digital
therapeutics, we strive to enable people with mental health conditions to create more mean-
ingful connections to their lives, loved ones, and society.
One example of this approach is BI 1358894 that we currently further investigate in clinical
phase II trials in people living with borderline personality disorder, post-traumatic stress disor-
der, and major depressive disorder. In 2022, BI 1358894 received fast-track-designation by the
US FDA for post-traumatic stress disorder in addition to borderline personality disorder in 2020,
and we have completed the phase ll trial of the compound in this indication in January 2023.22
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Animal Health
In line with the above-mentioned goal of operating in areas of high medical need, we also con-
centrate in Animal Health on the discovery and development of highly innovative treatments
and preventive therapies. Among other things, this includes therapeutics for oncology and im-
munology, new chemical entities, and new methods of control to counter resistance in parasites,
as well as new tools and technologies to improve the prevention of infectious diseases. The
current portfolio includes innovative vaccines and parasiticides for the protection of pets and
livestock as well as pharmaceutical products for the treatment of chronic diseases. Our research
increasingly incorporates new approaches and technologies such as the use of stem cells and
monoclonal antibodies.
Our innovation strategy is built on a scientific approach to the investigation of the causes and
mechanisms of diseases across multiple animal species, leading to the discovery of new ways
to mitigate those causes or intervene in the disease process. Our three focus areas in R&D are
infectious disease, noninfectious disease, and parasiticides. In our work we also use experience
from Human Pharma research as well as from external partners in areas outside Animal Health.
Our 17 R&D sites are organized into six regional innovation centers located in the USA, Europe,
and China. This ensures the concentration of critical mass and expertise needed to deliver
therapies to customers in our key geographies. Designated sites within each region serve as a
focus for specific segments of our overall strategy. Our footprint strengthens local execution and
facilitates regional external networks and partnerships.
Synergies through A key advantage for Boehringer Ingelheim is that we retain both Human Pharma and Animal
collaboration of Health divisions. Our teams in Human Pharma and Animal Health work together to share knowl-
Human Pharma and edge about specific disease mechanisms, chemistry, compounds, cutting edge techniques, and
Animal Health more. In previous years, we successfully introduced products such as ASERVO® EQUIHALER®
and SEMINTRA® that resulted from the synergies between our Human Pharma and Animal
Health teams. With additional promising compounds in our pipeline, we expect further innova-
tion through this connection, particularly in the area of therapeutics.
External collaborations also play a key role. In 2022, we initiated new strategic partnerships,
including a partnership with CarthroniX, a biopharmaceutical company focused on developing
small molecule-based therapies for degenerative and aging-related diseases. The collaboration
will focus on identifying new molecules to target cancers in dogs. Boehringer Ingelheim will test
a select group of small molecules provided by CarthroniX with the goal of determining their
impact on canine cancers. We also entered a partnership with MabGenesis Inc., a private bio-
pharmaceutical company headquartered in Yokohama, Japan. This collaboration aims to discover
innovative canine therapeutic antibodies, using MabGenesis Inc.’s platform technologies.
Furthermore, we continue to work with key research institutions around the globe to develop
new solutions to unmet medical needs: for example, our efforts to develop more effective
approaches to prevent African Swine Fever, which continues to cause massive losses in pig
populations, have led to partnerships with the Friedrich-Loeffler-Institut, the Pirbright Institute,
and Oxford University, among others.
In 2022, we initiated more than 630 research, development, and clinical studies worldwide
and were awarded more than 180 product registrations. Key new approvals in 2022 include
RENUTENDTM in Europe, a new stem cell therapy to improve the healing of tendon and suspen-
sory ligament injuries in horses, and VETMEDIN®-CA1 in the USA, which received conditional
approval under a new FDA procedure as the first drug to delay onset of canine congestive heart
failure in dogs with preclinical myxomatous mitral valve disease. In Europe and some countries23
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
in the Middle East, we received approval for FENCOVIS®, a new vaccine to prevent calf diarrhea.
FENCOVIS® provides passive immunity to calves through maternal colostrum. Obtaining
approvals for new products and new areas of application as well as expanding the geographic
scope, our sales activities for existing products are additional important aspects of our R&D
activities.
Production
Human Pharma
In the Human Pharma business, our globally active production facilities are responsible for the
steady supply of top-quality medicines for patients. The ongoing development of the company’s
internal production facilities and our strategic cooperation with external manufacturers have
established a modern, flexible market supply network that encompasses the entire value chain –
from suppliers of starting materials to worldwide logistics and the distribution of finished phar-
maceutical products. Boehringer Ingelheim’s production facilities focus on products that are
strategically important for the company as well as on state-of-the-art manufacturing technolo-
gies. At the same time, partnerships with external manufacturers add specialist technologies to
our production network that are not available in-house. They also expand the production capac-
ity of standard technologies for products that have very high capacity requirements or that have
reached an advanced point in their life cycle.
In the 2022 financial year, this global network included Boehringer Ingelheim’s own plants in
nine countries. The Group has four biopharmaceuticals facilities. It also has two facilities for the
manufacture of pharmaceutically active substances and one that produces medical devices.
Finished pharmaceutical products are manufactured and packaged at eight facilities. In the past
year, which again presented particular logistical challenges due to the ongoing effects of the
COVID-19 pandemic and the effects of the Russia-Ukraine war, Boehringer Ingelheim was again
able to ensure a steady supply of medicines for patients. Alongside the use of appropriate safe-
ty stocks, this was possible thanks to the establishment of key manufacturing steps and tech-
nologies at multiple facilities that are in different geographical regions in some cases and by
further strengthening the resilience concept for every link in the supply chain. A significant
contribution to the further development of supply security was the progress in the digital trans-
formation of the production network and the entire supply chain in 2022. The control of the
value chain from the supplier to the customer (“end-to-end”) has been optimized through great-
er implementation of the supply chain strategy. The use of digital and automated processes and
technologies enables a high level of transparency and efficient control of the global production
network’s supply chain.24
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Production facilities
11
13
18 10 14
12
21
15
20
16 19
22
17 27
7 9 6 24
23
8 25
3 4 5
26
AH Animal Health
2
HP Human Pharma
1
Bio B iopharmaceutical
Contract Manufacturing
Americas Europe Asia
Brazil Belgium Greece China
1. Itapecerica (HP) 10. Evergem (AH) 17. Koropi (HP) 23. Nanchang (AH)
2. Paulínia (AH) 24. Shanghai (HP, Bio)
Denmark Great Britain
25. Taizhou (AH)
Mexico 11. Kalundborg (AH) 18. Pirbright (AH)
3. Guadalajara (AH) Indonesia
Germany Italy
4. Xochimilco (AH, HP) 26. Bogor (HP)
12. Biberach (Bio) 19. Fornovo (HP)
Puerto Rico 13. Dortmund (HP) 20. Noventa (AH) Japan
5. Barceloneta (AH) 14. Ingelheim am Rhein (HP) 27. Yamagata (HP)
Austria
USA France 21. Vienna (Bio)
6. Athens, Georgia (AH) 15. Grand Lyon Industrial
Spain
7. Fremont, California (Bio) Biologic Center* (AH)
22. Sant Cugat (HP)
8. Gainesville, Georgia (AH) 16. Toulouse (AH)
9. St. Joseph, Missouri (AH)
* composed of the three sites Lyon Porte-des-Alpes, Lentilly, Jonage25
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
Delivery capability and patient care are top priorities for Boehringer Ingelheim. The company
consistently makes important investments in the development and transformation of produc-
tion capacities in our chemical and pharmaceutical network. At its Ingelheim am Rhein head-
quarters, a key investment in a flexible plant for the industrialization of newly developed inno-
vative medicines and their initial market supply was fully executed. Expansion of production
technologies and capacities for active pharmaceutical substances at the Ingelheim am Rhein
(Germany) and Fornovo (Italy) sites and for pharmaceutical bulk goods and finished medicinal
products at the Sant Cugat (Spain) and Koropi (Greece) sites were initiated or pushed forward in
a sustained manner to ensure the supply of antidiabetics (in particular JARDIANCE®) as well as
pipeline products. The operational activation of our biopharmaceuticals large-scale cell culture
production building at our Vienna facility represented a milestone in the expansion of our
capacities in our network for newly developed products as well as a strengthening of the bio-
pharmaceutical business.
The global quality vision “Quality & safety in all we do” was successfully implemented with the
help of the “Global Quality Transformation” program. In this transformation – which was de-
signed to last 2 years – quality processes and systems were strengthened and prepared for future
requirements, and quality was manifested as a competitive advantage. An important contribu-
tion to the cultural transformation was the rollout of a more highly developed “Quality Culture
2.0”, in which the patient is the focus of our actions and every employee actively contributes.
Animal Health 15
In 2022, Animal Health products were manufactured in a network of 15 production facilities in
nine countries. In addition to the company’s own facilities, in 2022, around 75 contract manu-
facturers manufactured medicines for Boehringer Ingelheim. The product portfolio essentially Animal Health
consists of vaccines, pharmaceutical products, and nutraceuticals, and was successfully expanded production facilities
with the launch of the innovative packaging technology TwistPAK®. These chemical medicines in nine countries
and vaccines are supplemented with stem cell therapeutics and diagnostic products as well as
monitoring solutions, which include digital applications that are used for livestock monitoring
or that link livestock owners with veterinarians.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s investments, inter alia, to expand capacities for the top-selling product
group NEXGARD® at the Barceloneta (Puerto Rico) site and in the manufacturing capacities in
Jonage/Lyon (France), were continued, which include the construction of a modern plant for
vaccines with the highest biological safety standards. The production network optimization that
has already begun will be further advanced. The objective is the reliable and efficient delivery
of all products.
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing
Boehringer Ingelheim performs its biopharmaceutical activities at its facilities in Biberach One of the leading
( Germany), Vienna (Austria), Fremont (California, USA), and Shanghai (China). These comprise Biopharma provid-
the manufacture of own-brand marketable products (such as ACTILYSE®, METALYSE®, ers for industrial
PRAXBIND®, and SPEVIGO®), and of biopharmaceuticals for clinical testing. Boehringer Ingel- customers
heim is also one of the world’s leading companies in process development, launch preparation,
and commercial production of biopharmaceuticals for third-party industrial customers. Twelve
of the top 20 pharmaceutical companies and innovative biotech firms are clients of our Bio-
pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing business. Boehringer Ingelheim covers the entire bio-
pharmaceutical value chain in this regard, from development of the production cell (mammalian
cells as well as microorganisms) and the production process to the manufacture of the active
substance and the finished pharmaceutical product to product launch and global market supply.26
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Capacity utilization of the network’s industrial-scale production facilities remained at a very
high level in 2022. The maximum production volume of ACTILYSE® was reached at the Bibe-
rach site. An in-house process transfer to the new large-scale cell culture facility in Vienna was
carried out for an established market product. In the future, this product will be manufactured
in parallel at two Boehringer Ingelheim sites. In this way, we can optimally use the advantages
of the global biopharmaceutical production network to ensure a reliable connection to patients.
Furthermore, the Boehringer Ingelheim IL36R monoclonal antibody spesolimab under the trade
name SPEVIGO® was successfully launched from the Biberach site in September. We have built
a balanced late-stage and commercial product portfolio at our microbial production facility in
Vienna. Despite the challenging external situation associated with COVID-19, our cell culture
plants in Biberach, Shanghai, and Fremont and our microbial production in Vienna continued to
manufacture and deliver biopharmaceuticals very reliably for patients worldwide.
Employee reporting
In 2022, Boehringer Ingelheim employed 53,155 people on average worldwide. This represents
an increase of + 1.5 % over the previous year.
Average number of employees by region
2022 2021
Americas 13,248 13,187
Europe 29,221 28,266
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 10,686 10,938
53,155 52,391
Our committed employees – who identify with our company’s aims and find the work atmos-
phere at Boehringer Ingelheim to be positive and appreciative – are a major success factor driv-
ing our Group’s positive growth. With their high level of personal commitment every day, they
help us to fulfill our joint promise of ensuring the supply of vital medicines. Our annual global
employee survey provides us with relevant feedback that enables us to continuously improve
our work environment.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s success is based on innovation as well as its presence in 80 countries.
The global nature of our value chain, the international nature of our clientele, and the stringent
and wide-ranging requirements of national regulators demand great flexibility of our organiza-
tion as a whole. We are convinced that relationships based on trust as well as mutual openness,
respect, and empathy are values that make us strong and competitive. Diversity of thought and
a spirit of inclusion in our relationships with one another promote a capacity for innovation in
every area of our business.
At Boehringer Ingelheim, we are convinced that the future holds unique opportunities for more
innovation, more sustainability, and better health. Our company-wide purpose “Transforming
lives for generations” is an expression of our ambition to create a better future for upcoming
generations and unites us all. In order to optimally equip our employees for the future require-
ments of the constantly changing health and labor market, we have made lifelong learning and27
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
further development of our personnel a priority in our corporate strategy. In addition to access
to external offers for all employees worldwide such as LinkedIn Learning and the online lan-
guage provider goFluent, the company established business-area and topic-specific academies
early on with the objective of building up the required skills internally and in a focused manner.
Examples of this are the Data Science Academy that opened in November 2021 and the Univer-
sity of Medicine Excellence that was founded in July 2021.
In the Data Science Academy, various target groups – from beginners to data experts – can find
tailor-made learning opportunities on the use of data and analyses for their respective areas of
responsibility. In 2022, more than 3,000 employees were trained internally in the field of data
and data science. Almost 1,000 employees from various medical disciplines took part in the
University of Medicine Excellence’s three-month inaugural program “Accelerate” in 2022. The
program was developed and rolled out with the renowned Harvard Medical School.
Another important cornerstone for developing the specialists of tomorrow is our training pro-
grams: with 32 different scientific, technical, and commercial training courses and cooperative
study programs, our company offers young people an opportunity to get started in their profes-
sional lives. An average of 760 young people worldwide were enrolled in Boehringer Ingelheim’s
vocational training program in 2022. A total of 215 young people started at the German loca-
tions of Boehringer Ingelheim alone. The selection of training and cooperative study programs
is closely coordinated with our disciplines to ensure that the curricula and training programs
meet our needs.
One of the company’s most important objectives is to strengthen the appeal of Boehringer Boehringer
Ingel heim as an employer. In addition to attractive career paths, Boehringer Ingelheim offers I ngelheim
additional benefits for the workforce. These include a range of company pension plans, flexible r ecognized as
and home-based work options, and numerous health-related benefits. In 2022, our company “Global Top
once again won recognition as a top employer from the auditors of the international and inde- Employer”
pendent Top Employers Institute. The Institute rated our company particularly well globally in
the areas of “business strategy”, “values”, and “ethics & integrity”. Boehringer Ingelheim was
placed above all other competitors in the overall average, especially in the area of “Rewards &
Recognition”. In addition, the independent Institute has also highlighted the areas of “Diversity
& Inclusion”, “Onboarding”, “Sustainable Development”, and “Agile Working Methods”, as this
is where they have seen the most growth in the last three years.
The award in 29 key countries and three regions once again makes us the “Global Top Employ-
er” – only 11 employers worldwide hold this title. In addition to Germany, Boehringer Ingelheim
was also awarded in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Ecuador,
France, Great Britain, Hungary, Indonesia, Italy, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zea-
land, the Philippines, Poland, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea, Spain,
Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, and Vietnam.28
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Sustainable Development — For Generations
Sustainable Sustainability has been firmly anchored in our corporate philosophy since Boehringer Ingel-
D evelopment as heim’s founding in 1885. Our understanding and awareness of sustainability has developed over
part of our strategy the generations and continues to influence our decision-making and actions. With our focus on
human and animal health, Boehringer Ingelheim is well positioned to address interconnected
sustainable development challenges and subsequently provide a relevant contribution to a
healthier and more sustainable future. Our sustainability strategy, entitled “Sustainable Devel-
opment – For Generations” is based on the following three pillars:
MORE HEALTH – Good Health for People & Animals
MORE POTENTIAL – Good Health for Communities & Our People
MORE GREEN – Good Health for Our Planet
Through these pillars, Boehringer Ingelheim implements 20 initiatives around the globe to drive
the company’s contributions and impact. These are in alignment with the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals.
By 2030 (base year 2021), we aim to achieve the following concrete measurable goals:
MORE HEALTH: expanding access to healthcare for an additional 50 million people in vulnera-
ble communities, investing 35 billion EUR in health innovation and research to tackle non-
communicable diseases and an additional 250 million EUR in partnerships to combat emerging
infectious diseases.
MORE POTENTIAL: our aim is to positively impact 50 million people in vulnerable communities
by empowering and supporting our employees, partners, and innovative social entrepreneurs.
MORE GREEN: we will become carbon-neutral in our company operations by 2030 (Scope 1 and
2). We will also significantly reduce the resource footprint across the value chain in the same
period, despite our growing business activities.
MORE HEALTH — Good Health for People & Animals
MORE HEALTH MORE HEALTH follows our ambition to develop better therapies and enable better solutions for
Focus on the global healthcare challenges. The pillar includes a number of projects and initiatives, reflecting
health of people the diversity of our patients and the expertise of our partners. These include:
and animals
Access to Healthcare
The “Access to Healthcare” initiatives seek to improve healthcare in vulnerable communities,
from disease awareness, diagnosis, effective prevention, and care up to the availability of
medicines. We have achieved several milestones in 2022, including:
• Expanding access to healthcare in less developed regions through the UN Defeat-NCD Part-
nership, a public-private-people partnership that envisions universal health coverage for
non-communicable diseases (NCDs). Boehringer Ingelheim joined the Defeat-NCD Partner-
ship in 2019 and is currently collaborating around four interconnected pillars: National NCD
capacity building, community scale-up of NCD Services, affordability and accessibility of
essential NCD supplies, and financing for country-level NCD programming. The first coun-
tries in focus are India, Gambia, Rwanda, and Djibouti. During the World Health Summit in
October 2022, Boehringer Ingelheim and other partners discussed progress in improved care
for patients with NCDs in collaboration with the partnership.29
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
• Access to Healthcare Initiative, offers a comprehensive program to patients (from screening
to follow-up). In 2022, the program started in Kenya with screening and referral for chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) followed by patients’ enrollment to access SPIRIVA®
at a tiered price to achieve equitable access and support adherence for patients with low
income.
• The PATHWAYS Indigenous Health Collaborations project in Canada aims to impact the
lives of over 20,000 members of indigenous communities until 2025, addressing the high
prevalence of certain non-communicable diseases (NCD) in these communities. The pro-
gram was established in 2017, is indigenous-led and indigenous-informed, and has the vi-
sion to close the health gap experienced by indigenous communities, while focusing on
relationship building and a positive, sustainable future for all partners. Currently, four pilot
projects are underway in British Columbia, Alberta, Manitoba, and Nova Scotia, each tai-
lored to the individual needs of the respective communities. Similarly, various initiatives,
in collaboration with healthcare professionals, patient advocacy groups, and the national
Pharmaceutical Management Agency, assist indigenous communities in New Zealand with
more equitable access to new type 2 diabetes (T2D) medication.
• In 2022, we collaborated with experts, NGOs, and the Global Alliance for Rabies Control
(GARC) to set up a pilot for a mass vaccination programs for dogs. The intent is to design
new models to scale up rabies elimination sustainably. The effort aims at fighting rabies in
vulnerable communities in endemic countries through controlling rabies in animals, and
thereby helping to reduce the human death toll of the disease. A “STOP Rabies” piloting
initiative had been launched in South Africa in 2021. In an effort to enable sustainable dog
vaccination campaigns for vulnerable communities, Boehringer Ingelheim has vaccinated
over 5,000 dogs through a collaboration with the Khula Outreach program in South Africa,
which partners with the local government, to tackle rabies.
Angels
The Angels Initiative aims to improve stroke care worldwide. In 2022, an additional 1,000 clin-
ics, and around 27,000 doctors, nurses, and paramedics joined the network. The Angels Initia-
tive is now the biggest stroke community in the world and includes over 107,000 healthcare
professionals and 7,300 hospitals in 147 countries. This helped to ensure that an estimated
10 million patients were treated in line with defined standards.
Product donations
Product donations are aimed at complementing Boehringer Ingelheim’s access to healthcare
efforts, by providing medicines to vulnerable communities, who otherwise would not have
access. These product donations have reached over 105,000 patients in 34 countries world-
wide in 2022. This also includes product donations of over 11 million EUR for patients in the
Ukraine in 2022.
LastMile
The “LastMile” initiative, launched in 2018 and stretching across sub-Saharan Africa, has
reached over 40,000 smallholder farmers in Kenya, Cameroon, Nigeria, Mali, Burkina Faso, and
Ethiopia and enabled 56 product registrations. The initiative aims to train smallholder farmers
in vulnerable communities on the prevention of animal diseases and leveraging access to
healthcare solutions, vaccines, and treatments to optimize the health and productivity of their
livestock.30
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
MORE POTENTIAL — Good Health for Communities and Our People
MORE POTENTIAL MORE POTENTIAL is focused on providing health as well as the best possible conditions for
Focus on people and our people at Boehringer Ingelheim, in our communities, and at our partners to reach their full
communities potential.
BE SAFE
Through our “BE SAFE” program, which was established in 2010, we place a particular emphasis
on the importance of ensuring a safe workplace for our employees and partners. We continu-
ously review and optimize our work and safety culture through a global network of safety ex-
perts, striving to maintain our employees’ good health by preventing incidents, accidents, and
occupational health risks. This is communicated regularly internally with management, col-
leagues, partners, and in our communities on a global level. The ambition is to successfully
transform our organization from one driven by the enforcement of rules to creating a corporate
culture where safety is embedded as creating value for our people. To further bring about this
safety culture mindset, the “High Five for Safety” initiative was created, which addresses the
most frequent safety concerns, as well as offering support for all employees to stay safe, lead by
example, and encourage others to do the same in our daily work life.
Furthermore, Boehringer Ingelheim became an official partner of the EUO SHA “Healthy Work-
places Lighten the Load” campaign to prevent work related musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs)
in 2021, which continued in 2022.
BE HEALTHY
The “BE HEALTHY” program was established in 2022 to better support our employees with
additional knowledge, tools, and resources to maintain, and if necessary, improve health and
wellbeing at the workplace. The program has defined a set of global health and wellbeing stan-
dards and implemented an international network of “health and wellbeing ambassadors”
(Health Navigators), to foster a healthy company culture and promote a stronger awareness for
physical and mental health and healthy habits.
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI)
Through our core values of empathy, respect, passion, and trust, we foster a diverse, collabora-
tive, open, and inclusive work environment, which is key for innovation, value creation, and
sustainable growth. Boehringer Ingelheim is convinced that valuing diversity and fostering an
inclusive environment is not only the right thing to do for our people and communities, but
also the smart thing to do for our business, since it helps us to better understand and fulfill the
different needs of our patients, customers, and partners around the globe.
Organizationally, we enable our aim of an open, collaborative, and inclusive culture through a
Corporate DEI office, over 20 DEI Champions around the globe, representing different countries
and regions in the Global Culture and DEI Council. Boehringer Ingelheim also promotes social
wellbeing by encouraging Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) and networking. The company has
over 40 ERGs or networks that are voluntarily formed and leadership sponsored. In 2022, the
ERG Women in Tech was founded. Its 250 members aim to connect and empower women work-
ing in technology at Boehringer Ingelheim.31
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
Furthermore, the company enables employees to raise their voice in case of any potential
non-compliance through the “Speak Up” procedure and pursues the mediation of biases and
inequities within systems, processes, and practices. Boehringer Ingelheim continues to train
leaders and employees on unconscious bias and inclusive behaviors with over 10,000 e-Trainings
completed since December 2019, a Masterclass program and the integration of DEI into
employee onboarding and leadership development programs. In 2022, e-Trainings were held for
the first time in 12 languages in addition to German and English.
Human Rights
Boehringer Ingelheim is continuously stepping up efforts in the areas of human rights and
ethics. Our approach is aligned with the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and
Human Rights. Human Rights are embedded in our company culture, underlined in our Human
Rights and our Environmental, Health, Safety, and Sustainability policies. Human Rights are
integrated in our business through our Code of Conduct, our Supplier Code of Conduct, and our
Environmental, Health, Safety (EHS) Compliance program. In 2022 and continuing in 2023, we
are focused on the implementation of all components required by the forthcoming German
Supply Chain Due Diligence law, which goes into effect in January 2023.
Making More Health
In 2010, Boehringer Ingelheim and Ashoka, the world’s largest network of social entrepreneurs,
jointly established the “Making More Health” (MMH) initiative. This long-term partnership
focuses on enabling innovative solutions to tackle complex healthcare challenges for people,
animals, and their communities. This approach links interdependent issues such as economic
development, infrastructure, education, culture, and healthcare issues. It emphasizes collabo-
ration with communities as equal partners and engages Boehringer Ingelheim employees to
share their knowledge and skills. MMH’s individual initiatives form a holistic continuum that
generates impact at various levels, from supporting vulnerable communities to financing social
enterprises. Highlights include:
• Social innovation: To date, over 120 social entrepreneurs worldwide working in the areas of
human and animal health have been supported.
• Community activation: Since 2014, programs have been established in India and sub-
Saharan Africa that have proven to be groundbreaking and already reached more than
364,000 people, of which over 180,000 were reached in 2022 alone. This includes clean
water and hygiene projects, implementing innovative farming models, and providing animal
health and business skills training courses, as well as inclusion programs for marginalized
community groups, such as people with albinism.
• Support of Social Businesses: We have supported 18 social enterprises through the Making
More Health Business Accelerator program, five of these joined the program in 2022. In
cooperation with our partner Villgro Afrika, five more social enterprises with a focus on
animal health were accepted in 2022 as part of a new incubation program “Rising Stars”.
These programs assist social start-ups in sub-Saharan Africa with financial means and
management skills through employee engagement to accelerate, scale-up, and sustain their
business model.32
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
The “Making More Health Together 2022” convention, a two-day hybrid event in Ingelheim
(Germany) and Nairobi (Kenya), brought together over 600 participants from industry, govern-
ment, civil society, academia, social entrepreneurship, and impact financing to connect, collab-
orate, and innovate towards achieving sustainable solutions for pressing healthcare issues.
Making More Health Together focuses on social entrepreneurship and innovative approaches to
solving health-related challenges.
Boehringer Ingelheim social engagement
The impact engagement fund leverages innovative financing tools beyond grant funding and
donations with the intention to continue to support and amplify social impact by sustaining and
scaling-up social businesses in sub-Saharan Africa. The aim is to create a portfolio of comple-
mentary social businesses, to address healthcare challenges. In 2022, Cowtribe Inc., a leading
LastMile veterinary delivery company from Ghana, was announced as the first investment recip-
ient. Cowtribe supports farmers in remote regions of Ghana by ensuring the supply of essential
vaccines for animals. The investment is intended to reach significantly more than the 7,000
farmers and their animals already supported.
MORE GREEN — Health for Our Planet
MORE GREEN A healthy planet is a prerequisite for healthy people, animals, and communities. Environmental
Focus on the challenges should not be seen in isolation, as they are interconnected with and have tangible
e nvironment effects on the health of entire societies. Subsequently, the sustainable use of natural resources,
applying “eco-design” and “green chemistry” concepts, and the promotion of a strong environ-
mental awareness are key components of our environmental sustainability program in order to
help protect the health of current and future generations and safeguard their prospects for a
healthy future.
The MORE GREEN Fund supports internal projects in the areas of circular economy, decarbon-
ization, and water management, and has already provided funding for 48 new environmental
projects worldwide since 2020. Boehringer Ingelheim pays particular attention to environmental
sustainability aspects in major projects and has set aside an additional 130 million EUR for this
purpose.
In 2021, Boehringer Ingelheim was the first pharmaceutical company in the EU to receive
the “GreenCanteen” certification for the sustainable catering concept at the Ingelheim head-
quarters. Building on this, our Dortmund site was certified in 2022. Currently, a total of five
corporate canteens have received this certification in Germany, two of which belong to
Boehringer Ingelheim.
Carbon footprint
We are continuously working on reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, having committed to
becoming carbon neutral in our company operations (Scope 1 and 2) by 2030, using 100 % re-
newable electricity and continuing to make substantial investments in sustainable technology.
One of the tools used in this process is the introduction of an internal carbon price of 100 EUR
per ton to create an additional economic incentive for green innovation Examples of our activ-
ities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in 2022 include:33
Group Management Report — Information about the Group
• The new certification of carbon neutrality for our sites at Kathrinenhof-Rohrdorf (Germany),
Gainesville (Georgia, USA) and Shanghai (China), to now total five sites in addition to Dort-
mund (Germany) and Sant Cugat (Spain).
• The transition to renewable electricity solutions at numerous locations, including sites in
Austria, Germany, Spain, and the USA. Since the year 2020, the company’s share of renewa-
ble electricity purchased worldwide has increased from 30 % to over 60 % in 2022.
• The construction of a new solar plant at our headquarters in Ingelheim which is nearing
completion.
• Initiation of a supplier collaboration program with 100 key suppliers, with the intention to
reduce CO emissions in the value chain (Scope 3). Performance is measured via a digital
2
platform.
• The continued partnership with ClimateSeed, through which we support reforestation
projects in Africa, Canada, China, India, Indonesia, and Germany, that are offseting unavoid-
able carbon emissions while also strengthening biodiversity and protecting drinking water.
Resource use
Circular economy aspects are implemented in stages of the value chain to minimize waste and
to apply eco -design and green chemistry concepts in new products. Through continuous opti-
mization measures, we have reduced our annual volume of waste to landfills and resource use,
while increasing our recycling and reuse rates since 2010, thus optimizing the environmental
footprint of future Boehringer Ingelheim products.
Specifically, by integrating criteria for sustainability into the design of our products during the
R&D phase of the product life-cycle, our Innovation Unit (IU) is working towards further reduc-
ing the environmental footprint of our medicines. This approach utilizes principles of eco-design
and green chemistry across the global R&D organization, starting from the synthesis of drug
substances to the packaged products. In 2022, we achieved several milestones, including:
• Establishing the IU MORE GREEN Grant program, aiming at accelerating sustainable science,
technology and innovation through academic collaboration and creating new options for
eco-design. We have already launched the first research challenge with our open innovation
platform openMe.
• The launch of the IU MORE GREEN Award, to recognize outstanding implementation of
green chemistry, green engineering, and eco-design concepts, as well as demonstrating
compelling environmental, health and safety, and efficiency improvements. The first winning
team was awarded at IUCon2022.
• The conception of an Eco-Design Playbook, to better evaluate and implement eco-design
and green chemistry criteria during pharmaceutical development.
Water Stewardship
Access to clean water has a major impact on social and cultural justice, environmental sustain-
ability, and the local economy. For this reason, Boehringer Ingelheim implements programs re-
lated to water and related risks at all production sites. Sites in established water scarcity areas
implement the “Water Stewardship” program of the “Alliance for Water Stewardship” (AWS). In
2022, our production site in Fremont (California, USA) received AWS certification, the second
site to do so, following the AWS certification of our Promeco production facility in Xochimilco
(Mexico) in 2021.34
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Furthermore, we have evaluated the wastewater at the production sites regarding possible resi-
dues of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) and other trace substances. On this basis, the
“Clean Water” initiative ensures that traces of pharmaceuticals in wastewater remain signifi-
cantly below any effect level. The initiative also collaborates with industrial networks and sup-
pliers to encompass the entire value chain.
In this context, Boehringer Ingelheim also enables joint projects with our initiative “Making
More Health” in Kenya which aim to improve access to clean water. For example, the construc-
tion of a solar-powered water tower for storing water from the nearby Kibisi Dam in water dis-
penser stations and providing water distribution to public facilities and private homes. The pro-
ject is estimated to positively impact the lives of up to 20,000 people in the local community.35
Group Management Report — Report on economic position
Report on economic position
Macroeconomic environment
In 2022, the global economy was faced with immense economic challenges. According to the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), global economic growth fell to + 3.4 % after + 5.9 % in 2021.
Russia’s war of aggression in Ukraine and the associated sanctions imposed on Russian prod-
ucts led to a sharp increase in gas and energy prices at the beginning of 2022, which continued
over the course of the year due to the significant restrictions placed on Russian natural gas
supplies. At the same time, the electricity-generation costs of gas-fired power plants rose, which
also led to significant price increases on the electricity market. The high energy prices resulted
in higher production costs for companies and led to reduced purchasing power in private house-
holds. Companies were forced to reduce their energy intensity. The shortage of goods and rising
energy prices were significant drivers of a global increase in inflation.
Nevertheless, the global pharmaceutical market – excluding COVID-19 vaccines – grew to over Growing Human
EUR 1.2 trillion last year, which corresponded to compound annual growth of + 7 % over the last Pharma market
five years (source: IQVIA). This is particularly the case as the pharmaceutical market – in con- allowed increased
trast to other sectors – tends to be characterized over the long term by the performance of na- investment in R&D
tional economies and, in particular, by the demographics of the respective societies. In addition,
the average growth of the market is influenced by the constant improvement in global access to
medical care.
Russia’s war of aggression in Ukraine indirectly led to higher energy and production costs for
pharmaceutical companies – and also for Boehringer Ingelheim. However, the sales prices,
which are often regulated, did not change. The high rates of inflation led to interest rate hikes in
numerous countries by the central banks, an increase in financing costs, and greater volatility
on the currency market. At the same time, government regulatory programs to combat inflation
were adopted in several countries, some of which had a direct impact on the pharmaceutical
industry or will have such an impact in future financial years. The Inflation Reduction Act (IRA)
in the US is particularly noteworthy in this regard.
The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic continued to have a negative impact. The negative eco-
nomic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic had by no means been fully overcome, as internation-
al supply chain disruptions continued to affect industrial production. In China, there were also
restrictions due to temporary lockdowns, which had a negative impact on demand for medi-
cines. At the same time, the costs of combating the COVID-19 pandemic led to high additional
burdens on the healthcare systems in many countries. In order to address these challenges,
many healthcare systems are expanding the use of cost-containment tools such as mandatory
price reductions for pharmaceutical products, external price reference systems, and lengthy as
well as complex negotiation processes which delay access to innovative new medicines.
The patient is also increasingly involved in covering the cost of treatments using different
co-payment models. In Germany, the savings plans of politicians for the healthcare system were
implemented via the GKV (Statutory health insurance) Financial Stabilization Act (GKV-Finanz-
stabilisierungsgesetz), the specifications of which could increase cost pressure on pharmaceu-
tical companies and reduce the willingness to invest in Germany. In the UK, pharmaceutical
companies participating in the VPAS (Voluntary Scheme for Branded Medicines Pricing and36
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Access) have had to pay higher reimbursements to the health authority due to increased health-
care spending. The repayment rate for 2022 was increased to 14.3 % (from 10.9 %), and the rate
for 2023 was set at 24.4 %.
Such measures are increasingly putting pressure on pharmaceutical companies and therefore
may limit their future ability to invest in the development of new treatment options and to pro-
vide innovative medicines. The pharmaceutical industry works closely with governments and
public health authorities to meet these challenges in order to ensure and improve access to
medicines in a sustainable manner, reduce delays in market approval, and provide patients with
innovative medicines. An important prerequisite for achieving this objective remains a reliable
legal framework that promotes innovation and ensures the protection of intellectual property.
Tendencies at the EU level aimed at weakening incentive instruments would send the wrong
signal. Cutting-edge research, investment in pharmaceutical innovation, and competitiveness
would be in decline. This could make it more difficult for European patients to participate in
clinical trials and access new, innovative therapies.
Animal health The animal health market – consisting of the pet and livestock segments – continued its growth
market continues trend in 2022. Compared to previous years, growth slowed during the reporting period, in par-
positive growth ticular due to consumer behavior adjustments in response to high inflation and supply chain
trend issues. The long-term drivers of growth are above all population growth, the rising standard of
living of many people in growth markets, and the increased life expectancy of animals due to
constant improvements in veterinary care. Pets are increasingly seen as life companions whose
health is important to the owners. This is reflected in an increased demand for products in the
pet segment. The livestock segment benefited from increased demand for animal protein and
continuous growth in consumer awareness with regard to high-quality products. The increasing
prevalence of zoonotic diseases (infectious diseases that are transmissible from animals to hu-
mans and from humans to animals) is reinforcing the importance of the animal health industry.
In general, consolidation through mergers on the customer side is ongoing, which leads to in-
creased competition. In the future, growth in the Animal Health business will largely be driven
by therapeutic innovation. In order to grow with the market, investments need to be continuous,
sustainable, and competitive.
According to the IMF, global economic growth will amount to 2.7 % in 2023. This forecast by the
IMF represents a significant slowdown in global economic growth. According to the OECD and
the IMF, inflation will remain high, but is expected to decline in many countries. Global inflation
is therefore projected to ease from 8.8 % in 2022 to 6.5 % in 2023. According to the IMF, there
are numerous additional risks that could have a significant impact on economic growth: mis-
calculation of monetary policy to lower inflation and higher energy and food prices could lead
to inflation lasting longer. Furthermore, tighter financing conditions could have a significant
impact not only on companies but also on emerging market debt. Economic growth could be
hampered by new global health fears or renewed effects of COVID-19. In addition, an ongoing
crisis in China’s real estate sector could affect the domestic banking sector and growth in China,
which could involve cross-border implications. Furthermore, global supply chains could be per-
manently impaired due to “geopolitical fragmentation” and consequently make cooperation on
climate policy more difficult. In addition, ongoing climate change is increasing the risk of the
occurrence of natural disasters and therefore of the related health and economic impacts.37
Group Management Report — Report on economic position
Currency development
Boehringer Ingelheim’s global presence means that currency trends influence its financial per-
formance. The US dollar (USD), the Japanese yen (JPY), and the Chinese renminbi (CNY) are
particularly worthy of note here. Extraordinarily high inflation prompted the US Federal Reserve
in particular to significantly raise key interest rates, which supported the appreciation of the
USD against other currencies. After a low of 1.13 EUR/USD (February) at the beginning of the
year, the US dollar fluctuated until the end of the year between this low and a high of 0.98 EUR/
USD (October). The Japanese yen fluctuated between a high of 130.01 EUR/JPY (January) and a
low of 145.12 EUR/JPY (November). The Chinese renminbi started the year at 7.19 EUR/CNY
(January). The high was achieved mid-year at 6.85 EUR/CNY (July), while the low was reached
towards the end of the year at 7.39 EUR/CNY (December). Significant transactional currency
risks are hedged through suitable currency instruments.
Currency development
Effect on net sales
Average rate - basis: 1 EUR 2022 2021 (in million EUR)
US dollar 1.05 1.18 933
Japanese yen 138.00 129.86 — 87
Chinese renminbi 7.08 7.63 87
Earnings position
For Boehringer Ingelheim, stable and competitive financial performance and solid financing are
the basis for independence, making them the focus of our actions. On this basis, we can imple-
ment our corporate purpose “Transforming lives for generations” and invest in innovation on a
competitive scale, thereby making our contribution to improving human and animal health with
innovative therapies.
Boehringer Ingelheim continued its positive growth trend in 2022. We generated net sales of 24.1
24,149 million EUR, which corresponds to an increase of + 17.1 % compared to the previous
year’s revenue of 20,618 million EUR. The exchange rate effects had a positive impact on reve- billion EUR
nue development in 2022. Once adjusted for these effects, Group growth was + 10.5 %. in net sales
Net sales by region (in million EUR)
currency-
2022 2021 Change adjusted
Americas 11,470 9,147 + 25.4 % + 12.3 %
Europe 7,543 6,554 + 15.1 % + 12.4 %
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 5,136 4,917 + 4.5 % + 4.0 %38
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
We achieved net sales growth in every region. As in previous years, with net sales of 11,470 mil-
lion EUR and a 47.5 % share of overall sales, the Americas region was Boehringer Ingelheim’s key
sales market, growing by + 25.4 % (currency-adjusted + 12.3 %). Furthermore, net sales growth in
the region of Europe improved to + 15.1 % in the past financial year (currency-adjusted + 12.4 %).
The sales, which also include the global license business, amounted to 7,543 million EUR and
corresponded to a 31.2 % share of Group sales. This positive trend was driven by the global li-
censing business allocated to this region as well as the markets in Germany, Spain, and the
countries of Eastern Europe. In our Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) region, net sales increased by
+ 4.5 % (currency-adjusted + 4.0 %) to 5,136 million EUR.
Key figures (in million EUR)
2022 2021 Change
Net sales 24,149 20,618 + 17.1 %
Operating income 4,770 4,705 +1.4 %
Return on net sales 19.8 % 22.8 %
Income before taxes 4,111 4,368 – 5.9 %
Income after taxes 3,181 3,406 – 6.6 %
Due to the significant increase in net sales, above all for the products of the JARDIANCE® family
and OFEV®, the materials ratio (taking into account the change in inventories) fell to 12.1 %
(2021: 13.5 %). Personnel expenses rose by an above-average rate of 16.3 %. Alongside the addi-
tional employees in the areas of research, development, and medicine – which are strategically
important for Boehringer Ingelheim – and in the production of biopharmaceutical medicines,
this was also due to adjustments to pensions for inflation and expectations for pension trends
as well as currency effects.
Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets were 346 million EUR
higher in 2022 compared with the previous year. This was particularly attributable to impairment
losses on intangible assets. These impairment losses on acquired R&D projects are due to the
risk inherent in the research-based pharmaceutical industry in the development of innovative
medicines. In addition, scheduled depreciation and amortization increased due to continued
high investment activity and currency effects.
In the 2022 financial year, the operating result increased slightly to 4,770 million EUR due to
the positive operating development compared to the previous year despite increased costs, high
impairment losses, and other non-reoccurring charges. The pleasing development of our busi-
nesses’ net sales provides us with the basis to sustainably invest in R&D – we were able to in-
crease the expenses for R&D as a percentage of sales to approximately 21 % in the 2022 financial
year. On this basis, our return on net sales fell to + 19.8 % (2021: + 22.8 %). This was also due to
higher prices on our procurement markets, our increased number of employees in strategically
important areas, and our investments.
The financial income declined, primarily due to developments on the stock markets, which had
an impact on budgeted assets for pensions and similar obligations. Loss allowances on
non-consolidated investments also reduced the holding income. Income before taxes thus fell
by 257 million EUR despite a slight increase in the operating result.39
Group Management Report — Report on economic position
Income after taxes fell by 225 million EUR with a slightly higher tax rate. It must be noted in this
regard that, under the provisions of German commercial law, shareholders’ personal taxes aris-
ing from Group business activities may not be recognized as tax expenses. Instead, these taxes
are presented as part of withdrawals from Group equity. When taking this specificity into ac-
count, the actual tax burden is markedly higher than the figure shown on the profit and loss
statement.
3.2
With a consolidated profit of 3,181 million EUR overall, the 2022 financial year was a year of
positive corporate development for Boehringer Ingelheim, as cost increases and non-reoccurring
charges were largely offset by the positive business development, despite challenging market billion EUR
conditions. Group profit
Development of the businesses
In the past year, Boehringer Ingelheim’s activities were divided into the Human Pharma, Animal
Health and Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing businesses.
Net sales by businesses (in million EUR)
currency-
2022 2021 Change adjusted
Human Pharma 18,461 15,294 + 20.7 % + 13.6 %
Animal Health 4,559 4,295 + 6.1 % – 0.5 %
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 1,024 917 + 11.7 % + 11.1 %
Other sales 105 112 – 6.3 % – 7.9 %
Human Pharma
In our Human Pharma business, we once again made our products available to more patients in
2022 thanks to new approvals in additional countries; we also further strengthened established
products. More than 30 million patients were treated with our products in 2022.
The Human Pharma business is the mainstay of Boehringer Ingelheim’s activities and accounts
for a 76.5 % share of the Group’s net sales. Net sales in our Human Pharma business increased
by + 20.7 % (currency-adjusted + 13.6 %) in the 2022 financial year to 18,461 million EUR. This
growth was mainly driven by the established products of the JARDIANCE® family as well as
OFEV®. The growing volume of licensing business – in particular SKYRIZI®, which we have
licensed to AbbVie who is responsible for the marketing of this product – also made a key con-
tribution to the positive development of our Human Pharma business.40
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Human Pharma: Net sales top 5 products (in million EUR)
currency-
2022 2021 Change adjusted
JARDIANCE® family 5,832 3,940 + 48.0 % + 39.1 %
OFEV® 3,227 2,491 + 29.5 % + 20.6 %
TRAJENTA® / JENTADUETO® 1,703 1,552 + 9.7 % + 6.0 %
SPIRIVA® 1,560 1,548 + 0.8 % – 5.8 %
PRADAXA® 1,108 1,318 – 15.9 % – 19.4 %
JARDIANCE® and The product with the highest net sales in 2022 was JARDIANCE®, which, in addition to the treat-
OFEV® drive growth ment of type 2 diabetes, is also used for the treatment of chronic heart failure. The JARDIANCE®
family generated net sales of 5,832 million EUR, which was therefore + 48.0 % (currency- adjusted
+ 39.1 %) higher than in the previous year.
OFEV®, the second largest product by net sales in 2022, is primarily used to treat idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis and has two other indications – SSc-ILD and PF-ILD. OFEV® recorded net
sales of 3,227 million EUR and therefore achieved a growth rate of + 29.5 % (currency- adjusted
+ 20.6 %).
As in the previous year, TRAJENTA® and JENTADUETO® – which are used to treat type 2 dia-
betes – achieved revenue growth. Net sales increased by + 9.7 % (currency-adjusted + 6.0 %)
in 2022 to 1,703 million EUR.
Our product SPIRIVA®, which is used to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
and asthma, developed in line with the product life cycle. In 2022, net sales of 1,560 million EUR
were + 0.8 % above the level of the previous year (currency-adjusted – 5.8 %) due to currency
reasons.
Net sales of the anticoagulant PRADAXA® declined in line with the product life cycle and fell by
– 15.9 % (currency-adjusted – 19.4 %) compared to the previous year. However, with net sales of
1,108 million EUR, PRADAXA® continued to be one of Boehringer Ingelheim’s five top-selling
medicines in the 2022 financial year.
An increase in net sales of + 66.5 % (currency-adjusted also + 66.5 %) was achieved in license
income for SKYRIZI®. This product, which is marketed globally by our partner AbbVie, is based
on the substance risankizumab, which was largely developed by Boehringer Ingelheim, and is
used to treat moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. Additionally, the med-
icine was approved in some markets in 2022 for the treatment of moderately to severely active
Crohn’s disease. The sales volume in the 2022 financial year therefore also reflects related non-
reoccurring milestone payments.
The Human Pharma business achieved growth in every region year-over-year. In terms of the
regional distribution of this revenue, the USA remained our strongest revenue contributor, with
a growth rate of + 29.8 % (currency-adjusted + 15.7 %) to 7,501 million EUR. This represents an
almost 41 % share of the Human Pharma business’s overall net sales.41
Group Management Report — Report on economic position
We achieved net sales of 5,931 million EUR in our EUCAN region (Europe and Canada) in 2022,
a growth rate of + 19.0 % (currency-adjusted + 14.8 %). The EUCAN region therefore generated a
sales share of 32.1 % (– 0.5 % compared to the previous year).
The company’s emerging markets also registered an improved volume of sales in the past finan-
cial year, with a growth rate of + 15.8 % (currency-adjusted + 10.8 %). Overall, net sales in these
countries rose to 3,700 million EUR. In 2022, double-digit growth was again generated com-
pared to the previous year. The market in China remained challenging in 2022 due to vol-
ume-based procurement mechanisms as well as COVID-19 lockdowns in part and was only able
to record slight sales growth of + 1.2 % compared to the previous year (currency-adjusted – 6.2 %)
due to favorable exchange rates.
Japan accounted for approximately 7 % of total net sales in the Human Pharma business. Here,
net sales fell by – 0.6 % (currency-adjusted + 5.6 %) to 1,329 million EUR due to the significantly
weaker Japanese yen compared to the euro.
Human Pharma: Net sales by region (in million EUR)
currency-
2022 2021 Change adjusted
USA 7,501 5,777 + 29.8 % + 15.7 %
EUCAN 5,931 4,983 + 19.0 % + 14.8 %
Emerging Markets 3,700 3,196 + 15.8 % + 10.8 %
Japan 1,329 1,337 — 0.6 % + 5.6 %
Animal Health
In the past financial year, the Animal Health business achieved revenue totaling 4,559 mil-
lion EUR and therefore provided almost 18.9 % of the Group’s revenue. Animal Health was able
to increase revenue by + 6.1 % (currency-adjusted – 0.5 %), supported by currency effects.
Animal Health: Net sales top 4 products (in million EUR)
currency-
2022 2021 Change adjusted
NEXGARD® 1,064 916 + 16.2 % + 8.0 %
FRONTLINE® 401 418 – 4.1 % – 10.1 %
HEARTGARD® 323 307 + 5.2 % – 5.2 %
INGELVAC CIRCOFLEX® / FLEXCOMBO® 236 253 – 6.7 % – 9.7 %
Our top-selling animal health medicines come from the pet business: the antiparasitic
NEXGARD® recorded sales growth of + 16.2 % (currency-adjusted + 8.0 %) to 1,064 million EUR
in 2022 and therefore remained the highest-selling product family in the portfolio of the Animal
Health division in the 2022 financial year. With the growth products NEXGARD® SPECTRA and
NEXGARD® COMBO, the NEXGARD® family became one of the top-selling brands in the animal
health industry in 2022 and was able to reach the milestone of more than one billion EUR in
sales.42
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
In contrast, the antiparasitic FRONTLINE® and the medicine HEARTGARD® recorded a decline
in net sales due to increased competition. The high inflation, which forced many pet owners to
prioritize in their household budgets, particularly in the USA, had a significant influence here.
Declining sales were observed for our INGELVAC CIRCOFLEX® swine vaccine in 2022: net sales
fell by – 6.7 % (currency-adjusted – 9.7 %) to 236 million EUR. This was mainly due to the difficult
market environment in China.
In Animal Health, we were able to exceed the previous year’s net sales in almost all regions. This
can essentially be attributed to currency effects. In the USA, we grew by + 10.8 % (currency-
adjusted by – 1.2 %) and were able to compensate for the decline in sales in the swine s egment,
particularly in the pet segment including horses.
A slight increase in sales was achieved in the EUCAN region. Sales in Ukraine and Russia fell
short of expectations due to the war. Supply difficulties also weighed on the pet and poultry
business in Europe. Overall, net sales growth in the EUCAN region was + 3.3 % (currency-
adjusted + 1.3 %).
The ALAMEA (Asia, Latin America, Middle East, Africa) region registered sales growth of + 8.4 %
(currency-adjusted + 5.9 %). Sales in the pet segment were higher than those in the livestock
segment.
Sales in the TCM (The Chinese Market) region fell by – 15.2 % (currency-adjusted – 19.4 %) com-
pared to the previous year. The decisive factors for the decline were, first, the zero-COVID poli-
cy in China combined with numerous lockdowns, and second, a difficult market in the swine
segment, which is characterized by high feeding and husbandry costs as well as low sales prices
and income on the swine producer side. As a result, there was significantly less demand for
medication to prevent diseases in the swine segment.
Animal Health: Net sales by region (in million EUR)
currency-
2022 2021 Change adjusted
USA 2,016 1,819 +10.8 % – 1.2 %
EUCAN 1,218 1,179 + 3.3 % + 1.3 %
ALAMEA 1,035 955 + 8.4 % +5.9 %
TCM 290 342 –15.2 % – 19.4 %
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing
Continued strong In the Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing business, revenue was + 11.7 % (currency-
growth in adjusted + 11.1 %) higher than in the previous year due to strong demand for our business part-
Biopharmaceutical ners’ market products. The order situation for the entire business has developed positively,
Contract resulting in a high level of capacity utilization. In addition, the focus in 2022 was on product and
Manufacturing process transfers to the new production facilities in Vienna.
Other sales/discontinued operations
Under discontinued operations, we aggregate activities of minor strategic importance for
Boehringer Ingelheim. Net sales decreased as expected.43
Group Management Report — Report on economic position
Financial position
Boehringer Ingelheim’s financial management strategy aims to safeguard the company’s
financing by means of its operating cash flow as far as possible, to minimize financial risks and
optimize the cost of capital.
Cash inflow from operating activities was 4,746 million EUR and, despite the further build-up of
inventories to provide safe care for our patients and the revenue-related build-up of receivables
due to the positive business development, was significantly higher than the previous year
(+ 900 million EUR). Our core business also provides the basis for our ability to continue
investing in strategic business development, as our investments totaling 3,405 million EUR
could also be fully financed from operating cash flow.
(in million EUR) 2022
Financial funds as of 1.1. 2,546
Cash flow from operating activities 4,746
Cash flow from investing activities — 1,642
Cash flow from financing activities — 3,899
Change in financial funds from cash relevant transactions — 795
Change in financial funds due to exchange rate movements and valuation adjustments 146
Financial funds as of 31.12. 1,897
In Germany, more than 500 million EUR were invested in the Biberach and Ingelheim locations High capital
in the past financial year. In addition, we have further strengthened the biopharmaceutical and expenditure volume
R&D location in Vienna with over 150 million EUR. to enable business
development
In the field of Animal Health, Boehringer Ingelheim is investing in the construction of a modern
plant for vaccines with the highest biological safety standards. The total investment for this
project is over 230 million EUR, of which approximately 32 million EUR were paid in the past
financial year.
The cash outflow from investing activities after taking asset sales into account was 1,642 mil-
lion EUR. In total, following disbursements for financing activities of 3,899 million EUR and
changes due to exchange rate movements and measurement adjustments, the Group’s financial
funds decreased from 2,546 million EUR by 649 million EUR to 1,897 million EUR.44
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Net assets position
(in million EUR) 31.12.2022 31.12.2021 Change Change in %
Assets
Intangible and tangible assets 9,923 10,113 — 190
Financial assets 13,572 12,964 608
Fixed assets 23,495 23,077 418 + 1.8 %
Inventories 4,886 4,237 649
Trade accounts receivable 6,143 5,178 965
Other receivables and other current assets 1,555 1,407 148
Securities 17 250 — 233
Cash and cash equivalents 1,880 2,296 — 416
Current assets 14,481 13,368 1.113 + 8.3 %
Other assets 4,522 4,174 348
Total assets 42,498 40,619 1,879 + 4.6 %
Equity and liabilities
Group equity 19,185 19,331 — 146 – 0.8 %
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 6,900 6,190 710
Tax provisions and other provisions 12,223 10,765 1,458
Accounts payable and loans 2,273 2,224 49
- thereof residual term over 1 year: 81 85 — 4
Liabilities 21,396 19,179 2,217 + 11.6 %
Other liabilities and difference from capital
consolidation 1,917 2,109 — 192
Total equity and liabilities 42,498 40,619 1,879 + 4.6 %
As of December 31, 2022, Boehringer Ingelheim’s total assets amounted to 42,498 million EUR,
an increase of 1,879 million EUR as compared with the previous year. The increase was primar-
ily due to higher working capital (trade receivables and inventories). Moreover, positive curren-
cy effects (+ 505 million EUR) have increased all balance sheet items.
While tangible assets increased by 364 million EUR as a result of the renewed high level of
investment activity in particular in the strategic expansion of business in areas such as bio-
pharmaceuticals in Austria and Germany, human pharmaceutical research in Germany, and
animal health in France and the USA, as well as positive currency effects, intangible assets
decreased significantly due to amortization. Funds that were previously held as cash or invested
in short-term investments were invested in long-term securities. Financial assets increased as a
result of this and as a result of investments in shareholdings.45
Group Management Report — Report on economic position
Working capital (inventories and trade receivables) increased due to the build-up of stocks to
ensure security of supply, higher acquisition and production costs due to price increases on the
procurement markets, and currency effects. Trade accounts receivable also increased as a result
of reporting-date and revenue-related circumstances, primarily in the USA and Germany. The
increase in other receivables and other assets was due to factors such as increased tax prepay-
ments and positive currency effects. Other assets increased due to higher deferred tax assets
resulting from temporary differences between the measures of the consolidated companies’ tax
balance sheets and the measures in the consolidated balance sheet (for pension provisions in
particular) as well as currency effects.
45
Equity amounted to 19,185 million EUR as of December 31, 2022 and decreased slightly by
%
146 million EUR as a result of withdrawals, which also included withdrawals for the financing
of the Boehringer Ingelheim Foundation as well as tax payments. The Boehringer Ingelheim equity ratio
Foundation is a non-profit foundation that promotes excellence in basic research in the natural
and life sciences. According to the applicable commercial law regulations, the shareholders’ tax
payments attributable to Group activities are not to be shown in the profit and loss statement
as tax expenses, but as withdrawals. The equity ratio fell slightly mainly due to the increase in
total assets to approximately 45 % (December 31, 2021: 48 %). In addition to equity, the pension
provisions and long-term liabilities are also available to the Group as capital in the long term.
These three items totaled 26,166 million EUR as of December 31, 2022, representing a 62 %
share of total assets. Consequently, as in previous years, long-term disposable capital continues
to cover all intangible assets and tangible assets, as well as working capital.
The pension provisions increased in Germany due to a further reduction in discount rates and
due to the adjustment of the provisions to the current development of inflation and to the cur-
rent assumptions for pension trends, as well as in the USA due to the lower market values of the
plan assets. The increase in other provisions correlates to the change in the level of revenue,
since this includes provisions for discounts in the USA, for commissions and for royalty pay-
ments. Currency effects also led to an increase in provisions. The increase in liabilities stems
exclusively from trade payables and positive currency effects; other third-party debt was re-
duced. Other liabilities have declined, mainly due to the release of the difference arising from
capital consolidation as well as deferred income.
The financial position likewise reflects Boehringer Ingelheim’s healthy economic development
in the 2022 financial year. Boehringer Ingelheim remains a soundly financed company, making
considerable capital expenditure in the development of its business and research activities from
its own resources in order to ensure its long-term growth and its independence.46
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Report on opportunities and risks
Opportunities and risk management
When assessing the risks in the context of holistic opportunities and risk management, we also
endeavor to take into account the resulting opportunities.
Opportunity management is based on the strategies and objectives of the company and of indi-
vidual businesses and operating business units and is an integral part of the Group-wide
planning and management systems. Those responsible for the businesses and functions bear
direct responsibility for the early and systematic identification, analysis, and use of opportunities.
As a research-driven biopharmaceutical company, Boehringer Ingelheim’s current research and
development activities are, by definition, considered an opportunity. Relevant projects have
already been outlined in the research and development chapter. We also see the digital trans-
formation as an opportunity and see new possibilities to use these technologies in the area of
research and development – especially clinical development – but also in supporting patients
during therapy. The digital transformation is also of particular importance in sales and admin-
istration.
The aim of the risk management system implemented at Boehringer Ingelheim is to identify
business-specific risks and, in particular, risks that jeopardize the continued existence of the
company as early as possible, to assess them and to reduce them to a reasonable level by means
of suitable measures. The persons responsible for the key businesses and functions are also
included in the process of calculating and assessing risks. The Group-wide risk and information
system ensures that all identified risks are carefully analyzed and assessed. Following appropri-
ate classification, adequate risk management measures are initiated and their implementation
is systematically monitored.
In the year under review, the Internal Audit department performed targeted routine audits as
well as extraordinary audits around the world. In addition to adherence to legal requirements
and internal Group guidelines, the main focal points were the functionality of systems, the ef-
fectiveness of internal controls for the prevention of loss of assets, and the efficiency of struc-
tures and processes. Corresponding adjustments or optimizations were initiated as necessary.
Individual risks
The key risks which Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to are broken down into the following
specific categories: financial risks, legal risks, information technology risks, production and
environmental risks, personnel risks, and industry risks.
Risks are identified below as being “concrete” when they appear to be controllable by means of
specific management procedures. The term “abstract” is used in the case of risks that cannot be
completely controlled, even by means of targeted management procedures, regardless of the
probability of their occurrence.47
Group Management Report — Report on opportunities and risks
Financial risks
Relevant financial risks are, in turn, broken down as follows: currency risks, geopolitical risks,
credit and country-specific risks, and financial investment and shareholding risks.
Currency risks
The global orientation of our business activities is subject to risks and opportunities due to
exchange rate volatility in relation to the US dollar and the Japanese yen above all – but also with
regard to emerging markets’ currencies, especially the Chinese renminbi. The Group monitors
and quantifies these risks at regular intervals, making them predictable for future business using
relevant hedging strategies and appropriate financial instruments, such as forward exchange
contracts. The resultant risks are subsequently designated as being concrete and controllable
and therefore limited.
Geopolitical risks
The business of Boehringer Ingelheim as a global company can be adversely affected by geopo-
litical developments. Significant risks may arise from factors such as geopolitical tensions or
changing economic and political conditions that may have an impact on production sites and
on sales markets. Global geopolitical developments, in particular in connection with the Rus-
sian war of aggression in Ukraine, are under constant observation by Boehringer Ingelheim so
that appropriate measures to address these generally concrete and low risks and to maintain a
successful global business can be taken at an early stage.
Credit and country-specific risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to various credit and country-specific risks as a result of its
international business activities. From the portfolio of trade accounts receivable and trade ac-
counts payable, we have not identified any extraordinary risks for the Group beyond the usual
level in the industry, also compared with previous years. The same applies to possible default
risks for receivables, which are largely hedged against economic and political risks. We will
continue to carefully track credit and country-specific risks so as to be in a position to respond
to negative changes in a timely manner. These risks, which we consider moderate, are therefore
regarded as concrete.
Financial investment and shareholding risks
The Group pursues a conservative investment strategy in the management of its financial assets.
Its primary objective is long-term preservation of their real value. This is reflected in the orien-
tation of our portfolio, which mainly comprises money market and bond investments. This re-
sults in a concrete, controllable, and limited level of risk for most of our financial investments.
The net book value of some of the strategic investments in related companies is affected by
market and business circumstances, which leads to a higher level of volatility in the fair market
value. All concrete risks have been covered by the respective impairments in the consolidated
financial statements.48
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Legal risks
The business activities of the Group are exposed to legal risks. A distinction is made between
regulatory, liability, and patent-protection risks.
Regulatory risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to risks arising from legal disputes and proceedings as well as
official investigations. As the legal or administrative decisions in ongoing or future proceedings
cannot be predicted, we regard the resultant risks as being abstract and high. In addition, all
employees at Boehringer Ingelheim are regularly trained in compliance with regulatory require-
ments in order to minimize the probability of such risks occurring.
Liability risks
The marketing and sale of pharmaceuticals are exposed to a potential product liability
risk. Boehringer Ingelheim currently has product liability insurance for the company’s risk
profile. However, there is absolutely no guarantee that this insurance coverage can be main-
tained at reasonable cost and acceptable conditions, or that it is sufficient to protect Boehringer
Ingelheim against a claim or loss or against all potential claims or losses. In case it is foreseeable
that the product liability insurance does not cover or only partially covers concrete liability risks,
the remaining risk exposure has been covered by a provision. We therefore see a moderate risk
for the Group here.
Furthermore, product liability claims could tie up substantial financial resources and manage-
ment capacity and be detrimental to the company’s image in the event that the market consid-
ers the medicine to be unsafe or ineffective as a result of unexpected side effects. We see this as
an abstract and moderate risk.
Patent protection risks
Protection of innovations through trademark and patent rights is of particular importance to
Boehringer Ingelheim as a research-driven biopharmaceutical company. These commercial pro-
tective rights are increasingly the target of attacks and breaches. We have taken the necessary
precautions to allow us to detect threats at an early stage and, by commencing appropriate
countermeasures, defend our legal position using all legal means available to us so that these
factors are regarded as concrete and moderate risks.
Information technology risks
Boehringer Ingelheim uses global networked IT systems in core areas of its operations for busi-
ness and production processes as well as internal and external communication. It also makes
use of cloud-based third-party systems and services. These systems are used to process, store,
and transmit confidential and personal data. The availability, integrity, and confidentiality of
these systems and the data processed are thus highly significant.
External cyber attacks or any manipulation of systems may result in the loss of information and
expertise as well as temporary interruptions to business and production processes. This risk is
considered to be high and concrete in view of the continuously evolving global environment and
the growing frequency of cyber attacks.
The risk of such threats and attacks has increased in the last few years since people are increas-
ingly working from home and employees thus have access to sensitive data within less secure IT
environments.49
Group Management Report — Report on opportunities and risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is countering this risk by means of continuous IT process analysis and
improvements as well as further preventive and reactive measures. This helps to identify and
ward off current threats and to minimize potential damage.
Production and environmental risks
Our quality management system and compliance processes are continuously optimized in close
cooperation with the relevant authorities in order to ensure compliance with cGMP standards
(current Good Manufacturing Practices). Risks in this area continue to be of high significance to
the Group and are classified as abstract. Boehringer Ingelheim implemented risk-mitigating
measures in the past year in order to counter COVID-19-specific threats to its production activ-
ities. These included the physical segregation of production teams when possible, the obligation
to wear a mask, an increase in the supply of disinfectants, and in-house initiatives for testing
the COVID-19 status of employees.
In order to guarantee the supply of our products to the market, we have implemented measures
that guarantee reliable and high-quality supplies for our customers. In addition to supplier man-
agement on the procurement side, this also involves building up internal standby capacities.
Overall, this represents a concrete and moderate risk.
Risks in the areas of the environment, health, safety, and sustainability (EHS&S) are preemp-
tively minimized by ensuring global adherence to our high safety standards. Appropriate emer-
gency plans have been drawn up for possible incidents of any kind and are practiced and sub-
jected to comprehensive quality testing at regular intervals. As a result of these measures, these
risks are classed as concrete and limited.
Personnel risks
As with other companies, Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to demographic change and the re-
sultant risk of being affected by a lack of appropriately qualified personnel. This potential risk
can have a substantial impact on the company’s business activities. It has therefore been in-
cluded in the long-term planning process for many years and has gained strategic significance
as a result.
Boehringer Ingelheim counters this risk by means of a comprehensive personnel concept, which
also presents the Group with opportunities in the context of global personnel management.
Regardless of their ethnic background, gender, or religion, we offer all of our company’s employ-
ees development opportunities based on their professional abilities, social skills, personal ap-
titudes, and willingness to take on responsibility in accordance with the needs of the company.
In view of the measures described above, the risk is regarded as concrete and moderate.
Boehringer Ingelheim is also exposed to human resources risks as a result of the COVID-19
pandemic. If the pathogen were to spread, this would have a significant impact both in and
outside of our production activities. The company is therefore closely monitoring the situation
in the vicinity of its sites. It also emphasizes working from home, to the extent necessary, using
digital applications rather than in-person meetings. In view of these measures, this is consid-
ered to be a concrete and moderate risk.50
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Industry-specific risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to business risks that are specific to the pharmaceutical indus-
try. These risks have materialized in part over the past financial year and are becoming increas-
ingly important for Boehringer Ingelheim due to their effects. They continue to be classed as
abstract and high. In addition to the loss of exclusivity of products established on the market
and risks associated with the development and registration of new medicines, these industry-
specific risks increasingly include changing and restrictive requirements relating to pricing and
reimbursement on many sales markets. Frequently, the prices of pharmaceutical products are
subject not only to state monitoring and regulation but also to price pressure from state re-
imbursement systems due to cheaper generic drugs. Boehringer Ingelheim is keeping a close
eye on the various changes in the respective sales markets and takes appropriate measures in
response to current developments.
The net book value of individual balance sheet items is exposed to changes in market and
business conditions and therefore also to changes in fair values. In the event of necessary im-
pairments, there may be significant non-cash impacts on earnings and balance sheet ratios. This
applies in particular to intangible assets, including goodwill, which essentially stem from past
company acquisitions. All relevant risks were assessed and taken into account as part of the
preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
Overall statement on the risk situation
From a current perspective, we are not aware of any risks that alone or in conjunction with other
risks could lead to a lasting impairment of the company’s net assets, financial or earnings posi-
tion and could jeopardize the continued existence of Boehringer Ingelheim.51
Group Management Report — Report on expected developments
Report on expected developments
Boehringer Ingelheim can look back on a successful financial year, in which we achieved our
objectives in terms of our contribution to the well-being of patients, livestock, and pets, as well
as in terms of key financial data – and even exceeded them in terms of expected growth. Despite
the very volatile environment, we were able to ensure the company’s sustainable development
and profitable growth.
Influential developments in 2022 will also influence the coming financial year, and some will
also present challenges for us. We expect that general inflation will remain above the level of
recent years despite the countermeasures taken by the central banks and that the high energy
prices resulting from the war in Ukraine will only ease again in the medium term, particularly
in Europe. Also, the impact of China’s move away from the zero-COVID policy, which was
initiated at the end of 2022, cannot yet be fully assessed. We continue to expect China to have
a limited global presence as well as subdued national development in 2023.
We continue to look to 2023 with confidence and plan to improve the lives of patients and an-
imals through innovation, thereby also achieving sustainable growth. However, an outlook for
the coming financial year remains difficult in the current economic situation.
The greatest uncertainty over the coming years will be the potential impact of various govern-
ment economic recovery, sustainability, and support programs on the respective government’s
budget planning and whether this will result in policy shifts related to innovative medicines. We
expect moderate market growth in 2023 for prescription pharmaceuticals (excluding COVID-19
medication) but are also observing increasing global institutional efforts to lower the prices of
medicinal products. In view of this development, the financial ability to act with regard to sus-
tainable growth and innovation remains of great importance to us.
We expect moderate market growth in the new financial year in the animal health sector,
in which research and innovation are particularly important. Together with our business part-
ners, we intend to continue to provide our customers with innovative solutions. For Boehringer
Ingelheim, various new launches in both the pet and livestock segments will enable growth in
the magnitude of the market.
Our priorities in our Biopharmaceuticals business area are supplying the market with our own
products and contract manufacturing for our business partners. The utilization of the large-scale
cell culture facility in Vienna will continue to be the focus in 2023.
For 2023, we expect Boehringer Ingelheim to achieve a slight year-on-year increase in net sales
on a comparable basis (adjusted for currency and extraordinary effects).
Our consistently high R&D expenditure, which once again increased in 2022, is in line with our
strategic focus on continuing to drive growth and the flow of new products. In 2022, we once
again achieved our goal of obtaining some of our R&D through external innovation and partner-
ships. We will continue to actively pursue this strategy in 2023. We invest in our own and exter-
nal R&D after close investigation of the therapeutic benefit and the associated prospects for
success. The flow of innovative medicines in our research and development pipeline shows
short-, medium-, and long-term growth potential. We expect to see a further increase in R&D
investments in new medicines in 2023 and intend to reach new milestones in research and de-
velopment as well as individual market approvals.52
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
In addition to patent expiry, the major challenges facing the research-driven pharmaceutical
industry are the increasing amount of investment in R&D as well as bigger hurdles and increased
costs associated with product approvals. Also of particular note is the previously mentioned
growing cost pressure in healthcare systems. In the last two years of the pandemic, re-
search-driven pharmaceutical companies displayed an unprecedented level of networking and
energy to develop solutions in the interests of patients extremely quickly, thereby proving the
societal value of research and innovation. Nevertheless, further sustainable steps are required
involving politicians and supporting stakeholder groups so that the pharmaceutical companies’
contribution of value to the overall economic added value and to increasing the efficiency of the
healthcare system as a whole continues to be appropriately rewarded. Animal health research
likewise requires major investments in both preventive research and diagnostic options.
In conjunction with the long planning and development cycles for new products, growing public
cost pressure means that business is less predictable. It requires us to quickly recognize and
seize opportunities in both Human Pharma and Animal Health while continuously monitoring
and adjusting costs and strategies. In 2022, we implemented measures in all our business areas
to accelerate the speed of our response to changes, reduce the complexity of the organization,
and optimize the cost base. In this way, we are creating potential for capital expenditure and
securing the company’s long-term success.
For 2023, we expect Boehringer Ingelheim to achieve a slight improvement in operating income
despite our increased level of investment in research and development on a comparable basis
(adjusted for currency and extraordinary effects).
Boehringer Ingelheim develops therapies that fundamentally change lives – today and for gen-
erations to come. As a traditional family enterprise, we thereby ensure our competitiveness and
long-term entrepreneurial independence. We are confident that we will achieve our ambitious
targets in all of our business areas thanks to our great innovative strength, which rests on a
comprehensive portfolio of prospective products, our global presence, and the support of our
highly qualified and motivated employees.Consolidated
Financial
Statements
54 O verview of selected
consolidated companies
56 Consolidated balance sheet
57 Consolidated profit and loss statement
58 Consolidated cash flow statement
59 Statement of changes in group equity
60 N otes to the consolidated financial
statements
81 Independent auditor’s report54
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Overview of selected
consolidated companies
C.H. Boehringer Sohn
AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim
Vetmedica GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Argentina D Italy D P Taiwan D Germany D P R
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Corporate
Argentina S.A., Buenos Aires Italia S.p.A., Milan Taiwan Co., Ltd., Taipei Center GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Australia D Japan D R Thailand D Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma
Australia Pty. Ltd., North Ryde Japan Co., Ltd., Tokyo (Thailand) Limited, Bangkok
GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim microParts
Belgium D P R Mexico D P USA D P R
GmbH, Dortmund
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund
Belgium S.A., Brussels México S.A. de C.V., Mexico City USA, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary Boehringer Ingelheim
Medicine Belgium NV, Evergem Netherlands D R Biopharmaceuticals GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Brazil D P Netherlands B.V., Alkmaar Boehringer Ingelheim
Middle East & Africa GmbH,
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Ingelheim am Rhein
do Brasil Ltda., São Paulo New Zealand D
Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Therapeutics GmbH,
Canada D New Zealand Limited, Auckland Ochsenhausen
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health BI X GmbH,
Canada Inc., Burlington Philippines D Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
China D P R Philippines, Inc., Makati City
Nanchang Boehringer Ingelheim
Animal Health Co., Ltd., Nanchang Puerto Rico P
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Health (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.,
Puerto Rico LLC, Barceloneta
Shanghai
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal
South Africa D
Health Operations (China) Co., Ltd.,
Taizhou Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica South Africa Pty Ltd., Midrand,
(China) Co., Ltd., Taizhou Gauteng
Denmark D P South Korea D
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Denmark A/S, Copenhagen Korea Ltd., Seoul
France D P R Spain D
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
France, Lyon España, S.A., Barcelona
Great Britain D P
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
UK Limited, Bracknell
D Distribution
P Production
R Research and development55
Consolidated Financial Statements — Overview of selected consolidated companies
C.H. Boehringer Sohn
Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim
International GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Argentina D Czech Republic D Japan D P R South Africa D
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Boehringer Ingelheim, spol. s.r.o., Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim Co., Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals
Buenos Aires Prague Ltd., Tokyo (Proprietary) Ltd., Midrand, Gauteng
Boehringer Ingelheim Seiyaku,
Australia D Denmark D Yamagata South Korea D
Boehringer Ingelheim Pty. Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim Danmark A/S, Boehringer Ingelheim Korea Ltd.,
North Ryde Copenhagen Mexico D P Seoul
Boehringer Ingelheim Mexico S.A. de
Austria D P R Ecuador D C.V., Mexico City Spain D P
Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica S.A.
Boehringer Ingelheim RCV Boehringer Ingelheim Del Ecuador Boehringer Ingelheim España S.A.,
de C.V., Guadalajara
GmbH & Co. KG, Vienna Cia. Ltda., Quito Barcelona
Boehringer Ingelheim Promeco S.A.
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma
de C.V., Mexico City
Gesellschaft mbH, Vienna Finland D Sweden D
F Po ar ts hc oh lou gn ig es Gin es st eit lu lst c f hü ar fm t mol be Hku , l Va ir ee n na B Eso pe oh oringer Ingelheim Finland Ky, Netherlands D B Sto oe ch kr hin og lmer Ingelheim Aktiebolag,
ViraTherapeutics GmbH, Rum Boehringer Ingelheim B.V., Alkmaar
France D Switzerland D R
Belgium D New Zealand D
Boehringer Ingelheim France S.A.S., Boehringer Ingelheim (Schweiz)
Boehringer Ingelheim SComm, Paris Boehringer Ingelheim (N.Z.) Ltd., GmbH, Basel
Brussels Auckland
NBE-Therapeutics AG, Basel
Great Britain D Amal Therapeutics S.A., Geneva
Brazil D P Norway D
Boehringer Ingelheim Ltd.,
Boehringer Ingelheim do Brasíl Bracknell Boehringer Ingelheim Norway KS, Taiwan D
Química e Farmaceutica Ltda., Asker
São Paulo Boehringer Ingelheim Taiwan Ltd.,
Greece D P Taipei
Peru D
Canada D BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM HELLAS
SINGLE MEMBER S.A., Athens Boehringer Ingelheim Peru S.A.C., Thailand D
Boehringer Ingelheim (Canada) Ltd., Lima
Toronto Boehringer Ingelheim (Thai) Ltd.,
Hong Kong D Bangkok
Philippines D
Chile D Boehringer Ingelheim (Hong Kong)
Ltd., Hong Kong Boehringer Ingelheim (Philippines), Türkiye D
Boehringer Ingelheim Ltda., Inc., Makati City
Santiago de Chile Boehringer Ingelheim Ilaç Ticaret
India D A.S., Istanbul
Poland D
China D P Boehringer Ingelheim India Private
Ltd., Mumbai Boehringer Ingelheim Sp. z o.o., USA D P R
Boehringer Ingelheim Shanghai Warsaw
Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd., Shanghai Boehringer Ingelheim
Indonesia D P Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
Boehringer Ingelheim PT Boehringer Ingelheim Indonesia, Portugal D Wilmington, Delaware
Biopharmaceuticals (China) Ltd.,
Jakarta Boehringer Ingelheim Portugal, LDA, Boehringer Ingelheim Fremont, Inc.,
Shanghai
Lisbon Wilmington, Delaware
Boehringer Ingelheim (China) Israel D Boehringer Ingelheim USA
Investment Co., Ltd., Shanghai Russia D Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware
BI X E-Health Technology (Shanghai) Boehringer Ingelheim Israel Ltd.,
Co., Ltd., Shanghai Tel Aviv OOO Boehringer Ingelheim, Moscow
Vietnam D
Colombia D Italy D P Saudi Arabia D Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Vietnam Limited Liability Company,
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Boehringer Ingelheim Italia S.p.A., Boehringer Ingelheim Saudi Arabia Ho Chi Minh City
Santa Fé de Bogotá Milan Trading, Riyadh Boehringer Ingelheim Vietnam Ltd.,
Bidachem S.p.A., Fornovo S. Giovanni Ho Chi Minh City
Croatia D Serbia D
Boehringer Ingelheim Zagreb d.o.o., Boehringer Ingelheim Serbia DOO
Zagreb Beograd, Belgrade56
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Consolidated balance sheet
Assets (in million EUR) Notes 1) 31.12.2022 31.12.2021
Intangible assets (3.1) 4,070 4,624
Tangible assets (3.2) 5,853 5,489
Financial assets (3.3) 13,572 12,964
Fixed assets 23,495 23,077
Inventories (3.4) 4,886 4,237
Accounts receivable and other assets (3.5) 7,698 6,585
Securities 17 250
Cash and cash equivalents 1,880 2,296
Current assets 14,481 13,368
Prepaid expenses 321 342
Deferred tax assets 4,182 3,543
Exceeding amount of plan assets 19 289
Total assets 42,498 40,619
Equity and liabilities (in million EUR) Notes 1) 31.12.2022 31.12.2021
Shareholders’ capital 178 178
Group reserves 18,979 19,479
Balance sheet currency conversion difference 27 — 327
Equity attributable to the parent company 19,184 19,330
Non-controlling interests 1 1
Group equity 19,185 19,331
Difference from capital consolidation 1,019 1,159
Provisions (3.6) 19,123 16,955
Accounts payable and loans (3.7) 2,273 2,224
Liabilities 21,396 19,179
Deferred income 258 319
Deferred tax liabillities 640 631
Total equity and liabilities 42,498 40,619
1) For explanations, see relevant section in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.57
Consolidated Financial Statements — Consolidated balance sheet | Consolidated profit and loss statement
Consolidated profit and
loss statement
(in million EUR) Notes 1) 2022 2021
Net sales (4.1) 24,149 20,618
Changes in finished goods and work in process 314 240
Other own work capitalized 14 11
Other operating income (4.2) 2,936 2,726
Total revenues 27,413 23,595
Cost of materials (4.3) — 2,972 — 2,826
Personnel expenses (4.4) — 6,620 — 5,692
Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets (4.5) — 1,480 — 1,134
Other operating expenses (4.6) — 11,571 — 9,238
Operating income 4,770 4,705
Financial income (4.7) — 639 — 337
Holding income (4.8) — 20 0
Income before taxes 4,111 4,368
Income taxes 2) (4.9) — 930 — 962
Income after taxes 3,181 3,406
Net income (4.10) 3,181 3,406
Non-controlling interests 0 0
Group profit 3,181 3,406
1) For explanations, see relevant section in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
2) Due to legal requirements, the shareholders’ personal taxes arising from group business activities are shown as withdrawals from the group reserves.58
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Consolidated cash flow
statement
(in million EUR) 2022
Income after taxes (including non-controlling interests) 3,181
Amortization, depreciation, write-downs and reversal of write-downs of intangible, tangible and financial assets 1,504
Change in provisions for pensions and similar obligations (including change of plan assets) 988
Change in other provisions 1,487
Other non-cash income and expenses — 163
Gain from disposals of consolidated companies — 31
Gains / losses from disposals of fixed assets — 56
Grants received — 15
Change in inventories — 525
Change in accounts receivable and other assets not related to investing or financing activities — 817
Change in accounts payable and other liabilities not related to investing or financing activities 138
Interest income / interest expenses 41
Other income from investments — 6
Income / expenses from income taxes 930
Income taxes paid — 1,910
Cash flow from operating activities 4,746
Payments to acquire intangible fixed assets — 123
Payments to acquire tangible fixed assets — 1,021
Payments to acquire financial fixed assets — 2,261
Payments to acquire plan assets — 7
Proceeds from disposals of intangible fixed assets 1
Proceeds from disposals of tangible fixed assets 13
Proceeds from disposals of financial fixed assets 1,686
Proceeds from disposals of consolidated entities 38
Interest received 26
Income from dividends 6
Cash flow from investing activities — 1,642
Cash receipts from grants 38
Interest paid — 42
Proceeds from capital contributions by minority shareholders 1
Cash payments to shareholders of the parent company 1) — 3,773
Proceeds from loans 15
Cash repayments of loans — 138
Cash flow from financing activities — 3,89959
Consolidated Financial Statements — Consolidated cash flow statement | Statement of changes in group equity
Consolidated cash flow statement (continued)
(in million EUR) 2022
Change in financial funds from cash relevant transactions — 795
Change in financial funds due to exchange rate movements and valuation adjustments 146
Financial funds 2) as of 1.1. 2,546
Financial funds 2) as of 31.12. 1,897
1) This line also contains the shareholders’ personal taxes arising from group business activities,
which according to legal requirements are not included in the Group’s tax expenses.
2) Cash and cash equivalents and securities within current assets.
(+) = source of funds, (-) = use of funds
Statement of changes
in group equity
Balance sheet Equity
currency attributable Non-
Shareholders’ Group conversion to the parent controlling
(in million EUR) capital 1) reserves 2) difference company interests Group equity
Balance as of 31.12.2020 178 17,672 — 544 17,306 1 17,307
Withdrawals 0 — 1,588 0 — 1,588 0 — 1,588
Net income 0 3,406 0 3,406 0 3,406
Reduction from recognition of deferred
tax liabilities recognized directly in equity 0 — 11 0 — 11 0 — 11
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 5 5 0 5
Currency effects 0 0 212 212 0 212
Balance as of 31.12.2021 178 19,479 — 327 19,330 1 19,331
Withdrawals 0 — 3,681 0 — 3,681 0 — 3,681
Net income 0 3,181 0 3,181 0 3,181
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 10 10 0 10
Currency effects 0 0 344 344 0 344
Balance as of 31.12.2022 178 18,979 27 19,184 1 19,185
1) The shareholders’ capital consists of the equity of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG and C.H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG.
The shareholders’ capital consists only of the limited partner’s capital contribution.
2) The shareholders’ personal taxes arising from group business activities are shown as withdrawals from the group reserves.60
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Notes to the consolidated
f inancial statements
1 Principles and methods
1.1 General principles
The consolidated financial statements of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG for the 2022 financial year were prepared in
accordance with Section 264a German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch, HGB), in line with the legal requirements
to prepare consolidated financial statements under Section 290 et seq. HGB.
In accordance with Section 297 (1) HGB, the consolidated financial statements consist of the consolidated balance
sheet, the consolidated profit and loss statement, the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the consolidated
cash flow statement, and the statement of changes in group equity.
The consolidated financial statements were prepared in euros in accordance with Section 298 (1) in conjunction with
Section 244 HGB.
To improve the clarity and transparency of the consolidated financial statements, subtotals have been added in the con-
solidated profit and loss statement; furthermore, individual items of the consolidated balance sheet and the consolidat-
ed profit and loss statement have been combined. These items are presented and explained separately in the notes to the
consolidated financial statements. The additional disclosures required for the individual items can also be found in the
notes to the consolidated financial statements.
1.2 Registry information
The parent company is registered under the name C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, with its headquarters in Ingelheim
am Rhein, in the commercial register of Mainz District Court under the number HRA 21732.
1.3 Information on the group of consolidated companies
The parent company of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein.
Boehringer AG, Ingelheim am Rhein, is the sole unlimited partner of this company and holds no participation in any
subsidiary of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group.
The Boehringer Ingelheim Group consists of a total of 176 affiliated companies in Germany and abroad. 150 subsidiaries
have been included in the consolidated financial statements of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG under full consolida-
tion rules. C.H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG is a special purpose entity in which
C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG bears a majority of the risks and rewards in economic terms. C.H. Boehringer Sohn
AG & Co. KG holds a majority of the voting rights in the other subsidiaries, either directly or indirectly.
In accordance with Section 296 (2) HGB, 22 subsidiaries were not included in the consolidation in the reporting year, as
they are individually and collectively insignificant to the Group’s net assets, financial, and earnings position. The total61
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements
amount of the sales, equity, and net income for the year of the subsidiaries not included in consolidation accounts for
less than one percent of the aggregated Group financial statements totals. For three further subsidiaries, there are ongo-
ing restrictions on control due to the terms of the articles of association. In accordance with Section 296 (1) No. 1 HGB,
these companies were not consolidated either.
The total number of affiliated companies decreased by four compared to the previous year:
• Three companies were founded.
• Three companies lost their separate legal identities by merger.
• Three affiliated companies were liquidated.
• One affiliated company was sold.
The following subsidiaries were exempted from the reporting and disclosure obligations pursuant to Section 264 (3) HGB:
• Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Europe GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Finanzierungs GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Secura Versicherungsvermittlungs GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Grundstücks-GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim R&D Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health France Participations GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim FinanzInvest GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
Due to Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH making use of the exemption from the reporting and disclosure obligations pursu-
ant to Section 264 (3) HGB, the disclosures required in accordance with Section 289f (4) HGB are provided here. The
shareholders’ meeting of Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH resolved in accordance with Section 52 (2) German Act on Limit-
ed Liability Companies (Gesetz betreffend die Gesellschaften mit beschränkter Haftung, GmbHG) to set the proportion of
women in management at 33 % . The above target is to be achieved by the end of the 2026 financial year. In accordance
with Section 36 GmbHG, the managing directors of Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH have decided to set the proportion of
women in the first management level below the managing directors as well as in the second management level below the
managing directors at 35 % . The above targets are to be achieved by the end of the 2026 financial year.
The following subsidiaries were exempted from the reporting and disclosure obligations pursuant to Section 264b HGB:
• C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
• C.H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim participates in one joint venture, which has not been included in the consolidated financial state-
ments using either the proportionate method or the equity method, since it is not material. Furthermore, Boehringer
Ingelheim holds an interest in 19 associated companies, which have not been recognized using the equity method either
due to their lack of significance. By not using the equity method, the balance sheet total and the consolidated profit or
loss are affected by less than one percent.62
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
1.4 Consolidation methods
For inventories and fixed assets, receivables, liabilities, and income and expense items, transactions between the
companies included in consolidation were eliminated as part of debt consolidation procedures in accordance with
Section 303 HGB, procedures to eliminate intercompany profits in accordance with Section 304 HGB and income and
expenses consolidation procedures in accordance with Section 305 HGB.
The revaluation method was applied when including subsidiaries in the consolidation for the first time in accordance
with Section 301 HGB. Companies were included in the consolidation for the first time on the respective date on which
the company became a subsidiary.
The book value of the shares held by the parent company was offset against the corresponding equity of the subsidiary.
Equity was carried at the amount of the fair value of the assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses, deferred income, and special
reserves included in the consolidated financial statements as of the time of consolidation. Any remaining positive bal-
ance was recorded as goodwill; any remaining negative balance was recorded as a difference from capital consolidation.
1.5 Currency translation
Assets and liabilities resulting from foreign currency transactions were translated using the average spot exchange rate
as of the balance sheet date. The realization principle (Section 298 (1) in conjunction with Section 252 (1) No. 4 half-
sentence 2 HGB) and the historical cost principle (Section 298 (1) in conjunction with Section 253 (1) sentence 1 HGB)
were applied to items with a remaining term of more than one year.
In these consolidated financial statements, the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries domiciled in a state outside
the eurozone that are denominated in a foreign currency have been converted into euros using the modified closing rate
method in accordance with Section 308a HGB.
Using the modified closing rate method, the asset and liability items of the annual financial statements prepared in
foreign currency were translated into euros using the average spot exchange rate as of the balance sheet date, with the
exception of equity, which was translated using the historical rate. Items included in the profit and loss statement were
translated into euros using the annual average rate. The resulting translation differences were reported within consoli-
dated equity below the reserves in “Balance sheet currency conversion difference”.
The exchange rates for the Group’s most important currencies changed as follows during the reporting year (basis:
1 EUR):
Spot rate Average rate
31.12.2022 31.12.2021 2022 2021
US dollar 1.07 1.13 1.05 1.18
Japanese yen 140.66 130.38 138.00 129.86
Chinese renminbi 7.36 7.19 7.08 7.6363
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements
2 Accounting policies
2.1 Fixed assets
Acquired intangible assets and property, plant, and equipment are carried at cost, less scheduled straight-line amortiza-
tion and depreciation determined under consideration of the technical and economic circumstances. This is based on
the following useful lives:
Goodwill 10 years
Other intangible assets 2 to 19 years
Buildings 20 years
Technical facilities and machines 10 years
Other facilities, operating equipment 3 to 10 years
Only straight-line depreciation and amortization are used in the consolidated financial statements. Additional write-
downs are recorded to reflect impairments when the value of assets is considered permanently impaired. Manufacturing
costs include materials and labor manufacturing costs, an appropriate portion of material and labor overheads and the
depreciation of fixed assets (to the extent caused by production). Manufacturing costs do not include financing costs.
All capitalized intangible assets have finite useful lives.
Financial assets primarily include investment securities, shareholder rights, and loans and were carried at the lower of
cost or fair market value, if impaired. In the event that the reasons for the impairment losses recognized in previous fi-
nancial years were no longer applicable, corresponding reversals were recorded.
2.2 Current assets, prepaid expenses, deferred income, and exceeding amount of
plan assets
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or fair market value.
Raw materials, consumables, and supplies are capitalized at the lower of average acquisition prices or fair market value
as of the balance sheet date.
Finished goods and work in progress are measured at manufacturing cost on the basis of individual calculations, taking
into account the directly attributable costs of materials, direct labor costs, special direct costs, an appropriate share of
material and production overhead costs, and production-related depreciation.
Goods for resale are measured at the lower of either acquisition cost or fair market value.64
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
All identifiable risks in inventories arising from above-average storage periods, diminished marketability, and lower
replacement costs were taken into account by recording appropriate valuation adjustments.
The measurement was carried out loss-free – that is, deductions were made from the expected sales prices to reflect
costs yet to be incurred.
Receivables and other assets were recognized at cost less allowances for specific risks and general credit risk. Low-
interest and non-interest-bearing receivables with a term of more than one year were discounted.
Securities classified as current assets solely include other securities and have been recognized at the lower of cost or, if
applicable, at the value resulting from the stock exchange or market prices as of the reporting date.
Cash and cash equivalents, consisting of cash, balances at banks, and checks, were recognized at the lower of cost or fair
market value.
Prepaid expenses recorded in accordance with Section 250 (1) HGB include expenses paid in advance in respect to a
defined period of time after the balance sheet date.
Deferred income recorded in accordance with Section 250 (2) HGB includes proceeds that represent income in respect
of a defined period of time after the balance sheet date.
The fair market value of pension plan assets and the corresponding present value of pension obligations have been off-
set according to German GAAP. The exceeding amount of plan assets has been capitalized separately.
2.3 Group reserves
Group reserves include the retained earnings of the consolidated subsidiaries from prior and current years and consoli-
dation entries that affect earnings.
2.4 Difference from capital consolidation
The difference from capital consolidation reported on December 31, 2022, was the result of the business swap of
Boehringer Ingelheim’s consumer healthcare business and Sanofi’s animal health business, which was completed on
January 1, 2017. This resulted in a difference from capital consolidation of 1,986 million EUR. The difference is amortized
over an estimated period of 15 years. The remaining balance of the difference amounted to 1,019 million EUR as of De-
cember 31, 2022.
The difference from capital consolidation was primarily influenced by the current year release of 141 million EUR. The
income from the release of the difference arising from capital consolidation is included in other operating income. The
release is made corresponding to the amortization of those assets of the acquired company identified in the purchase
price allocation not previously recognized in that company’s balance sheet.65
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements
2.5 Provisions
Tax provisions and other provisions include all uncertain liabilities and expected losses from executory contracts. They
were carried at the amount required to settle the obligation based on reasonable prudent commercial judgment (that is,
including future cost and price increases). Provisions with a remaining maturity of more than one year were discounted
using the matched-term, average market interest rate. In the case of pension provisions, this interest rate results from
the average market interest rate over the last ten years and in the case of other provisions from the average market inter-
est rate over the last seven years (in accordance with the “Rückstellungsabzinsungsverordnung”, German Regulation on
the Discounting of Provisions).
Since environmental protection measures are in some cases expected to result in a permanent burden, the relevant pro-
visions have been calculated on the basis of a perpetual annuity while taking into consideration cost and price increases
as well as interest effects. The current costs are adjusted for inflation on the basis of the average rate of change in the
producer price index for industrial products since the introduction of the euro in 2002. The ultimate forward rate (UFR)
provided by the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) is used for discounting.
2.6 Accounts payable and loans
Accounts payable and loans were recognized at their settlement amount.
2.7 Deferred taxes
To calculate deferred taxes arising from temporary or quasi-permanent differences between the carrying amounts of
assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses, and deferred income in the commercial balance sheet and their carrying amounts
for tax purposes or tax loss carryforwards, the amounts of the resulting tax benefits and expenses at the time that the
differences will reverse were measured using tax rates specific to the respective consolidated company (4 % to 35 %).
Deferred tax balances are not discounted. Differences due to consolidation measures in accordance with Sections 300
to 305 HGB were also measured using the company-specific tax rates applicable at the time of the expected reversal of
the difference. Deferred tax assets on loss carryforwards were taken into account if it is likely that they will be used with-
in the next five years.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities were reported without offsetting.66
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
3 Notes to the consolidated balance sheet
3.1 Intangible assets
Acquired
concessions / Advance
(in million EUR) similar rights Goodwill payments Total
Acquisition / manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2021 7,000 170 9 7,179
Currency conversion difference 244 2 0 246
Changes in consolidated companies 70 445 0 515
Additions 168 0 7 175
Disposals — 69 0 0 — 69
Reclassifications 9 0 — 9 0
Balance as of 31.12.2021 7,422 617 7 8,046
Currency conversion difference 183 2 0 185
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0
Additions 109 0 14 123
Disposals — 163 0 — 1 — 164
Reclassifications 6 0 — 3 3
Balance as of 31.12.2022 7,557 619 17 8,193
Accumulated amortization
Balance as of 1.1.2021 2,863 21 0 2,884
Currency conversion difference 104 0 0 104
Changes in consolidated companies — 23 0 0 — 23
Additions 469 56 0 525
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 68 0 0 — 68
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2021 3,345 77 0 3,422
Currency conversion difference 77 0 0 77
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0
Additions 725 62 0 787
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 163 0 0 — 163
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2022 3,984 139 0 4,123
Book value as of 31.12.2021 4,077 540 7 4,624
Book value as of 31.12.2022 3,573 480 17 4,07067
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements
3.2 Tangible assets
Other Advance
Technical facilities / payments /
Land and facilities and operating construction
(in million EUR) buildings machines equipment in progress Total
Acquisition / manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2021 4,107 4,007 2,463 1,756 12,333
Currency conversion difference 150 126 75 17 368
Changes in consolidated companies — 6 — 5 7 0 — 4
Additions 68 119 226 555 968
Disposals — 64 — 70 — 133 — 1 — 268
Reclassifications 268 364 477 — 1,109 0
Balance as of 31.12.2021 4,523 4,541 3,115 1,218 13,397
Currency conversion difference 74 42 36 17 169
Changes in consolidated companies — 5 — 3 0 0 — 8
Additions 140 61 174 646 1,021
Disposals — 44 — 58 — 72 — 6 — 180
Reclassifications 238 144 109 — 494 — 3
Balance as of 31.12.2022 4,926 4,727 3,362 1,381 14,396
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1.1.2021 2,408 2,970 1,905 0 7,283
Currency conversion difference 100 105 62 0 267
Changes in consolidated companies — 2 — 3 4 0 — 1
Additions 161 224 224 0 609
Write-ups 0 — 1 0 0 — 1
Disposals — 56 — 66 — 127 0 — 249
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2021 2,611 3,229 2,068 0 7,908
Currency conversion difference 47 29 29 0 105
Changes in consolidated companies — 1 — 2 0 0 — 3
Additions 175 250 267 1 693
Write-ups — 1 — 3 0 0 — 4
Disposals — 44 — 44 — 68 0 — 156
Reclassifications 7 — 9 2 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2022 2,794 3,450 2,298 1 8,543
Book value as of 31.12.2021 1,912 1,312 1,047 1,218 5,489
Book value as of 31.12.2022 2,132 1,277 1,064 1,380 5,85368
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
3.3 Financial assets
Investments Investments Loans to
in affiliated in related related Investment
(in million EUR) companies companies companies securities Other loans Total
Acquisition / manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2021 6 340 5 8,196 30 8,577
Currency conversion difference 1 4 0 1 1 7
Changes in consolidated companies 0 — 15 0 0 0 — 15
Additions 15 68 0 4,374 12 4,469
Disposals 0 — 11 — 3 — 21 — 8 — 43
Reclassifications 0 0 0 7 — 7 0
Balance as of 31.12.2021 22 386 2 12,557 28 12,995
Currency conversion difference 0 3 0 0 1 4
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 46 75 0 2,137 3 2,261
Disposals 0 0 0 — 1,630 — 2 — 1,632
Reclassifications 0 0 0 10 — 10 0
Balance as of 31.12.2022 68 464 2 13,074 20 13,628
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1.1.2021 0 13 0 8 3 24
Currency conversion difference 0 1 0 0 0 1
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 6 2 4 0 12
Write-ups 0 — 1 0 0 0 — 1
Disposals 0 — 3 0 0 — 2 — 5
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2021 0 16 2 12 1 31
Currency conversion difference 0 1 0 0 0 1
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 4 25 0 2 0 31
Write-ups 0 — 3 0 0 0 — 3
Disposals 0 0 0 — 4 0 — 4
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2022 4 39 2 10 1 56
Book value as of 31.12.2021 22 370 0 12,545 27 12,964
Book value as of 31.12.2022 64 425 0 13,064 19 13,572
As in the previous year, the “Other loans” item does not include any loans to shareholders.69
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements
3.4 Inventories
(in million EUR) 31.12.2022 31.12.2021
Raw materials and supplies 1,169 941
Unfinished goods 2,459 2,059
Finished goods and goods for resale 1,244 1,225
Advance payments to suppliers 14 12
4,886 4,237
3.5 Accounts receivable and other assets
Residual term Residual term
(in million EUR) 31.12.2022 over 1 year 31.12.2021 over 1 year
Trade accounts receivable 6,143 11 5,178 5
Receivables from affiliated companies 9 0 42 0
Receivables from related companies 39 0 24 0
Other assets 1,507 292 1,341 290
7,698 303 6,585 295
Receivables from affiliated companies almost exclusively consist of receivables from loans.
Receivables from related companies primarily consist of trade accounts receivable.
Other assets include receivables from shareholders of 42 million EUR (previous year: 5 million EUR).
3.6 Provisions
(in million EUR) 31.12.2022 31.12.2021
Pension provisions and similar obligations 6,900 6,190
Tax provisions 1,483 1,772
Other provisions 10,740 8,993
19,123 16,95570
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations
The provisions for pensions and similar obligations were determined on the basis of actuarial calculations using the
projected unit credit method, taking into account future adjustments in salaries and pensions.
In addition to local biometric data (in Germany, for example, 2018 G mortality tables published by Prof. Dr. Klaus Heubeck
which have been adjusted for group-specific death probabilities and invalidity rates), pension obligations in the signifi-
cant countries were calculated on the basis of the following actuarial parameters:
(in % as of December 31, 2022) Germany USA
Discount rate 1.78 3.53
Salary increase 3.50 4.90
Pension increase 2.20 0.00
Discount rates were determined by reference to average market rates for 15-year maturities in accordance with the
German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions of March 11, 2016. The interest rates used to discount significant
foreign pension obligations (USA) were determined with comparable parameters in line with the German Regulation on
the Discounting of Provisions of March 11, 2016.
The difference calculated in accordance with Section 253 (6) HGB amounts to 451 million EUR (previous year: 634 mil-
lion EUR).
The assets intended solely to cover pension and similar obligations that are unavailable to all other creditors (plan assets
as defined in Section 246 (2) sentence 2 HGB) were measured at fair market value, which is essentially derived from stock
market prices, and offset against the underlying pension and similar obligations. The fair market value of the plan assets
as of the balance sheet date was 1,729 million EUR. The related amount of pension obligations and similar obligations
was 8,610 million EUR.
Tax provisions
The tax provisions also include provisions for double taxation risks, which have resulted following the implementation
of the action plans of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) as part of their international
initiative known as the “Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting” (BEPS).71
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Other provisions
Other provisions mainly include provisions for discounts and guarantees, personnel-related provisions, provisions for
outstanding invoices, provisions for litigation, legal claims, and compensation for damages.
3.7 Accounts payable and loans
Residual term Residual term
less than thereof over less than
(in million EUR) 1 year over 1 year 5 years 31.12.2022 31.12.2021 1 year
Bank loans 196 4 0 200 312 308
Other accounts payable 1,996 77 36 2,073 1,912 1,831
thereof:
- Trade accounts payable 1,160 1 0 1,161 965 963
– Advance payments received 248 16 9 264 288 267
– Accounts payable
to affiliated companies 13 0 0 13 11 6
– Accounts payable
to related companies 2 0 0 2 1 1
– Other liabilities * 573 60 27 633 647 594
2,192 81 36 2,273 2,224 2,139
* thereof:
– from taxes (in million EUR) 251 243
– social security liabilities (in million EUR) 37 29
As in the previous year, there were no liabilities secured by mortgages or similar collateral rights as of the balance
sheet date.
At the end of the year, liabilities to shareholders amounted to 150 million EUR (previous year: 204 million EUR). These
are presented within the other liabilities.
Accounts payable to affiliated companies include loans amounting to 8 million EUR (previous year: 4 million EUR) and
trade accounts payable amounting to 5 million EUR (previous year: 7 million EUR).72
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
4 Notes to the consolidated profit and loss
s tatement
The structure of the consolidated profit and loss statement is based on the total cost format. Other taxes are included in
other operating expenses.
4.1 Net sales
by business (in million EUR) 2022 2021
Human Pharma 18,461 15,294
Animal Health 4,559 4,295
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 1,024 917
Other sales 42 33
Discontinued Operations 63 79
24,149 20,618
by region (in million EUR) 2022 2021
Americas 11,470 9,147
Europe 7,543 6,554
Asia / Australia / Africa (AAA) 5,136 4,917
24,149 20,618
4.2 Other operating income
Other operating income includes foreign currency gains of 1,836 million EUR (previous year: 1,746 million EUR).
4.3 Cost of materials
(in million EUR) 2022 2021
Costs of raw material, supplies, and goods for resale 2,419 2,164
Expenditure on services 553 662
2,972 2,82673
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements
4.4 Personnel expenses
(in million EUR) 2022 2021
Wages and salaries 5,105 4,668
Social benefits and retirement benefits 1,515 1,024
thereof: retirement benefits 608 228
6,620 5,692
Interest effects of the measurement of the provisions for pensions and similar obligations are shown under financial
income.
Average headcount 2022 2021
Production 16,394 16,181
Marketing and sales 16,738 17,560
Research and development 10,691 10,109
Administration 8,572 7,792
Apprentices 760 749
53,155 52,391
4.5 Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets
Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets include impairment losses of 268 million EUR
(previous year: 33 million EUR).
4.6 Other operating expenses
Other operating expenses include foreign currency losses of 2,216 million EUR (previous year: 1,765 million EUR).
Furthermore, other operating expenses include expenses for research and development, medical studies, marketing,
freight, expenses for third party repairs and other services, cost for legal risks and restructurings, administrative expens-
es as well as contributions, fees or other taxes.74
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
4.7 Financial income
(in million EUR) 2022 2021
Interest expenses and similar expenses — 753 — 430
Amortization of and loss on disposal of financial fixed assets and short-term investments — 3 — 5
Income from other investment securities and from long-term loans 69 83
Other interest income and similar income 48 15
— 639 — 337
The “Interest expenses and similar expenses” item includes the interest result from provisions for pensions and similar
obligations and other provisions in the amount of 663 million EUR (previous year: 377 million EUR) as well as other
interest expenses and similar expenses in the amount of 90 million EUR (previous year: 53 million EUR).
Gains and losses from plan assets and interest expense relating to pension and similar obligations were offset in
accordance with Section 246 (2) sentence 2 HGB. In total, 438 million EUR in interest expense from plan assets and
212 million EUR in interest expense relating to pension and similar obligations are included under “Interest expenses
and similar expenses”.
4.8 Holding income
(in million EUR) 2022 2021
Write-downs on financial assets — 29 — 8
Write-ups of financial assets 3 1
Income from related companies 6 7
thereof: from disposal of related companies 0 3
— 20 0
4.9 Income taxes
(in million EUR) 2022 2021
Current income taxes 1,518 1,308
Deferred taxes — 588 — 346
930 962
Current income taxes primarily include the corporation and trade tax expenses of the consolidated companies.75
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements
The total balance of deferred tax assets as of the balance sheet date amounted to 4,182 million EUR (previous year:
3,543 million EUR). Deferred tax assets primarily arise on the difference between the carrying amounts of provisions
for pension obligations and for discounts, taxable goodwill, intangible assets, inventories, and tangible assets. Deferred
tax liabilities of 640 million EUR (previous year: 631 million EUR) were recorded. These primarily relate to differences
between the carrying amounts of intangible assets, tangible assets, inventories, and provisions.
4.10 Net income
The net income for 2022 was positively influenced by non-period income (primarily from the reversal of other provisions)
in the amount of 659 million EUR (previous year: 609 million EUR) and was negatively influenced by non-period expens-
es (in particular additional expenses related to other provisions) in the amount of 233 million EUR (previous year:
281 million EUR).
5 Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement
The consolidated cash flow statement shows the changes in financial funds of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group resulting
from cash inflows and outflows in the reporting year. Financial funds contain cash and cash equivalents as well as secu-
rities that can be converted into cash in the short-term.
The changes in the balance sheet items of the affiliated companies included were translated using average rates for the
year. As on the balance sheet, financial funds are carried at the spot rate. The effect of exchange rate changes on the
financial funds has been shown separately.
The financial funds as of December 31, 2022 comprised the following items:
(in million EUR) 31.12.2022
Cash and cash equivalents 1,880
Securities classified as current assets 17
1,897
The financial funds included 10 million EUR in restricted funds as of the balance sheet date.76
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
6 Other disclosures
6.1 Contingent liabilities
(in million EUR) 31.12.2022 31.12.2021
Liabilities from guarantees 31 71
Warranties and the granting of securities for third-party liabilities 11 56
42 127
Contingent liabilities will only be assumed after careful risk assessment and only in connection with the own business
activities or those of the affiliated companies. The risk of a call on the contingent liabilities was assessed as low based
on the information available as of the balance sheet date. Risks where the probability of availment was reasonable as of
the balance sheet date were recorded as a provision.
6.2 Other financial commitments and off-balance sheet transactions
(in million EUR) 31.12.2022 31.12.2021
Rental and lease obligations 417 477
Residual other financial commitments 1,842 1,265
2,259 1,742
Within the rental and lease obligations, 11 million EUR (previous year: 17 million EUR) relate to long-term rental
agreements with subsidiaries not included in the consolidation.
The purpose of the lease agreements is the lower capital commitment compared to buying property and the absence of
the resale risk. Risks could arise from the term of the lease should it not be possible to continue to utilize the properties
fully. There are no such indications at this time.
The residual other financial commitments include investments with future effects on cash flows of 1,310 million EUR
(previous year: 868 million EUR).
6.3 Derivative financial instruments and valuation units
Due to its extensive international structure, the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is highly dependent on developments in the
world’s currencies and interest rates. To hedge these risks, particularly those emerging from delivery of goods, services,
and financing, currency forwards and options are generally used for currency risks. Interest rate swaps and options are
used for interest rate risks.
The use of derivative financial instruments and the organizational processes are set out in internal guidelines. There is a
strict separation between trading, processing, documentation, and control.77
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Risk positions are regularly tracked, analyzed, and measured in a special Group-wide financial report. The positions
entered into are periodically reevaluated and monitored. The fair value of the derivative financial instruments is calculated
using generally accepted market valuation methods (currency forwards based on the present value method) taking into
account the market data as of the balance sheet date.
Provisions of 73 million EUR were recognized for currency forwards not included in hedge accounting for which there was
a negative fair value within one currency as of the balance sheet date. In line with the imparity principle, positive fair
values within one currency are not recognized.
On the balance sheet date, the derivative financial instruments not included in hedge accounting valuation units were
as follows:
Nominal value Fair value
(in million EUR) 31.12.2022 31.12.2021 31.12.2022 31.12.2021
Foreign exchange forward contracts 8,898 6,923 — 23 — 41
To the extent that the requirements for hedge accounting of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with highly
probable forecast transactions in accordance with Section 254 HGB are met, the foreign currency forward exchange
contracts are not recognized in the balance sheet in line with the net hedge presentation method.
The following accounting policies apply to the recognition of valuation units in accordance with Section 254 HGB:
Economic hedges are accounted for in the financial statements by the use of valuation units. The valuation units are
recognized for each foreign currency based on the net amount of highly probable forecasted transactions and currency
forwards that match the forecasted net cash flow in terms of maturity, nominal amount and foreign currency (macro
hedge). The highly probable forecasted transactions (incoming and outgoing payments for planned sales and purchases)
are derived from company planning. Ex-post analysis of planning has shown that the planned transactions are highly
probable.
The opposing changes in value of the hedged item and the hedging instrument are fully offset as the critical terms
(m aturity, nominal amount, and foreign currency) match. An effective hedge can therefore be assumed both prospectively
and retrospectively. The critical term match method is exclusively used to measure the prospective and retrospective
effectiveness of hedges. Excess amounts under hedging transactions are not included in the valuation units.78
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
As of December 31, 2022, hedges for highly probable forecasted net cash flows were recognized as follows:
January to December 2023:
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 2,463USD 2,712USD — 165
JPY 1,201JPY 967JPY 43
AUD 161AUD 129AUD 0
MXN 133MXN 36MXN — 4
CAD 335CAD 250CAD 7
GBP 184GBP 131GBP 3
January to December 2024:
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 2,725USD 1,829USD — 69
JPY 1,183JPY 560JPY 0
AUD 22AUD 14AUD 0
MXN 20MXN 4MXN 0
CAD 44CAD 37CAD 1
GBP 41GBP 27GBP 1
January to December 2025 (USD) and January to May 2025 (JPY):
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 2,699USD 773USD — 36
JPY 540JPY 123JPY — 2
January to February 2026:
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 1,017USD 144USD — 479
Consolidated Financial Statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Furthermore, as of December 31, 2022, valuation units for foreign currency receivables were recognized as follows:
Receivables (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
RUB 29RUB 14RUB — 3
As of December 31, 2022, valuation units for foreign currency receivables resulting from loans were recognized as
follows:
Receivables (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
CAD 27CAD 27CAD 2
CHF 17CHF 17CHF — 1
CNY 43CNY 43CNY 0
MXN 350MXN 350MXN 11
THB 41THB 41THB — 1
TWD 18TWD 18TWD 0
USD 72USD 72USD 1
The amount of the hedged foreign currency risk correlates to the relative change in the exchange rate between the plan-
ning date and the realization date of the forecasted transactions. If all currencies were to appreciate or depreciate against
the euro by 10.0 % , there would be a foreign currency risk of +/-1,337 million EUR without hedging.
6.4 Research and development expenses
(in million EUR) 2022 2021
Research and development expenses 5,047 4,127
Non-capitalized research and development expenses include, among other items, the costs associated with clinical
studies.80
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
6.5 Total auditor fees
Total fees charged to the Group by the auditor for the financial year amounted to 8.5 million EUR. Of which, 1.8 million
EUR relates to audits of financial statements, 0.9 million EUR to other assurance services, 1.7 million EUR to tax adviso-
ry services and 4.1 million EUR to other services.
6.6 Subsequent events
Since the end of the 2022 financial year, we have not become aware of any events that are of material significance to the
Group or that could lead to a reappraisal of its net assets, financial and earnings position.
6.7 Shareholdings
The list of companies included in the consolidated financial statements and the list of shareholdings presented in ac-
cordance with Section 313 (2) HGB are included in the audited consolidated financial statements submitted to the
German Federal Gazette.
Ingelheim am Rhein, 28 February 2023
Boehringer AG
Board of Managing Directors
Hubertus von Baumbach Carinne Knoche-Brouillon Dr. Michel Pairet
Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok Michael Schmelmer81
Consolidated Financial Statements — Independent auditor’s report
Independent auditor’s report
To C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
Qualified Audit Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements and Audit Opinion on the Group Management Report
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein and
its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2022, the consolidated
profit and loss statement, cash flow statement and statement of changes in group equity for the financial year from
1 January to 31 December 2022, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including the recognition and
measurement policies presented therein. In addition, we have audited the group management report of C.H. Boehringer
Sohn AG & Co. KG for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2022.
In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in the audit,
• except for the effects of the matter described in section “Basis for the Qualified Audit Opinion on the Consolidated
Financial Statements and the Audit Opinion on the Group Management Report” the accompanying consolidated
financial statements comply, in all material respects, with the requirements of German commercial law and give a
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, and financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2022, and of its
financial performance for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2022 in compliance with German Legally
Required Accounting Principles, and
• the accompanying group management report as a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position. In all
material respects, this group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies
with German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development.
Pursuant to Section 322 (3) sentence 1 HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch: German Commercial Code], we declare that, except for
the qualification of the audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements mentioned, our audit has not led to any
reservations relating to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management
report.
Basis for the Qualified Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Audit Opinion on the Group Manage-
ment Report
Contrary to Section 314 (1) number 6 letters a) and b) HGB the total remuneration granted to the members and the
former members of the board of managing directors as well as the pension provisions recognized and not recognized for
the former members of the board of managing directors are not disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial
statements.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report in accordance
with Section 317 HGB and in compliance with German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Audits
promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW). Our responsibilities
under those requirements and principles are further described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Consolidated Financial Statements and of the Group Management Report” section of our auditor’s report. We are inde-
pendent of the group entities in accordance with the requirements of German commercial and professional law, and we
have fulfilled our other German professional responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions on the consolidated
financial statements and on the group management report.82
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Other Information
Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the annual report, with the
exception of the audited consolidated financial statements and group management report and our auditor's report.
Our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report do not cover the other
information, and consequently we do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in so doing, to consider whether the
other information
• is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements, with the group management report audited for
content or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or
• otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Responsibilities of Management for the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Group Management Report
Management is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that comply, in all material
respects, with the requirements of German commercial law and that the consolidated financial statements, in compli-
ance with German Legally Required Accounting Principles, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial
position, and financial performance of the Group. In addition, management is responsible for such internal control as
they, in accordance with German Legally Required Accounting Principles, have determined necessary to enable the
preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud
(i.e., fraudulent financial reporting and misappropriation of assets) or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to
continue as a going concern. They also have the responsibility for disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern. In addition, they are responsible for financial reporting based on the going concern basis of accounting provided
no actual or legal circumstances conflict therewith.
Furthermore, management is responsible for the preparation of the group management report that, as a whole, provides
an appropriate view of the Group’s position and is, in all material respects, consistent with the consolidated financial
statements, complies with German legal requirements, and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future
development. In addition, management is responsible for such arrangements and measures (systems) as they have
considered necessary to enable the preparation of a group management report that is in accordance with the applicable
German legal requirements, and to be able to provide sufficient appropriate evidence for the assertions in the group
management report.83
Consolidated Financial Statements — Independent auditor’s report
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the Group Management Report
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and whether the group management report as a whole
provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and, in all material respects, is consistent with the consolidated
financial statements and the knowledge obtained in the audit, complies with the German legal requirements and appro-
priately presents the opportunities and risks of future development, as well as to issue an auditor’s report that includes
our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
Section 317 HGB and in compliance with German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Audits
promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) will always detect a material misstatement. Misstatements can
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected
to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements and this
group management report.
We exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements and of the group
management report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting a material misstate-
ment resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the
override of internal controls.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of
arrangements and measures (systems) relevant to the audit of the group management report in order to design audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effec-
tiveness of these systems.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by management and the reasonableness of estimates made
by management and related disclosures.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty
exists, we are required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated finan-
cial statements and in the group management report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our respective
opinions. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However,
future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to be able to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements present the underlying transactions and events in a
manner that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position
and financial performance of the Group in compliance with German Legally Required Accounting Principles.84
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
within the Group to express audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management
report. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely
responsible for our audit opinions.
• Evaluate the consistency of the group management report with the consolidated financial statements, its conformity
with German law, and the view of the Group’s position it provides.
• Perform audit procedures on the prospective information presented by management in the group management
report. On the basis of sufficient appropriate audit evidence we evaluate, in particular, the significant assumptions
used by management as a basis for the prospective information, and evaluate the proper derivation of the prospective
information from these assumptions. We do not express a separate opinion on the prospective information and on
the assumptions used as a basis. There is a substantial unavoidable risk that future events will differ materially from
the prospective information.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of
the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during
our audit.
Frankfurt am Main, 28 February 2023
KPMG AG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
[Original German version signed by:]
Signed Kneisel Signed Bernau
Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin
[German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor]85
Consolidated Financial Statements — Independent auditor’s report86
Boehringer Ingelheim — Annual Report 2022
Comparison of balance sheet and
financial data 2013 — 2022
Assets (as of December 31)
in million EUR 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Intangible assets 582 592 606 550 5,372 5,120 4,882 4,295 4,624 4,070
Tangible assets 2,887 3,070 3,264 3,045 3,867 4,280 4,754 5,050 5,489 5,853
Financial assets 4,737 5,312 5,933 6,092 5,830 6,058 9,162 8,553 12,964 13,572
Fixed assets 8,206 8,974 9,803 9,687 15,069 15,458 18,798 17,898 23,077 23,495
Inventories 2,083 2,237 2,483 2,610 3,087 3,312 3,563 3,863 4,237 4,886
Accounts receivable and other assets (incl. prepaid expenses,
deferred taxes and exceeding amount of plan assets) 5,131 5,546 6,463 6,837 7,159 7,815 8,924 9,021 10,759 12,220
Financial funds 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005 3,071 4,303 2,195 6,105 2,546 1,897
Current and other assets 10,093 11,077 13,482 16,452 13,317 15,430 14,682 18,989 17,542 19,003
Total assets 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 33,480 36,887 40,619 42,498
Equity and Liabilities (as of December 31)
in million EUR 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Shareholders’ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178
Group reserves (incl. balance sheet currency conversion difference) 5,619 6,884 7,844 9,296 10,703 10,080 11,781 14,066 15,746 15,825
Group profit 1,324 1,047 1,577 1,853 — 223 2,075 2,721 3,062 3,406 3,181
Equity attributable to the parent company 7,121 8,109 9,599 11,327 10,658 12,333 14,680 17,306 19,330 19,184
Non-controlling interests 1 2 4 0 — 1 1 1 1 1 1
Group equity 7,122 8,111 9,603 11,327 10,657 12,334 14,681 17,307 19,331 19,185
Difference from capital consolidation 104 91 71 52 1,729 1,511 1,471 1,283 1,159 1,019
Provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 7,817 8,840 10,543 12,233 13,482 14,438 15,172 16,000 17,586 19,763
Liabilities (incl. deferred income) 3,256 3,009 3,068 2,527 2,518 2,605 2,156 2,297 2,543 2,531
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred income) 11,073 11,849 13,611 14,760 16,000 17,043 17,328 18,297 20,129 22,294
Total equity and liabilities 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 33,480 36,887 40,619 42,498
Summary of selected financial data
in million EUR 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Net sales 14,065 13,317 14,798 15,850 18,056 17,498 18,997 19,566 20,618 24,149
Operating income 2,114 2,140 2,269 2,872 3,487 3,472 3,782 4,624 4,705 4,770
Operating income as % of net sales 15.0 16.1 15.3 18.1 19.3 19.8 19.9 23.6 22.8 19.8
Income after taxes 1,324 1,046 1,576 1,849 — 229 2,075 2,721 3,062 3,406 3,181
Income after taxes as % of net sales 9.4 7.9 10.7 11.7 — 1.3 11.9 14.3 15.6 16.5 13.2
Equity ratio (in %) 38.9 40.4 41.2 43.3 37.5 39.9 43.8 46.9 47.6 45.1
Cash flow from operating activities 1,819 2,015 2,232 2,888 2,624 2,988 3,344 3,963 3,846 4,746
Financial funds 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005 3,071 4,303 2,195 6,105 2,546 1,897
Personnel expenses 4,071 4,116 4,518 4,570 4,934 5,276 5,367 5,587 5,692 6,620
Personnel expenses as % of net sales 28.9 30.9 30.5 28.8 27.3 30.2 28.3 28.6 27.6 27.4
Average number of employees 47,492 47,743 47,501 45,692 49,610 50,333 51,015 51,944 52,391 53,155
Research and development expenses 2,743 2,654 3,004 3,112 3,078 3,164 3,462 3,696 4,127 5,047
R&D as % of net sales 19.5 19.9 20.3 19.6 17.0 18.1 18.2 18.9 20.0 20.9
Investments in tangible assets 558 548 591 645 872 950 1,073 1,046 968 1,021
Depreciation of tangible assets 640 449 475 516 521 552 585 602 609 69387
Imprint
Assets (as of December 31)
C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG
in million EUR 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Binger Strasse 173
Intangible assets 582 592 606 550 5,372 5,120 4,882 4,295 4,624 4,070
55216 Ingelheim am Rhein
Tangible assets 2,887 3,070 3,264 3,045 3,867 4,280 4,754 5,050 5,489 5,853 Germany
Financial assets 4,737 5,312 5,933 6,092 5,830 6,058 9,162 8,553 12,964 13,572 Telephone + 49 6132 77-0
Fax + 49 6132 72-0
Fixed assets 8,206 8,974 9,803 9,687 15,069 15,458 18,798 17,898 23,077 23,495
Inventories 2,083 2,237 2,483 2,610 3,087 3,312 3,563 3,863 4,237 4,886
Contact
Accounts receivable and other assets (incl. prepaid expenses,
Corporate Affairs
deferred taxes and exceeding amount of plan assets) 5,131 5,546 6,463 6,837 7,159 7,815 8,924 9,021 10,759 12,220
Matthias Reinig
Financial funds 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005 3,071 4,303 2,195 6,105 2,546 1,897
press@boehringer-ingelheim.com
Current and other assets 10,093 11,077 13,482 16,452 13,317 15,430 14,682 18,989 17,542 19,003 boehringer-ingelheim.com
Total assets 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 33,480 36,887 40,619 42,498
Issued by
Equity and Liabilities (as of December 31) C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG
represented by the Board of Managing Directors:
in million EUR 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Hubertus von Baumbach (Chair),
Shareholders’ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 Carinne Brouillon, Dr. Michel Pairet,
Group reserves (incl. balance sheet currency conversion difference) 5,619 6,884 7,844 9,296 10,703 10,080 11,781 14,066 15,746 15,825 Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok, Michael Schmelmer
Group profit 1,324 1,047 1,577 1,853 — 223 2,075 2,721 3,062 3,406 3,181
Concept, design and layout
Equity attributable to the parent company 7,121 8,109 9,599 11,327 10,658 12,333 14,680 17,306 19,330 19,184
3st kommunikation GmbH, Mainz
Non-controlling interests 1 2 4 0 — 1 1 1 1 1 1
www.3st.de
Group equity 7,122 8,111 9,603 11,327 10,657 12,334 14,681 17,307 19,331 19,185
Difference from capital consolidation 104 91 71 52 1,729 1,511 1,471 1,283 1,159 1,019
Photos
Provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 7,817 8,840 10,543 12,233 13,482 14,438 15,172 16,000 17,586 19,763
Andreas Reeg (Seite 2), Urban Zintel (Seite 4, 5)
Liabilities (incl. deferred income) 3,256 3,009 3,068 2,527 2,518 2,605 2,156 2,297 2,543 2,531
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred income) 11,073 11,849 13,611 14,760 16,000 17,043 17,328 18,297 20,129 22,294 Copyright
Total equity and liabilities 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 33,480 36,887 40,619 42,498 © C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, 2023
All rights reserved. No part of this Annual Report 2022 may be
Summary of selected financial data reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic
or photocopy, without permission in writing from C.H. Boehringer
in million EUR 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Sohn AG & Co. KG. Figures from third parties used in the annual
Net sales 14,065 13,317 14,798 15,850 18,056 17,498 18,997 19,566 20,618 24,149 report are based on data available at the time the financial state-
ments were drawn up.
Operating income 2,114 2,140 2,269 2,872 3,487 3,472 3,782 4,624 4,705 4,770
Operating income as % of net sales 15.0 16.1 15.3 18.1 19.3 19.8 19.9 23.6 22.8 19.8
Income after taxes 1,324 1,046 1,576 1,849 — 229 2,075 2,721 3,062 3,406 3,181
Income after taxes as % of net sales 9.4 7.9 10.7 11.7 — 1.3 11.9 14.3 15.6 16.5 13.2
Equity ratio (in %) 38.9 40.4 41.2 43.3 37.5 39.9 43.8 46.9 47.6 45.1
Cash flow from operating activities 1,819 2,015 2,232 2,888 2,624 2,988 3,344 3,963 3,846 4,746
Financial funds 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005 3,071 4,303 2,195 6,105 2,546 1,897
Personnel expenses 4,071 4,116 4,518 4,570 4,934 5,276 5,367 5,587 5,692 6,620
Personnel expenses as % of net sales 28.9 30.9 30.5 28.8 27.3 30.2 28.3 28.6 27.6 27.4
Average number of employees 47,492 47,743 47,501 45,692 49,610 50,333 51,015 51,944 52,391 53,155
Research and development expenses 2,743 2,654 3,004 3,112 3,078 3,164 3,462 3,696 4,127 5,047
R&D as % of net sales 19.5 19.9 20.3 19.6 17.0 18.1 18.2 18.9 20.0 20.9
Investments in tangible assets 558 548 591 645 872 950 1,073 1,046 968 1,021
Depreciation of tangible assets 640 449 475 516 521 552 585 602 609 693