ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Living our goals
LIVING I N N O V AT I O N
LIVING C A R E
LIVING R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y
LIVING I N D E P E N D E N C E
Value through Innovationcontent
OUR COMPANY P. 05 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO P. 88
06 The shareholders’ perspective 90 BRANDED PRESCRIPTION
10 Key aspects 2013 MEDICINES
15 Corporate bodies 90 Respiratory diseases
16 Highlights in medicine in 2013 92 Cardiovascular diseases
20 Living innovation 96 Metabolic diseases
24 Living care 96 Oncology
28 Living responsibility 98 Diseases of the central
32 Living independence nervous system
98 Infectious diseases
100 CONSUMER HEALTH CARE
100 Cough and cold
GROUP MANAGEMENT P. 36 102 Sore throat
REPORT
102 Pain
104 Gastrointestinal diseases
38 Information about the
106 Vitamins and supplements
group of companies
108 Leg vein health
48 Report on economic position
108 Urological diseases
53 Report on post-balance sheet
date events
110 ANIMAL HEALTH
53 Risk report
110 Food producing animals –
56 Report on expected
swine
developments
110 Food producing animals –
poultry
112 Food producing animals –
CONSOLIDATED P. 58
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS cattle
114 Companion animals –
60 Overview of the major horse
consolidated companies 116 Companion animals –
62 Consolidated balance sheet small animals
63 Consolidated profit and loss
statement
64 Cash flow statement
65 Statement of changes in
group equity
66 Notes to the consolidated
financial statements
86 Auditor’s reportLiving our goals
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
LIVING INNOVATION P. 20
LIVING CARE P. 24
LIVING RESPONSIBILITY P. 28
LIVING INDEPENDENCE P. 32
tnetnocboehringer ingelheim group
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2013
Amounts in millions of EUR, unless otherwise indicated 2013 2012 Change
Net sales 14,065 14,691 — 4%
by region
Europe 30% 29%
Americas 46% 47%
Asia, Australia, Africa 24% 24%
by business
Prescription Medicines 77% 78%
Consumer Health Care 11% 10%
Animal Health 8% 7%
Biopharmaceuticals 3% 4%
Industrial Customers and other sales 1% 1%
Research and development 2,743 2,795 — 2%
Personnel costs 4,071 4,024 + 1%
Average number of employees 47,492 46,228 + 3%
Operating income 2,114 1,853 + 14%
Operating income as % of net sales 15.0% 12.6%
Income after taxes 1,324 1,237 + 7%
Income after taxes as % of net sales 9.4% 8.4%
Shareholders’ equity 7,122 6,178 + 15%
Return on shareholders’ equity 21.4% 16.6%
Cash flow 2,129 2,225 – 4%
Investments in tangible assets 558 562 – 1%
Depreciation of tangible assets 640 793 – 19%
Top 4 products — Prescription Medicines Top 4 products — Consumer Health Care
Net sales 2013 in millions of EUR Change Net sales 2013 in millions of EUR Change
spiriva® 3,552 0% buscopan® 205 – 3%
micardis® 1,373 – 15% dulcolax® 191 – 1%
pradaxa® 1,206 + 9% mucosolvan® 184 + 11%
combivent® 711 – 13% pharmaton® 139 + 2%V
OUR COMPANY
The Boehringer Ingelheim group is one of the world’s 20 lead­
ing pharmaceutical companies. Headquartered in Ingelheim,
Germany, Boehringer Ingelheim operates globally with 142 af­
filiates and a total of more than 47,400 employees. The focus
of the family­owned company, founded in 1885, is researching,
developing, manufacturing and marketing new medications
of high therapeutic value for human and veterinary medicine.
Taking social responsibility is an important element of our
corporate culture at Boehringer Ingelheim. This includes
worldwide involvement in social projects, such as our initiative
“Making More Health”, and caring for our own employees.
Respect, equal opportunities and reconciling career and family
form the foundation of our mutual cooperation. In everything
it does, the company focuses on environmental protection
and sustainability.
5the shareholders’ perspective
THE SHAREHOLDERS’
PERSPECTIVE
CHRISTIAN BOEHRINGER
Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee
As the shareholder family of Boehringer Ingelheim, we have determined
the path our company has taken and given our continued support for almost
130 years. We create a sound financial structure and are committed to
providing a long­term strategy. We thereby offer the prerequisites for
sta bility, profitability and sustainable growth. It was the founder of our com­
pany, Albert Boehringer, who laid the foundations of all this. It is to him
that w e have therefore dedicated the chapter “Living Independence” in this
Annual Report.
Independence is our paramount objective and for this reason is firmly
anchored in our understanding of who we are at Boehringer Ingelheim. Our
company also stands for innovation, care and responsibility. We have
included some excellent examples in this Annual Report: a research scientist
6 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013business year 2013 the shareholder’s perspective
at the Research Institute of Molecular Pathology in Vienna, which is sup­
ported by Boehringer Ingelheim, a patient in Australia, and an employee in
Italy who is actively involved in Boehringer Ingelheim’s social projects.
But what do these values mean to us as shareholders?
Innovation has been the driver of growth for our company right from the very
start, true to our vision “Value through innovation”. It began with the pro­
duction of tartaric and lactic acid, followed by the first medicines, and then
in 1917 the research department was set up. In the 1980s, Boehringer Ingel­
heim was one of the pioneers in the field of biopharmaceuticals. Today, we
have pharmaceutical products in our portfolio for various therapeutic areas
such as respiratory diseases, cardiovascular diseases, metabolism, oncology,
disorders of the central nervous system, and immunology. In the next two
years alone, we are planning to launch twelve new medicines for the treatment
of widely differing indications.
These successes would have been unthinkable without our own intense
research and development. For many years, we have also placed a high value
on collaboration with external partners in the fields of science and industry,
frequently relatively small biotechnology firms. We thus provide a platform
for the transfer of knowledge and expertise from which both parties benefit.
Examples of this include the collaboration with the Research Institute of
Molecular Pathology (IMP) in Vienna, the scientific collaboration with the
University of Dresden, and collaboration with firms such as Circuit Thera­
peutics in California.
The guiding principle of our research and development work is to meet the
medical needs of the patients. Our goal is to supply medicines that will help
them and provide them new, more effective and efficient therapy options.
This is what we mean when we speak of caring. As an ethical company, we
thereby focus not only on medicines with high sales potential, but also carry
out r esearch into medicines for the treatment of rare diseases. For example,
it is possible that our compound nintedanib may be used for the treatment
of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, and for AML, a rare form of leukaemia, we
are currently testing the compound volasertib.
7the shareholders’ perspective
A fundamental aspect of how we see ourselves is to assume responsibility
for other people, and this is not limited to our corporate activities. For
Boehringer Ingelheim, our social responsibility and commitment to society
have many facets and have been an integral part of our corporate philoso­
phy since the very beginning. For example, we have made our compound
nevirapine, for the prevention of HIV transmission from mother to child
during birth, available free of charge in developing countries for more than
ten years. We have also made it possible for generic manufacturers to pro­
duce and market nevirapine without demanding licence fees. In this way, we
have helped to ensure that the availability of the medicines to combat HIV/
AIDS is no longer a price issue.
In the “Making More Health” initiative, we are working with the non­profit
organisation Ashoka to promote sustainable health initiatives worldwide.
To this end, “Making More Health” supports social entrepreneurs in the
healthcare field around the globe who are searching for new and better ways
of improving health or helping people to obtain easier access to medical
solutions.
We also live the matter of responsibility in our everyday work. The way we
deal with each other in our company is characterised by mutual respect and
responsibility for others. Each individual contributes in their po sition to
creating value through innovation, accepting responsibility for their actions,
and being there for others. This is not only true when things are going very
well, but also when times are more difficult, as we have seen in the financial
year just ended.
2013 was not an easy year. The complaints made by the US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) about our quality assurance processes in Ingelheim
presented us with major challenges. Members of our staff have subsequently
done an exceptional job of establishing the prerequisites for a follow­up
inspection in the shortest of time. However, we will remain occupied with
the revision and optimisation of our quality systems in the years ahead.
8 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013business year 2013 key aspects 2013
We would like to thank all members of our staff and the Board of Managing
Directors of course for their great commitment and efforts for the company
in 2013.
Looking back at last year, there is also much to report of a pleasing nature: we
have successfully entered the therapeutic area of oncology and have further
developed the fields of diabetes and respiratory diseases. New products also
were added in Animal Health and Consumer Health Care. Overall, we have
once again created the basis to ensure our continuing long­term success.
2014 is certain to be another challenging year. However, we can just as cer­
tainly look forward in confidence to the future, as Boehringer Ingelheim is
very well positioned to master these challenges. Together, we will continue
to work successfully in 2014 to live our goals and thus to attain our supreme
goal: our independence as a family­owned company.
signed by
christian boehringer
chairman of the shareholders’ committee
9key aspects 2013
KEY ASPECTS 2013
ALLAN HILLGROVE, JOACHIM HASENMAIER,
ANDREAS BARNER, HUBERTUS VON BAUMBACH,
WOLFGANG BAIKER (from left to right),
the Board of Managing Directors
We look back on the previous financial year from two different angles. On the one
hand, seen from a local viewpoint, we have grown – albeit moderately. And, in com­
parison with the previous year, we have increased both our result in absolute terms
and our profi tability distinctly, despite having been forced to absorb considerable
negative currency effects.
On the other hand, 2013 was not an easy year for Boehringer Ingelheim. The reasons
for this include the complaints made about our quality assurance processes at the
production facility in Ingelheim by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and
the closing of our US facility in Bedford, Ohio. The fact that our growth was weaker by
comparison with previous years was the result of an increasingly difficult market
environment – in Europe, for example, but also in the USA and Japan. In view of such
challenges, 2013 was a year of transition for Boehringer Ingelheim.
10 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013business year 2013
The decisive factor is that Boehringer Ingelheim and its entire workforce were able
to face these challenges successfully to make the necessary changes and thus lay the
foundations for a positive development in the years ahead.
Achievements in research and development
Our research and development has a large number of achievements to show, par­
ticularly as we have expanded our product portfolio yet again. With our compound
afatinib we have now successfully entered the field of oncology, which, in addition
to diabetes, is now the second new therapeutic area for Boehringer Ingelheim. Afatinib
is used for the targeted treatment of lung cancer and was put on the US market in 2013
under the name of gilotrif®. The launch has also begun now in the European Union.
For our novel oncology compound nintedanib, a phase III clinical trial has shown that
this is the first treatment for lung cancer that, in combination with chemotherapy, can
extend the life of patients with adenocarcinoma in whom the initial treatment has failed
by more than a year.
In the field of diabetes, we have successfully completed key phase III trials for the com­
pound empagliflozin and have submitted an application for international marketing
authorisation. We expect to receive initial authorisation and market launch this year. We
are also delighted with our success in the field of respiratory diseases: results of the
phase III trial involving over 3,000 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD) have shown that olodaterol respimat®, in addition to the current standard
treatment (with the exception of long­lasting beta agonists), leads to a statistically sig­
nificant improvement in lung function. Olodaterol was approved for use under the
brand name of striverdi® respimat® for the first time in 2013. All submissions for
medicines in our therapeutic areas are currently on schedule.
In pharmaceutical research and development, however, setbacks are also possible in
the final straight. This is something we experienced recently. The interferon­free
combination of hepatitis C compounds faldaprevir and deleobuvir did not live up to
expectations, as the preliminary evaluation of a phase III trial in December showed.
For this reason, we have decided to terminate the development of deleobuvir, while we
expect to receive initial approvals for the interferon­based programme with faldaprevir
towards the end of the year. We will now have to examine our activities in the field
of hepatitis C therapy in depth, also in view of convincing clinical data from competi­
tors in the field.
11key aspects 2013
Our research and development secures our future portfolio of medicines and thus our
future business success. In the next two years alone, we are planning to introduce
twelve new products in eight indications – diabetes, COPD, asthma, lung cancer, idio­
pathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), a rare form of leukaemia (AML), in addition to the
treatment and prevention of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. In
research and development overall, we are currently working on over 90 projects. Last
year, our expenditure for these projects at 2,743 million euros remained on a high level.
This is equivalent to 19.5 per cent of our net sales. Over 7,700 people were employed
in research and development at Boehringer Ingelheim in 2013.
Key growth driver PRADAXA®
Despite a continuing difficult market environment, we have achieved a currency­
adjusted growth in net sales in the lower single­digit range. Taking into account negative
currency effects, this results in a 4.26 per cent decline in net sales compared with the
previous year. The growth driver proved to be the oral anticoagulant pradaxa®; net
sales rose by 8.8 per cent to 1,206 million euros. With net sales of 3,552 million euros,
spiriva®, for the treatment of COPD, was again the best­selling product.
In the previous year, we were able to increase our operating income by 14.1 per cent to
2,114 million euros. This results in an improved return on net sales of 15 per cent. This
shows that we have been successful in offsetting extraordinary factors that negatively
affected the result by implementing initiatives last year designed to increase efficiency
and to reduce costs. These included the situation at Ben Venue, our US production
facility for sterile injection solutions. In spite of major efforts already undertaken, the
return to future compatible and stable production would not have been possible, particu­
larly as the market environment had changed considerably. The facility was therefore
closed down at the end of the year. The extensive reorganisation of production pro­
cesses in Ingelheim in preparation for a follow­up inspection by the US Food and
Drug Administration affected the result.
The market situation for medicines is changing rapidly worldwide. It remains impor­
tant for us, therefore, to continuously examine our internal structures. In this process, the
decisive question is always the same: how can we improve to optimise the way we
respond to our customers’ needs? Against this background, we restructured our regional
business operations in 2013, revised our strategies for the various therapeutic areas,
and strengthened the organisation.
12 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013business year 2013
Market access for innovative medicines increasingly difficult
In view of an ageing population, health systems worldwide are faced with the chal­
lenge of continuously increasing costs, and are therefore undergoing sustained change.
This will on the one hand increase the demand for innovative medicines in the long
term – also to help relieve the burden placed on the systems by providing them with
more effective alternative therapies. On the other hand, the financial and budgetary
demands on the health systems will increase in the short term, which will have an
immediate impact on the budgets for pharmaceutical products. This will therefore be a
challenge to the industry in the short term, while in the long term presenting a great
opportunity.
A very striking example of the short­term challenge is Germany. New laws have
resulted in substantial cuts for pharmaceutical companies involved in research. It is
thus becoming more difficult to bring medicines researched and produced in Germany
to the German market as well. For this reason, we had to take the difficult decision not
to offer TRAJENTA®, our medicine for the treatment of diabetes, in Germany. In 2013,
an added benefit of the medicine was rejected so that we would have had to place this
medicine, in the meantime approved in more than 50 countries, on the German market
at a price that could not be justified. Although we expect extensive clinical trials, which
can of necessity take place only after approval has been given, to demonstrate a distinct
added benefit, the damage for a research company in Germany has already been done.
This situation is inconsistent with the economic importance of Boehringer Ingelheim for
Germany, since the growth in Boehringer Ingelheim’s gross value added in Germany
is around three times as high as that of the German economy as a whole, as data pub­
lished by the independent economic research institute WifOR shows in its so­called
Health Satellite Account.
Outlook for 2014
The continuing difficult market environment and the impact of patent losses in a large
number of markets – as is usual in our industry – mean that we can expect to face chal­
lenges in 2014. In view of this situation, we expect net sales for the current fi nancial
year to be at a level comparable to that achieved in 2013. For Boehringer Ingelheim, the
launch of the new medicines we intend to introduce to the market this year and the
years ahead is now in the foreground of our activities.
13key aspects 2013
Priorities for the current financial year
In order to lay the foundation for future growth, we will continue to focus our efforts
this year. We intend to drive growth forward in all business areas, while giving priority
to cost awareness and efficiency. More than ever before, the needs of our customers will
be the guiding principle of all our actions. Quality and compliance – in other words,
strict adherence to established rules and regulations – will be given high priority in
production. We will do all this with a clear commitment to transparency and openness,
and that applies to our figures and to our clinical tests and trials.
A company like Boehringer Ingelheim lives to a large degree from the expertise, the
experience and the commitment of its entire workforce. They deserve our very special
thanks, particularly in view of the challenging year 2013. We will continue to place our
trust and confidence in their active support and loyalty in 2014. Together, we will lay
the foundations this year that will enable us to put our company back on a growth path.
signed by signed by
andreas barner wolfgang baiker
signed by signed by
hubertus von baumbach joachim hasenmaier
signed by
allan hillgrove
14 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013business year 2013 corporate bodies
CORPORATE BODIES
Shareholders’ Committee Board of Managing Directors
christian boehringer prof.* dr dr andreas barner
Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee Chairman of the Board
Corporate Board Divisions Human Resources and
christoph boehringer
Research, Development and Medicine
erich von baumbach jr.
dr wolfgang baiker (from 01.07.2013)
isabel boehringer
Corporate Board Divisions Operations
dr mathias boehringer and Biopharmaceuticals
hubertus von baumbach
Advisory Board Corporate Board Division Finance
prof. dr michael hoffmann-becking prof. h.c. dr wolfram carius (until 30.06.2013)
(until 31.12.2013) Corporate Board Divisions Operations
Attorney at Law, Düsseldorf and Biopharmaceuticals
Chairman of the Advisory Board
dr joachim hasenmaier
egbert appel Corporate Board Divisions Animal Health and
Trustee, Martin Hilti Family Trust Consumer Health Care
President Hilti Foundation
Chairman of the Advisory Board (from 01.01.2014) allan hillgrove
Corporate Board Division
kurt beck (from 01.06.2013) Pharma Marketing and Sales
Former Minister­President
dr andreas kreimeyer
Member of the Board of Executive Directors
and Research Executive Director BASF SE
jan rinnert
Chairman of the Board of Management and
Chief Financial Officer Heraeus Holding GmbH * Republic of Austria
15highlights in medicine in 2013
HIGHLIGHTS IN
MEDICINE IN 2013
New products on the market – new substances submitted
for registration – new study results published
2013 has been one of the most successful years ever for continue in individual markets for pradaxa® in the
Boehringer Ingelheim in terms of launches and submis- treatment of DVT and PE and for striverdi® respimat®.
sions of new biological or chemical entities. The company Boehringer Ingelheim has also submitted the registration
has in individual markets launched giotrif® in the indica- documentation in Europe for tiotropium in asthma. In
tion non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and pradaxa® in the diabetes alliance between Boehringer Ingelheim and
the treatment and prevention of deep vein thrombosis Eli Lilly and Company, the submissions for empagliflozin
(DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), as well as received in adults with type 2 diabetes and for a new insulin
European approval for striverdi® (olodaterol) respimat® glargine product for type 1 and type 2 diabetes have been
in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The filed. Boehringer Ingelheim is entering a new therapeutic
company thus continues its successful path in renewing area with faldaprevir in hepatitis C. In late 2013, it
and expanding its product portfolio. managed to commence the registration process for this
novel compound as well.
For Boehringer Ingelheim’s second oncology product,
nintedanib in NSCLC, the registration process with An overview of the most important Boehringer Ingelheim
authorities has started. Additional registration processes clinical studies in 2013:
[ metabolism ]
linagliptin
TRAJENTA® (LINAGLIPTIN)
The CARMELINA™ trial is investigating the effect The resulting data will be highly relevant for those receiving placebo. Adverse events seen
of linagliptin versus standard care on cardio- the treatment selection. Last patient recruit- with linagliptin occurred in a comparable
vascular and renal microvascular events. The ment for CAROLINA® was accomplished in frequency to that with placebo. There was no
study group consists of more than 8,000 adults November 2012. significant difference compared with placebo
with type 2 diabetes at risk of cardiovascular in terms of hypoglycaemia when patients
and renal events. Patient enrolment started in received no concomitant treatments which
Treatment of elderly type 2 diabetes patients
July 2013. are known to increase the risk of hypoglycae-
can be complex and challenging. Data from
mia, such as insulin.
a phase III study published in The Lancet in
The ongoing CAROLINA® study is the only August 2013 showed that the blood glucose
event-driven, head-to-head cardiovascular levels of elderly people with type 2 diabetes,
outcomes trial comparing a DPP-4 inhibitor following a 24-week treatment with linaglip-
(linagliptin) with a sulfonylurea (glimepiride). tin, had dropped significantly compared with
16 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013[ metabolism ]
EMPAGLIFLOZIN
At the end of 2012 and in the first half of 2013, international diabetes congresses in 2013. In
a number of pivotal studies into the investi- addition, enrolment for a further trials pro-
gational agent empagliflozin were finally gramme was completed in July 2013. The
completed in the phase III clinical trials pro- EMPA-REG OUTCOME™ trial is an event-driven
gramme (EMPA-REG™). Empagliflozin is a cardiovascular endpoint study, evaluating the
member of the sodium glucose cotrans- effect of empagliflozin versus standard treat-
porter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor class of drugs. ment in 7,000 people with type 2 diabetes
The programme focused on type 2 diabetes, and high cardiovascular risk. Boehringer
enrolled more than 14,000 patients and com- Ingelheim is confident that the large data set
empagliflozin prised more than ten multinational clinical will convince authorities in the registration
trials. Key study data were released at various process.
[ cardiovascular/vascular diseases ]
PRADAXA® CLINICAL
TRIALS
Boehringer Ingelheim has further expanded
the clinical development programme for
pradaxa® (dabigatran etexilate), thus under-
pinning its continued leadership and commit-
ment to innovative solutions for the benefit
of patients and physicians worldwide. dabigatran etexilate
RE-MEDY™, RE-SONATE®, FUTURE ANTIDOTE
RE-COVER® COMMITMENT DEVELOPMENT
Key findings from these clinical trials have In addition, Boehringer Ingelheim will con- Boehringer Ingelheim is permanently commit-
contributed to regulatory submissions for tinue to gather real-world clinical data from ted to patient safety. In this context, the com-
pradaxa® in the treatment of acute and patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation pany is developing a specific and highly selec-
prevention of DVT and PE as well as subse- and undertake further research in the use of tive humanised antibody fragment to provide
quent secondary prevention. The results of pradaxa® in new cardiovascular patient popu- physicians in rare emergencies with an addi-
RE-MEDY™, RE-COVER® and RE-SONATE® lations. At the end of 2013, the company tional option to halt the anticoagulant effect
were published in prestigious journals, such announced that two new phase III studies are of pradaxa®.
as the New England Journal of Medicine and planned: in RE-SPECT ESUS™, research will
Circulation. be conducted into how well and how safely
Initial results from studies with healthy test
pradaxa® can prevent further strokes in
persons (phase I clinical studies) show the
patients whose initial stroke was caused by a
Results demonstrate the efficacy and favoura- potential of the antibody fragment (Fab) as a
blood clot of unknown origin; RE-DUAL PCI ™
ble safety profile of pradaxa® in these impor- specific antidote to halt the anticoagulant
will investigate how well and safely pradaxa®
tant areas of still unmet medical need. effect of dabigatran immediately, completely
can prevent blood clots in patients with atrial
and on a lasting basis.
fibrillation who have had a coronary stent
implant due to a narrowing of the blood vessels.
17highlights in medicine in 2013
[ oncology ] [ hepatitis c virus ]
afatinib
faldaprevir
GIOTRIF® (AFATINIB)
In June 2013, Boehringer Ingelheim pre- with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with
sented data from the LUX®-Lung 6 phase III positive EGFR (ErbB1) mutation status. Further-
trial, which showed that 47 per cent of more, it was demonstrated that treatment
patients receiving giotrif® (afatinib) were with giotrif® in patients with this type of FALDAPREVIR
tumour progression-free after one year of lung cancer leads to a significant delay in
treatment compared to only 2 per cent of tumour progression and improvements in
those patients on chemotherapy. their disease-related symptoms, like short-
In 2013, the results were presented from
ness of breath, cough and chest pain, as well
Boehringer Ingelheim’s STARTVerso™ phase III
as to an improved quality of life.
These new results confirmed the findings from programme. It investigated faldaprevir in
the company’s previous phase III trial LUX®- combination with pegylated interferon and
Lung 3. This compared afatinib with a different In 2013, giotrif® was approved by authorities ribavirin in hepatitis C patients with geno-
chemotherapy regimen (pemetrexed/cisplatin). in the European Union and a number of addi- type 1 – the most difficult genotype to treat.
The result was that giotrif® was superior com- tional countries. In the USA, it was registered The trial programme investigated treatment-
pared to standard chemotherapies in patients under the brand name gilotrif®. naïve patients in STARTVerso™1&2, treatment-
experienced patients in STARTVerso™3 and
HIV co-infected patients in STARTVerso™4.
Overall, the studies encompassed more than
2,200 patients. Faldaprevir proved safe and
efficacious in many patients infected with
genotype 1 hepatitis, including those with
advanced liver disease. In 83 per cent of pre-
nintedanib viously untreated patients, early treatment
success was achieved, thereby enabling
shorter treatment duration. Furthermore, due
to once-daily administration without dietary
restrictions, the compound offers a simpler
and more convenient option to the current
NINTEDANIB standard treatment.
At the end of 2013, the company submitted
Results from the LUME®-Lung 1 phase III involved in angiogenesis and tumour growth. faldaprevir for registration to the Food and
clinical trial show that the novel investiga- Importantly, patients benefited from the addi- Drug Administration (FDA), the European
tional compound nintedanib is the first lung tional efficacy of nintedanib without further Medicines Agency (EMA) and other authori-
cancer treatment that, when combined with impairing their quality of life. ties worldwide.
chemotherapy, can extend survival beyond
one year for a patient whose initial therapy
On the basis of these results, Boehringer
has failed. The earlier the patient’s first-line
Ingelheim submitted nintedanib to the Euro-
therapy failed, the greater the benefit that
pean Medicines Agency and other regulatory
nintedanib provided compared to the control
agencies in the second half of 2013.
group. Nintedanib is an oral triple angiokinase
inhibitor that targets three receptors crucially
18 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013[ respiratory diseases ]
tiotropium
TIOTROPIUM SPIRIVA® RESPIMAT® AND
IN ASTHMA SPIRIVA® HANDIHALER®
At least 40 per cent of asthma patients still TIOtropium Safety and Performance In study with spiriva® in the handihaler®, a
suffer from symptoms, despite currently avail- respimat® (TIOSPIR™), a global landmark trial survival advantage had been shown com-
able treatment options, and can experience in more than 17,000 patients, was one of pared to the control therapy. The TIOSPIR™
asthma exacerbations (attacks). Gratifying the largest chronic obstructive pulmonary trial population, selected with broad inclusion
new data for tiotropium in asthma prove that disease (COPD) trials ever conducted. It criteria, was representative of typical COPD
tiotropium respimat® is effective in sympto- compared spiriva® respimat® in two doses patients presenting day-to-day in practice
matic asthma patients, irrespective of their with spiriva® handihaler® 18 µg. The results and included patients with all COPD disease
allergic status, their age, smoking habits and were published at the ERS Congress in Sep- severities, with comprehensive use of con-
bronchodilator response. Tiotropium, which is tember 2013 and simultaneously in the New comitant COPD medications, and patients
administered once daily via respimat®, signi- England Journal of Medicine. with a medical history of cardiac disorders.
ficantly improved lung function. This data will form the basis of the submis-
sion for approval of spiriva® respimat®
Furthermore, a similar impact on survival was
in the USA.
The PrimoTinA-asthma® studies were two demonstrated for spiriva® respimat® and
double-blind, parallel-group trials, including spiriva® handihaler® in the TIOSPIR™ trial.
asthma patients who still showed symptoms This is important as in the earlier UPLIFT™
despite treatment with at least inhaled corti-
costeroids (ICS)/long-acting beta2-agonists
(LABA). A total of 912 patients were ran-
domised to additional therapy with tiotro-
pium respimat® or placebo over 48 weeks.
Tiotropium reduced asthma exacerbations in
olodaterol
patients who retained symptoms despite
treatment with at least ICS and LABA, irre-
spective of their allergic status.
Data from the MezzoTinA®-asthma phase III
STRIVERDI® RESPIMAT®
twin studies, presented for the first time at
the 2013 European Respiratory Society (ERS)
congress, confirmed the statistically signifi-
cant and clinically relevant improvement in The results of the phase III study, presented lung function improvements over 24 hours in
asthma control that once-daily tiotropium at a medical congress in Barcelona, Spain combination with usual therapy. The medi-
provides in patients who continue to show in September 2013, showed in more than cine rapidly takes effect within five minutes
symptoms despite treatment with ICS. 3,000 patients that olodaterol respimat® in of the first dose. Lung function improvement
addition to usual care provides statistically with once-daily olodaterol respimat® results
The registration process for tiotropium in significant improvement in lung function. in more COPD patients achieving meaningful
asthma was started in the EU in the second improvement in quality of life than with usual
half of 2013. Olodaterol is a highly selective, long-acting care alone.
beta2-agonist (LABA) from Boehringer
Ingelheim’s research pipeline. Once-daily Olodaterol received first registrations in 2013
administered, olodaterol respimat® maintains under the brand name striverdi® respimat®.
19JUST FOLLOW
name LUISA COCHELLA
occupation Group leader at the YOUR NOSE
Research Institute
of Molecular
Pathology (IMP)
year of birth 1977
location Vienna, Austria
innovation means to me:
»D aring to face the un­
known and going where
no one has gone before. Luisa Cochella and her colleagues are involved in the worm and identified in which cells they
It takes vision of course, in groundbreaking work. The scientists at the act. There are other molecular biologists involved
but also a type of persever­ Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP) in microRNA research, of course, but Luisa
ance that can almost in Vienna are carrying out research to determine wants to be the first to prepare a comprehensive
be confused with what happens at the molecular level when cells model of all microRNA processes in the round-
stubbornness.« divide or cancerous tumours develop, and what worm.
role microRNAs play in the development of an
organism. The IMP is largely sponsored by Potential use in oncology
Boehringer Ingelheim, but carries out basic Her work could eventually help in the development
research on a completely independent basis. of new types of medicine. MicroRNAs could be
used in oncology as biomarkers, for example, to
From Buenos Aires to Vienna detect tumours, or be included in medicines to
Luisa is a typical representative of this leading, inhibit the growth of tumours. Because they are
internationally renowned research institute: so important for cell differentiation, they could
born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, she studied in possibly be used to cultivate tissues for trans-
the USA and, with her Dutch partner, who is also plantation. Such visions are still far off, but Luisa
a molecular biologist, has just moved to Vienna, is grateful that Boehringer Ingelheim, as the
where she heads up a five-member international IMP’s sponsor, also has the farsightedness to
team of research scientists. undertake such basic research in the first place.
“That characterises a truly innovative company”,
At IMP, they are conducting research work on says the biologist.
microRNAs in the roundworm C. elegans. Scien-
tists discovered the short ribonucleic acid mole- To ensure that no information that could be of
cules (microRNAs), which consist of just practical use is lost, the IMP research scientists
22 nucleotides and are present in virtually all hold regular meetings to exchange views and
multicellular organisms, some 20 years ago. information with Boehringer Ingelheim. They
MicroRNAs ensure, for example, that cells do not meet, for example, at a joint symposium that
divide in an uncontrolled manner and that the is held once a year. “This year the topic was on
many different cell types in the body can develop microRNAs in medical applications”, says Luisa
from a fertilised egg. proudly. After all, it is quite possible that the
worm’s fluorescent sensory neuron will help the
To understand this in detail, Luisa exchanges drug developers come up with some bright new
genes, switches off individual microRNAs and ideas.
waits to see how the worms change. She has
already isolated 30 of the 200 or so microRNAs
20JUST FOLLOW
name LUISA COCHELLA
occupation Group leader at the YOUR NOSE
Research Institute
of Molecular
Pathology (IMP)
year of birth 1977
LIVING I N N O V AT I O N
location Vienna, Austria
innovation means to me:
»D aring to face the un­
known and going where Boehringer Ingelheim carries out research into new diseases and develops
no one has gone before. Luisa Cochellan aenwd dherur cgosl laenagdu tehs earrae pinievso.l vIendn ovatiionn th, eth weorremfo arned, iisd evnittaifil efdo ri nt hweh ficuht ucreell so tfh tehy e
It takes vision of course, in groundbreaking work. The scientists at the act. There are other molecular biologists involved
company. This means that Boehringer Ingelheim relies not only on research
but also a type of persever­ Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP) in microRNA research, of course, but Luisa
and development of its own, but also places great emphasis on collaboration
ance that can almost in Vienna are carrying out research to determine wants to be the first to prepare a comprehensive
be confused with what happens wati tthhe e mxtoelercnualla pr laervtenl ewrsh e–n fcreolmls acadmeomdeicl oinf asltli tmuitcerso RaNndA bpiroocpehsasersm ina ctheeu rtoicuanld -
stubbornness.« divide or cancecroomusp taunmioeusr tso d esvtaelrotp-u, apnsd. what worm.
role microRNAs play in the development of an
organism. The IMP is largely sponsored by Potential use in oncology
Boehringer Ingelheim, but carries out basic Her work could eventually help in the development
research on a completely independent basis. of new types of medicine. MicroRNAs could be
used in oncology as biomarkers, for example, to
From Buenos Aires to Vienna detect tumours, or be included in medicines to
Luisa is a typical representative of this leading, inhibit the growth of tumours. Because they are
internationally renowned research institute: so important for cell differentiation, they could
born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, she studied in possibly be used to cultivate tissues for trans-
the USA and, with her Dutch partner, who is also plantation. Such visions are still far off, but Luisa
a molecular biologist, has just moved to Vienna, is grateful that Boehringer Ingelheim, as the
where she heads up a five-member international IMP’s sponsor, also has the farsightedness to
team of research scientists. undertake such basic research in the first place.
“That characterises a truly innovative company”,
At IMP, they are conducting research work on says the biologist.
microRNAs in the roundworm C. elegans. Scien-
tists discovered the short ribonucleic acid mole- To ensure that no information that could be of
cules (microRNAs), which consist of just practical use is lost, the IMP research scientists
22 nucleotides and are present in virtually all hold regular meetings to exchange views and
multicellular organisms, some 20 years ago. information with Boehringer Ingelheim. They
MicroRNAs ensure, for example, that cells do not meet, for example, at a joint symposium that
divide in an uncontrolled manner and that the is held once a year. “This year the topic was on
many different cell types in the body can develop microRNAs in medical applications”, says Luisa
from a fertilised egg. proudly. After all, it is quite possible that the
worm’s fluorescent sensory neuron will help the
To understand this in detail, Luisa exchanges drug developers come up with some bright new
genes, switches off individual microRNAs and ideas.
waits to see how the worms change. She has
already isolated 30 of the 200 or so microRNAs
20JUST FOLLOW
YOUR NOSE
Luisa Cochella and her colleagues are involved in the worm and identified in which cells they
in groundbreaking work. The scientists at the act. There are other molecular biologists involved
Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP) in microRNA research, of course, but Luisa
in Vienna are carrying out research to determine wants to be the first to prepare a comprehensive
what happens at the molecular level when cells model of all microRNA processes in the round-
divide or cancerous tumours develop, and what worm.
role microRNAs play in the development of an
organism. The IMP is largely sponsored by Potential use in oncology
Boehringer Ingelheim, but carries out basic Her work could eventually help in the development
research on a completely independent basis. of new types of medicine. MicroRNAs could be
used in oncology as biomarkers, for example, to
From Buenos Aires to Vienna detect tumours, or be included in medicines to
Luisa is a typical representative of this leading, inhibit the growth of tumours. Because they are
internationally renowned research institute: so important for cell differentiation, they could
born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, she studied in possibly be used to cultivate tissues for trans-
the USA and, with her Dutch partner, who is also plantation. Such visions are still far off, but Luisa
a molecular biologist, has just moved to Vienna, is grateful that Boehringer Ingelheim, as the
where she heads up a five-member international IMP’s sponsor, also has the farsightedness to
team of research scientists. undertake such basic research in the first place.
“That characterises a truly innovative company”,
At IMP, they are conducting research work on says the biologist.
microRNAs in the roundworm C. elegans. Scien-
tists discovered the short ribonucleic acid mole- To ensure that no information that could be of
cules (microRNAs), which consist of just practical use is lost, the IMP research scientists
22 nucleotides and are present in virtually all hold regular meetings to exchange views and
multicellular organisms, some 20 years ago. information with Boehringer Ingelheim. They
MicroRNAs ensure, for example, that cells do not meet, for example, at a joint symposium that
divide in an uncontrolled manner and that the is held once a year. “This year the topic was on
many different cell types in the body can develop microRNAs in medical applications”, says Luisa
from a fertilised egg. proudly. After all, it is quite possible that the
worm’s fluorescent sensory neuron will help the
To understand this in detail, Luisa exchanges drug developers come up with some bright new
genes, switches off individual microRNAs and ideas.
waits to see how the worms change. She has
already isolated 30 of the 200 or so microRNAs[ research scientists ]
JUST FOLLOW
HOW BOEHRINGER
YOUR NOSE INGELHEIM DRIVES
INNOVATION
FIRST CANCER DRUG ON THE
MARKET
In the USA in autumn 2013, afatinib ONCOLOGY AT BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
Luisa Cochella and her colleagues are involved in the worm and identified in which cells they
became the first cancer drug from At Boehringer Ingelheim’s own research centre in Vienna,
in groundbreaking work. The scientists at the act. There are other molecular biologists involved
Boehringer Ingelheim to be placed over 250 specialists are carrying out research into new
Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP) in microRNA research, of course, but Luisa
on the market. It is being marketed cancer drugs. Not least due to the close collaboration with
in Vienna are carrying out research to determine wants to be the first to prepare a comprehensive under the brand name of gilotrif® industrial partners, the scientists at the IMP and other aca-
what happens at the molecular level when cells model of all microRNA processes in the round- for the targeted treatment of lung demic institutions worldwide, they have acquired a wealth of
divide or cancerous tumours develop, and what worm. cancer. The medication is also regis- unique expertise in the field of small molecules and bio-
role microRNAs play in the development of an tered in the European Union and therapeutics. The compound volasertib, developed by
organism. The IMP is largely sponsored by Potential use in oncology already launched in some countries, Boehringer Ingelheim, is currently undergoing clinical trials.
Boehringer Ingelheim, but carries out basic Her work could eventually help in the development for example Germany, under the It is based on research work into cell division carried out at the
research on a completely independent basis. of new types of medicine. MicroRNAs could be name of giotrif®. In addition to IMP and could in future be used in acute myeloid leukaemia.
diabetes, oncology is to be the
used in oncology as biomarkers, for example, to
second new therapeutic area for
From Buenos Aires to Vienna detect tumours, or be included in medicines to
Boehringer Ingelheim.
Luisa is a typical representative of this leading, inhibit the growth of tumours. Because they are
internationally renowned research institute: so important for cell differentiation, they could
born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, she studied in possibly be used to cultivate tissues for trans-
the USA and, with her Dutch partner, who is also plantation. Such visions are still far off, but Luisa
a molecular biologist, has just moved to Vienna, is grateful that Boehringer Ingelheim, as the [ years ]
where she heads up a five-member international IMP’s sponsor, also has the farsightedness to
team of research scientists. undertake such basic research in the first place.
INVESTMENTS IN R&D BASIC RESEARCH OF
“That characterises a truly innovative company”,
Boehringer Ingelheim continues to invest in INTERNATIONAL REPUTE
At IMP, they are conducting research work on says the biologist.
both its own research and in research work Since 1986, Boehringer Ingelheim has
microRNAs in the roundworm C. elegans. Scien-
carried out in collaboration with external sponsored the highly reputed Research
tists discovered the short ribonucleic acid mole- To ensure that no information that could be of
partners to develop innovative drugs and Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP)
cules (microRNAs), which consist of just practical use is lost, the IMP research scientists
administration methods. In 2013, the com- in Vienna, Austria, in which some
22 nucleotides and are present in virtually all hold regular meetings to exchange views and pany spent 19.5 per cent of its total sales 200 scientists carry out independent
multicellular organisms, some 20 years ago. information with Boehringer Ingelheim. They on R&D in various therapeutic areas, which research. This has already resulted in
MicroRNAs ensure, for example, that cells do not meet, for example, at a joint symposium that amounted to 2.74 billion euros. approximately 90 patents, as the results
divide in an uncontrolled manner and that the is held once a year. “This year the topic was on of the IMP’s work are repeatedly used
many different cell types in the body can develop microRNAs in medical applications”, says Luisa as the basis for research into new
medicines. In 2009, the independent
from a fertilised egg. proudly. After all, it is quite possible that the
Boehringer Ingelheim Foundation addi-
worm’s fluorescent sensory neuron will help the
tionally set up the Institute of Molecular
To understand this in detail, Luisa exchanges drug developers come up with some bright new
Biology (IMB) in Mainz, Germany. The
genes, switches off individual microRNAs and ideas.
foundation is financing the scientific
waits to see how the worms change. She has
[ billion euros ] work carried out there for a period of
already isolated 30 of the 200 or so microRNAs
ten years with a donation of 100 mil-
lion euros.name AUDREY WALSH
occupation Pensioner
Voluntary secretary,
Illawarra Cancer Carers
year of birth 1934
location Wollongong, Australia
caring means to me:
»B eing involved and
assisting others so as
to make life’s journey
better through the
comfort and care I am
able to impart.«
24FIGHTING FIT
name AUDREY WALSH
AGAIN
occupation Pensioner
Voluntary secretary,
Illawarra Cancer Carers
year of birth 1934
LIVING C A R E
location Wollongong, Australia
caring means to me:
»B eing involved and
Boehringer Ingelheim strives every day to help patients around the globe.
assisting others so as
to make life’s journey Audrey Walsh Tiso a awcohmieavne o tf haicsti ogno.a Tl,h teh reet icroedm panyc diaenvse tloo ipnsc liundne opvraatdiavxea d® roung tsh feo Prh dairsmeaacseeust iwcailt h
better through the tertiary educator works tirelessly as a volunteer Benefits Scheme. The PBS provides Australians
a high unmet therapeutic need. Boehringer Ingelheim is involved not only in
comfort and care I am caring for cancer patients in her home town of with affordable access to a wide range of innova-
traditional therapeutic areas, but within the scope of its research and develop-
able to impart.« Wollongong, some 80 kilometres south of Sydney. tive medicines. “I couldn’t accept the fact that other
As the secretarmy oefn Itll pawroajrerac tCsa insc earl sCoa reenrst,e ar lioncga ln ewa ndtiisceoaagsuel aanretsa ws.ere included on the PBS list
charity organisation, she organises the funding and pradaxa® was not”, says Audrey. Even so,
and also is in charge of 284 volunteer member- one has to take into consideration, of course, that
ships. In addition, she works each week in the pradaxa®, as is also the case with other power-
oncology ward of the hospital in Wollongong, ful medicines, can lead to undesired side effects.
where, for example, she massages patients’ feet,
chats with them and makes tea for their visitors. Coping with atrial fibrillation
Audrey’s efforts were intended to show others
Unexpected diagnosis: atrial fibrillation how she was coping with atrial fibrillation.
The Australian has dedicated her life to caring “My life has hardly changed since the atrial fibril-
for others. Occasionally, however, she needs help lation diagnosis – and that’s precisely what’s
from someone else, as was the case one Sunday so fantastic about it all”, she says. “It means that
in September 2011. Audrey had just arrived on a I don’t have to go to the clinic for check-ups
visit to her daughter in North Queensland, when all the time and can organise my day just as I
she suddenly felt most unwell. After being did before.”
rushed to the emergency department of Towns-
ville hospital, the cardiologist who examined Audrey Walsh is still as active as ever, continues to
Audrey diagnosed her with atrial fibrillation, work at Illawarra Cancer Carers, meets friends,
which can easily lead to the formation of blood visits art exhibitions in Sydney, walks at least four
clots and subsequently result in a stroke. The times a week, travels around the world and
cardiologist prescribed Audrey the anticoagulant spends time with her family. Just recently she
pradaxa® from Boehringer Ingelheim. travelled to Turkey, visited Berlin and travelled
along the Rhine, went to London and then to
No sooner had she returned home than she was Canada. She plans to go to New Zealand soon.
raring to go again. She wrote letters to the then And pradaxa® – also thanks to her support –
Prime Minister, the Minister for Health and her is now on the PBS list.
local Member of Parliament, urging the politi-
24FIGHTING FIT
AGAIN
Audrey Walsh is a woman of action. The retired cians to include pradaxa® on the Pharmaceutical
tertiary educator works tirelessly as a volunteer Benefits Scheme. The PBS provides Australians
caring for cancer patients in her home town of with affordable access to a wide range of innova-
Wollongong, some 80 kilometres south of Sydney. tive medicines. “I couldn’t accept the fact that other
As the secretary of Illawarra Cancer Carers, a local anticoagulants were included on the PBS list
charity organisation, she organises the funding and pradaxa® was not”, says Audrey. Even so,
and also is in charge of 284 volunteer member- one has to take into consideration, of course, that
ships. In addition, she works each week in the pradaxa®, as is also the case with other power-
oncology ward of the hospital in Wollongong, ful medicines, can lead to undesired side effects.
where, for example, she massages patients’ feet,
chats with them and makes tea for their visitors. Coping with atrial fibrillation
Audrey’s efforts were intended to show others
Unexpected diagnosis: atrial fibrillation how she was coping with atrial fibrillation.
The Australian has dedicated her life to caring “My life has hardly changed since the atrial fibril-
for others. Occasionally, however, she needs help lation diagnosis – and that’s precisely what’s
from someone else, as was the case one Sunday so fantastic about it all”, she says. “It means that
in September 2011. Audrey had just arrived on a I don’t have to go to the clinic for check-ups
visit to her daughter in North Queensland, when all the time and can organise my day just as I
she suddenly felt most unwell. After being did before.”
rushed to the emergency department of Towns-
ville hospital, the cardiologist who examined Audrey Walsh is still as active as ever, continues to
Audrey diagnosed her with atrial fibrillation, work at Illawarra Cancer Carers, meets friends,
which can easily lead to the formation of blood visits art exhibitions in Sydney, walks at least four
clots and subsequently result in a stroke. The times a week, travels around the world and
cardiologist prescribed Audrey the anticoagulant spends time with her family. Just recently she
pradaxa® from Boehringer Ingelheim. travelled to Turkey, visited Berlin and travelled
along the Rhine, went to London and then to
No sooner had she returned home than she was Canada. She plans to go to New Zealand soon.
raring to go again. She wrote letters to the then And pradaxa® – also thanks to her support –
Prime Minister, the Minister for Health and her is now on the PBS list.
local Member of Parliament, urging the politi-FIGHTING FIT
HOW BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
PATIENT EXPERIENCE WITH
AGAIN CARES FOR HEALTH
MICARDIS®
micardis®, a medicine used to treat high
blood pressure, has now been on the market
for 15 years and has been so successful that
doctors have accumulated a total of 50 mil-
lion years of experience with patients. This
successful product is approved for use in
113 countries worldwide and is currently
marketed in over 100 countries. The micardis®
[ million years ]
family also includes the micardisplus®
and twynsta® combination products.
Audrey Walsh is a woman of action. The retired cians to include pradaxa® on the Pharmaceutical
tertiary educator works tirelessly as a volunteer Benefits Scheme. The PBS provides Australians
caring for cancer patients in her home town of with affordable access to a wide range of innova-
Wollongong, some 80 kilometres south of Sydney. tive medicines. “I couldn’t accept the fact that other
As the secretary of Illawarra Cancer Carers, a local anticoagulants were included on the PBS list
charity organisation, she organises the funding and pradaxa® was not”, says Audrey. Even so,
FIRST EUROPEAN APPROVAL
and also is in charge of 284 volunteer member- one has to take into consideration, of course, that
REGULAR HEALTH CHECKS FOR THE OVER-40s FOR STRIVERDI® RESPIMAT®
ships. In addition, she works each week in the pradaxa®, as is also the case with other power-
Boehringer Ingelheim takes care of its employees’ health. As part of The UK, Denmark and Iceland were
oncology ward of the hospital in Wollongong, ful medicines, can lead to undesired side effects.
its German preventive health programme “Fit for Life – Fit for the the first European countries to
where, for example, she massages patients’ feet,
Job“, all company employees in Germany over 40 can take part in a receive approval for the medicine
chats with them and makes tea for their visitors. Coping with atrial fibrillation
regular, multi-stage health check. The aim and purpose of the pre- striverdi® respimat®. The new
Audrey’s efforts were intended to show others vention programme is to identify individual risk factors at an early medicine is approved in more than
Unexpected diagnosis: atrial fibrillation how she was coping with atrial fibrillation. stage and, together with the employees, to find out how to deal with 17 countries to date. In a large-scale
The Australian has dedicated her life to caring “My life has hardly changed since the atrial fibril- them. The service is part of the corporate health management sys- clinical trial programme involving
for others. Occasionally, however, she needs help lation diagnosis – and that’s precisely what’s tem, for which the company has now received the national Corporate over 3,500 patients, Boehringer
from someone else, as was the case one Sunday so fantastic about it all”, she says. “It means that Health Award for the third time. Ingelheim has demonstrated
the effectiveness of the medicine
in September 2011. Audrey had just arrived on a I don’t have to go to the clinic for check-ups
in treating chronic obstructive
visit to her daughter in North Queensland, when all the time and can organise my day just as I
pulmonary disease (COPD).
she suddenly felt most unwell. After being did before.”
[ years ]
rushed to the emergency department of Towns-
ville hospital, the cardiologist who examined Audrey Walsh is still as active as ever, continues to
Audrey diagnosed her with atrial fibrillation, work at Illawarra Cancer Carers, meets friends,
which can easily lead to the formation of blood visits art exhibitions in Sydney, walks at least four
clots and subsequently result in a stroke. The times a week, travels around the world and
cardiologist prescribed Audrey the anticoagulant spends time with her family. Just recently she
pradaxa® from Boehringer Ingelheim. travelled to Turkey, visited Berlin and travelled
along the Rhine, went to London and then to
No sooner had she returned home than she was Canada. She plans to go to New Zealand soon.
raring to go again. She wrote letters to the then And pradaxa® – also thanks to her support – OUR TOP 3 PRODUCTS
Prime Minister, the Minister for Health and her is now on the PBS list. Boehringer Ingelheim’s three most successful pre-
local Member of Parliament, urging the politi- scription drugs are spiriva® for the treatment of COPD, [ billion euros ]
the angiotensin receptor blocker micardis® for the
treatment of high blood pressure, and the anticoagulant
pradaxa®. Together, they generated net sales in 2013
of around 6.1 billion euros.ANYTHING FOR
A SMILE
Daniele De Cillis has not been in his office at the very little reason to laugh.” Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim subsidiary in Milan for six has given him all the support he needed. “I re-
months. His superiors have supported what he mained fully employed at Boehringer Ingelheim
has been doing, because Boehringer Ingelheim is and continued to receive my salary”, he says.
convinced that being actively involved in a social “At the same time, I’ve had the opportunity to
enterprise enriches the lives of its employees and dedicate myself to something completely different”,
enhances their professional skills. Daniele, who he adds.
is head of sales training, spent six months work-
ing at Dynamo Academy, a social enterprise And his involvement in charity work is in no way
that is part of Dynamo Camp, one of the largest restricted to the break to work for Dynamo Academy.
charity organisations in Italy. For six years now, he has been spending his free
time as a hospital clown, putting on his costume
At a recreation therapy camp in the heart of Tus- and wig to perform his silly tricks for seriously ill
cany, children with serious and chronic illnesses children. Daniele even uses his holidays to enter-
can take a one-week holiday, with or without tain them. “I give the children a little happiness
name DANIELE DE CILLIS
their parents, free of charge. “Once back in their and take away their sadness for a little while”, says
occupation Training Manager day-to-day life, they bring with them not only Daniele. “My reward is a hundredfold greater.”
at Boehringer Ingelheim the memories of a beautiful holiday but also the
idea that a normal life is possible”, says Daniele. Dedicated to “Making More Health”
year of birth 1974
First and foremost, however, the manager runs
location Milan, Italy Dynamo Academy generates money for the camp “Making More Health” projects in Italy as part of
To be able to do this and to ensure that the camp an initiative launched by Boehringer Ingelheim
responsibility means to me:
can be run in an increasingly sustainable manner, and the non-profit organisation Ashoka. “Making
»C hallenging the paradigm
money is necessary, among other things, which is More Health” supports the work of social entre-
that profit and social need
generated by the Dynamo Academy. The training preneurs in the healthcare field worldwide.
cannot coexist.«
centre annexed to the camp offers corporate team
activities, for example. Daniele’s job there was to Daniele invests around a quarter of his work
revamp the academy’s existing range of seminars. at Boehringer Ingelheim for these projects.
“Boehringer Ingelheim is a company that actively
Daniele De Cillis is enthusiastic about the time he supports social responsibility”, he says. And he
spent in the academy and the camp: “I have expe- knows this is not something that can be pre-
rienced so much joy and happiness, and a zest for scribed, but is part of the corporate culture.
life from young people, who at first sight have
28ANYTHING FOR
A SMILE
LIVING R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y
Taking responsibility for others is firmly anchored in Boehringer Ingelheim’s
corporate culture. The company has for years maintained a commitment to
its employees, neighbours, society and the environment, which is based
on Boehringer Ingelheim’s four corporate values – respect, trust, empathy
Daniele De Cillis has not been in his office at the very little reason to laugh.” Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingaenldhe pimas ssuibosnid.iary in Milan for six has given him all the support he needed. “I re-
months. His superiors have supported what he mained fully employed at Boehringer Ingelheim
has been doing, because Boehringer Ingelheim is and continued to receive my salary”, he says.
convinced that being actively involved in a social “At the same time, I’ve had the opportunity to
enterprise enriches the lives of its employees and dedicate myself to something completely different”,
enhances their professional skills. Daniele, who he adds.
is head of sales training, spent six months work-
ing at Dynamo Academy, a social enterprise And his involvement in charity work is in no way
that is part of Dynamo Camp, one of the largest restricted to the break to work for Dynamo Academy.
charity organisations in Italy. For six years now, he has been spending his free
time as a hospital clown, putting on his costume
At a recreation therapy camp in the heart of Tus- and wig to perform his silly tricks for seriously ill
cany, children with serious and chronic illnesses children. Daniele even uses his holidays to enter-
can take a one-week holiday, with or without tain them. “I give the children a little happiness
name DANIELE DE CILLIS
their parents, free of charge. “Once back in their and take away their sadness for a little while”, says
occupation Training Manager day-to-day life, they bring with them not only Daniele. “My reward is a hundredfold greater.”
at Boehringer Ingelheim the memories of a beautiful holiday but also the
idea that a normal life is possible”, says Daniele. Dedicated to “Making More Health”
year of birth 1974
First and foremost, however, the manager runs
location Milan, Italy Dynamo Academy generates money for the camp “Making More Health” projects in Italy as part of
To be able to do this and to ensure that the camp an initiative launched by Boehringer Ingelheim
responsibility means to me:
can be run in an increasingly sustainable manner, and the non-profit organisation Ashoka. “Making
»C hallenging the paradigm
money is necessary, among other things, which is More Health” supports the work of social entre-
that profit and social need
generated by the Dynamo Academy. The training preneurs in the healthcare field worldwide.
cannot coexist.«
centre annexed to the camp offers corporate team
activities, for example. Daniele’s job there was to Daniele invests around a quarter of his work
revamp the academy’s existing range of seminars. at Boehringer Ingelheim for these projects.
“Boehringer Ingelheim is a company that actively
Daniele De Cillis is enthusiastic about the time he supports social responsibility”, he says. And he
spent in the academy and the camp: “I have expe- knows this is not something that can be pre-
rienced so much joy and happiness, and a zest for scribed, but is part of the corporate culture.
life from young people, who at first sight have
28ANYTHING FOR
A SMILE
Daniele De Cillis has not been in his office at the very little reason to laugh.” Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim subsidiary in Milan for six has given him all the support he needed. “I re-
months. His superiors have supported what he mained fully employed at Boehringer Ingelheim
has been doing, because Boehringer Ingelheim is and continued to receive my salary”, he says.
convinced that being actively involved in a social “At the same time, I’ve had the opportunity to
enterprise enriches the lives of its employees and dedicate myself to something completely different”,
enhances their professional skills. Daniele, who he adds.
is head of sales training, spent six months work-
ing at Dynamo Academy, a social enterprise And his involvement in charity work is in no way
that is part of Dynamo Camp, one of the largest restricted to the break to work for Dynamo Academy.
charity organisations in Italy. For six years now, he has been spending his free
time as a hospital clown, putting on his costume
At a recreation therapy camp in the heart of Tus- and wig to perform his silly tricks for seriously ill
cany, children with serious and chronic illnesses children. Daniele even uses his holidays to enter-
can take a one-week holiday, with or without tain them. “I give the children a little happiness
their parents, free of charge. “Once back in their and take away their sadness for a little while”, says
day-to-day life, they bring with them not only Daniele. “My reward is a hundredfold greater.”
the memories of a beautiful holiday but also the
idea that a normal life is possible”, says Daniele. Dedicated to “Making More Health”
First and foremost, however, the manager runs
Dynamo Academy generates money for the camp “Making More Health” projects in Italy as part of
To be able to do this and to ensure that the camp an initiative launched by Boehringer Ingelheim
can be run in an increasingly sustainable manner, and the non-profit organisation Ashoka. “Making
money is necessary, among other things, which is More Health” supports the work of social entre-
generated by the Dynamo Academy. The training preneurs in the healthcare field worldwide.
centre annexed to the camp offers corporate team
activities, for example. Daniele’s job there was to Daniele invests around a quarter of his work
revamp the academy’s existing range of seminars. at Boehringer Ingelheim for these projects.
“Boehringer Ingelheim is a company that actively
Daniele De Cillis is enthusiastic about the time he supports social responsibility”, he says. And he
spent in the academy and the camp: “I have expe- knows this is not something that can be pre-
rienced so much joy and happiness, and a zest for scribed, but is part of the corporate culture.
life from young people, who at first sight haveANYTHING FOR
HOW BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
A SMILE LIVES RESPONSIBILITY
Daniele De Cillis has not been in his office at the very little reason to laugh.” Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim subsidiary in Milan for six has given him all the support he needed. “I re-
YOUTH VENTURE
months. His superiors have supported what he mained fully employed at Boehringer Ingelheim
PROGRAMMES
has been doing, because Boehringer Ingelheim is and continued to receive my salary”, he says.
SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURS “Making More Health” has launched
convinced that being actively involved in a social “At the same time, I’ve had the opportunity to
For more than 30 years, the charity organisation Ashoka has over 185 Youth Venture Programmes
enterprise enriches the lives of its employees and dedicate myself to something completely different”,
supported the work of over 3,000 so-called social entrepreneurs designed to give adolescents and
enhances their professional skills. Daniele, who he adds.
worldwide who, with their business models, aim to contribute to a young adults between the ages of
is head of sales training, spent six months work- positive change in society. The services provided for these social twelve and 24 the chance to change
ing at Dynamo Academy, a social enterprise And his involvement in charity work is in no way entrepreneurs include scholarships, advice on entrepreneurial their lives for the better. They do this
that is part of Dynamo Camp, one of the largest restricted to the break to work for Dynamo Academy. issues and a global network of experts. by developing and implementing
charity organisations in Italy. For six years now, he has been spending his free concrete ideas. The focus is on fields
time as a hospital clown, putting on his costume ranging from nutrition, sport, well-
being at the workplace and environ-
At a recreation therapy camp in the heart of Tus- and wig to perform his silly tricks for seriously ill
mental protection to social action.
cany, children with serious and chronic illnesses children. Daniele even uses his holidays to enter-
Trainees at Boehringer Ingelheim and
can take a one-week holiday, with or without tain them. “I give the children a little happiness
employees’ children are the driving
their parents, free of charge. “Once back in their and take away their sadness for a little while”, says BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM’S
force behind the project.
day-to-day life, they bring with them not only Daniele. “My reward is a hundredfold greater.” “MAKING MORE HEALTH” INITIATIVE
the memories of a beautiful holiday but also the In 2010, Boehringer Ingelheim celebrated its
idea that a normal life is possible”, says Daniele. Dedicated to “Making More Health” 125th anniversary. The company used the
First and foremost, however, the manager runs occasion to launch the “Making More Health”
Dynamo Academy generates money for the camp “Making More Health” projects in Italy as part of initiative, which is up and running today in
over 30 countries. The aim is to improve the
To be able to do this and to ensure that the camp an initiative launched by Boehringer Ingelheim
health of society. To this end, “Making More
can be run in an increasingly sustainable manner, and the non-profit organisation Ashoka. “Making
Health” supports social entrepreneurs in the
money is necessary, among other things, which is More Health” supports the work of social entre-
field of healthcare in order to identify new
generated by the Dynamo Academy. The training preneurs in the healthcare field worldwide.
approaches and push ahead with their develop-
centre annexed to the camp offers corporate team
ment together. Close collaboration with Ashoka
activities, for example. Daniele’s job there was to Daniele invests around a quarter of his work
is fundamental to achieving this aim.
revamp the academy’s existing range of seminars. at Boehringer Ingelheim for these projects. [ years ]
“Boehringer Ingelheim is a company that actively
Daniele De Cillis is enthusiastic about the time he supports social responsibility”, he says. And he
spent in the academy and the camp: “I have expe- knows this is not something that can be pre-
rienced so much joy and happiness, and a zest for scribed, but is part of the corporate culture.
life from young people, who at first sight havename ALBERT BOEHRINGER
occupation Founder of the company
year of birth 1861
location Ingelheim, Germany
independence meant to albert boehringer:
To be successful and to
grow through one’s own
efforts. To achieve this
goal, he focused from a
very early stage on
research and employee
satisfaction. And on a
sense of family.
32SERVING
HUMANKIND
LIVING I N D E P E N D E N C E
As an independent family-owned business, the key focus at Boehringer Ingelheim
is on long-term, sustainable action. To achieve this goal requires sound
Wearing a plain suit and a traditional loden out; for example, he bought his first car second
financing and organic corporate growth. Boehringer Ingelheim’s corporate
jacket, he stands thoughtfully at the entrance to hand. When there was a shortage of coal in 1919
culture is based on values that have been applied since the company was
C. H. Boehringer Sohn (CHBS) in 1930, watching and production was at risk, he simply acquired
lorries leavingf tohuen fadcetodr yin to 1 s8u8pp5l.y customers a disused colliery. His employees were always
with the company’s latest product, the cardio- given top priority. During the First World War,
vascular drug sympatol®. The modest-looking for example, he continued to pay the salaries of
man at the factory gate is none other than the those who had enlisted in the army, he intro-
69-year-old councillor of commerce, Albert duced a health insurance scheme for company
Boehringer, the company’s founder and owner, employees early on, offered paid leave, a com-
lost in thought as he pauses for a moment to con- pany pension scheme and inexpensive housing
sider the long journey behind him. for factory workers, and lots more. Such bene fits
were far from common in those days.
CHBS, the parent company of today’s Boehringer
Ingelheim, has been through difficult times: such As a key principle, Albert Boehringer recognised
as the hyperinflation in 1920s Germany and the the importance of having good people working
French occupation of the Rhineland after the for him, like his nephew Robert Boehringer, who
First World War. Following the launch of the ran the company during the First World War, or
respiratory product lobelin® in 1921, he succeeded Heinrich Wieland, a cousin of Albert Boehringer’s
in making another highly effective drug sympatol® wife Helene, who was later to receive the Nobel
available to patients. The success of these drugs Prize in chemistry. It was also important to Albert
secured the financial independence of the family- Boehringer to know that the company was being
owned company. run by members of the family. At an early stage,
therefore, his sons and his son-in-law joined the
The son of a family of entrepreneurs from Mann- company. Today, the Boehringer and von Baumbach
heim in southwest Germany started up in business families, now in their fourth generation, continue
in much simpler circumstances – with the pro- to manage the company’s fortunes. The producer
duction of chemical compounds, such as tartaric of tartaric acid in Nieder- Ingelheim has developed
and lactic acid. A few years later, however, it was today into an inter nationally successful pharma-
clear that Albert Boehringer had inherited the ceutical company. Perhaps Albert Boehringer
right combination of business talents: the young envisioned such a development as he watched the
entrepreneur invested his money with the tradi- lorries leaving his factory laden with sympatol®
tional virtue of thrift from his native Swabia, and in 1930.
only in specific areas that had been well thoughtSERVING
HOW BOEHRINGER
2009
HUMANKIND INGELHEIM MAINTAINS
Hubertus von Baumbach becomes a
member of the Board of Managing ITS INDEPENDENCE
Directors with responsibility for
Finance.
[ years ]
2007
Christian Boehringer is
appointed Chairman of the
Shareholders’ Committee.
Wearing a plain suit and a traditional loden out; for example, he bought his first car second
1991 1965
jacket, he stands thoughtfully at the entrance to hand. When there was a shortage of coal in 1919
C. H. Boehringer Sohn (CHBS) in 1930, watching and production was at risk, he simply acquired
The owner family withdraws from Following the death
1971
lorries leaving the factory to supply customers a disused colliery. His employees were always management after the death of of Albert and Ernst
Hubertus Liebrecht and oversees Boehringer, Julius
with the company’s latest product, the cardio- given top priority. During the First World War,
the company from then on through Julius Liebrecht’s son Liebrecht is appointed
vascular drug sympatol®. The modest-looking for example, he continued to pay the salaries of the Shareholders’ Committee, the Hubertus is appointed Chairman of the Board
chairmanship of which is taken up Chairman of the Board of Directors. 1948
man at the factory gate is none other than the those who had enlisted in the army, he intro-
by Erich H. von Baumbach. of Directors.
69-year-old councillor of commerce, Albert duced a health insurance scheme for company
The company goes
Boehringer, the company’s founder and owner, employees early on, offered paid leave, a com- international.
lost in thought as he pauses for a moment to con- pany pension scheme and inexpensive housing
1885
sider the long journey behind him. for factory workers, and lots more. Such bene fits
1927
were far from common in those days.
Albert Boehringer pur-
1919 1920
CHBS, the parent company of today’s Boehringer chases a tartar factory in
Albert’s brother, Ernst
Nieder-Ingelheim – laying
Ingelheim, has been through difficult times: such As a key principle, Albert Boehringer recognised Boehringer, joins the
the foundation of the Albert Boehringer Julius Liebrecht, who mar-
Board of Directors.
as the hyperinflation in 1920s Germany and the the importance of having good people working present-day company. Jr., son of the com- ried Ilse, the daughter of the
pany’s founder, company’s founder, joins
French occupation of the Rhineland after the for him, like his nephew Robert Boehringer, who
joins the Board of the Board of Directors.
First World War. Following the launch of the ran the company during the First World War, or Directors.
respiratory product lobelin® in 1921, he succeeded Heinrich Wieland, a cousin of Albert Boehringer’s
in making another highly effective drug sympatol® wife Helene, who was later to receive the Nobel
available to patients. The success of these drugs Prize in chemistry. It was also important to Albert “ Independence is fundamental “ An independent Boehringer “ Independence is a unique “ Independence stands for the
secured the financial independence of the family- Boehringer to know that the company was being to protecting our business and Ingelheim enables me to focus opportunity to be bolder both family’s commitment to sus-
our values. It is key to guarantee- on generating long-term and professionally and personally. tained profitability and creating
owned company. run by members of the family. At an early stage,
ing integrity in decision- making sustainable healthcare solu- Few companies provide you value based on innovation. This
therefore, his sons and his son-in-law joined the
to safeguard patient safety.” tions for our customers and with the autonomy to develop enables me to establish innov-
The son of a family of entrepreneurs from Mann- company. Today, the Boehringer and von Baumbach
reduces the need to react fre- such a powerful brand the way ative technologies in accord-
sophie fontez, regional
heim in southwest Germany started up in business families, now in their fourth generation, continue quently to external market Boehringer Ingelheim does.” ance with the company’s guid-
pharmacovigilance head
in much simpler circumstances – with the pro- to manage the company’s fortunes. The producer (asia & middle east/north fluctuations.” ing principles (Leitbild).”
africa) renato camera,
duction of chemical compounds, such as tartaric of tartaric acid in Nieder- Ingelheim has developed arthur mendonca, senior brand manager dr silke lüdtke,
boehringer ingelheim
regional business manager - head of bioanalysis &
and lactic acid. A few years later, however, it was today into an inter nationally successful pharma- do brasil
emerging markets area biomarkers, development
clear that Albert Boehringer had inherited the ceutical company. Perhaps Albert Boehringer management germany
right combination of business talents: the young envisioned such a development as he watched the
entrepreneur invested his money with the tradi- lorries leaving his factory laden with sympatol®
tional virtue of thrift from his native Swabia, and in 1930.
only in specific areas that had been well thoughtSERVING
HOW BOEHRINGER
2009
HUMANKIND INGELHEIM MAINTAINS
Hubertus von Baumbach becomes a
member of the Board of Managing ITS INDEPENDENCE
Directors with responsibility for
Finance.
[ years ]
2007
Christian Boehringer is
appointed Chairman of the
Shareholders’ Committee.
Wearing a plain suit and a traditional loden out; for example, he bought his first car second
1991 1965
jacket, he stands thoughtfully at the entrance to hand. When there was a shortage of coal in 1919
C. H. Boehringer Sohn (CHBS) in 1930, watching and production was at risk, he simply acquired
The owner family withdraws from Following the death
1971
lorries leaving the factory to supply customers a disused colliery. His employees were always management after the death of of Albert and Ernst
Hubertus Liebrecht and oversees Boehringer, Julius
with the company’s latest product, the cardio- given top priority. During the First World War,
the company from then on through Julius Liebrecht’s son Liebrecht is appointed
vascular drug sympatol®. The modest-looking for example, he continued to pay the salaries of the Shareholders’ Committee, the Hubertus is appointed Chairman of the Board
chairmanship of which is taken up Chairman of the Board of Directors. 1948
man at the factory gate is none other than the those who had enlisted in the army, he intro-
by Erich H. von Baumbach. of Directors.
69-year-old councillor of commerce, Albert duced a health insurance scheme for company
The company goes
Boehringer, the company’s founder and owner, employees early on, offered paid leave, a com- international.
lost in thought as he pauses for a moment to con- pany pension scheme and inexpensive housing
1885
sider the long journey behind him. for factory workers, and lots more. Such bene fits
1927
were far from common in those days.
Albert Boehringer pur-
1919 1920
CHBS, the parent company of today’s Boehringer chases a tartar factory in
Albert’s brother, Ernst
Nieder-Ingelheim – laying
Ingelheim, has been through difficult times: such As a key principle, Albert Boehringer recognised Boehringer, joins the
the foundation of the Albert Boehringer Julius Liebrecht, who mar-
Board of Directors.
as the hyperinflation in 1920s Germany and the the importance of having good people working present-day company. Jr., son of the com- ried Ilse, the daughter of the
pany’s founder, company’s founder, joins
French occupation of the Rhineland after the for him, like his nephew Robert Boehringer, who
joins the Board of the Board of Directors.
First World War. Following the launch of the ran the company during the First World War, or Directors.
respiratory product lobelin® in 1921, he succeeded Heinrich Wieland, a cousin of Albert Boehringer’s
in making another highly effective drug sympatol® wife Helene, who was later to receive the Nobel
available to patients. The success of these drugs Prize in chemistry. It was also important to Albert “ Independence is fundamental “ An independent Boehringer “ Independence is a unique “ Independence stands for the
secured the financial independence of the family- Boehringer to know that the company was being to protecting our business and Ingelheim enables me to focus opportunity to be bolder both family’s commitment to sus-
our values. It is key to guarantee- on generating long-term and professionally and personally. tained profitability and creating
owned company. run by members of the family. At an early stage,
ing integrity in decision- making sustainable healthcare solu- Few companies provide you value based on innovation. This
therefore, his sons and his son-in-law joined the
to safeguard patient safety.” tions for our customers and with the autonomy to develop enables me to establish innov-
The son of a family of entrepreneurs from Mann- company. Today, the Boehringer and von Baumbach
reduces the need to react fre- such a powerful brand the way ative technologies in accord-
sophie fontez, regional
heim in southwest Germany started up in business families, now in their fourth generation, continue quently to external market Boehringer Ingelheim does.” ance with the company’s guid-
pharmacovigilance head
in much simpler circumstances – with the pro- to manage the company’s fortunes. The producer (asia & middle east/north fluctuations.” ing principles (Leitbild).”
africa) renato camera,
duction of chemical compounds, such as tartaric of tartaric acid in Nieder- Ingelheim has developed arthur mendonca, senior brand manager dr silke lüdtke,
boehringer ingelheim
regional business manager - head of bioanalysis &
and lactic acid. A few years later, however, it was today into an inter nationally successful pharma- do brasil
emerging markets area biomarkers, development
clear that Albert Boehringer had inherited the ceutical company. Perhaps Albert Boehringer management germany
right combination of business talents: the young envisioned such a development as he watched the
entrepreneur invested his money with the tradi- lorries leaving his factory laden with sympatol®
tional virtue of thrift from his native Swabia, and in 1930.
only in specific areas that had been well thoughtgroup management report 2013
36 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013group management report
GROUP MANAGEMENT
REPORT 2013
38 Information about the group of companies
48 Report on economic position
53 Report on post-balance sheet date events
53 Risk report
56 Report on expected developments
37information about the group of companies
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT 2013
INFORMATION ABOUT THE
GROUP OF COMPANIES
The group’s business model
Boehringer Ingelheim is a research-driven group of com- buscopan®, dulcolax® and pharmaton®. Boehringer
panies dedicated to the research and development, pro- Ingelheim is also one of the largest suppliers of veterinary
duction and marketing of pharmaceuticals with high drugs worldwide. In this business, ingelvac circoflex®
therapeutic value for both human medicine and animal is currently the top-selling brand.
health. The Boehringer Ingelheim group consists of
142 companies and employs around 47,500 people. With Another field of growth for the company is the development
net sales amounting to some EUR 14.1 billion, Boehringer and production of biopharmaceuticals, with business
Ingelheim is one of the top 20 pharmaceutical companies focusing on contract manufacturing and biosimilars, in
worldwide. Boehringer Ingelheim’s activities consist of addition to the research and development of new biological
the following businesses: Prescription Medicines, Con-
sumer Health Care, Animal Health, Bio pharmaceuticals
and Industrial Customers. Net sales by business (in millions of EUR)
The Prescription Medicines business continues to be the Prescription Medicines
mainstay of the company’s business. Medicinal products
2013 10,891
from Boehringer Ingelheim have become established 2012 11,405
standard treatments for diseases of the respiratory tract,
the cardiovascular system and the central nervous sys- Consumer Health Care
tem, in addition to metabolic disorders and infectious
2013 1,473
diseases. The most important medicinal products supplied 2012 1,505
by Boehringer Ingelheim include spiriva® for the treat-
ment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) Animal Health
and micardis® for the treatment of hypertension. The two
2013 1,070
drugs pradaxa®, for the prevention of stroke in patients 2012 1,062
suffering from atrial fibrillation or from thromboembolic
disorders, and trajenta®, for the treatment of type 2 dia- Biopharmaceuticals
betes, have reported continuous growth since their launch
2013 449
and support Boehringer Ingelheim’s positive business 2012 549
performance.
Industrial Customers and other sales
The company’s best-selling products in the Consumer
2013 182
Health Care business include the drugs mucosolvan®, 2012 170
38 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013group management report
Net sales by region (in millions of EUR) Research and development (R&D)
In line with Boehringer Ingelheim’s mission statement,
the primary goal is to develop innovative drugs and thera-
pies for the treatment of diseases for which there is as yet
no satisfactory treatment available.
Our aim at all times is to make a major contribution in
Europe 4,267 4,194
2013 2012 areas where the need for treatment is high and to occupy
a leading position in the major indication areas.
Asia,
Australia,
Africa In order to achieve these goals, we ensure that important
Americas 6,411 6,905 (AAA) 3,387 3,592
2013 2012 2013 2012 technologies remain state of the art and systematically
examine new technological approaches. Regular contact
with a global network of academic groups, public research
institutes and biotech companies provides Boehringer
drugs. Boehringer Ingelheim is one of Europe’s leading Ingelheim with access to the latest developments and
providers for contract manufacturing of biotechnically findings. In addition, we regularly supplement our prod-
manufactured pharmaceutical products, which are devel- uct portfolio through specific in-licensing and joint ven-
oped and manufactured at its facilities in Biberach, Ger- ture agreements.
many, Vienna, Austria, and Fremont, USA, using cell cul-
tures or microorganisms. We employed an average of 7,741 people at our R&D s ites
in 2013.
The majority of Boehringer Ingelheim’s sales in 2013
were achieved in the Americas (46%) and Europe (30%), In total, around EUR 2.7 billion were invested worldwide
with around 57% of the group’s net sales generated in the into research and development of new drugs. This is
USA, Japan and Germany. With net sales of around E UR equivalent to 19.5% of the group’s net sales and is thus on
3.4 billion, the Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) region now the same level as the prior year.
accounts for some 24% of the group’s net sales and is
growing in importance. In addition to the established In the 2013 financial year, in addition to giotrif®, for
regions, it is primarily the emerging markets in Russia, non-small cell lung cancer also pradaxa®, for the treat-
Brazil, India, China and Africa, in particular, that are now ment and prevention of deep vein thrombosis and pulmo-
growing in significance. In individual emerging markets nary embolism, was launched in a number of specific
Boehringer Ingelheim achieved growth rates in 2013 in markets. striverdi® (olodaterol) respimat®, for chronic
excess of 30%. obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), received regulato-
ry approval in 2013. In this way, the company continues
Boehringer Ingelheim’s focus is on the research and de- to renew and expand its product portfolio.
velopment (R&D) of innovative medicines and therapies.
The ultimate goal is to secure future growth in the phar-
maceutical business with products from the company’s
own research and d evelopment. Boehringer Ingelheim
operates a global research network with large sites, such
as those in Germany (Biberach), the USA (Ridgefield) and
Austria (Vienna).
39information about the group of companies
Research and development 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Expenditure in EUR million 2,743 2,795 2,516 2,453 2,215
– as % of net sales 19.5 19.0 19.1 19.5 17.4
Prescription Medicines expenditure in EUR million 2,444 2,563 2,372 2,306 2,100
– as % of Prescription Medicines net sales 22.4 22.5 23.5 23.8 20.9
Average number of employees 7,741 7,492 7,159 7,093 6,934
Investments in tangible assets (without investments in infrastructure) in EUR million 114 139 112 83 125
Human Pharmaceuticals on chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and in-
Boehringer Ingelheim carried out research and develop- volved more than 17,000 patients. In particular, the study
ment in 2013 for its businesses Prescription Medicines showed a comparable time to first exacerbation of COPD
and Consumer Health Care at facilities in the USA, Ger- and comparable tolerance for both spiriva® (tiotropium)
many, Austria, Italy and Japan. formulations, respimat® and handihaler®. The study
also demonstrated that the use of spiriva® respimat® and
The key focus of our research work in 2013 was on the the spiriva® handihaler® had a similar impact on surviv-
following indication areas: al. This is important because a survival advantage had
been shown in the previous UPLIFT™ trial for treatment
• Respiratory diseases with spiriva® in the handihaler® compared with the
• Cardiometabolic disorders (cardiovascular and control treatment. These results are the basis for submit-
m etabolic disorders) ting a marketing authorisation application for spiriva®
• Oncology respimat® in the USA. The respimat® inhaler is a propel-
• Diseases of the central nervous system lant-free, soft mist inhaler that will be used as the stand-
• Immunology ard application device for our future respiratory products.
• Infectious diseases
When using olodaterol respimat® in addition to the
Expenditure for R&D in Prescription Medicines account- current treatment, a phase III trial involving 3,000 COPD
ed for 22.4% of net sales generated in this business. patients showed a statistically significant improvement in
lung function. Olodaterol is a highly selective, long-acting
Key studies and data for the financial year 2013 are pre- Beta2 agonist (LABA) from Boehringer Ingelheim’s research
sented below. pipeline. Olodaterol was approved for use under the brand
name of striverdi® respimat® for the first time in 2013.
Boehringer Ingelheim is one of the world’s leading phar-
maceutical companies for the treatment of respiratory New data for tiotropium for asthma demonstrate that
diseases. In addition to its most successful product to date tiotropium respimat® is effective in the treatment of
from its own research, tiotropium, which has been availa- symptomatic asthma patients, regardless of their allergy
ble for over ten years under the brand name of spiriva®, status, age, smoking behaviour and bronchodilator reac-
the company has a comprehensive research and develop- tion. Tiotropium given once daily via respimat® signifi-
ment pipeline. cantly improved lung function.
TIOtropium Safety and Performance In respimat®“ Asthma patients who remained symptomatic, despite
(TIOSPIR™) was one of the largest trials ever conducted treatment with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and long-
40 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013group management report
acting beta agonists (LABA), were the focus of two repli- demonstrated that a specific, highly selective antibody
cate double-blind, parallel group trials. Tiotropium re- fragment (fab) has the potential to do this, which now
duced asthma exacerbations in patients who remained needs to be proven within clinical studies.
symptomatic despite treatment with at least ICS/LABA
medicines – regardless of whether they exhibited allergic In the indication area of metabolic disorders, the focus of
symptoms or not. research and development is on drugs for the treatment of
diabetes.
Patients who remained symptomatic, despite treatment
with ICS, can achieve a statistically significant and clini- Key trials of linagliptin are CARMELINA™, which is de-
cally relevant improvement in asthma control by means of signed to investigate the effect of linagliptin compared
a once-daily dose of tiotropium. This was confirmed by with the standard treatment in terms of the cardiovascu-
data from the MezzoTinA-asthma® phase III twin studies. lar and renal microvascular events, as well as the current
The approval procedure for the use of tiotropium in asth- C AROLINA® trial. This is the only event-driven cardio-
ma was initiated in the European Union (EU) in the sec- vascular endpoint trial that directly compares a DPP-4
ond half of 2013. inhibitor (linagliptin) with a sulfonylurea (glimepiride).
In addition to respiratory diseases, the field of cardio- At the end of 2012 and in the first half of 2013, we suc-
metabolic disorders is an important research field, and cessfully completed a number of key trials for the inves-
Boehringer Ingelheim, among other things, has expanded tigational compound empagliflozin in the phase III
the clinical development programme for pradaxa® (dab- (EMPA-R EG™) clinical trials programme. The programme
igatran etexilate) in this field. focused on type 2 diabetes, involved over 14,000 patients
and included more than ten multinational clinical trials.
The RE-MEDY™, RE-SONATE® and RE-COVER® clinical In 2013, recruitment was completed for EMPA-REG
trials have demonstrated that pradaxa® is effective and at OUTCOME™, an event-driven cardiovascular endpoint
the same time exhibits a favourable safety profile for the trial designed to assess the effect of empagliflozin com-
treatment of acute deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary pared with the standard treatment involving 7,000 people
embolism, and for subsequent secondary prevention as well. with type 2 diabetes and high cardiovascular risk.
At the end of 2013, Boehringer Ingelheim announced In the indication area of oncology, Boehringer Ingelheim
that two new phase III trials are planned. RE-SPECT is involved in the research and development of new types
ESUS™ will carry out research to determine the efficacy of cancer treatment that will offer patients added thera-
and safety of pradaxa® in preventing another stroke in peutic value and contribute to an improvement in their
patients whose first stroke was of embolic origin with an quality of life.
unknown source, whereas RE-DUAL PCI™ will address
the question of the efficacy and safety of pradaxa® in pre- Data from its LUX-Lung 6 phase III trial show that 47%
venting blood clots in patients with atrial fibrillation who of the patients who received giotrif® (afatinib) were still
received a stent as a result of a narrowing of the blood alive one year later and showed no tumour progression.
vessels that supply blood to the heart. This was the case with only 2% of the patients who had
been treated with chemotherapy. These new results con-
To further improve patient safety, Boehringer Ingelheim is firm the findings of the company’s previous LUX-Lung 3
working on an antidote that will reverse the anticoagula- phase III trial and demonstrate that giotrif® was superi-
tion effect of pradaxa®. Initial results from the first study or to standard chemotherapies in patients with EGFR
with healthy volunteers (phase I of the clinical trials) have (ErbB1) mutation-positive non-small cell lung cancer
41information about the group of companies
(NSCLC). In addition, it was possible to demonstrate that Animal Health
a treatment with giotrif® for patients with this type of Boehringer Ingelheim’s research in its Animal Health
lung cancer not only leads to a significant delay in tumour business focuses on the research and development of in-
progression, but also to an improved quality of life. In novative vaccines, primarily to protect livestock and com-
2013, the authorities in the EU and a large number of panion animals, in addition to pharmaceutical products.
other countries in Europe, the Americas and Asia ap- In 2013, the company invested some EUR 121 million in
proved giotrif®. The drug has also been approved in the the research and development of new products and in set-
USA under the brand name gilotrif™. ting up new R&D facilities. This is equivalent to 11.3% of
the net sales generated in the company’s Animal Health
Nintedanib is the first treatment for lung cancer that, in business.
combination with chemotherapy, can extend the life of a
patient in whom the initial treatment has failed, by more At our facilities in the USA, Germany, Mexico, China,
than a year. This was shown by results of the LUME® Japan, Denmark, India and the Netherlands, we focus on
Lung 1 phase III clinical trial. On the basis of these re- the research of new drugs and the development of future
sults, Boehringer Ingelheim submitted an application to therapeutic solutions. Since many vaccines are based on
the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and other author- local pathogens and pathogen variants, it is imperative
ities in the second half of 2013 for the approval of that we are present in all key sales regions with our own
nintedanib. research, development and production facilities.
As the STARTVerso™ phase III programme demonstrated, The European Research Centre for animal vaccines in
faldaprevir, in combination with pegylated interferon and Hanover began operations in the 2013 financial year. The
ribavirin, proved to be effective and safe in a large num- company has invested over EUR 55 million in the
ber of hepatitis patients infected with genotype 1, includ- Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary Research Centre
ing patients with advanced liver disease. In 83% of the pa- (BIVRC).
tients who had not received any previous treatment, early
treatment success, and therefore a shorter duration of In China, the activities in our first Asian research and de-
treatment, was achieved. The company submitted applica- velopment centre for veterinary medicine are being ex-
tions to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the panded. By the end of 2013, Boehringer Ingelheim had al-
EMA and other authorities worldwide in 2013 for the ap- ready invested a total of EUR 12 million. These investments
proval of faldaprevir. demonstrate the company’s commitment and its intention
to further strengthen its position in animal health.
In the Consumer Health Care business Boehringer Ingel-
heim successfully launched the products boxagrippal® In the 2013 financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim received
and vaprino® on the German market. Both substances European market authorisation for three new drugs in
are available as over-the-counter medication and can now veterinary medicine: pexion®, for the treatment of epilep-
be obtained without prescription. boxagrippal® contains sy in dogs, semintra®, for the treatment of chronic kidney
the first combination of ibuprofen and pseudeoephedrin disease in cats, and prozinc® insulin, for the treatment of
in the consumer health care market. vaprino® is a secre- type 2 diabetes mellitus in cats. In the USA, a new vaccine
tion blocker for the therapy of acut diarrohea in adults has been approved for cats to prevent rabies, a vaccine for
above 18 years of age. the prevention of influenza A in dogs, and a vaccine for
the prevention of salmonellosis (S. typhimurium) in swine.
The first vaccine for cattle in Europe (bovela® bvd) was
submitted to the EMA and the clinical programme for a
42 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013group management report
new vaccine for porcine reproductive and respiratory syn- challenging in terms of both the technology and the pro-
drome (PRRS) in Europe was completed. cesses involved.
Production Under the guidance of the Third Party Management
Human Pharmaceuticals (3PM) department, our network of contract management
The global production network in 2013 consisted of organisations (CMOs) focuses on the manufacture of
20 facilities in 13 countries. Spread over these production products that are already established on the market and in
sites, the group operates 12 pharmaceutical, 5 chemical an advanced stage of their life cycle. This ensures a relia-
and 3 biopharmaceutical production units and one pro- ble and competitive supply of Prescription Medicines and
duction unit for medicinal devices. The highest priority Consumer Health Care products in accordance with the
for our sites is to provide a reliable and high-quality sup- relevant requirements.
ply of products for customers within the group and for
external industrial clients. Through our local presence in all growth markets, our
production and 3PM network enables us to provide a high
In October, Boehringer Ingelheim announced that it would level of flexibility and be in a position to respond optimal-
be closing down production at the U.S. subsidiary Ben ly to local needs.
Venue Laboratories, Inc. in Bedford, Ohio by the end of
2013. Despite close collaboration with the FDA, the ut- In September, Boehringer Ingelheim inaugurated the ex-
most commitment of the workforce and investments to tension of its production facility and a building designed
improve the facilities, it was not possible to secure the lev- to accommodate the chemical research and development
el of sustainable production required, particularly as the laboratory in the Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park in Shanghai,
market environment has changed significantly. China. At a total investment cost of EUR 70 million, the
site in Zhangjiang will become one of Boehringer Ingel-
Following an inspection of the manufacturing process at heim’s most important centres in the Asia-Pacific region.
the production site in Ingelheim in 2012, the U.S. Food The size of the workforce is to be increased to 350 and the
and Drug Administration issued a warning letter. This had aim is to triple the production capacity by 2018. Extend-
resulted from concerns relating to the compliance with ing the site will make it possible to add new competences,
“current Good Manufacturing Practice” (cGMP). expand capacity and set up a more effective supply chain.
Boehringer Ingelheim is taking this matter very seriously. The project includes a packaging centre with enough
As a result of the warning letter, a comprehensive initia- space to accommodate the latest packaging systems, new
tive was launched in 2013 in response to the FDA’s con- quality control laboratories and an automatic warehous-
cerns. An action plan was filed with the FDA and is cur- ing and logistics area for reliable, high-quality deliveries
rently being implemented to fully comply with cGMP and the market launch of new medicinal products. The
standards. most important technologies are solid forms (tablets) and
liquids (syrup) with an anticipated production capacity of
The chemical and pharmaceutical production facilities over 150 million packages in 2016, increasing to 220 mil-
for product launches are grouped together in the Pharma- lion in 2018.
ceutical and Chemical Manufacturing (PCM) division,
which acts as an interface between our development A new building has also been erected for this centre of
activities and series production. The division is responsi- competence, which is being moved from Waigaoqiao to
ble for compliance with our high quality standards when Zhangjiang. The focus of the work carried out at the R&D
organising new product launches and for the production chemical laboratory, which has been in operation since
of innovative products over their entire life cycle, which is 2010, is on process optimisation and the performance of
43information about the group of companies
analytical tests for pharmaceuticals and chemical inter- Company in Shanghai, China, to build a cGMP bioparma-
mediates that are purchased by Boehringer Ingelheim’s ceuticals facility. The new site will provide a variety of
strategic partners in China clinical and development services for Chinese and multi-
national customers. The facility will have all the equip-
Biopharmaceuticals ment required for process development and production in
In addition to manufacturing proprietary (actilyse®, accordance with cGMP and is scheduled for completion
metalyse®, imukin® and beromun®) and development in early 2016. Boehringer Ingelheim is planning to invest
products, Boehringer Ingelheim’s biopharmaceutical pro- over EUR 35 million and to create up to 65 jobs.
duction facilities in Fremont, USA, Biberach, Germany,
and Vienna, Austria, are also globally recognised contract Boehringer Ingelheim’s 30-year strategic alliance with
manufacturers for third-party clients. The company cov- the pharmaceutical companies Roche/Genentech was
ers the entire biopharmaceutical process chain from ge- celebrated in October 2013. The joint development work
netic development of the cell, followed by manufacturing carried out by the companies has resulted in successful
and filling of the finished pharmaceutical product down products, such as actilyse®, metalyse®, imukin® and
to the product launch and global market supply. beromun®, which have helped patients worldwide for
many years. The collaboration in contract manufacturing,
In large-scale cell culture facilities and packing facilities in addition to development products, has also included
in Biberach, the successful process validation of the the production of the brand product activase® by
pradaxa® antidote was completed in 2013. The applica- Boehringer Ingelheim for the American market of Roche/
tion for the approval of this molecule is planned for Genentech.
2014/15.
Animal Health
In the 2013 financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim success- In partnership with the Taizhou China Medical City,
fully concluded new contracts in its contract manufactur- Boehringer Ingelheim announced in August the construc-
ing business, including a production agreement for a peri- tion of a production facility for veterinary vaccines in the
od of several years with a leading Swiss pharmaceutical province of Jiangsu in China. The joint venture includes a
company for a recombinant protein, and a successful in- total investment of EUR 58 million. The completion of
spection by the FDA at its production site in Vienna. FDA the production facility, which will employ 200 workers, is
approval of a new isolator line at the Biberach site was scheduled for June 2015 and will help the joint venture to
given for the asceptic production of biopharmaceuticals. develop into a leading force in the Chinese animal hus-
Boehringer Ingelheim also negotiated development and bandry sector. In future, the facility will produce vaccines
production agreements with other pharmaceutical com- primarily for the treatment of swine and poultry diseases
panies for molecules that will be produced at the cell cul- in China and other Asian markets. This investment under-
ture production facilities in Biberach and Fremont as of lines our long-term commitment in China.
2014. For the Swedish company Sobi, Boehringer Ingel-
heim received both US (FDA) and European (EMA) ap- Environmental and employee protection
proval for the production facility in Vienna for the pro- Concern for social and ecological issues has been firmly
duction of the brand product kineret®. This inhibits the anchored in Boehringer Ingelheim’s corporate philosophy
biological activity of interleukin-1 and thus has a major for many years and is of crucial importance to the compa-
impact on many inflammatory disorders. ny’s long-term development. The high value placed on
these issues is also reflected in our mission statement, in
Boehringer Ingelheim has signed a cooperation agreement which the protection of our employees, our facilities and
with the Zhangjiang Biotech & Pharmaceutical Base our environment, in addition to the sustainable and pru-
44 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013group management report
dent use of natural resources and the promotion of envi- of expertise between the company’s facilities, and by co-
ronmental awareness, are key components. ordinating projects at an international level.
Observing social and ecological concerns is the only way The CO emissions index, which is calculated on an
2
to ensure that we enjoy sustainable business success. annual basis, already indicates a trend in the right direc-
Boehringer Ingelheim has demonstrated its commitment tion that will ultimately enable us to achieve this ambi-
to responsibility by participating in the Responsible Care® tious target.
initiative of the World Chemicals Association since 1995.
Top priority at Boehringer Ingelheim is given to the health
Binding standards for environmental protection, health and safety of our employees. This is reflected in our high
and occupational safety have long been implemented global safety standards and guidelines, as well as in the
throughout the group of companies. These internal guide- implementation of our safety culture. The group-wide
lines reflect the respective country-specific legal require- initiative BE SAFE, which was launched in 2010, aims to
ments and significantly exceed them in many cases. further reduce the number of work accidents and has
since been rolled out in a large number of international
The division Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) is re- facilities. Other efforts designed to achieve this goal are
sponsible for introducing and reviewing the internal envi- planned for the MENA (Middle East and North Africa)
ronmental and occupational safety guidelines. Compli- region, for example, and for smaller facilities in Latin
ance with our standards and the status of environmental America.
and employee protection is examined as part of regular
audits in order to continuously identify potential areas of As part of this initiative, members of senior management
improvement. A total of 13 internal EHS audits were per- and the entire workforce play a key role by proactively tak-
formed throughout the group in the 2013 financial year. ing responsibility for their own safety and for the safety
of their colleagues. With an accident rate of 2.2 accidents
An example of the continuous improvement in environ- per million hours worked in 2013, we remained on a sim-
mental protection is the ISO certification that was suc- ilar level to that of the prior year.
cessfully begun at the Ingelheim site. In Ingelheim, where
active ingredients and drugs have been produced for more Employee reporting
than 125 years, the company launched a comprehensive As in previous years, Boehringer Ingelheim’s workforce
examination and decontamination of the ground on and increased in the 2013 financial year. The average number
adjacent to the plant premises, and this was continued in of people employed at Boehringer Ingelheim for the year
2013. Technical progress and improved information mean was 47,492. This is equivalent to an increase of 2.7% com-
that problems of this nature can now be analysed more pared with the prior year.
accurately than was previously the case. Experts in the
fields of geochemistry, environmental toxicology and en- Average number of employees by region 2013 2012
gineering were consulted for advice on implementing the Americas 15,038 15,208
measures. Europe 22,905 22,106
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 9,549 8,914
Boehringer Ingelheim has set itself the ambitious target of 47,492 46,228
cutting its CO emissions by 20% from 2010 to 2020. This
2
will be achieved by including potential energy savings As a result of the increase in our workforce, a new admin-
and reductions in emissions, by promoting the exchange istration building is to be erected at the headquarters in
45information about the group of companies
Ingelheim. Boehringer Ingelheim will invest EUR 44.3 mil- company’s performance and on the individual targets
lion in the new building, which will accommodate 730 em- achieved by each individual employee. As part of a con-
ployees. The building is scheduled for completion by the tinuous communication process between the employee
end of 2014. and the superior, individual targets are agreed for the cur-
rent year at the beginning of that year. The achievement of
Boehringer Ingelheim’s employees are an important fac- these targets ultimately has a direct effect on the variable
tor in the successful future development of the company. salary component. Extensive voluntary social benefits
Accordingly, we are particularly committed to actively de- such as our company pension scheme or preventive health
veloping and supporting our employees to ensure that we examinations round off the attractive salary system that,
are ideally equipped to deal with the challenges ahead. As in our opinion, places us in a good competitive position.
part of a comprehensive training system, we place great
importance not only on the acquisition of technical skills, Members of senior management at Boehringer Ingelheim
but also on the promotion of social skills. also receive a salary component linked to the company’s
long-term success. This variable salary component is
Apprenticeship is a vital source of qualified young people geared towards the attainment of long-term company
and is traditionally one of Boehringer Ingelheim’s special targets.
concerns. For this purpose, graduates can choose among
26 different career paths at the company’s German facili- We build on the commitment, the innovation and the vi-
ties. In Germany alone, Boehringer Ingelheim invests tality of our workforce and regard a good balance be-
around EUR 20 million each year in career training. In tween career and private life as one of the keys to corpo-
addition to specific skills, apprentices are encouraged to rate success and satisfaction in the workplace. The efforts
act independently, to be creative and take on responsibil- we make to support the members of our workforce in-
ity. In the 2013 financial year, we employed 688 appren- clude the provision of such services as the “BI-Fit” fitness
tices in Germany. programme, medical care, comprehensive advice, sup-
porting the family by providing child care, part-time work
As an integral part of the corporate strategy, talent man- and flexible working hours. Services of this kind are based
agement is particularly important. The aim of the pro- on the local requirements in the individual countries.
gramme is to have the right people in the right place at the
right time. This enables the employability and the career In November 2013, Boehringer Ingelheim received the
development of each employee with development poten- “Corporate Health Award” for the third time, emphasising
tial to be identified and specially prepared for strategically the high value that corporate health management enjoys
important positions at an early stage. The behaviour and at Boehringer Ingelheim. For the future, Boehringer Ingel-
the performance delivered by each employee are assessed heim’s aim is to continuously expand its corporate health
for this purpose and appropriate distinctions are made in management services. A new area in which we will become
terms of the salary and career development opportunities. involved, therefore, is “healthy leadership”.
In addition to a strong corporate culture, this approach
enables us to recruit highly qualified employees, even in a Corporate citizenship
very competitive business environment, and ensure they For decades, Boehringer Ingelheim has been actively in-
remain loyal to Boehringer Ingelheim in the long term. volved in areas that extend far beyond its own business
interests. Social responsibility and a commitment to soci-
The salary system at Boehringer Ingelheim includes a ety as a whole cover a wide range of issues for Boehringer
competitive basic salary and a variable salary component. Ingelheim and are firmly anchored in our corporate phi-
The amount of the variable component is based on the losophy. In the future as well, the commitment to the
46 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013group management report
well-being of our patients, employees and their families The 14th autumn run in Ingelheim provided an opportu-
will be the focus of many initiatives. We also support par- nity for over 950 employees to become involved in the
ticipation in many projects designed to help the very event that was dedicated to a good cause. The company
needy. Such activities are actively encouraged, particular- donates a sum of money to social projects for every partic-
ly in countries and regions in which we do business. ipant in the sporting event.
An example of Boehringer Ingelheim’s social commit- An online, web-based “changemaker competition” has
ment is the implementation of the UN Convention on the also been launched. The competition encourages mem-
Rights of Persons with Disabilities. With our action plan, bers of the general public to send in new ideas on ways in
we specify the goals and ideas that will enable us to im- which healthcare can be improved in poorly supported
plement the UN Convention in areas within our organisa- environments. In addition to this example, the “Making
tion where we can bring about change, such as workplace More Health“ partnership also includes a variety of addi-
design, barrier-free access and social benefits. tional initiatives and projects.
In addition to the long-term initiatives, Boehringer Only by being open to differing ideas and opinions and by
Ingelheim also provides help where it is urgently needed. drawing on the great diversity of experience, cultural
In 2013, for example, Boehringer Ingelheim donated for backgrounds and different characters and personalities, is
the flood victims in eastern parts of Germany as well as it possible for Boehringer Ingelheim to remain true to its
for victims of the devastating typhoon Haiyan in the Phil- motto of “Value through Innovation”. The desire to create
ippines. The amount for the Philippines was made availa- a working environment that is open to diversity and dif-
ble to the German Red Cross as emergency aid. The Phil- ferences is one of the most fundamental pillars of our cor-
ippine subsidiary of Boehringer Ingelheim also supported porate culture. Diversity and inclusion help us to live our
various local aid organisations with donations of cash core values of respect, trust, empathy and passion. Be-
and medicines. cause these values are so important to Boehringer Ingel-
heim and in response to the Corporate Charter of Diversi-
The social commitment of our employees is also encouraged ty for Germany, the company’s first nation-wide Diversity
at Boehringer Ingelheim. In what is now the third year Day was held on 11 June 2013 with a programme of
since the partnership was set up in 2011, the “Making events that focused on many aspects of diversity.
More Health” initiative between Boehringer Ingelheim
and Ashoka, an international non-profit organisation, Boehringer Ingelheim has been an active supporter of
has been a major part of our social commitment. The research, science and culture for many years. Long-term
aim of the partnership is to promote the health of people partnerships with academic institutions serve to under-
around the world, including their f amilies and their social line the group’s systematic focus on research and develop-
environment, by identifying and implementing promising ment. In addition to supporting and sponsoring scientific
solutions for dealing with health problems. In order to activities, the company presents scientists with awards,
achieve this goal, support will be given to 50 selected such as the Boehringer Ingelheim FENS Research Award
social entrepreneurs worldwide who are pushing ahead for neuroscience. Moreover, the company awards the
with effective long-term solutions in the healthcare field. Heinrich Wieland Price annually for outstanding research
To this end, more than 2,200 Boehringer Ingelheim em- in active biological molecules and systems as well as their
ployees now participate in the “Making More Health” ini- clinical relevance.
tiative in over 30 countries.
47report on economic position
REPORT ON ECONOMIC
In 2013, according to the consumer price index, the aver-
POSITION age inflation rate in Germany at 1.5% had decelerated
further. The reasons for the still existing price increases
were the higher costs for energy and food. In the entire
Macroeconomic environment eurozone, the annual inflation rate at 1.7% was down
Following the euro crisis, the global economy stabilised compared with the previous year.
again in 2013. The growth rate was at 2.2% in 2013 and
thus below the level of the previous years. As a result of In the previous financial year, the performance of the
the expansionary monetary policy, the upswing in some US dollar (USD) and the Japanese yen (JPY), which are the
countries, however, is not yet self-sustaining. Global in- key currencies for Boehringer Ingelheim, varied against the
dustrial production increased moderately, driven by euro. The exchange rate of the US dollar showed a lateral
strengthened industrialised nations. In contrast, the slow- movement ranging between 1.277 USD/EUR (March) and
down in the rate of economic growth in the emerging and 1.381 USD/EUR (December). The Japanese yen exchange
developing countries continued. Foreign trade in these rate dropped significantly against the euro in the course
countries actually declined slightly towards the end of the of 2013. The starting rate in January was 114 JPY/EUR,
year. The major drivers of the positive trend in the global rising to 145 JPY/EUR by the end of December.
economy are primarily the positive investor sentiment in
the USA and the economic recovery in Japan. The euro- The growth of the global pharmaceutical market, which
zone to a large extent moved out of the recession support- had been affected by the expiry of patents for some prod-
ed by a strong German economy and the continuing stabi- ucts earning billions in sales, greater competition due to
lisation in other euro countries. generic products and further measures taken to restrict
costs by governments and health authorities, regained
A slight increase in the growth rate of the global economy momentum in the second half of 2013 and grew by
to 3.0% is expected for 2014. A series of early indicators around 4% in 2013 overall. This performance was primar-
points to a continuing recovery of the economy. An im- ily due primarily to contributions from the emerging
provement in confidence is seen in the case of both com- countries with in some cases double-digit growth rates.
panies and consumers in the industrialised nations.
Whereas acceleration in production growth and recovery Course of business
of the housing market are seen in the USA, a low rate of The focus of Boehringer Ingelheim’s business activities in
growth continues to be expected in the eurozone. A weak- 2013 was again on securing the group’s independence.
ening of growth is also expected in Japan, since the fiscal The basis for this is the achievement of the long-term,
policy measures responsible for the economic upswing sustainable development of the company, accompanied by
expire in the coming year. stable profits and solid financing.
Economic output in Germany was up by 0.4% last year. Marked by a number of challenges we had to face, 2013
Some indicators, such as the increase in consumer spend- was a transition year for the group. As a result of numer-
ing, point to a continuation of the upswing, signalling an ous measures that were taken, changes that were made
end to the weak phase. and positive results from our research and development
activities, the basis for a business performance was never-
This positive emerging trend in 2013, seen from today’s theless laid for the years to come.
perspective, is likely to continue in the coming year.
Growth of 1.6% is expected and is due primarily to the Net sales in 2013 amounted to EUR 14,065 million. This
increase in consumer spending. represents a – 4.3% change compared with 2012. The
48 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013group management report
exchange rate developments on the foreign exchange letter, were more than offset by the effects resulting from
markets and the associated exchange rate effects had a measures and initiatives to increase efficiency and reduce
negative impact. Currency adjusted, Boehringer Ingel- costs that we introduced last year, so that the group’s re-
heim’s growth rate stood at 1.4%. This means that, despite turn on net sales increased to 15.0%.
declines in sales of products that have lost their exclusivity
Key figures (in EUR million) 2013 2012 Change
in some countries (e.g. micardis®, sifrol®, viramune®),
Net sales 14,065 14,691 – 4.3%
the company continues its growth trend.
Operating income 2,114 1,853 + 14.1%
Return on net sales 15.0% 12.6%
With sales of EUR 6,411 million, and thus 46% of total
sales, the Americas region remained the company’s most
important sales market. The decline in importance of this Results of operations
region compared with the previous year results primarily Boehringer Ingelheim’s business activities are devided
from the change in the EUR/USD exchange rate and the into Prescription Medicines, Consumer Health Care,
associated lower sales of – 7.2% (– 0.3% currency adjust- Animal Health, Biopharmaceuticals and Industrial Cus-
ed). In Europe, Boehringer Ingelheim generated net sales tomers.
amounting to EUR 4,267 million. This is equivalent to
Net sales by businesses currency
30% of total sales and a growth of 1.7% (2.2% currency (in EUR million) 2013 2012 Change adjusted
adjusted) compared with the previous year. Some 24% of Prescription Medicines 10,891 11,405 – 4.5% + 1.4%
global sales amounting to EUR 3,387 million was attrib- Consumer Health Care 1,473 1,505 – 2.1% + 6.3%
utable to the Asia/Australia/Africa region. The share of Animal Health 1,070 1,062 + 0.8% + 4.5%
group sales was thus approximately equivalent to that of Biopharmaceuticals 449 549 – 18.2% – 18.2%
the previous year. Net sales in this region declined by Industrial Customers and
Other Sales 182 170 + 7.1% + 11.7%
– 5.7%; adjusted for currency effects, however, an increase
of 9.1% was achieved.
Prescription Medicines
Net sales by region currency With a share of overall sales of 77%, Prescription Medi-
(in EUR million) 2013 2012 Change adjusted
cines is the key pillar of Boehringer Ingelheim’s activities.
Americas 6,411 6,905 – 7.2% – 0.3%
Net sales in 2013 amounted to EUR 10,891 million. This
Europe 4,267 4,194 + 1.7% + 2.2%
is equivalent to a change of – 4.5% compared with the
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 3,387 3,592 – 5.7% + 9.1%
previous year (+ 1.4% currency adjusted).
Overall, we are satisfied with the development of our As in previous years, spiriva®, which is used to treat
sales in 2013. Despite the difficult year, the growth chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), was our
achieved on the basis of our established products and the best-s elling product. In the reporting period, it generated
newly launched products (after adjustment for exchange sales of EUR 3,552 million and was thus at the level of the
rate effects) compared with the previous year and the previous year. In its largest sales market, the USA, sales of
promising innovative products in our pipeline serve to af- spiriva® increased once again by 1.6%, resulting in total
firm our actions as a company. sales of EUR 1,819 million.
Boehringer Ingelheim generated an operating income Based on sales, the second most important product of
amounting to EUR 2,114 million. Factors affecting our Boehringer Ingelheim, m icardis®, a drug for the treatment
result, such as the closure of our site in Bedford, USA, and of high blood pressure, generated sales amounting to
the additional expenses resulting from the FDA warning EUR 1,373 million and was thus 15.4% below the previous
49report on economic position
year’s level. This decline, which had been expected, result- The AAA region achieved net sales of EUR 2,649 million,
ed from the loss of exclusivity in some markets. which is equivalent to a share of 25%. This region report-
ed a slight decline of – 5.9% compared with the previous
Launched in 2011, the anticoagulant pradaxa®, with an year, which results to a large extent from the currency-
8.8% increase in sales to EUR 1,206 million, proved to be related decline in sales in Japan. Currency adjusted, a
a driver of growth. growth of 9.1% was achieved in this region. In Japan,
Boehringer Ingelheim generated net sales of EUR 1,534 mil-
Net sales (in EUR million) 2013 2012 Change lion, which corresponds to a change of – 12.4% compared
spiriva® 3,552 3,562 – 0.3% with the previous year.
micardis® 1,373 1,623 – 15.4%
pradaxa® 1,206 1,108 + 8.8% Consumer Health Care
combivent® 771 883 – 12.7%
In what remained a difficult market environment, sales in
the Consumer Health Care business were down by – 2.1%
In terms of the regional distribution of sales, the region of (+ 6.3% currency adjusted) compared with the previous
Europe in 2013 was the only market reporting an increase year. In this business, Boehringer Ingelheim generated
in Prescription Medicine business. The region of Asia/ sales amounting to EUR 1,473 million.
Australia/Africa (AAA) in contrast reported declines in
sales compared with the previous year. The best-selling products in the Consumer Health Care
business in 2013 were mucosolvan®, buscopan®,
Net sales by region (in dulcolax® and pharmaton®. All products generated
EUR million) 2013 2013 Change
sales of over EUR 100 million each. As in the previous
Americas 5,262 5,556 – 5.3%
year, buscopan®, with net sales of EUR 205 million, was
Europe 2,919 2,822 + 3.4%
the biggest seller. In terms of growth, mucosolvan® en-
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 2,649 2,815 – 5.9%
joyed a 10.8% sales increase, reporting sales amounting to
EUR 184 million. As in the previous year, we once again
The Americas, with a share of 48%, is by far the largest exceeded the 100 million mark with zantac® and bisolvon®.
market. Boehringer Ingelheim generated sales amounting
to EUR 5,262 million here. This is equivalent to a change Net sales (in EUR million) 2013 2012 Change
of – 5.3% (– 1.2% currency adjusted) compared with the buscopan® 205 212 – 3.3%
previous year. The greatest impact on the development in dulcolax® 191 193 – 1.0%
the Americas had the sales performance in our most im- mucosolvan® 184 166 + 10.8%
portant market in the USA, with sales of EUR 4,414 mil- pharmaton® 139 136 + 2.2%
lion, which decreased by – 5.0%, primarily as a result of
the unfavourable exchange rate development. Considering the region as a whole, Europe generated the
highest net sales of EUR 600 million. This corresponds to
Europe, our second largest market, accounted for a share a 41% share of global net sales in the Consumer Health
of 27%, with sales amounting to EUR 2,919 million. As Care business. The business in Europe grew by 7.7% (8.8%
only growth market in 2013, the region Europe achieved a currency adjusted) in 2013, while in Germany, the most
growth of 3.4% (4.6% currency adjusted) compared with important market for Boehringer Ingelheim, business was
2012. The performance in Europe was driven primarily by up by 9.8%.
12.5% growth generated in the UK, which contributed
EUR 379 million. In Germany, the largest market, growth The Americas region, the second largest sales market in
stagnated, with total sales amounting to EUR 581 million. the Consumer Health Care business, ended the financial
50 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013group management report
year with a slight decline of – 3.3% (6.8% currency ad- to EUR 504 million. Whereas sales in the USA, the largest
justed) compared with the previous year and achieved market, remained at the previous year’s level, Canada and
total net sales of EUR 446 million. This corresponds to a Brazil reported a decline in business.
30% share of the region’s total CHC business. By far the
largest market, the USA, remained stable in 2013 com- In the region of Europe, Boehringer Ingelheim once again
pared with 2012. reported slight growth of 1.4% in the 2013 financial year
(2.1% currency adjusted). Whereas net sales in Germany
The AAA region ended the 2013 financial year with net remained stable at the level of the previous year, France,
sales amounting to EUR 426 million, and was thus as the second largest European market, performed very
– 12.4% (2.5% currency adjusted) down on the previous positively (+ 10.3%).
year. The market thus accounted for 29% of Boehringer
Ingelheim‘s Consumer Health Care business. The main Biopharmaceuticals
driver of the decline was the Japanese market, in which Since the 2012 financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim
our net sales declined due to currency effects by – 17.9% manages its biopharmaceuticals business in a separate
to EUR 241 million. division, which consists of contract manufacturing,
biosimilars and research and development of new bio-
Animal Health logical active ingredients. Sales for 2013 amounted to
Sales in the business with Animal Health products EUR 449 million, which represented a decline of – 18.2%
increased in 2013 to EUR 1,070 million and were thus as a result of a weak contract manufacturing business
0.8% (4.5% currency adjusted) above the level of the pre- compared with the previous year.
vious year. The largest percentage of sales was attributable
to livestock products. In 2013, EUR 696 million were ac- Industrial Customers and other sales
counted for by this livestock segment. This is equivalent to The Industrial Customer business encompasses our
a share of 65%. At EUR 260 million, the best-selling prod- third-party business in the field of pharmaceutical pro-
uct last year was the swine vaccine ingelvac circoflex®. duction and our contract manufacturing business for
Business in the companion animal segment generated a fur- pharma chemicals. Net sales amounting to EUR 182 mil-
ther EUR 344 million, which corresponds to a share of 32%. lion were generated in 2013, which is equivalent to 7.1%
growth (11.7% currency adjusted).
Net sales (in EUR million) 2013 2012 Change
ingelvac circoflex® 260 279 – 6.8% Presentation of expenditure and income
metacam® 90 99 – 9.1% In the 2013 financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim’s operat-
ingelvac® prrs 79 68 + 16.2% ing expenses dropped to EUR 13,114 million. This repre-
duramune® 52 46 + 13.0% sents a change of – 8.7% compared with the previous year.
At EUR 1,890 million, material costs remained at the level
The largest contribution to growth came once again from of the previous year (EUR 1,878 million). This represents
the emerging markets in the AAA region. The region grew material costs as a share of total sales of 13.4%. Personnel
by 4.8% (12.6% currency adjusted) overall to EUR 225 mil- costs in 2013 amounted to EUR 4,071 million and were
lion. On the Chinese market in particular, net sales increased thus slightly above the level of 2012 (EUR 4,024 million).
by 40% to EUR 61 million. As a result, the personnel expenses share came to 28.9%.
With a 47% share of the business, net sales in the Ameri- Amortisation dropped by 17.6% compared with the pre-
cas, the largest region, reported a slight decline of – 1.4% vious year and amounted to EUR 739 million. Other op-
(2.6% currency adjusted) compared with the previous year erating expenses declined by 15.2% year-on-year to EUR
51report on economic position / report on post-balance sheet date events / risk report
6,414 million. Among other things, this cost block in- As a result of Boehringer Ingelheim’s international orien-
cludes commission and licence payments, which are de- tation, developments on the foreign exchange rate mar-
pendent on sales. The reduction in other operating ex- kets have a considerable impact on the company’s finan-
penses compared to the previous year in particular results cial performance. The importance of our US business and
from exchange rate effects as well as from sustainable ef- the associated supply relationships mean that the ex-
ficiency initiatives instigated last year. Operating income, change rate development of the US dollar constitutes the
despite the situation at our US subsidiary Ben Venue Lab- greatest individual risk. Within the framework of group-
oratories, Inc. as well as the action taken as a result of the wide financial reporting, foreign exchange risk is calculat-
FDA warning letter, was above the level of the previous ed and hedged through derivative financial instruments.
year and increased by 14.1% compared with 2012 to The nature and scope of these measures are set out in our
EUR 2,114 million. group guidelines and are regularly discussed by the rele-
vant committee in a standardised process.
In the reporting period, the financial income totalled
EUR – 151 million, down by EUR 34 million compared Investments are of great importance to Boehringer Ingel-
with the previous year. This was largely attributable to heim’s future. Continuous investment is a requirement for
interest effects within the pension commitments. the company’s long-term development and forms the ba-
sis for the profitable growth of its businesses.
Income before taxes developed in line with the result
from operating activities, increasing by 12.4% to In total, EUR 605 million were invested in tangible and
EUR 1,954 million. intangible assets in the year under review.
Tax expenses amounted to EUR 630 million. Here, it must To continue to meet the positive demand for the respimat®
be taken into consideration that, under the provisions of Soft Mist™ Inhaler, the company moved ahead with the
German commercial law, shareholders’ personal taxes expansion of production capacity at its Dortmund and
arising from group business activities may not be recog- Ingelheim sites in 2013 with investments amounting to
nised in tax expenses. Instead, these taxes are presented EUR 57 million. The respimat® Soft Mist™ Inhaler is
as part of withdrawals from group equity. Taking this ex- manufactured by Boehringer Ingelheim microParts
traordinary effect into account, the actual tax ratio is GmbH in Dortmund and is filled with the corresponding
markedly higher than the figure shown in the profit and pharmaceutical active ingredients at the Ingelheim site for
loss statement. global distribution. In the important growth market of
China, Boehringer Ingelheim in 2013 invested a further
In the 2013 financial year, the net income of the Boehringer EUR 23 million in the expansion of its production facili-
Ingelheim Group totalled EUR 1,324 million and was ties and a building to accommodate the chemical R&D
thus above the level of the previous year of EUR 1,237 mil- laboratory in Shanghai, China. Research and development
lion (+7.0%). in the fields of human and animal medicine will also re-
main top priority for Boehringer Ingelheim in future. To
Financial position this end, additional investments were made in the R&D
Boehringer Ingelheim’s financial management instru- facilities in Germany, Austria and the USA in 2013.
ments and methods are aimed at securing liquidity, limit-
ing financial and economic risks and optimising the cost Cash flow stood at EUR 2,129 million in 2013. This con-
of capital through a suitable capital structure. Our finan- stitutes a 4.3% decline compared with 2012. Mainly due to
cial activities are therefore geared towards supporting the the higher level of receivables compared with the previous
company’s business strategy. year, cash flow from operating activities fell by EUR 351 mil-
52 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013group management report
lion to EUR 1,819 million. Despite this decrease, as in pre- the year under review, despite decreased liabilities due to
vious years, investments were financed entirely through banks, and also remained stable at EUR 2,878 million.
funds generated by the company itself.
The balance sheet and the respective balance sheet ratios
A total of EUR 558 million was invested in tangible assets round off the positive picture already shown in the finan-
and EUR 47 million in intangible assets. Cash flow from cial position and results from operations. A combined
operating activities exceeded cash flow from investing evaluation of the net assets, financial position and results
and financing activities and resulted in increased securi- from operations shows that Boehringer Ingelheim is a
ties and liquid funds at year-end of EUR 7,514 million. soundly financed and profitable company.
In summary, it can be emphasised that with the existing
REPORT ON POST-BALANCE
liquidity, the financial structure and the high cash flow
from operating activities, all the prerequisites for the sta- SHEET DATE EVENTS
ble continuation of our business activities and the suc-
cessful implementation of our strategy are fulfilled.
Since the end of the 2013 financial year, we have not be-
Net assets come aware of any events that are of material significance
In the 2013 financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim’s total to the group of companies or that could lead to a re-
assets amounted to EUR 18,299 million, an increase of appraisal of its net assets, financial position and results
EUR 1,009 million or 5.8% compared with the previous from operations.
year. Tangible and intangible assets totalled EUR 3,469 mil-
lion and were fully covered by consolidated equity.
RISK REPORT
At the end of the financial year, financial assets reached
a figure of EUR 4,737 million and were EUR 515 million Risk and opportunity management
higher than in the previous year. Inventories, with a change The aim of the risk management system implemented at
of – 0.5%, remained virtually unchanged at EUR 2,083 mil- Boehringer Ingelheim is to identify business-specific risks
lion (2012: EUR 2,095 million). Trade accounts receivable and, in particular, risks that jeopardise the continued ex-
rose by EUR 136 million to EUR 2,677 million in 2013. istence of the company as early as possible, to assess them
Liquid funds, including non-fixed securities, stood at and to reduce them to a reasonable level by means of suit-
EUR 2,879 million (2012: EUR 2,374 million). able measures.
Due to the above-mentioned changes in cash and cash When assessing the risks in the context of holistic risk
equivalents, group equity amounted to EUR 7,122 mil- management, we also endeavour to take into account the
lion. In the long term, in addition to the equity, the pen- resulting opportunities. Opportunity management is
sion provisions and long-term liabilities are also available based on the company’s strategies and objectives, in addi-
to the group. These three items totalled EUR 11,134 mil- tion to the individual businesses and operating business
lion in 2013, which is equivalent to 60.8% of total assets. units, and is an integral part of the group-wide planning
Consequently, long-term disposable capital covers all in- and management systems. Those responsible for the busi-
tangible and tangible assets, inventories and trade accounts nesses and functions bear direct responsibility for the ear-
receivable. Other provisions at EUR 3,302 million were at ly and systematic identification, analysis and use of op-
the level of the previous year. Liabilities hardly changed in portunities. For Boehringer Ingelheim as a research-driven
and innovative company, the current R&D activities are
53risk report
naturally considered as a relevant opportunity. A detailed monitors and quantifies these risks at regular intervals
description of these projects is illustrated in the R&D and makes them predictable for future business by means
chapter. of relevant hedging strategies and appropriate financial
instruments, such as forward exchange contracts. The re-
The persons responsible for the key businesses and func- sultant risks are subsequently designated as being con-
tions are included in the process of calculating and assess- crete and, therefore, as controllable.
ing risks. The group-wide risk and information system en-
sures that all identified risks are analysed and assessed Credit and country-specific risks
carefully. Following an appropriate classification into var- Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to various credit and
ious categories, adequate countermeasures are initiated country-specific risks as a result of its international busi-
and their implementation is consistently monitored. ness activities. From the portfolio of trade accounts re-
ceivable and trade accounts payable, we have not identi-
In the year under review, Internal Auditing performed tar- fied any extraordinary risks for the group beyond the
geted routine audits as well as extraordinary audits around usual level in the sector. The same applies to possible de-
the world. In addition to adherence to legal requirements fault risks for receivables, which are largely hedged
and internal group guidelines, the main focal points were against economic and political risks. We will continue to
the functionality of systems, the effectiveness of internal carefully track credit and country-specific risks to be in a
controls for the prevention of loss of assets, and the effi- position to respond to negative changes in a timely man-
ciency of structures and processes. Corresponding adjust- ner, since such risks are regarded as concrete.
ments or optimisations were initiated as necessary.
Management of financial investment risks
Individual risks The group pursues a defensive investment strategy in the
The most important risks to which Boehringer Ingelheim management of its financial assets. This is reflected in the
is exposed are presented separately and are broken down orientation of its portfolio, which is focused on European
into the following specific categories: financial risks, legal Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) government bonds
risks, production and environmental risks, personnel risks with top credit ratings and short-term investments at se-
and sector-specific risks. lected banks, so that this results in a concrete risk.
Risks are identified below as being “concrete” when they Legal risks
appear to be controllable by means of specific manage- The business activities of the group are exposed to legal
ment procedures. In the case of risks that, regardless of risks. A distinction is made between regulatory, liability
the probability of their occurrence, cannot be completely and patent protection risks.
controlled, even by means of targeted management proce-
dures, the term “abstract” is used. Regulatory risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to risks arising from le-
Financial risks gal disputes and proceedings as well as official investiga-
Relevant financial risks are themselves broken down as tions. As the legal or administrative decisions in ongoing
follows: currency risks, credit and country-specific risks, or future proceedings cannot be predicted, we regard the
plus the management of financial investment risks. resultant risks as being abstract.
Currency risks Liability risks
The global orientation of our business activities results in The marketing and sale of pharmaceuticals are exposed to
currency risks due to exchange rate volatility. The group a potential product liability risk. Boehringer Ingelheim
54 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013group management report
currently has product liability insurance for the compa- Risks in the area of Environment, Health and Safety
ny’s risk profile. There is absolutely no guarantee, howev- (EHS) are minimised preventively by adherence to our
er, that this insurance coverage can be maintained at rea- own extremely high safety standards. Appropriate emer-
sonable cost and acceptable conditions, or that it is gency plans have been drawn up for possible incidents of
sufficient to protect Boehringer Ingelheim against a claim any kind and are practised and subjected to comprehen-
or loss, or against all potential claims or losses. Further- sive quality testing at regular intervals.
more, product liability claims could tie up substantial fi-
nancial resources and management capacity and be detri- Personnel risks
mental to the company’s image in the event that the Boehringer Ingelheim, as other companies, is exposed to
market considers the product to be unsafe or ineffective as demographic change and the resultant risk of being af-
a result of side effects. We regard this risk as abstract. fected by a lack of appropriately qualified personnel. This
risk can have a substantial impact on the company’s busi-
Patent protection risks ness activities. Therefore, this risk has been included in
Protection of innovations through trademark, brand and the long-term planning process for many years now and
patent rights is of particular importance to Boehringer has acquired strategic significance as a result. We counter
Ingelheim as a research company. These commercial pro- the risk by means of a comprehensive personnel concept.
tective rights are increasingly the target of attacks and Regardless of their ethnic background, gender or religion,
breaches. We have taken the necessary precautions to al- we offer all company employees development opportuni-
low us to detect threats at an early stage and, by com- ties based on their vocational skills, social competence,
mencing appropriate countermeasures, defend our legal personal aptitudes and willingness to take on responsibil-
position using all legal means available to us so that these ity in accordance with the needs of the company. In view
risks are regarded as concrete. of the countermeasures described above, the risk is re-
garded as concrete.
Production and environmental risks
As a result of the FDA’s concern about quality control at Sector-specific risks
the Ingelheim production facility following 22 inspec- Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to business risks specific
tions conducted in the last five years without complaint, to the pharmaceutical industry. These risks did not change
the importance of this risk has increased for the group as significantly compared with the previous year and contin-
a result and is classified as abstract. ue to be regarded as abstract. In addition to the loss of ex-
clusivity of products established on the market and risks
The current focus of attention is on the effects of the FDA associated with the development and registration of new
warning letter dated 6 May 2013. The FDA had identified products, these risks increasingly include changing and
problems relating to compliance with cGMP standards at restrictive requirements relating to pricing and reimburse-
the Ingelheim production facility. The warning letter re- ment on many sales markets. Frequently, the prices of
ferred in part to foreign particles that had been identified pharmaceutical products are subject not only to state
in batches containing our active pharmaceutical ingredi- monitoring and regulation, but also to price pressure from
ent (API). Boehringer Ingelheim is taking the matter very cheaper generic drugs caused by the state reimbursement
seriously and is working closely with the FDA in the systems. For this reason, Boehringer Ingelheim monitors
preparation of a comprehensive action programme that the various changes taking place in each of the sales mar-
will deal with all FDA concerns. kets very closely.
55risk report / report on expected developments
Overall statement on the risk situation Our well-filled product pipeline with promising study
From today’s perspective, we are not aware of any risks outcomes for products under development, as well as sig-
that alone or in conjunction with other risks could lead to nificant sales potential, justifies our high investments in
an impairment of the company’s assets, financial position R&D. For 2014, we plan to invest into research and devel-
or earnings which could jeopardise the continued exist- opment of new pharmaceutical products on a similar lev-
ence of Boehringer Ingelheim. el to the year under review.
In the 2014 financial year, we will continue to renew our
REPORT ON EXPECTED
product portfolio, a process that we initiated in 2013 with
DEVELOPMENTS our entry into the therapeutic area oncology following the
marketing authorisation of giotrif®, the further increase
in our activities in the field of diabetes based on treatment
The 2013 financial year was a difficult one for Boehringer with empagliflozin and treatment of respiratory diseases
Ingelheim. Nevertheless, we basically achieved what we with olodaterol. Possible growth generated by these prod-
set out to achieve and, looking ahead, we remain on ucts is expected to offset the decline in sales resulting from
schedule with the launch and submission of new prod- the loss of exclusive rights of other products marketed by
ucts. As a result of the measures taken to reduce costs and the company and lead to growth in the medium term.
enhance efficiency, we have also established a strong
starting point for the coming years. In view of the many challenges the pharmaceutical sector
currently faces, no strong growth is expected in the next
The positive development in the year under review was few years. For the 2014 financial year, we expect to see
primarily attributable to our new blockbuster product sales of our company on the same level as in 2013.
pradaxa® ( dabigatran etexilate) in the indication of
stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation, and Net earnings in 2013, on the one hand, were characterised
our products spiriva® and micardis®, sales of which, by the satisfactory operating income generated by our
when adjusted for currency effects, increased once again businesses, despite the increase in quality control meas-
in 2013. ures for the Ingelheim site following the FDA warning let-
ter, but were also significantly affected in particular by the
Furthermore, trajenta® (linagliptin), for the treatment of special effects resulting from the closure of the Ben Venue
type 2 diabetes, also offers significant sales potential and Laboratories in Ohio, USA.
is being marketed as part of a strategic alliance between
Boehringer Ingelheim and Eli Lilly. The long-term collab- At the Ingelheim launch facility, we have made progress
oration for the joint development and marketing of diabe- in the analysis and restructuring of procedures and pro-
tes active ingredients also comprises other active ingredi- cesses. The next FDA inspection, which we expect some
ents that will be ready for market in the next few years. time in the first quarter of 2014, will be a very important
one. The work that follows, however, will continue una-
We increased R&D expenses once again in 2013, thereby bated to ensure our long-term success so that correspond-
underlining our strategic approach of driving growth and ing expenditure is also anticipated in this area in 2014.
product supply primarily through products from our own
research and development. Here we are investing with The major challenges and thus the associated higher ex-
good judgement and after intensive investigation of the penditure for product registration are making it increas-
therapeutic benefit and the associated prospects for success. ingly more difficult to achieve higher prices for innovative
56 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013group management report
drugs that justify the high investment costs and corporate
risks of research and development. Legislative interven-
tion in the pricing of Prescription Medicines is having a
negative impact in various markets.
Overall, despite the circumstances for 2014 described
above, we plan to achieve an operating income slightly
above the level of last year.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s declared aim remains to continue
to develop the company competitively and successfully as
an independent, family-owned enterprise. For us, long-
term and sustainable organic growth still takes prece-
dence over short-term profit targets. Therefore, we are
confident that, with great innovative strength based on a
well-filled pipeline, our global presence and the support
of our highly qualified and motivated employees, who are
a key factor in our success, we will achieve our ambitious
targets. We will also continue to stand by our vision “Value
through Innovation”, researching and developing innova-
tions that offer high medical benefits, and bringing them
to the market. The aim of our endeavours is to make new
drugs available that will enable doctors to treat patients
more effectively than is currently possible.
57consolidated financial statements 2013
5588 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013consolidated financial statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS 2013
60 Overview of the major consolidated companies
62 Consolidated balance sheet
63 Consolidated profit and loss statement
64 Cash flow statement
65 Statement of changes in group equity
66 Notes to the consolidated financial s tatements
86 Auditor’s report
5599overview of the major consolidated companies
OOVVEERRVVIIEEWW OOFF TTHHEE MMAAJJOORR CCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD CCOOMMPPAANNIIEESS
C. H. BOEHRINGER SOHN
AG & CO. KG*
BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM GMBH
EUROPE GMBH INTERNATIONAL GMBH
GERMANY D P R AUSTRIA D P R AUSTRIA R
Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim RCV Forschungsinstitut für Molekulare
Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, GmbH & Co. KG, Vienna Pathologie Gesellschaft mbH,
Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim Vienna
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma Ges.m.b.H., Vienna
Vetmedica GmbH, Ingelheim BELGIUM D
Boehringer Ingelheim CZECH REPUBLIC D SCS Boehringer Ingelheim
microParts GmbH, Dortmund
Boehringer Ingelheim s.r.o., Comm. V., Brussels
Boehringer Ingelheim
Prague
Biopharmaceuticals GmbH,
Ingelheim CHINA D P
FINLAND D Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim International Trading (Shanghai)
Finland Ky, Espoo Co. Ltd., Shanghai
NORWAY D PHILIPPINES D
Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim
Norway KS, Asker (Phil.), Inc., Manila
POLAND D
Boehringer Ingelheim Sp.zo.o.,
Warsaw
D Distribution
P Production
R Research and Development
* Sole, personally liable, managing shareholder:
Boehringer AG
6600 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013consolidated financial statements
C. H. BOEHRINGER SOHN
GRUNDSTÜCKSVERWALTUNG GMBH & CO. KG
BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
AUSLANDSBETEILIGUNGS GMBH
ARGENTINA D R ECUADOR D THE NETHERLANDS D P TAIWAN D
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Boehringer Ingelheim del Ecuador Boehringer Ingelheim B.V., Boehringer Ingelheim
Buenos Aires Cia. Ltda., Quito Alkmaar Taiwan Ltd., Taipei
Boehringer Ingelheim
Animal Health Operations B.V.,
AUSTRALIA D FRANCE D P THAILAND D
Alkmaar
Boehringer Ingelheim Pty. Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim
North Ryde France S.A.S., Paris (Thai) Ltd., Bangkok
NEW ZEALAND D
Boehringer Ingelheim
BRAZIL D P GREECE D P TURKEY D
(N.Z.) Ltd., Auckland
Boehringer Ingelheim do Brasil Boehringer Ingelheim Ellas AE, Boehringer Ingelheim Ilac
Quimica e Farmaceutica Ltda., Athens Ticaret A.S., Istanbul
São Paulo PORTUGAL D
Solana Agro Pecuaria Ltda., Boehringer Ingelheim Lda.,
INDONESIA D P UNITED KINGDOM D
Arapongas Lisbon
PT Boehringer Ingelheim Unilfarma Lda., Lisbon Boehringer Ingelheim Ltd.,
Indonesia, Jakarta Bracknell
CANADA D
Boehringer Ingelheim SOUTH AFRICA D
ITALY D P R USA D P R
(Canada) Ltd., Burlington Boehringer Ingelheim (Pty.) Ltd.,
Boehringer Ingelheim Randburg Boehringer Ingelheim Corp.,
Italia S.p.A., Reggello Ridgefield, Connecticut
CHILE D Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals (Pty.) Ltd.,
Bidachem S.p.A., Randburg Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim Ltda., Fornovo S. Giovanni Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
Santiago de Chile Ridgefield, Connecticut
JAPAN D P R SOUTH KOREA D Boehringer Ingelheim
CHINA V P Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim USA Corporation,
Co. Ltd., Tokyo Korea Ltd., Seoul Ridgefield, Connecticut
Boehringer Ingelheim Shanghai Roxane Laboratories, Inc.,
SSP Co. Ltd., Tokyo
Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd., Shanghai Columbus, Ohio
Boehringer Ingelheim (China) Boehringer Ingelheim SPAIN D P Boehringer Ingelheim
Investment Co. Ltd., Shanghai Vetmedica Japan Co. Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica, Inc.,
Tokyo
Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica España S.A., Barcelona St. Joseph, Missouri
(China) Investment Co. Ltd., Shanghai Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Boehringer Ingelheim
Seiyaku Co. Ltd., Yamagata
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Barcelona Roxane, Inc., Columbus, Ohio
Operations (China) Co. Ltd., Taizhou Boehringer Ingelheim Europharma S.A., Barcelona Boehringer Ingelheim
Japan, Inc., Tokyo
Chemicals, Inc.,
Laboratorios Fher S.A., Barcelona
Petersburg, Virginia
COLUMBIA D P
MEXICO D P R Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., SWEDEN D Fremont, Inc.,
Bogotá Boehringer Ingelheim Fremont, California
Promeco S.A. de C.V., Boehringer Ingelheim AB,
Mexico City Stockholm
DENMARK D P Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica, VENEZUELA V
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A. de C.V., Guadalajara SWITZERLAND D Boehringer Ingelheim C.A.,
Danmark A/S, Copenhagen Caracas
Boehringer Ingelheim
(Schweiz) GmbH, Basel
Pharmaton S.A., Lugano
6611consolidated financial statements
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
Assets (in millions of EUR) Notes 1) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012
Intangible assets (3.1) 582 682
Tangible assets (3.2) 2,887 3,103
Financial assets (3.3) 4,737 4,222
Fixed assets 8,206 8,007
Inventories (3.4) 2,083 2,095
Accounts receivable and other assets (3.5) 3,555 3,197
Securities 601 468
Cash and cash equivalents 2,278 1,906
Current assets 8,517 7,666
Deferred charges and prepaid expenses 110 74
Deferred taxes 1,466 1,543
Total assets 18,299 17,290
Liabilities and equity (in millions of EUR) Notes 1) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012
Shareholders’ capital 178 178
Group reserves 5,829 4,764
Balance sheet currency conversion difference — 210 — 1
Net income 1,324 1,237
Equity 7,121 6,178
Minority interests 1 0
Group equity 7,122 6,178
Negative difference from acquisition of companies 104 134
Provisions (3.6) 7,539 7,462
Accounts payable (3.7) 2,878 2,887
Liabilities 10,417 10,349
Deferred charges 378 342
Deferred taxes 278 287
Total liabilities and equity 18,299 17,290
1) For explanation, see relevant section in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
62 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013consolidated financial statements
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
(in millions of EUR) Notes 1) 2013 2012
Net sales (4.1) 14,065 14,691
Changes in inventories 23 — 46
Other internal work performed and capitalised 3 3
Other operating income (4.2) 1,137 1,572
Total revenues 15,228 16,220
Material costs (4.3) — 1,890 — 1,878
Personnel costs (4.4) — 4,071 — 4,024
Amortisation of intangible and depreciation of tangible assets (4.5) — 739 — 897
Other operating expenses (4.6) — 6,414 — 7,568
Operating income 2,114 1,853
Financial income (4.7) — 151 — 117
Holding income (4.8) — 9 3
Income before taxes 1,954 1,739
Taxes 2) (4.9) — 630 — 502
Income after taxes 1,324 1,237
Third-party share 0 0
Net income (4.10) 1,324 1,237
1) For explanation, see relevant section in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
2) Due to legal requirements the disclosure of the shareholders’ personal taxes arising from consolidated business activities as tax expenses is not
allowed. These taxes are shown as withdrawals from the accrued group capital.
Items of the consolidated profit and loss statement that show no value due to rounding in millions of EUR will be disclosed.
63consolidated financial statements
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(in millions of EUR) 2013 2012
Income after taxes (including third-party share) 1,324 1,237
Write-downs/write-ups on fixed assets 1) 730 866
Change in provisions for pensions 75 122
Cash flow 2,129 2,225
Change in other provisions 190 294
Other non-cash income and expenses — 30 5
Loss on disposals of fixed assets 86 40
Change in inventories — 62 — 125
Change in accounts receivable and other assets not related to investing or financing activities — 571 — 259
Change in trade accounts payable and other liabilities not related to investing or financing
activities 77 — 10
Cash flow from operating activities 1,819 2,170
Investments in intangible assets — 47 — 79
Investments in property, plant and equipment — 558 — 562
Investments in non-current financial assets 1) — 18 — 10
Proceeds from disposals of tangible assets 12 24
Proceeds from disposals of non-current financial assets 1) 19 4
Cash flow from investing activities — 592 — 623
Cash receipts from/cash payment to owners and minority shareholders — 201 — 2,541
Cash proceeds from borrowings/repayments of loans 35 — 299
Cash flow from financing activities — 166 — 2,840
Change in liquid funds from cash relevant transactions 1,061 — 1,293
Changes in liquid funds due to exchange rate movements — 14 49
Financial funds 2) as of 1.1. 6,467 7,711
Financial funds 2) as of 31.12. 7,514 6,467
1) Excl. fixed-asset securities
2) Liquid funds, securities within fixed and current assets
(+) = source of funds, (-) = use of funds
64 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013consolidated financial statements
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN GROUP EQUITY
thereof thereof
Shareholders’ Accrued currency Minority currency
(in millions of EUR) capital 1) group capital effects Equity interests effects Group equity
Balance as of 31.12.2011 178 7,288 6 7,466 0 0 7,466
Withdrawals 0 — 2,518 0 — 2,518 0 0 — 2,518
Net income 0 1,237 0 1,237 0 0 1,237
Other changes 0 — 7 — 7 — 7 0 0 — 7
Balance as of 31.12.2012 178 6,000 — 1 6,178 0 0 6,178
Withdrawals 0 — 172 0 — 172 0 0 — 172
Net income 0 1,324 0 1,324 0 0 1,324
Other changes 0 — 209 — 209 — 209 1 0 — 208
Balance as of 31.12.2013 178 6,943 — 210 7,121 1 0 7,122
1) The shareholders’ capital consists of the equity of C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG and C. H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG. As of
31.12.2013, the capital consists only of the limited partner’s capital contribution. The shareholders’ personal taxes arising from consolidated business activities are
shown as withdrawals from the accrued group capital.
Items of the statement of changes in equity that show no value due to rounding in millions of EUR will be disclosed.
65notes to the consolidated financial statements
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
1 PRINCIPLES AND METHODS
1.1 General principles
The consolidated financial statements of Boehringer Ingelheim for the 2013 financial year were prepared in
accordance with section 264a of the Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB – German Commercial Code), in line with the
requirements of group accounting of sections 290 et seq. HGB.
In accordance with section 297 paragraph 1 HGB, the consolidated financial statements consist of the con-
solidated balance sheet, the consolidated profit and loss statement, the notes to the consolidated financial
statements, the cash flow statement and the statement of changes in equity.
The consolidated financial statements were prepared in euro in accordance with section 298 paragraph 1 in
conjunction with section 244 HGB.
To improve the clarity of the consolidated financial statements, individual items of the consolidated balance
sheet and the consolidated profit and loss statement have been combined. These items are presented and ex-
plained separately in the notes. The additional disclosures required for the individual items can also be found
in the notes.
1.2 Information on companies included in consolidation
The parent company of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim.
Boehringer AG, Ingelheim, is the sole, personally liable, managing shareholder of this company.
Besides C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, there is C. H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH
& Co. KG, the general partner which is controlled by C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG.
The Boehringer Ingelheim Group consists of a total of 142 affiliated companies in Germany and abroad. In
addition to C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG and C. H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH
& Co. KG, a further 116 companies in which C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG directly or indirectly holds
the majority of voting rights have been fully consolidated in the consolidated financial statements.
22 companies were not included in consolidation in accordance with section 296 paragraph 2 HGB in the
reporting year, as they are individually and collectively insignificant to the net assets, financial position and
results of operations of the Group. The total amount of the sales, equity and net income of the companies not
included in consolidation account for less than 1% of the aggregated group financial statements totals. These
companies were also not classified as associates in accordance with section 311 paragraph 2 HGB on account
of immateriality. There are ongoing restrictions on disposal at two other companies on account of their
66 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013consolidated financial statements
articles of association. These were not included in consolidation in accordance with section 296 para-
graph 1 sentence 1 HGB.
The total number of affiliated companies increased by two as against the previous year:
• One company was sold,
• two companies were founded,
• one company was acquired.
The following subsidiaries were exempted from the reporting and disclosure obligations of section 264 para-
graph 3 HGB:
• Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Europe GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Secura Versicherungsvermittlungs GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Grundstücksgesellschaft mbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Finanzierungs GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim R&D Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund GmbH, Ingelheim
Exempt from the duty to prepare and disclose annual financial statements and management reports in ac-
cordance with HGB provisions for corporations under section 264b HGB are:
• C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
• C. H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim
• C. H. Boehringer Selbstmedikation KG, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary Research Center GmbH & Co. KG, Hanover
1.3 Consolidation methods
For inventories and fixed assets, receivables, liabilities and income and expense items, transactions between
the companies included in consolidation were eliminated as part of debt consolidation in accordance with
section 303 HGB, the elimination of intercompany profits in accordance with section 304 HGB and the con-
solidation of income and expenses in accordance with section 305 HGB.
The revaluation method of section 301 HGB was applied in acquisition accounting for the first-time consolida-
tion of subsidiaries. First-time consolidation occurred on the date at which the company became a subsidiary.
The carrying amount of the shares held by the parent company was offset against the corresponding equity of
the subsidiary. Equity is carried at the amount of the fair value of the assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses and
deferred income and special reserves included in the consolidated financial statements as at the time of con-
solidation. Any remaining balance after offsetting was capitalised as goodwill.
67notes to the consolidated financial statements
1.4 Currency translation
Assets and liabilities resulting from foreign currency transactions were translated using the middle spot ex-
change rate as at the balance sheet date. The realisation principle (section 298 paragraph 1 in conjunction
with section 252 paragraph 1 no. 4, 2nd half-sentence HGB) and the historical cost convention (section 298
paragraph 1 in conjunction with section 253 paragraph 1 sentence 1 HGB) were complied with for remain-
ing terms of more than one year.
In these consolidated financial statements, the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries domiciled in a
state outside the euro zone and denominated in foreign currency have been converted into euro in accord-
ance with section 308a HGB using the modified closing rate method.
Using the modified closing date rate method, the asset, equity and liability items of the annual financial state-
ments prepared in foreign currency were translated into euro using the middle spot exchange rate as at the
closing date, with the exception of equity, which was translated using the historical rate. The items of the profit
and loss statement were translated into euro using the average rate. The resulting translation difference was
reported within consolidated equity below the reserves within “Difference in equity from currency transla-
tion”. The most important currencies for the Group developed as follows in the reporting year (basis: EUR 1):
Year-end rate Average annual rate
31.12.2013 31.12.2012 2013 2012
US dollar 1.38 1.32 1.33 1.29
Japanese yen 144.72 113.61 129.67 102.62
Pound sterling 0.83 0.82 0.85 0.81
Canadian dollar 1.47 1.31 1.37 1.28
68 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013consolidated financial statements
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
2.1 Fixed assets
Acquired intangible assets and tangible assets were carried at cost less straight-line amortisation and deprecia-
tion respectively in line with technical and economic circumstances. This is based on the following useful lives:
Intangible assets 2 to 15 years
Buildings 20 years
Technical equipment and machinery 10 years
Other equipment, operating and office equipment 3 to 10 years
Only straight-line depreciation and amortisation is used in the consolidated financial statements. Anticipated
permanent impairment was shown by extraordinary write-offs. Direct costs of materials and labour costs,
appropriate portions of materials and labour overheads and the depreciation of fixed assets (if caused by pro-
duction) were taken into account in determining production costs.
All capitalised, intangible assets have a limited useful life.
Goodwill from the first-time consolidation of shares is usually being amortised over a period of five years.
A useful life of ten years was applied to the goodwill for Boehringer Ingelheim Korea Ltd., acquired in 2007,
as past experience of products, sales markets and the business conditions of Boehringer Ingelheim Korea Ltd.
has shown that this presents a true and fair view.
Financial assets essentially included shareholder rights, securities and loans and are carried at the lower of
cost or fair market value, if impaired.
2.2 Current assets and prepaid expenses
Inventories were carried at the lower of cost and fair market value.
Raw materials, consumables and supplies were capitalised at the lower of average acquisition prices or fair
market value on the balance sheet date.
Finished goods and work in progress were measured at production cost on the basis of individual calcula-
tions, taking into account the directly attributable costs of materials, direct labour costs, special direct costs,
appropriate shares of production and materials overheads and depreciation.
Goods for resale are valued at the lower of either purchase cost or fair market value.
All identifiable risks in inventory assets arising from above-average storage periods, diminished marketability
and lower replacement costs were taken into account by appropriate valuation adjustments.
69notes to the consolidated financial statements
Inventories are valued loss-free, i.e. discounts were recognised on the expected sales prices for costs yet to be
incurred.
Receivables and other assets were recognised at cost less allowances for specific risks and general credit risk.
Low-interest or non-interest-bearing receivables with a term of more than one year were discounted.
Securities classified as current assets include other securities and were recognised at the lower of cost or
quoted/market prices on the reporting date.
Cash and cash equivalents were recognised at the lower of cost or fair market value.
Deferred charges and prepaid expenses in accordance with section 250 paragraph 1 HGB include expenses
paid in advance for a certain period after the balance sheet date.
Deferred charges in accordance with section 250 paragraph 2 HGB include proceeds, which are income for a
certain period after the balance sheet date.
2.3 Negative difference from acquisition of companies
The negative difference from acquisition of companies was recognised as a result of the net assets of two
companies acquired as of 31 March 2011 and 1 August 2012 exceeding the purchase price. The value of the
negative difference from acquisition of companies amounting to EUR 157 million as of 1 January was in-
creased by the acquisition of a company acquired on 1 August 2012 amounting to EUR 11 million. The re-
lease of the negative difference from acquisition of companies of EUR 30 million in the financial year 2013
to EUR 104 million is shown in other operating income. The amount of the release of the negative difference
from acquisition of companies is in line with the amortisation of the excess net assets as of the time of acqui-
sition. The period of amortisation is currently estimated at ten years.
2.4 Group reserves
Group reserves include the retained earnings of the consolidated subsidiaries from prior years and consolida-
tion entries that affect earnings related to prior years.
2.5 Provisions
Tax provisions and other provisions include all uncertain liabilities and expected losses from executory con-
tracts. They were carried at the amount required to settle the obligation based on reasonable business judge-
ment in accordance with the prudence principle (i.e. including future cost and price increases). Provisions
with a remaining term of more than one year are discounted using the matched-term, average market interest
rate for the last seven years (in accordance with the Rückstellungsabzinsungsverordnung – German Regula-
tion on the Discounting of Provisions).
70 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013consolidated financial statements
2.6 Liabilities
Liabilities are recognised at settlement amount.
2.7 Deferred taxes
To calculate deferred taxes on temporary or quasi-permanent differences between the accounting carrying
amounts of assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses and deferred income and their tax carrying amounts or on
tax loss carryforwards, the amounts of the resulting tax benefits and expenses at the time of reversal were
measured using tax rates specific to the respective consolidated company (12 – 44 %) and not discounted. Dif-
ferences due to consolidation measures in accordance with sections 300 to 305 HGB were also measured us-
ing company-specific tax rates at the time of the expected reversal of the difference. Deferred tax assets on
loss carryforwards were taken into account, if it is likely that they will be used within the next five years.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities were reported without being netted.
71notes to the consolidated financial statements
3 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
3.1 Intangible assets
Acquired Goodwill Advance Total
concessions/ payments
(in millions of EUR) similar rights
Procurement/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2012 1,419 573 14 2,006
Currency conversion difference — 26 0 0 — 26
Additions due to first consolidation 0 0 0 0
Additions 74 0 5 79
Disposals — 10 0 0 — 10
Reclassifications 13 0 — 3 10
Balance as of 31.12.2012 1,470 573 16 2,059
Currency conversion difference — 59 0 0 — 59
Additions due to first consolidation 0 0 0 0
Additions 41 0 6 47
Disposals — 53 0 0 — 53
Reclassifications 107 0 — 8 99
Balance as of 31.12.2013 1,506 573 14 2,093
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1.1.2012 750 546 0 1,296
Currency conversion difference — 14 0 0 — 14
Additions due to first consolidation 0 0 0 0
Additions 99 5 0 104
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 10 0 0 — 10
Reclassifications 1 0 0 1
Balance as of 31.12.2012 826 551 0 1,377
Currency conversion difference — 35 1 0 — 34
Additions due to first consolidation 0 0 0 0
Additions 94 5 0 99
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 16 0 0 — 16
Reclassifications 85 0 0 85
Balance as of 31.12.2013 954 557 0 1,511
Book value as of 31.12.2012 644 22 16 682
Book value as of 31.12.2013 552 16 14 582
72 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013consolidated financial statements
3.2 Tangible assets
Land and Technical Other Advance Total
buildings facilities facilities/ payments/
and machines operating construction
(in millions of EUR) equipment in progress
Procurement/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2012 2,826 3,125 2,060 494 8,505
Currency conversion difference — 63 — 47 — 25 — 6 — 141
Additions due to first consolidation 7 4 1 1 13
Additions 57 77 139 277 550
Disposals — 182 — 52 — 107 — 12 — 353
Reclassifications 135 66 46 — 257 — 10
Balance as of 31.12.2012 2,780 3,173 2,114 497 8,564
Currency conversion difference — 128 — 96 — 59 — 12 — 295
Additions due to first consolidation 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 39 55 126 338 558
Disposals — 40 — 53 — 129 — 18 — 240
Reclassifications 145 130 — 49 — 325 — 99
Balance as of 31.12.2013 2,796 3,209 2,003 480 8,488
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1.1.2012 1,535 1,964 1,564 0 5,063
Currency conversion difference — 39 — 38 — 21 0 — 98
Additions due to first consolidation 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 242 349 202 0 793
Write-ups — 2 0 — 3 0 — 5
Disposals — 152 — 45 — 94 0 — 291
Reclassifications 1 0 — 2 0 — 1
Balance as of 31.12.2012 1,585 2,230 1,646 0 5,461
Currency conversion difference — 82 — 72 — 48 0 — 202
Additions due to first consolidation 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 207 263 170 0 640
Write-ups — 4 0 — 5 0 — 9
Disposals — 34 — 51 — 119 0 — 204
Reclassifications 16 — 19 — 82 0 — 85
Balance as of 31.12.2013 1,688 2,351 1,562 0 5,601
Book value as of 31.12.2012 1,195 943 468 497 3,103
Book value as of 31.12.2013 1,108 858 441 480 2,887
73notes to the consolidated financial statements
3.3 Financial assets
Investments Loans Investments Investment Other Total
in affiliated to affiliated in related securities loans
(in millions of EUR) companies companies companies
Procurement/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2012 81 0 114 3,822 20 4,037
Currency conversion difference — 1 0 0 — 4 0 — 5
Additions due to first consolidation 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 6 329 5 340
Disposals — 43 0 0 — 56 — 5 — 104
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2012 37 0 120 4,091 20 4,268
Currency conversion difference 0 0 — 2 — 7 — 1 — 10
Additions due to first consolidation 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 1 0 9 586 9 605
Disposals — 35 0 — 3 — 34 — 6 — 78
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2013 3 0 124 4,636 22 4,785
Accumulated amortisation
Balance as of 1.1.2012 20 0 47 14 3 84
Currency conversion difference 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions due to first consolidation 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 0 0 0 0
Write-ups 0 0 — 2 — 11 0 — 13
Disposals — 20 0 0 — 5 0 — 25
Reclassifications — 1 0 0 0 1 0
Balance as of 31.12.2012 — 1 0 45 — 2 4 46
Currency conversion difference 1 0 — 2 0 — 1 — 2
Additions due to first consolidation 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 1 2 0 3
Write-ups 0 0 0 0 0 0
Disposals 0 0 0 1 0 1
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2013 0 0 44 1 3 48
Book value as of 31.12.2012 38 0 75 4,093 16 4,222
Book value as of 31.12.2013 3 0 80 4,635 19 4,737
As in the previous year, the “Other loans” item does not include any loans to shareholders.
74 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013consolidated financial statements
3.4 Inventories
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012
Raw materials and supplies 474 484
Unfinished products 837 881
Finished products and goods for resale 766 725
Advance payments to suppliers 6 5
2,083 2,095
3.5 Accounts receivable and other assets
Residual Residual
term over term over
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2013 1 year 31.12.2012 1 year
Trade accounts receivable 2,677 3 2,541 7
Receivables from affiliated companies 9 0 6 0
Receivables from related companies 23 0 23 0
Other assets 846 27 627 8
3,555 30 3,197 15
The “Other assets” item includes receivables from shareholders of EUR 27 million (previous year:
EUR 7 million).
Receivables from affiliated companies, as in the previous year, almost exclusively consist of receivables from
loans.
Receivables from related companies essentially consist of trade accounts receivable.
3.6 Provisions
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012
Pension provisions 3,414 3,380
Tax provisions 823 752
Other provisions 3,302 3,330
7,539 7,462
75notes to the consolidated financial statements
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations
The provisions for pensions and similar obligations were determined on the basis of actuarial calculations
using the projected unit credit method, taking into account future adjustments in salaries and pensions.
In addition to local biometric data (e.g. Prof Heubeck’s 2005 G mortality tables in Germany), pension obliga-
tions in the significant countries were calculated on the basis of the following actuarial parameters:
(in % as of 31 December 2013) Germany USA Japan
Discount rate 4.91 5.14 1.92
Salary increase 4.0 5.0 4.2
Pension increase 2.0 3.0 3.1
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations were discounted using the average market interest rate on a
remaining term of 15 years in accordance with the German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions of
18 November 2009. The interest rates used to discount significant foreign pension obligations (US, Japan)
were determined with comparable parameters, in line with the German Regulation on the Discounting of
Provisions of 18 November 2009.
The plan assets intended solely to cover pension and similar obligations that are unavailable to all other credi-
tors (cover assets within the meaning of section 246 paragraph 2 sentence 2 HGB) were measured at fair mar-
ket value, which is essentially derived from stock market prices and offset against the underlying pension and
similar obligations. The fair market value of the plan assets on the balance sheet date was EUR 1,072 million.
The corresponding present value of the pension and similar obligations was EUR 4,486 million. Gains and
losses from plan assets and interest expense relating to pension and similar obligations were offset in accord-
ance with section 246 paragraph 2 sentence 2 HGB. In total, EUR 149 million gains from plan assets and
EUR 324 million interest expense relating to pension and similar obligations are included in the financial income.
76 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013consolidated financial statements
3.7 Accounts payable
Residual term Residual term
less than 1 - 5 over 31.12. 31.12. less than
(in millions of EUR) 1 year years 5 years 2013 2012 1 year
Bank loans 531 392 446 1,369 1,387 218
Other accounts payable 1,311 45 153 1,509 1,500 1,298
of which:
- Trade accounts payable 877 1 0 878 877 875
- Advance payments 36 8 0 44 35 24
- Accounts payable
to affiliated companies 27 0 0 27 25 25
- Accounts payable
to related companies 1 0 0 1 1 1
- Other liabilities* 370 36 153 559 562 373
1,842 437 599 2,878 2,887 1,516
* Of which:
- from taxes (EUR million) 139 83
- social security liabilities (EUR million) 15 14
As in the previous year, there were no liabilities secured by mortgages or similar collateral rights on the
balance sheet date.
At the end of the year, there were liabilities to shareholders of EUR 1 million (previous year: EUR 10 million).
Payables to affiliated companies consist of payables from loans amounting to EUR 22 million (previous
year: EUR 22 million) and trade accounts payable amounting to EUR 4 million (previous year:
EUR 3 million).
77notes to the consolidated financial statements
4 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS
STATEMENT
The structure of the consolidated profit and loss statement was based on the total cost format.
4.1 Net sales
by business and business segment (in millions of EUR) 2013 2012
Prescription Medicines 10,891 11,405
Consumer Health Care 1,473 1,505
Animal Health 1,070 1,062
Biopharmaceuticals 449 549
Industrial Customers and other Sales 182 170
14,065 14,691
by geographic region (in millions of EUR) 2013 2012
Europe 4,267 4,194
of which: Germany 1,018 1,033
Americas 6,411 6,905
of which: USA 5,157 5,550
Asia / Australia / Africa 3,387 3,592
of which: Japan 1,830 2,111
14,065 14,691
4.2 Other operating income
Other operating income includes income from currency translation of EUR 658 million (previous year:
EUR 446 million).
4.3 Material costs
(in millions of EUR) 2013 2012
Costs of raw material, supplies and goods for resale 1,384 1,377
Expenditure on services 506 501
1,890 1,878
78 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013consolidated financial statements
4.4 Personnel costs
(in millions of EUR) 2013 2012
Salaries and wages 3,321 3,242
Social benefits and retirement benefits 750 782
of which: retirement benefits 184 235
4,071 4,024
All interest effects of the measurement of the provision for pensions and similar obligations were shown as a
separate item of the financial income.
Average headcount 2013 2012
Production 13,856 13,727
Administration 5,489 5,303
Marketing and sales 19,617 18,993
Research and development 7,741 7,491
Apprentices 789 714
47,492 46,228
4.5 Amortisation of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets
Amortisation of intangible fixed wassets and depreciation of fixed tangible assets include extraordinary
write-downs of EUR 156 million (previous year: EUR 244 million).
4.6 Other operating expenses
Other operating expenses include expenses from currency translation of EUR 604 million (previous year:
EUR 663 million).
Other operating expenses essentially include third-party services in the areas of research, development, med-
icine and marketing plus administrative expenses, fees and contributions, commissions, rent, freight and ex-
penses for third-party repairs.
79notes to the consolidated financial statements
4.7 Financial income
(in millions of EUR) 2013 2012
Interest expense relating to pensions and similar obligations and other provisions — 192 — 162
Other interest expense and similar expenditure — 91 — 112
Interest expense and similar expenditure — 283 — 274
Amortisation of and loss on disposal on financial assets and short-term investments — 1 — 3
Income from other investment securities and from long-term loans 118 133
Other interest income and similar proceeds 15 27
— 151 — 117
4.8 Holding income
(in millions of EUR) 2013 2012
Write-offs on financial assets — 21 0
Income from related companies 12 3
of which from affiliated companies 0 1
— 9 3
4.9 Taxes
(in millions of EUR) 2013 2012
Income taxes 561 602
Deferred taxes 69 — 100
630 502
Current income taxes essentially include the costs of corporation and trade tax for the companies included in
consolidation.
As a result of the conclusion of profit transfer agreements, significant German corporations have been in-
cluded in the trade and corporation tax group of the parent company C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG
since 1 January 2004. As the income taxes of the shareholders of C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG in-
curred on operating income cannot be reported in the consolidated profit and loss statement, only the trade
income tax of the companies concerned and other fully consolidated German partnerships is shown as tax
expenses.
Total deferred tax assets amounted to EUR 1,466 million as of the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets
essentially relate to the different carrying amounts of provisions, fixed assets and inventories. Deferred tax
liabilities were recognised in the amount of EUR 278 million. They mainly relate to the differences in the car-
rying amounts of tangible assets, inventories and provisions.
80 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013consolidated financial statements
4.10 Net income
The net income for 2013 was positively influenced by prior-period operating income (essentially from the re-
versal of other provisions) of EUR 189 million (previous year: EUR 211 million) and negatively influenced by
prior-period operating expenses of EUR 150 million (previous year: EUR 148 million).
5 NOTES TO THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT
The cash flow statement shows how the cash and cash equivalents (cash and long-term securities and invest-
ments classified as current assets that can be sold at any time) of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group changed as
a result of cash inflows and outflows in the reporting year. In accordance with German Accounting Standard 2
on the cash flow statement (GAS 2), this has been broken down according to cash flows from operating activities
and cash flows from investing and financing activities.
The changes in the balance sheet items of the affiliated companies included were translated using average
rates for the year. As in the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents are carried at the closing rate. The effect
of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents has been shown separately.
In the financial year, EUR 96 million were received from interests; EUR 77 million (previous year: EUR 80 mil-
lion) were paid for interests while EUR 583 million (previous year: EUR 414 million) were paid for taxes.
81notes to the consolidated financial statements
6 OTHER DISCLOSURES
6.1 Contingent liabilities
(EUR million) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012
Liabilities from guarantees,
bills and cheque guarantees, warranties
and the granting of security for third-party liabilities 25 27
The risk of utilisation of the individual contingent liabilities is estimated as follows:
The risk of utilisation of guarantees for the liabilities to banks of affiliated companies is rated as low on ac-
count of the solid net assets, financial position and results of operations of the subsidiaries in question.
6.2 Other financial commitments
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012
Rental and leasing obligations 283 289
Purchase commitment 1,047 765
1,330 1,054
There are obligations from rental and lease agreements of EUR 283 million (previous year: EUR 289 million),
EUR 26 million of which (previous year: EUR 30 million) relating to long-term rental agreements with sub-
sidiaries not included in consolidation.
The purpose of the lease agreements is the lower capital commitment compared to buying property and the
absence of the resale risk. Risks could arise from the term of the lease, if it were no longer possible to fully
utilise the properties, of which there are no indications at this time.
Other financial commitments include future expenses from follow-up investments, investments already ini-
tiated and future major repairs. As at the balance sheet date, purchase commitments include future cash in-
vestments of EUR 893 million (previous year: EUR 619 million) in other off-balance sheet transactions.
6.3 Derivative financial instruments and hedges
Owing to its extensive international structure, the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is highly dependent on de-
velopments in the world’s currencies and interest rates. To hedge these risks, particularly those emerging
from goods, services and financing, currency forwards and options are generally used for currency risks and
interest rate swaps and options are used for interest rate risks.
The use of derivative financial instruments and the organisational processes are set out in internal guide-
lines. There is a strict separation of trading, processing, documentation and control.
Risk positions are regularly tracked, analysed and measured in a special consolidated financial report. The
positions entered into are periodically re-evaluated and monitored. The fair market values of the derivative
82 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013consolidated financial statements
financial instruments are calculated using standard market measurement methods (currency and interest
forwards using the net present value method, currency and interest options using recognised option pricing
models) on the basis of the market data available on the balance sheet date.
Currency and interest options are recognised at fair market value not exceeding the option premium paid or
received. They are derecognised on maturity.
Provisions of EUR 23 million were recognised for currency forwards not included in hedge accounting for
which there was a negative fair market value within a currency as at the balance sheet date. In line with the
imparity principle, positive fair market values within a currency are not recognised.
On the balance sheet date, there were the following derivative financial instruments not included in hedge
accounting:
Nominal value Market value
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 31.12.2013 31.12.2012
Foreign exchange forward contracts 1,302 1,232 21 10
If the requirements for hedge accounting of foreign exchange forward contracts with highly probable fore-
casted transactions in accordance with section 254 HGB are met, the foreign exchange forward contracts are
not recognised in the balance sheet in line with the net hedge presentation method.
The following accounting policies apply in the recognition of hedges in accordance with section 254 HGB:
Economic hedges are accounted for by hedge accounting. Hedges are recognised per foreign currency from
the net amount of highly probable forecasted transactions and currency forwards that match the forecasted
net cash flow in terms of maturity, nominal amount and foreign currency (macro hedge). The highly probable
forecasted transactions (incoming and outgoing payments for planned sales and purchases) are derived from
company planning. Ex-post analysis of planning has shown that the planned transactions are highly probable.
As the critical terms (maturity, nominal amount, foreign currency) match, the opposing changes in value of
the hedged item and the hedging instrument are fully offset. An effective hedge can therefore be assumed
both prospectively and retrospectively. The critical term match method is exclusively used to measure pro-
spective and retrospective hedge effectiveness.
83notes to the consolidated financial statements
As of 31 December 2013, hedges for highly probable forecast net cash flows were recognised as follows:
January to December 2014:
Net cash flow (in millions of EUR) FX forward contracts (in millions of EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
USD 1,120 USD — 1,065 USD 53
JPY 1,041 JPY — 826 JPY 183
AUD 135 AUD — 112 AUD 14
MXN 113 MXN — 96 MXN 4
CAN 177 CAN — 117 CAN 13
GBP 236 GBP — 134 GBP — 3
January to December 2015:
Net cash flow (in millions of EUR) FX forward contracts (in millions of EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
USD 1,116 USD — 742 USD 34
JPY 1,065 JPY — 563 JPY 140
AUD 19 AUD — 14 AUD 2
MXN 20 MXN — 17 MXN 1
CAN 164 CAN — 48 CAN 2
GBP 43 GBP — 35 GBP — 1
January to December 2016:
Net cash flow (in millions of EUR) FX forward contracts (in millions of EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
USD 606 USD — 206 USD 8
JPY 1,138 JPY — 327 JPY 96
CAN 12 CAN — 1 CAN 0
January to May 2017:
Net cash flow (in millions of EUR) FX forward contracts (in millions of EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
JPY 475 JPY — 243 JPY 66
84 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013consolidated financial statements
The amount of the hedged foreign currency risk correlates to the relative change in the exchange rate
between the planning date and the realisation date of the forecasted transactions. If all currencies were to
appreciate or depreciate against the euro by 10.0%, there would be a foreign currency risk of plus or minus
EUR 748 million without hedging.
As of balance sheet date, there are two floating-rate loans amounting to EUR 290 million. Interest rate swaps
with matching amounts and matching maturities were concluded to hedge the interest rate risk associated
with this. As this only involves transforming the floating-rate loan portions into a fixed interest rate, use is
made of hedge accounting (micro hedges). The opposing changes in value of the hedged item and the hedging
instrument are fully offset until 2016. As of the balance sheet date, the interest rate swaps including accrued
interest had a fair market value of minus EUR 13 million. The carrying amount (equal to deferred accrued
interest) was EUR 3 million and is reported under liabilities to banks. The net hedge presentation method
was used.
6.4 Research and development expenses
(in millions of EUR ) 2013 2012
Research & development expenses 2,743 2,795
The research and development expenses not capitalised include costs for phase IV clinical studies.
6.5 Total auditor fees
The total fee charged by the auditor for the financial year was EUR 2.5 million. EUR 1.1 million of this
relates to audits of financial statements, EUR 0.2 million to other assurance or valuation services and
EUR 1.2 million to other services.
85auditor’s report
AUDITOR’S REPORT
We have audited the consolidated financial state- We conducted our audit of the consolidated finan-
ments prepared by C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & cial statements in accordance with § (Article) 317
Co. KG, Ingelheim – comprising the balance sheet, HGB (German Commercial Code) and German
the income statement, statement of changes in eq- generally accepted standards for the audit of fi-
uity, cash flow statement and the notes to the con- nancial statements promulgated by the Institut der
solidated financial statements, together with the Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in
group management report for the business year Germany) (IDW). Those standards require that we
from 1 January to 31 December 2013. The prepa- plan and perform the audit such that misstate-
ration of the consolidated financial statements ments materially affecting the presentation of the
and the group management report in accordance net assets, financial position and results of opera-
with German commercial law is the responsibility tions in the consolidated financial statements in
of the Managing Directors of the managing cor- accordance with (German) principles of proper ac-
porate general partner. Our responsibility is to counting and in the group management report are
express an opinion on the consolidated financial detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of
statements and the group management report the business activities and the economic and legal
based on our audit. environment of the Group and expectations as to
possible misstatements are taken into account in
the determination of audit procedures. The effec-
tiveness of the accounting-related internal control
system and the evidence supporting the disclo-
sures in the consolidated financial statements and
the group management report are examined pri-
marily on a test basis within the framework of the
audit. The audit includes assessing the annual fi-
nancial statements of the companies included in
consolidation, the determination of the companies
to be included in consolidation, the accounting
and consolidation principles used and significant
estimates made by the Managing Directors of the
managing corporate general partner, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the consoli-
dated financial statements and the group manage-
ment report. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.
86 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013consolidated financial statements
With the exception of the following qualification,
our audit has not led to any reservations: Contrary
to § (Article) 314 (1) Nos.6 (a) and (b) HGB the total
remuneration granted to the members, the former
members of the board of managing directors and
the members of the supervisory body as well as the
pension provisions recognized and not recognized
for the former members of the board of managing
directors are not disclosed in the notes to the con-
solidated financial statements.
In our opinion based on the findings of our audit,
with the qualification mentioned above, the con-
solidated financial statements comply with the
legal requirements. The consolidated financial state-
ments give a true and fair view of the net assets,
financial position and results of operations of the
Group in accordance with (German) principles of
proper accounting. The group management report
is consistent with consolidated financial statements
that comply with the legal requirements and as a
whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s
position and suitably presents the opportunities
and risks of future development.
Frankfurt am Main, 20 February 2014
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
/s/ Philip Marshall /s/ Dr. Ulrich Störk
Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Certified (German Certified
Public Accountant) Public Accountant)
87product portfolio
88 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013product portfolio
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
a selection
90 Branded prescription medicines
100 Consumer health care
110 Animal health
89branded prescription medicines
Respiratory diseases
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and Bronchial Asthma
bronchial asthma are among the most prevalent Bronchial Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disor-
chronic diseases affecting the lungs, and a frequent der of the airways. Chronic inflammation of the air-
cause of morbidity and premature deaths worldwide. ways is accompanied by airway hyperresponsive-
ness, which leads to a narrowing of the airways and
COPD recurrent episodes of wheezing, breathlessness and
COPD is a chronic disease of the lungs in which the coughing, particularly at night or in the early hours
airways become narrowed. This leads to a limitation of the morning. It is now known that asthma can
of airflow, causing shortness of breath and other res- be triggered by genetic and environmental factors
piratory symptoms. The airflow limitation is only (e. g. allergens and viral infections). Quite variable
partially reversible and usually worsens gradually breathing difficulties may occur. In the early stages
over time. Destruction of lung tissue (mainly affect- of the disease, this airflow limitation is normally ful-
ing the alveoli and thus gas exchange) and excessive ly reversible and patients can be free of symptoms
mucus in the airways inducing chronic cough con- between attacks. In contrast to COPD, asthma can
tribute to the burden of disease. These complaints occur in childhood.
are the main reasons why COPD is very stressful for
patients. Lung emphysema and chronic bronchitis
are the main manifestations of COPD.
COPD is caused by continuous damage to the lungs
resulting from inhaling pollutants, primarily ciga-
rette smoke, but also by environmental pollutants in
the air or other irritants to the lungs. The course of
COPD, which is a disease that occurs in the second
half in a human’s life, is characterised by an acceler-
ated loss of lung function compared to normal age-
ing and occasional sudden worsening of symptoms
and function – referred to as acute exacerbations.
90 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013product portfolio
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Chronic obstructive spiriva® tiotropium bromide Maintenance treatment of patients with
pulmonary disease (COPD) forvent® COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, including chronic bronchitis
and emphysema), the maintenance
treatment of associated dyspnoea and
for prevention of exacerbations.
• Chronic obstructive striverdi® olodaterol Maintenance bronchodilator treatment
pulmonary disease (COPD) of patients with chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD).
• Bronchospasms associated combivent® ipratropium bromide, Management of reversible broncho­
with reversible obstructive salbutamol spasms associated with obstructive
airway diseases airway diseases in patients requiring
more than one bronchodilator.
• Chronic obstructive atrovent® ipratropium bromide Bronchodilator for maintenance treat­
pulmonary disease (COPD) ment of bronchospasms associated with
• Chronic bronchitis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
• Asthma (COPD), including chronic bronchitis,
emphysema and asthma.
• Bronchial asthma berodual® ipratropium Prevention and treatment of symptoms
• Chronic bronchitis bronchodual® bromide, in chronic obstructive airway disorders
duovent® fenoterol with reversible airflow limitations, such
as bronchial asthma, and especially
chronic bronchitis, with or without em­
physema.
• Bronchial asthma berotec® fenoterol Symptomatic treatment of acute asthma
attacks and other conditions with re­
versible airway narrowing, e. g. chronic
obstructive bronchitis, and prophylaxis
of exercise­induced asthma.
• Bronchial asthma inflammide® budesonide Chronic control of symptoms of bron­
chial asthma.
• Bronchial asthma alesion® epinastine Prophylactic treatment of bronchial
• Allergic rhinitis flurinol® asthma. Prophylaxis and symptomatic
treatment of allergic rhinitis.
91branded prescription medicines
Cardiovascular diseases
Cardiovascular diseases are the leading causes of Acute myocardial infarction
death in many countries and are still increasing in An acute myocardial infarction, or heart attack, is an
prevalence. acute event that occurs when a thrombus or clot
suddenly prevents blood flow to an area of the heart
Stroke muscle. Unless the blood flow is restored quickly, the
A stroke is the rapidly developing loss of brain af fected section of heart muscle becomes perma-
functions due to a blockage of the blood flow to the nently damaged. Heart attack is a leading cause of
affected brain tissue. This can be due to ischaemia death in all developed countries.
(lack of blood supply) caused by thrombosis or
embolism, or due to a bleeding. As a result, the affected
area of the brain is unable to function and the damage
quickly becomes permanent, if untreated. A stroke is
an acute event requiring emergency diagnosis and
intervention. Worldwide, stroke is one of the leading
causes of death and long-term disability. Symptoms
of a transient ischaemic attack (TIA) are similar to
stroke, but last for only a few minutes or hours. As a
TIA may precede a stroke, emergency medical care
and subsequent preventive treatment is necessary.
92 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013product portfolio
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Essential hypertension micardis® telmisartan; Treatment of essential hypertension.
• Cardiovascular prevention micardisplus® telmisartan, hydrochlorothiazide For the reduction of the risk of myocar­
micardis plus® dial infarction (heart attack), stroke or
micardis® hct death from cardiovascular (CV) causes in
co-micardis® patients 55 years of age or older at high
risk of developing major CV events who
are unable to take ACE inhibitors (USA).
For the reduction of cardiovascular mor­
bidity in patients with manifest athero­
thrombotic cardiovascular disease (his­
tory of coronary heart disease, stroke or
peripheral arterial disease), or type 2
diabetes mellitus with documented tar­
get organ damage (EU).
• Hypertension twynsta® telmisartan, amlodipine Treatment of hypertension alone or with
micamlo® other antihypertensive agents. As initial
micardis amlo® therapy in patients likely to need multi­
micardis anlo® ple antihypertensive agents to achieve
micardis duo® their blood pressure goals (USA).
micardis® duo
Add­on therapy in adult patients with not
adequately controlled blood pressure on
amlodipine, and replacement therapy in
adult patients receiving telmisartan and
amlodipine from separate tablets (EU).
• Secondary prevention of aggrenox® dipyridamole, Prevention of stroke following a first
stroke or transient ischaemic agrenox® acetylsalicylic acid stroke or transient ischaemic attacks.
attacks (TIA) asasantin®
asasantin® retard
• Hypertension catapresan® clonidine All forms of high blood pressure, unless
catapres® caused by phaeochromocytoma.
catapressan®
• Acute ischaemic stroke actilyse® alteplase Fibrinolytic treatment of acute ischae­
• Acute myocardial infarction actilyse® cathflo® 2mg mic stroke, acute myocardial infarction,
• Acute massive pulmonary acute massive pulmonary embolism and
embolism for catheter clearance due to thrombotic
• Catheter clearance due to occlusion.
thrombotic occlusion
93branded prescription medicines
Cardiovascular diseases (continued)
Hypertension and cardiovascular diseases Atrial fibrillation
Hypertension, also referred to as high blood pressure, Patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) are at higher risk
is a chronic disease in which the blood pressure is of developing blood clots, which can cause a disa-
chronically elevated. Hypertension is one of the ma- bling stroke if the clots travel to the brain. AF is the
jor risk factors for strokes, heart attacks, heart failure most common type of arrhythmia. It is associated
and chronic renal failure. with a hypercoagulable state, which predisposes to
stroke and systemic embolism. This can be prevented
About one billion people worldwide are affected by by effective chronic anticoagulation.
hypertension. The prevalence of essential hyperten-
sion increases steadily with age. As the world popu- Venous thrombo-embolism
lation is ageing and preventive strategies in terms of Patients undergoing orthopaedic surgery are at con-
lifestyle changes are so far failing, the prevalence of siderable risk of developing deep vein thrombosis in
hypertension is set to increase even further. the legs or a potentially fatal pulmonary embolism.
Both are also known as venous thrombo-embolism
Hypertension is a major risk factor for cardiovascular (VTE). In the longer term, thrombo-embolic events
morbidity and mortality. The organs at risk are pri- may recur and chronic venous insufficiency and/or
marily the heart, the main blood vessels, the brain pulmonary hypertension may occur. To prevent VTE
and the kidneys. The primary goal of any antihyper- events and their consequences, patients should receive
tensive treatment is to prevent cardiovascular events, some kind of thromboprophy laxis.
such as heart attacks or strokes, and finally to reduce
cardiovascular mortality. Cardiovascular disease
(CVD) is responsible for nearly one in three deaths
worldwide and is the number one cause of death.
Proper control of treatable risk factors and the disease
is vital for the prevention of cardiovascular events.
94 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013product portfolio
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Acute myocardial infarction metalyse® tenecteplase Fibrinolytic treatment of acute myocar­
dial infarction.
• Hypertension motens® lacidipine Treatment of essential hypertension.
• Stroke prevention in atrial pradaxa® dabigatran Prevention of strokes and blood clots in
fibrillation pradaxar® etexilate patients with abnormal heart rhythm
prazaxa® (atrial fibrillation).
• Primary prevention of venous pradaxa® dabigatran Primary prevention of venous thrombo­
thrombo­embolic events pradaxar® etexilate embolic events (VTE) in adults after
after orthopaedic surgery elective total hip or knee replacement
surgery.
95prescription medicines
Metabolic diseases
Diabetes estimated that the number of cases will reach
Type 2 diabetes is a chronic, progressive condition 552 million by 2030.
that can cause long-term complications if it is not
well controlled. Long-term complications of diabetes include: ne-
phropathy, leading to renal failure with potential
Every year, 4.8 million deaths worldwide are linked risk for dialysis; retinopathy with potential loss of vi-
directly to the long-term effects of diabetes. Type 2 sion, an increased incidence of stroke and cardiovas-
diabetes is the most common form and accounts for cular diseases; peripheral neuropathy with the risk of
up to 95% of all cases in the developed world: it now foot ulcers and of foot and leg amputations; auto-
affects 371 million people worldwide and is imposing nomic neuropathy causing gastrointestinal, genitouri-
an enormous burden on health care systems globally. nary and cardiovascular symptoms and sexual dys-
Without effective prevention and management, it is function.
Oncology
Cancer is a threat to global health. In 2012, an esti- Lung cancer is more than just one disease. There are
mated 14.1 million new cases of cancer were diag- different subtypes such as small cell lung cancer
nosed worldwide and 8.2 million people died from (SCLC) and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
their malignant disease. The most common newly More than 10 different molecular genetic aberrations
diagnosed cancer types were lung cancer (13%), (mutations) present in the tumour have been identi-
breast cancer (10%), and colorectal cancer (9%). fied. By focusing on molecular changes that are spe-
cific to the specific subtype of lung cancer, targeted
Lung Cancer therapies may be more effective than other treat-
Lung cancer or bronchogenic carcinoma refers to ments and less harmful to normal cells, thereby
malignant abnormal cell growth inside the lung tis- reducing side effects on normal cells.
sue, forming a cluster or tumour. It is the most com-
mon cancer with an estimated 1.8 million new cases Mutations of the EGF receptor (epidermal growth
per year worldwide (2012). Smoking is the primary factor receptor, EGFR, ErbB1) occur in 10 – 15% of
cause of the disease, contributing to 85% of the cas- Caucasians and around 30 – 40% of Asian patients
es. Recently, the incidence of lung cancer among with an adenocarcinoma. This type of mutation oc-
non-smokers and women has increased. Lung cancer curs more frequently, but not exclusively in women
has a negative prognosis, with 1.6 million deaths per and non-smokers and can be treated with tyrosine-
year, representing 20% of all cancer deaths. Lung kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and ErbB blockers of the
cancer signs are unspecific and may take many years receptor family giotrif®/gilotrif® (afatinib).
to appear. Late diagnosis in an advanced stage of the
disease results in a negative prognosis, with only 4%
of lung cancer patients surviving five years or more
following diagnosis.
96 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013product portfolio
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Type 2 diabetes mellitus trajenta® linagliptin Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus to
tradjenta® improve glycaemic control in adults
trazenta® used in monotherapy (if metformin is
trayenta® not tolerated or contraindicated) or in
combination therapy.
• Type 2 diabetes mellitus jentadueto® linagliptin, metformin hydrochloride Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus to
trayenta duo® improve glycaemic control in adults
trajenta duo® when treatment with metformin does
not lead to sufficient control or when
patients are treated with Trajenta® and
metformin.
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Non­small cell lung cancer giotrif® afatinib For the treatment of patients with meta­
(NSCLC) gilotrif® static non­small cell lung cancer
(NSCLC) whose tumors have activating
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)
mutations.
97branded prescription medicines
Diseases of the central nervous system
Mental and neurological diseases such as depression The primary symptoms are the r esult of a lack of the
and Parkinson’s disease significantly impact patients neurotransmitter dopamine in distinct areas of the
and their families and are a substantial burden to human brain.
society.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS)
Parkinson’s disease Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common neurolog-
Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a degenerative disorder ical disorder characterised by an uncontrollable urge
of the central nervous system. Patients usually to move the legs, primarily occuring in the evening
notice motor symptoms like hand tremor (shaking) as and night hours. It is usually accompanied by un-
their first sign of the disease, which progresses even- pleasant and sometimes painful sensations in the
tually to include shaking of the arms, legs or head. legs as well as disturbed sleep resulting in daytime
Other motor symptoms that may develop over time tiredness or sleepiness. The sensations are felt deep
include stiffness that often results in loss of facial within the legs and are described as creeping, crawl-
expression and a gradual slowing or loss of motion, ing or aching.
or “freezing”. About 30 – 40% of patients also suffer
from non-motor symptoms associated with PD, such
as dementia, depression and sleep disorders.
Infectious diseases
HIV infection/AIDS
Acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a
set of symptoms and infections resulting from the
damage to the human immune system caused by the
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). If untreated,
this condition progressively reduces the effective-
ness of the immune system and leaves individuals
susceptible to opportunistic infections and tumours.
Babies of infected mothers are at risk of getting the
virus during pregnancy, childbirth or breastfeeding.
98 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013product portfolio
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Parkinson’s disease (PD) sifrol® pramipexole Symptomatic treatment of idiopathic
• Restless legs syndrome (RLS) mirapex® Parkinson’s disease. It may be used as
mirapex er® monotherapy or in combination with
mirapexin® levodopa. Symptomatic treatment of
pexola® idiopathic moderate to severe restless
legs syndrome.
• Sleep disorders lendormin® brotizolam Short­term treatment of disorders of
lindormin® initiating and maintaining sleep.
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• HIV/AIDS viramune® nevirapine Available as tablets and suspension for
viramune® xr adults and children – for the combina­
tion therapy of HIV­1 infection and (in
several countries) for the prevention of
mother­to­child transmission of HIV­1
in pregnant women who are not taking
antiretroviral therapy at time of labour.
Prolonged release tablets for once­daily
dosing within combination therapy.
• HIV/AIDS aptivus® tipranavir Capsule and oral solution – co­adminis­
tered with 200 mg of ritonavir, indi cated
for combination antiretroviral treatment
of HIV­1­infected patients with evidence
of viral replication who are treatment­
experienced and infected with HIV­1
strains resistant to more than one pro­
tease inhibitor.
99consumer health care
Cough and cold
mucosolvan® (ambroxol) and bisolvon® mucoviral® and bisolviral® antiviral nasal sprays
(bromhexine) are both indicated for secretolytic were launched in 2013. These sprays contain iota-
therapy in broncho pulmonary diseases associated carrageenan which is extracted from natural red sea-
with abnormal mucus secretion and impaired mucus weed. When applied nasally, iota-carrageenan acts
transport. like a protective layer which inhibits infection of
nasal epithelial cells by cold viruses since the viruses
Cough is the most common symptom of clinical im- cannot dock to their specific receptors at the cell sur-
portance and a frequent reason for consulting a face. In clinical trials, use of mucoviral®/bisolviral®
doctor or visiting a pharmacy. The clinical symptoms has been shown to reduce the viral load in the pa-
of cough and expectoration have led to the develop- tients’ nasal secretion and to reduce the duration of
ment of drugs that affect respiratory mucus, i. e. the the cold.
mucoactive agents.
In 2013, boxagrippal® was launched in Germany
mucosolvan®, which promotes mucus clearance, fa- following a successful switch from prescription to
cilitates expectoration and eases productive cough, over-the-counter (OTC) medicine status. The cold
allowing patients to breathe freely and deeply. It is remedy combines the anti-inflammatory pain reliev-
available in many different product forms and for- er (NSAID) ibuprofen and the oral decongestant
mulations. pseudoephedrine hydrochloride to treat the most
troublesome symptoms of a cold: blocked nose and
Ambroxol is an active metabolite of bromhexine, sinuses in combination with headache, fever and
which itself is a synthetic derivative of the herbal cold-related pain.
active ingredient vasicine extracted from the plant
species Adhatoda vasica. Ambroxol is a mucoactive
drug with several properties, including secretolytic
and secretomotoric actions that restore the physio-
logical clearance mechanisms of the respiratory
tract, which play an important role in the body’s
natural defence mechanisms. Ambroxol also stimu-
lates synthesis and release of surfactant by type II
pneumocytes.
bisolvon®, available for all age groups, has been on
the market since 1963. Bromhexine is contained in
various formulations of bisolvon®. It has been
shown to increase the proportion of serious bronchi-
al secretion, making it more easily expectorated.
Bromhexine also enhances mucus transport by re-
ducing mucus viscosity and by activating the ciliated
epithelium.
100 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013product portfolio
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Acute and chronic broncho­ mucosolvan® ambroxol Secretolytic therapy in acute and chronic
pulmonary diseases mucosan® bronchopulmonary diseases associated
surbronc® with abnormal mucus secretion and im­
lasolvan® paired mucus transport.
mucopect®
• Acute and chronic broncho­ bisolvon® bromhexine Secretolytic therapy in acute and chronic
pulmonary diseases bisolvon® chesty bronchopulmonary diseases associated
bisolvon-linctus® with abnormal mucus secretion and im­
paired mucus transport.
• Irritable cough silomat® dmp dextrometorphan Symptomatic treatment of irritable, non­
bisoltussin® productive cough.
bisolvon® dry
bisolsek®
bisolvon® antitusivo
• Common cold mucoviral® iota-carrageenan Antiviral treatment of common cold.
bisolviral® Also to be used for sustained moisturi­
surbroncviraltm sation of the nasal mucosa.
• Common cold boxagrippal® ibuprofen, Symptomatic treatment of nasal conges­
pseudoephedrine tion in combination with headache
and/or fever.
101consumer health care
Sore throat
mucoangin® (ambroxol) is indicated for pain relief In addition to its secretolytic activity, ambroxol is a
in acute a sore throat. Pain in sore throat is the hall- potent inhibitor of the neuronal sodium channels.
mark of acute pharyngitis, usually caused by a viral Therefore, mucoangin® has shown a local anaes-
infection. The infection is, as a rule, self-limited and thetic effect, described first in the late 1970s, but
the patient normally recovers in a couple of days. explained and confirmed in more recent work.
What is most bothersome for the patient is the con-
tinuous pain in the throat, which is maximised when
swallowing. The main goal of the treatment is thus
to reduce pain.
Pain
The brand thomapyrin® comprises products for the type headaches and migraines. thomapyrin® is posi-
treatment of acute pain of mild to intermediate intensity. tioned as the expert treatment for headaches. Several
line extensions are available: thomapyrin® classic
thomapyrin® classic is the core product, which is for normal headache, thomapyrin® intensiv for
composed of a triple combination of acetylsalicylic stronger headache, and thomapyrin® effervescent
acid, paracetamol and caffeine. The three components tablets as a galenic alter native.
suppress pain synergistically via interaction with
several pain-related molecular mechanisms. As a re- Alongside thomapyrin®, Boehringer Ingelheim also
sult, thomapyrin® classic offers faster and superior offers analgesics in a combination of ibuprofen,
efficacy compared with its single components which allylisopropylacetylurea, dehydrated caffeine and
is, amongst others, well proven by state-of-the-art magnesium oxide in Japan under the tradename
clinical studies. eve®, and as a mono active ingredient with metami-
zol in Brazil under the tradename anador®.
For this reason, the triple combination is recom-
mended by many national and international medical
societies as first choice acute treatment for tension-
102 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013product portfolio
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Sore throat mucoangin® ambroxol Pain relief in acute sore throat.
lysopadol®
lysopain® dol
isodinemint®
zerinol® gola
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Pain thomapyrin® acetylsalicylic acid, For adults and adolescents older than
thomapyrin® classic paracetamol, caffeine 12 years for acute treatment of mild to
thomapyrin® intensiv (*) moderate headache, migraine attacks,
with and without aura, and for the treat­
ment of tension­type headache.
* Only available in Germany.
• Pain eve® (*) ibuprofen; For adults older than 15 years for reduc­
eve® a (*) allylisopropylacetylurea, dehydrated tion of fever and temporary relief of mild
eve® quick (*) caffeine, magnesium oxide * to moderate aches and pains associated
with: headache, menstrual pain and oth­
er body pains.
* Only available in Japan. * Only in eve® quick.
• Pain anador® (*) metamizol For adults and adolescents older than
lisalgil® 12 years for acute treatment of mild to
nolotil® moderate headache.
* Only available in Brazil.
103consumer health care
Gastrointestinal diseases
In our gastrointestinal portfolio, we offer several modic product, buscopan® acts directly on the site of
brands such as dulcolax®, surulac®, laxoberal®, abdominal pain by relaxing the smooth muscles of
guttalax®, buscopan®, as well as the heartburn the gastrointestinal, biliary, urinary and genital tracts.
brands zantac® and buscopan® antiacido and
gastol®. This means buscopan® relieves abdominal pain by
directly treating its main cause – abdominal cramp
Constipation is a common problem. dulcolax® is or spasm.
the leading over-the-counter (OTC) laxative remedy
for constipation relief worldwide. Today, buscopan® is available in several line exten-
sions – the mono variant and different combinations
dulcolax® tablets have a special enteric “comfort with analgesics (paracetamol, ibuprofen and metam-
coating” which ensures that the active ingredient in izol/dipyrone) – and different formulations (tablets,
dulcolax® tablets, bisacodyl, is taken to where it drops, suppositories, syrup and solutions for intrave-
needs to act – the colon. Here, in the colon, the co- nous injection).
lonic juices activate the key ingredient, which then
relieves consti pation. It stimulates the natural move- The umbrella brand buscopan® also offers buscofem®
ment of the bowels to provide gentle, predictable for menstrual pain relief as well as buscopan®
relief within 6 –12 hours. One to two tablets taken antiacido and b uscopan® reflusso for heartburn
before going to bed will provide relief the next relief.
morning.
In 2013, we extended our gastrointestinal portfolio
Other products within the dulcolax® range include with vaprino®, a new self-medication product for
dulcoease®, dulcoenema® and dulcogas®. diarrhoea. Its active ingredient, racecadotril, is
effective in various forms of acute diarrhoea by
surulac® is the constipation brand in Japan, where reducing exceeding secretion from the gut without
consumers are offered surulac® as a laxative tablet. changing gastrointestinal transit time or motility.
laxoberal® and guttalax® are the brands offering That is why vaprino® provides a new mode of action
consumers constipation relief with a flexible dosage that enables fast relief from diarrhoea without
format – namely drops. blocking the bowels.
Abdominal cramping, pain and discomfort are com-
mon ailments. Approximately one in four persons
worldwide suffers on a regular basis.
buscopan® is an antispasmodic product with the
active ingredient hyoscine butylbromide. The product
is basically a natural substance extracted from
Duboisia plant species as scopolamine (hyoscine) and
chemically modified to the quaternary ammonium
compound h yoscine butylbromide. As an antispas-
104 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013product portfolio
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Constipation dulcolax® bisacodyl; Laxative for use in patients suffering
surulac® s bisacodyl, sennoside from constipation. In preparation for
diagnostic procedures, in pre­ and post­
operative treatment, and in conditions
that require defecation to be facilitated.
• Constipation laxoberal® sodium picosulphate Laxative for use in cases of constipation
laxoberon® and in conditions that require defeca­
guttalax® tion to be facilitated.
dulcolax® np
dulcodrops®
dulcogotas®
• Gas and bloating dulcogas® simethicone Fast­acting granules that relieve gas and
bloating and prevent flatulence.
• Abdominal pain buscopan® hyoscine butylbromide Treatment for the relief of abdominal
buscapina® cramping, pain and discomfort.
• Heartburn zantac® (*) ranitidine Relieves heartburn associated with acid
buscopan® antiacido indigestion and sour stomach. Prevents
heartburn associated with acid indiges­
tion and sour stomach brought on by
certain foods and beverages.
* Only available in the USA.
• Acute diarrhoea vaprino® racecadotril Treatment of symptoms of acute diar­
rhoea for adults.
105consumer health care
Vitamins and supplements
pharmaton® is a multivitamin and mineral supple- pharmaton® matruelle® is indicated for women who
ments brand developed to support physical and men- are actively planning to get pregnant, pregnant wom-
tal well-being. A full range of products adapted to the en and breastfeeding women. It contains all important
needs of different target audiences has been developed micronutrients for mother and baby such as vitamins,
that work in harmony with the body. minerals and omega-3 fatty acids to cover the in-
creased needs for these substances in those particular
pharmaton® vitality, a range of products for adults, periods. Moreover, it helps to protect against embryo-
contains a selected blend of vitamins, minerals and nal neural tube diseases of the foetus and against iron
trace elements plus the standardised Ginseng extract and folic acid anaemia during pregnancy.
G115®. The main target indications are: exhaustion,
tiredness, decreasing concentration and mental alert- pharmaton® cardioactive, a product designed for
ness, as well as in cases of deficient nutrition, loss of adults over 40 years of age, contains a blend of vita-
appetite, debility due to illness and convalescence. mins and minerals combined with omega-3 fatty acids
Numerous clinical studies have shown that a regular to help maintain cardiovascular health.
intake of pharmaton® has a positive effect on mental
and physical performance and well-being.
pharmaton® kiddi®, a range of products designed for
children, contains selected vitamins, minerals and the
essential amino acid lysine, which are important dur-
ing the period of growth. It is also recommended in
the preventive treatment of vitamin deficiencies.
106 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013product portfolio
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Tiredness, decreasing con­ pharmaton® standardised ginseng To improve general well­being.
centration, in cases of defi­ pharmaton® vitality extract, vitamins,
cient nutrition, loss of appe­ pharmaton® geriavit® minerals, trace
tite, debility due to illness geriatric pharmaton® elements
and convalescence gericomplex®
pharmaton complex®
pharmaton® fizzi
pharmaton® active life®
• Increased demand for pharmaton® kiddi® vitamins, Increased demand for vitamins, minerals
vitamins in childhood minerals, and amino acids, especially during the
amino acids period of growth. Preventive treatment
in cases of vitamin deficiencies, e. g. re­
stricted diets, convalescence, loss of
appetite following illness, infection or
surgery.
• Prophylaxis of iron and folic pharmaton® vitamins, minerals, For women during and after pregnancy,
acid deficiency during matruelle® trace elements, preventing deficiency symptoms and
pregnancy omega-3 fatty acids covering the increased needs for vita­
[docosahexaenoic mins, minerals, trace elements and DHA.
acid (DHA)] To provide protection against embryonal
neural tube diseases of the foetus, and
prophylaxis of iron and folic acid anae­
mia during pregnancy.
• Maintenance of pharmaton® vitamins, minerals, trace elements Helps to maintain cardiovascular health.
cardio vascular health cardioactive and fish oil (omega-3 fatty acids rich Covers the daily needs for vitamins,
pharmaton® in EPA and DHA) minerals, trace elements and fish oil
coractive
(omega­3 fatty acids rich in EPA and
pharmaton protect® DHA) by acting complementary to daily
nutrition.
107consumer health care
Leg vein health
Under the brand name antistax®, Boehringer capsules offer effective treatment of the described
Ingel heim markets a range of products developed for symptoms. antistax® helps to keep the fluid that
the prevention and treatment of symptoms attribut- flows out of the small venous vessels (venules) into
able to chronic venous insufficiency. The most com- the surrounding tissue at normal levels, even when
mon symptoms of venous insufficiency observable standing or sitting for a long time.
for consumers are varicose veins, oedema of the
lower leg, heavy or tired legs, sensation of tension, Red vine leaf extract, the active ingredient in
tingling, cramps and pain. antistax® capsules and antistax® products, has an anti-inflammatory effect
tablets are scientifically proven to help maintain and works on the endothelium inside the venules by
healthy leg vein circulation. sealing them from the inside, thereby reducing the
swelling and the sensation of pain and heaviness.
Heavy, aching and tired legs often occur after long
periods of standing or sitting, and increase at the Products available in the antistax® range include
end of the day or during the summer when outdoor antistax® tablets, antistax® capsules and antistax®
temperatures rise. antistax® tablets and antistax® creme, as well as the cosmetic product antistax®
leg chilling gel.
Urological diseases
Benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) refers to an symptoms (LUTS) such as frequent nighttime
enlargement of the prostate in middle-aged and urination, urge to urinate every few hours, weak
elderly men, which can lead to lower urinary tract flow and feeling of unfinished urinating.
108 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013product portfolio
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Chronic venous insufficiency antistax® red vine leaf extract Prevention and treatment of symptoms
of chronic venous insufficiency; varicose
veins, leg oedema, painful swollen legs,
tingling legs, tired and heavy legs.
• Heavy, tired legs antistax® cooling, caring Symptomatic treatment of heavy, tired
substances, red vine legs.
leaf extract
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Benign prostate hyperplasia flomax relief® (*) tamsulosin Treatment of lower urinary tract symp­
(BPH) toms (LUTS) of a common condition
called benign prostate hyperplasia
(BPH).
* Only available in UK.
109animal health
Food-producing animals – swine
Infectious respiratory diseases Infectious enteric diseases
ingelvac circoflex® is the first single-dose piglet enterisol® ileitis is the first and only vaccine against
vaccine for the control of porcine circovirus disease ileitis caused by Lawsonia intracellularis. It is licensed
(PCVD). This vaccine provides significant reduction to improve weight gain and to reduce growth varia-
of mortality in the acute phase of PCVD as well as bility associated with the disease. enterisol® ileitis
improved growth rates in the chronic phase of the helps to reduce the total antimicrobial use in pork
disease. ingelvac circoflex® protects with minimal production.
systemic adverse reactions or injection site swellings.
The mixing of ingelvac circoflex® with ingelvac
mycoflex® was approved by the European Commis-
sion. ingelvac® prrs mlv is licensed for active im-
munisation against the respiratory and reproductive
form of porcine reproductive and respiratory syn-
drome (PRRS).
ingelvac mycoflex® is licensed for the active immu-
nisation of pigs against enzootic pneumonia (EP) in
a single-dose regimen. Through its advanced adju-
vant system, it provides long-lasting and effective
protection, proven even in high-challenge situations.
Food-producing animals – poultry
volvac® is the umbrella brand of the Boehringer bacterial diseases like avian influenza, infectious
Ingelheim Animal Health poultry vaccine range. It bronchitis, Newcastle disease, i nfectious bursal dis-
consists of a wide range of live and inactivated vac- ease, egg drop syndrome and avian coryza. The
cines for broilers and layers. The vaccines provide volvac® vaccines also allow the birds to express
protection of the birds against various viral and their full potential, and increase their well-being.
110 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013product portfolio
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Infectious respiratory ingelvac circoflex® recombinant vaccine For the active immunisation of pigs over
diseases (porcine circovirus the age of two weeks against porcine
type 2, PCV 2) circovirus type 2 to reduce mortality,
clinical signs – including weight loss –
and lesions in lymphoid tissues asso-
ciated with porcine circovirus diseases
(PCVD).
In addition, vaccination has been shown
to reduce PCV 2 nasal shedding, viral
load in blood and lymphoid tissues, and
duration of viraemia.
• Infectious respiratory ingelvac® prrs mlv attenuated live vaccine For the active immunisation of swine
diseases (PRRS virus) from the age of three weeks against the
respiratory and reproductive form of
PRRS virus infection (porcine reproduc-
tive and respiratory syndrome).
• Infectious respiratory ingelvac mycoflex® inactivated vaccine For the active immunisation of pigs from
diseases (Mycoplasma the age of three weeks against lung
hyopneumoniae) lesions following infections with Myco-
plasma hyopneumoniae.
• Infectious enteric diseases enterisol® ileitis attenuated live For the active immunisation of pigs from
vaccine (Lawsonia the age of three weeks against intestinal
intracellularis) lesions caused by Lawsonia intracellula-
ris infection and to reduce growth vari-
ability and loss of weight gain associat-
ed with the disease.
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Various viral and bacterial volvac® Polyvalent attenuated live and inac- For vaccination of healthy chickens
diseases in poultry tivated vaccine containing antigens against diseases caused by the included
for vaccination against avian influ- antigens. For the most common diseases
enza, Newcastle disease, responsible for losses in egg production
avian coryza, egg drop in layers and affecting the health of
syndrome, infectious broiler chickens.
bronchitis, infectious
bursal disease,
bacterium anatis
111animal health
Food-producing animals – cattle
Mastitis
Mastitis is the inflammation of the udder in dairy
cattle, mainly caused by bacterial infection. Preven-
tion and treatment of mastitis in these animals is
key to producing healthy milk and minimising the
symptoms associated with this clinical situation.
ubrolexin® and today® are two products for
the treatment of acute bacterial mastitis, whereas
ubrostar® and tomorrow® are used to prevent
mastitis during drying-off in dairy cattle at the end
of their lactation period. mamyzin® is an effective
injectable antimicrobial for the treatment of acute
mastitis, and metacam® is used to reduce acute pain
associated with this syndrome.
112 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013product portfolio
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Mastitis mamyzin® penethamate hydroiodide For the treatment of mastitis in dairy
cows.
• Mastitis benestermycin® penethamate hydroiodide, Treatment of subclinical mammary
ubrostar® benethamine penicillin, infections present at drying-off.
framycetin sulphate
• Mastitis ubrolexin® cefalexin (as monohydrate), Treatment of clinical mastitis in lactating
kanamycin (as monosulphate) dairy cows caused by bacteria.
• Mastitis today® (*) cephapirin sodium For intramammary infusion into lactat-
ing cows.
* Only available in USA.
• Mastitis tomorrow® (*) cephapirin benzathine For intramammary infusion into the dry
cow.
* Only available in USA.
113animal health
Food-producing animals – cattle (continued)
Pain and inflammatory diseases controls pain and supports the restoration of well-
metacam® is a member of the class of non-steroidal being in farm animals. The use of metacam® is con-
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) and addresses venient and inflicts minimal stress on animals due to
the need for maintained profitability and the con- its low-volume, one-shot dosage.
cern for animal welfare in animal production.
Due to its long-acting nature and its outstanding metacam® is licensed for use in cattle suffering from
efficacy in controlling inflammatory symptoms, it respiratory disease. It is also indicated in calves af-
helps to minimise losses from inflammation and fected by diarrhoea and as adjunctive therapy in the
maintain profitability in animals suffering from treatment of mastitis in lactating cows.
disease. At the same time, metacam® effectively
Companion animals – horse
The main horse products focus on the therapeutic laminitis, change in body conformation and lack of
areas of respiratory disease, lameness, colic and performance. Treatment with p rascend® is life-
hormonal disorders. long.
ventipulmin® is a treatment of acute and chronic vetera® vaccines are the first vaccine portfolio that
respiratory disease in which airway obstruction due include multiple convenient combinations of disease
to bronchospasm and/or mucus accumulation is a protection for horses from as young as four months
contributing factor and improved mucociliary clear- of age. The vaccines protect against as many as nine
ance is desirable. ventipulmin® can be used alone infectious organisms including influenza, herpes,
or as adjunctive therapy in chronic obstructive pul- the West Nile virus, tetanus and others. This enables
monary disease (COPD) and in acute, sub-acute and customised protection for each horse with limited
chronic respiratory allergic conditions. needle injections. All vetera® vaccines are formulat-
ed utilising the Ultrafil™ Purification Technology,
prascend® is indicated for the treatment of pituitary removing most of the extraneous proteins and
pars intermedia dysfunction (PPID), which is also allowing the horse’s immune system to focus on the
known as Equine Cushing’s Disease. prascend® relevant antigens.
substitutes for the lack of dopamine in the pituitary
pars intermedia. Clinical signs are hypertrichiosis,
114 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013product portfolio
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Pain and inflammatory metacam® meloxicam Alleviation of inflammation and pain in
diseases muscolo-skeletal disorders (dog, cat,
pigs, horse) after surgery (dog, cat, pigs)
and during colic (horse).
As adjunctive treatment of diarrhoea,
respiratory disease, acute mastitis and
dehorning (cattle), as well as mastitis-
metritis-agalactia syndrome (pigs).
• Cattle infectious diseases pyramid® attenuated vaccine against bovine For vaccination of healthy dairy or beef
presponse® rhinotracheitis-virus, diarrhoea, cattle as an aid in prevention of diseases
parainfluenza 3, respiratory syncytial caused by included antigens (US and
virus, Mannheimia haemolytica Canada only).
toxoid
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Acute and chronic obstruc- ventipulmin® clenbuterol Respiratory diseases attended by bron-
tive respiratory diseases chial spasms, like subacute and chronic
bronchitis and bronchiolitis, chronic-
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD),
auxillary with acute bronchitis and
pneumonia of bronchia.
• Pituitary pars intermedia prascend® pergolide mesylate For the treatment of clinical signs asso-
dysfunction (PPID) ciated with pituitary pars intermedia
dysfunction (PPID; also known as:
Equine Cushing’s disease).
• Up to 9-way combination vetera® Eastern, Western and Venezuelan For vaccination of healthy horses as an
vaccines against common encephalomyelitis, tetanus, aid in the prevention of diseases caused
diseases in horses West Nile virus, by included antigens (US and Canada
equine herpes only).
virus, equine
influenza viruses
115animal health
Companion animals – small animals
The main small animal products address major prozinc® is an aqueous protamine zinc (PZI) sus-
chronic diseases: heart failure, kidney disease, pension of recombinant human insulin that is used
epilepsy and osteoarthritis. to reduce hyperglycaemia in cats with diabetes
mellitus.
As the first of a new class of heart treatments termed
inodilators, vetmedin® has been shown to signifi- semintra® is an angiotensin II antagonist which is
cantly improve clinical signs and extend life expec- newly approved for reduction of proteinuria associ-
tancy in dogs with congestive heart failure origin- ated with chronic kidney disease (CKD) in cats.
ating from dilated cardiomyopathy or valvular semintra® decreases mean arterial blood pressure
insufficiency (mitral and/or tricuspid regurgitation). and proteinuria and is available as an oral solution.
vetmedin® works through two complementary
modes of action: it opens up the blood vessels taking pexion® is a new and alternative treatment for ca-
blood to and away from the heart, thereby lowering nine epilepsy. The active substances imepitoin pri-
the pressure on the heart and reducing the work the marily inhibits seizures via potentiation of GABAA-
heart has to do to pump blood around the dog’s receptor-mediated inhibitory effects on neurons.
body. At the same time, vetmedin® has a direct pexion® is approved for reduction of generalised
effect on the heart muscle, helping it to beat stronger seizures due to idiopathic epilepsy, and it has poten-
and pump blood more efficiently. tial safety benefits over existing standard treatment.
metacam® is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug
(NSAID). It is available as an oral suspension, tablets
and injectable solution for dogs and as an oral sus-
pension and injectable solution for cats. In dogs, the
indications include the alleviation of inflammation
and pain in both acute and chronic musculo-skeletal
disorders, as well as the reduction of postoperative
pain following surgery. In cats, the indications in-
clude the alleviation of inflammation and pain in
acute and chronic musculo-skeletal disorders, as
well as for alleviation of mild to moderate postoper-
ative pain following surgical procedures. The variety
of formulations offers veterinarians and owners the
flexibility to use the formulations they prefer to
manage the various levels of inflammation and pain
associated with the licensed indications.
116 Boehringer Ingelheim annual report 2013product portfolio
Indications Brand names Active ingredients
• Congestive heart failure vetmedin® pimobendan Treatment of canine congestive heart
failure originated from dilatative cardio-
myophathy or valvular insufficiency
(mitral and/or tricuspid regurgitation).
• Pain and inflammatory metacam® meloxicam In dogs, the indications include the alle-
diseases viation of inflammation and pain in both
acute and chronic musculo-skeletal dis-
orders, as well as the reduction of post-
operative pain following surgery.
In cats, the indications include the alle-
viation of inflammation and pain in
acute and chronic musculo-skeletal dis-
orders, as well as the alleviation of mild
to moderate postoperative pain follow-
ing surgical procedures.
• Feline diabetes mellitus prozinc® (*) protamine zinc For the reduction of hyperglycaemia and
recombinant hyperglycaemia-associated clinical signs
human insulin in cats with diabetes mellitus.
* Currently only available in USA.
• Feline chronic kidney disease semintra® telmisartan Reduction of proteinuria associated with
chronic kidney disease (CKD) in cats.
• Canine idiopathic epilepsy pexion® imepitoin For the reduction of the frequency of
generalised seizures due to idiopathic
epilepsy in dogs after careful evaluation
of alternative treatment options.
117C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim comparison
of
balance
sheets
/
financial
data
2004
—
2013
COMPARISON OF BALANCE SHEETS 2004 ― 2013
(in millions of EUR)
Assets (as of 31 December) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Intangible assets 267 233 554 547 539 745 736 710 682 582
Tangible assets 2,712 2,900 2,886 2,972 3,177 3,219 3,314 3,442 3,103 2,887
Financial assets 2,756 3,396 3,043 1,638 1,739 1,699 3,168 3,953 4,222 4,737
Fixed assets 5,735 6,529 6,483 5,157 5,455 5,663 7,218 8,105 8,007 8,206
Inventories 1,085 1,229 1,280 1,387 1,561 1,801 1,850 1,998 2,095 2,083
Accounts receivable (incl. deferred charges and deferred taxes) 2,477 3,013 3,137 2,912 3,496 3,663 4,047 4,652 4,814 5,131
Liquid funds 1,333 1,247 945 1,015 1,312 3,877 3,118 3,903 2,374 2,879
Current assets (incl. deffered charges and deferred taxes) 4,895 5,489 5,362 5,314 6,369 9,341 9,015 10,553 9,283 10,093
Total assets 10,630 12,018 11,845 10,471 11,824 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299
Liabilities and equity (as of 31 December ) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Shareholders’ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178
Reserves (incl. currency conversion difference) 3,297 2,940 3,275 1,385 3,101 3,964 5,408 5,812 4,763 5,619
Net income 888 1,491 1,722 1,809 1,424 1,759 888 1,476 1,237 1,324
Total equity 4,363 4,609 5,175 3,372 4,703 5,901 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,121
Minority interests 193 216 188 167 190 179 0 0 0 1
Group equity 4,556 4,825 5,363 3,539 4,893 6,080 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,122
Negative difference from acquisition of companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 157 134 104
Provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 4,172 4,958 4,641 4,726 5,120 5,731 6,598 7,402 7,749 7,817
Liabilities (incl. deferred charges) 1,902 2,235 1,841 2,206 1,811 3,193 3,161 3,633 3,229 3,256
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred charges) 6,074 7,193 6,482 6,932 6,931 8,924 9,759 11,035 10,978 11,073
Total liabilities and equity 10,630 12,018 11,845 10,471 11,824 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299
Summary of selected financial data 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Net sales 8,157 9,535 10,574 10,952 11,595 12,721 12,586 13,171 14,691 14,065
Operating income 1,372 1,923 2,140 2,100 1,980 2,239 1,896 2,272 1,853 2,114
Operating income as % of net sales 16.8 20.2 20.2 19.2 17.1 17.6 15.1 17.3 12.6 15.0
Income after taxes 908 1,514 1,729 1,812 1,428 1,764 888 1,476 1,237 1,324
Income after taxes as % of net sales 11.1 15.9 16.4 16.5 12.3 13.9 7.1 11.2 8.4 9.4
Return on shareholders’ equity (in %) 23.1 34.2 37.4 35.0 42.2 37.4 15.0 22.8 16.6 21.4
Equity ratio (in %) 41.0 38.4 43.7 32.2 39.8 39.3 39.9 40.0 35.7 38.9
Cash flow 1,430 2,069 2,317 2,392 1,997 2,409 2,234 2,378 2,225 2,129
Financial funds 4,015 4,585 3,934 2,581 2,932 5,384 6,113 7,711 6,467 7,514
Personnel costs 2,443 2,671 2,836 2,886 3,004 3,221 3,358 3,664 4,024 4,071
Personnel costs as % of net sales 29.9 28.0 26.8 26.4 25.9 25.3 26.7 27.8 27.4 28.9
Average number of employees 35,529 37,406 38,428 39,800 41,300 41,534 42,224 44,094 46,228 47,492
Research and development costs 1,232 1,360 1,574 1,900 2,109 2,215 2,453 2,516 2,795 2,743
R & D as % of net sales 15.1 14.3 14.9 17.3 18.2 17.4 19.5 19.1 19.0 19.5
Investments in tangible assets 427 532 596 654 665 630 519 458 562 558
Depreciation of tangible assets 377 439 419 432 453 470 498 535 793 640COMPARISON OF BALANCE SHEETS 2004 ― 2013
(in millions of EUR)
Assets (as of 31 December) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Intangible assets 267 233 554 547 539 745 736 710 682 582
Tangible assets 2,712 2,900 2,886 2,972 3,177 3,219 3,314 3,442 3,103 2,887
Financial assets 2,756 3,396 3,043 1,638 1,739 1,699 3,168 3,953 4,222 4,737
Fixed assets 5,735 6,529 6,483 5,157 5,455 5,663 7,218 8,105 8,007 8,206
Inventories 1,085 1,229 1,280 1,387 1,561 1,801 1,850 1,998 2,095 2,083
Accounts receivable (incl. deferred charges and deferred taxes) 2,477 3,013 3,137 2,912 3,496 3,663 4,047 4,652 4,814 5,131
Liquid funds 1,333 1,247 945 1,015 1,312 3,877 3,118 3,903 2,374 2,879
Current assets (incl. deffered charges and deferred taxes) 4,895 5,489 5,362 5,314 6,369 9,341 9,015 10,553 9,283 10,093
Total assets 10,630 12,018 11,845 10,471 11,824 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299
Liabilities and equity (as of 31 December ) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Shareholders’ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178
Reserves (incl. currency conversion difference) 3,297 2,940 3,275 1,385 3,101 3,964 5,408 5,812 4,763 5,619
Net income 888 1,491 1,722 1,809 1,424 1,759 888 1,476 1,237 1,324
Total equity 4,363 4,609 5,175 3,372 4,703 5,901 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,121
Minority interests 193 216 188 167 190 179 0 0 0 1
Group equity 4,556 4,825 5,363 3,539 4,893 6,080 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,122
Negative difference from acquisition of companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 157 134 104
Provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 4,172 4,958 4,641 4,726 5,120 5,731 6,598 7,402 7,749 7,817
Liabilities (incl. deferred charges) 1,902 2,235 1,841 2,206 1,811 3,193 3,161 3,633 3,229 3,256
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred charges) 6,074 7,193 6,482 6,932 6,931 8,924 9,759 11,035 10,978 11,073
Total liabilities and equity 10,630 12,018 11,845 10,471 11,824 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299
Summary of selected financial data 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Net sales 8,157 9,535 10,574 10,952 11,595 12,721 12,586 13,171 14,691 14,065
Operating income 1,372 1,923 2,140 2,100 1,980 2,239 1,896 2,272 1,853 2,114
Operating income as % of net sales 16.8 20.2 20.2 19.2 17.1 17.6 15.1 17.3 12.6 15.0
Income after taxes 908 1,514 1,729 1,812 1,428 1,764 888 1,476 1,237 1,324
Income after taxes as % of net sales 11.1 15.9 16.4 16.5 12.3 13.9 7.1 11.2 8.4 9.4
Return on shareholders’ equity (in %) 23.1 34.2 37.4 35.0 42.2 37.4 15.0 22.8 16.6 21.4
Equity ratio (in %) 41.0 38.4 43.7 32.2 39.8 39.3 39.9 40.0 35.7 38.9
Cash flow 1,430 2,069 2,317 2,392 1,997 2,409 2,234 2,378 2,225 2,129
Financial funds 4,015 4,585 3,934 2,581 2,932 5,384 6,113 7,711 6,467 7,514
Personnel costs 2,443 2,671 2,836 2,886 3,004 3,221 3,358 3,664 4,024 4,071
Personnel costs as % of net sales 29.9 28.0 26.8 26.4 25.9 25.3 26.7 27.8 27.4 28.9
Average number of employees 35,529 37,406 38,428 39,800 41,300 41,534 42,224 44,094 46,228 47,492
Research and development costs 1,232 1,360 1,574 1,900 2,109 2,215 2,453 2,516 2,795 2,743
R & D as % of net sales 15.1 14.3 14.9 17.3 18.2 17.4 19.5 19.1 19.0 19.5
Investments in tangible assets 427 532 596 654 665 630 519 458 562 558
Depreciation of tangible assets 377 439 419 432 453 470 498 535 793 640IF YOU HAVE ANY QUERIES OR COMMENTS,
PLEASE CONTACT US.
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
Binger Strasse 173
55216 Ingelheim
Germany
Telephone + 49 6132 77-0
Fax + 49 6132 72-3000
Contact
Corporate Division Communications
E-mail webmaster@boehringer-ingelheim.com
Internet www.boehringer-ingelheim.com
Issued by
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
Concept, design and layout
mpm GmbH · Corporate Communication Solutions
www.digitalagentur-mpm.de
Photos
Lukas Beck (p. 20, 21, 22),
James Horan (p. 24, 25, 26),
Lorenzo Vannucci (p. 28, 29, 30)
Printed by
Süddeutsche Verlagsgesellschaft, Ulm
Copyright
© Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, 2014
All rights reserved. No part of this Annual Report 2013 may be reproduced or transmitted
in any form or by any means, electronic or photocopy, without permission in writing from
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH. Figures from third parties used in the annual report are based
on data available at the time the financial statement was drawn up.www.boehringer-ingelheim.com
annualreport.boehringer-ingelheim.com