B o e h r i n g e r i n g e l h e i m
2 0 1 5
Value
THROUGH INNOVATIONC o n t e n t
20 ——— partn Ers hip
Collaboration with external partners plays an
important role in Boehringer Ingelheim’s
research and development strategy.
04 ——— EnquirEd 36 ——— indEp End EncE
What innovation means to us
As a family-owned company
Boehringer Ingelheim is able to support basic
08 ——— innovation research that may only lead to new medicines
Breakthrough in diabetes research in the long term.
10 ——— inspiration
Boehringer Ingelheim is convinced: a broad
horizon and the freedom to think bring out
the best ideas.
21 Innovating together
24 Venture capital for innovative ideas
26 Discovering new things together
27 Boehringer Ingelheim’s commit-
ment to Research & Development
37 Zebrafish news
28 ——— sust aina bility 40 »The concept has proven its worth«
42 Space for free, creative thinking
Boehringer Ingelheim takes responsibility for
the environment without saying. This
generates greater efficiency and innovative 43 Imprint
11 Seeing through different eyes products.
17 Helping each other
19 »Management need to inspire
their teams«
29 Improving sustainably
35 Reducing the ecological footprintValue
through InnovatIon
Innovation is at the same time a fundamental requirement and a driving force for
Boehringer Ingelheim as a research-driven pharmaceutical company. Around the
world, some 47,500 employees work day by day to develop novel and efficacious
medicines for people and animals. In the field of human pharmaceuticals,
Boehringer Ingelheim’s portfolio contains, for example, compounds for the treatment
of respiratory diseases, cardiovascular diseases, diseases of the central ner vous
system, as well as metabolic and infectious diseases and cancers. With net sales of
14.8 billion euros in 2015, Boehringer Ingelheim is one of the world’s 20 leading
pharmaceutical companies. Founded in 1885, the company remains family-owned
to this day. Social responsibility is an important element of the corporate culture
at Boehringer Ingelheim. This includes worldwide involvement in social projects
through, for example, the initiative “Making more Health” while also caring for
employees. Respect, equal opportunity and reconc iling career and family form the
foundation of mutual cooperation. The company also focuses on environmental protec-
tion and sustainability in everything it does.
–– 03 ––EnquirEd Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
w h a t i n n o v a t i o n
m e a n s t o u s
Innovation is the most important motivating force for
Boehringer Ingelheim as a research-driven pharmaceutical
company. We asked the Chairman of the Shareholders’
Committee and the Board of Managing Directors:
“What does innovation mean to you personally?”
»
innovation is easiest
to grasp in successful
research into new
m edicines.
«
christian boehringer
Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee
: Innovation at Boehringer Ingelheim is easiest to grasp in successful research into new
medicines. It began with the establishment of a scientific department in 1917. Given
the environment at the time, shortly after World War I, the launch of the respiratory
medication Lobelin in 1921 is all the more remarkable. Appreciating that a family-owned
company can best grow organically – that is, independently – through its own successful
research and development, is today firmly anchored in our shareholder and cor porate
understanding. Innovations such as the swine vaccine ingelvac circoflex® and pradaxa®
for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation, or the latest data from the empA-reG outcome®
study in high-risk patients with type 2 diabetes are examples of this commitment.
–– 04 ––EnquirEd Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
»
doing things better,
simpler or differently
»
with less resources.
›value through innovation‹
«
applies to every function in
our organisation.
professor andreas barner
«
Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors
dr wolfgang baiker
: Innovation for us at Boehringer Ingelheim is doing Member of the Board of Managing Directors with
responsibility for Biopharmaceuticals and Operations
things better, simpler or differently with less resources.
Better can mean new therapeutic options, but better or
simpler can also be a more intelligent computer pro-
gramme that shortens routine tasks, or doing some- : Innovation must be a benefit to key stakeholders, whether
thing completely different which may add value in they are internal or external to Boehringer Ingelheim, so it is
understanding complex science questions. Innovation not simply about doing things differently or inventing some-
in an early stage can sometimes easily be prevented by thing new. there has to be value behind it. the most obvious
seeing somebody frown. And a strict selection process innovation for a pharmaceutical company like ours is of
for ideas does not lead to better ideas but only to more course a new treatment paradigm, such as the treatment of
careful ones. We strive to foster a climate in which idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IpF) patients with ofev®, but it
innovation can flourish. can also be doing something more intelligently or efficiently,
which will benefit the environment through, for example,
emitting less carbondioxide. our concept of “Value through
Innovation” applies to every function in our organisation. We
can all contribute our share through innovation.
–– 05 ––EnquirEd Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
»
making change
your friend and
not your enemy.
«
dr joachim hasenmaier
Member of the Board of Managing Directors
with responsibility for Animal Health and
Consumer Health Care (CHC)
»
remaining young
: our company and the world around us are in con-
in mind while building
stant change. our commitment to “Value through
on experience. Innovation” for me means making this change your
friend and not your enemy. “Value through Inno-
«
vation” for me goes way beyond product innovation.
It is innovation in everything we do: culture,
hubertus von baumbach
strategy, products and portfolios, processes, even
Member of the Board of Managing Directors behaviour, attitude and personal development.
with responsibility for Finance
: Innovation in our products to me means “added
value for our customers.” this implies that we have
to define innovation through their eyes. At the
same time, innovation in the way we do things
means, to me, competitiveness in a rapidly
changing environment through constant improve-
ment. Innovation is essentially about remaining
young in mind while building on experience.
–– 06 ––EnquirEd Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
»
positively
impact the health
of the world.
«
allan hillgrove
Member of the Board of Managing Directors
with responsibility for Pharma Marketing
and Sales
: Innovation to me is a breakthrough which adds
significant value and comes in many forms. It
could, for example, be a product, a technology, or »
a way of operating. We have many examples of
brilliant diverse
innovation at Boehringer Ingelheim. A recent one
minds working together
is the benefit of our diabetes compound empagli-
flozin, proven in a trial where cardiovascular towards the same goal.
death was reduced by 38 per cent. the clearest
«
external benefit is shown when an innovation
brings health benefits to society, e.g. when our
dr andreas neumann
product can prevent death or reduces the time
patients have to spend in hospital. It is gratifying Member of the Board of Managing Directors
for our company when we can positively impact with responsibility for Human Resources
the health of the world.
: Innovation is for me the key driver of company success today
and will be tomorrow. It is directly linked with brilliant, diverse
minds working together towards the same goal. From the
people’s perspective, I truly believe that diversity and inclusion
unlock innovation and drive market growth. We want to lever-
age the global power of Boehringer Ingelheim’s diversity
to foster an environment in which outside-the-box thinking is
encouraged, with employees proposing novel ideas and leaders
giving diverse voices airtime and space. only then will
we unleash our full innov ative potential as a research-driven
pharmaceutical company.
–– 07 ––innovation Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
B r e a k t h r o u g h i n
d i aBe t e s r e s e a r c h
For Boehringer Ingelheim, innovation primarily means being able to help
people with new effective medicines. For example in the EMPA-REG OUTCOME®
trial for patients with type 2 diabetes, it has been shown that a compound
discovered and developed by Boehringer Ingelheim may prevent death from
c ardiovascular complications.
A diagnosis of type 2 diabetes comes as a shock for most the large amount of advice. You have to control the blood sugar.
patients. Many had not been aware of how serious the condi- You need to quit smoking. You need to start exercising. Doing all
tion really is. Frequently, it is the doctor who first tells the of these at once is too much for most people. It is helpful to take
patient that diabetes can lead to death. In fact, around the one step at a time. Start by changing your diet, then give up
world, someone dies of diabetes every seven seconds. The smoking and, only when all that is done, begin with exercise.
life expectancy of some people with diabetes is reduced by up However, adjusting to a healthier lifestyle is not sufficient
to twelve years. Cardiovascular disease is behind this for for many people with diabetes – they have to begin treatment
more than half of people with diabetes. with medicines. In addition to lowering blood sugar, the real
Healthy living habits are the best way to prevent heart dis- goals are preventing long-term complications, especially cardio-
ease and stroke. However, many patients are overwhelmed by vascular, and increasing life expectancy.
–– 08 ––innovation Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
A recent ray of hope for people with diabetes at high risk
7,895
for cardiovascular disease was the EMPA-REG OUTCOME®
trial. This major international study with over 7,000 patients
has shown that a medication to treat type 2 diabetes can pre-
vent death in every third patient at high risk of cardiovascular
events. The medication also resulted in a 32 per cent reduced
PeOPle
risk of all-cause mortality and a 35 per cent reduced risk of
hospitalisation for heart failure. These results were achieved work at Boehringer Ingelheim in the research
on top of standard of care.* and development of innovative medicines
(2015)
In mid-September 2015, Boehringer Ingelheim and
Eli Lilly and Company presented the results of the EMPA-REG
3
OUTCOME® study at the 51st European Association for the
Study of Diabetes Annual Meeting in Stockholm. “The experts
reacted with spontaneous applause,” recalls Professor
Hans-Jürgen Wörle, Global Vice President Medicine at
Boehringer Ingelheim. “Never before in a study has a medica-
BIllIOn euROS
tion for the treatment of diabetes lowered the death rate from
cardiovascular events.”
To see a video of a patient with type 2 diabetes talking about
her own experience, visit: http://bit.ly/1Y29A62
Research and development
* Zinman, B., et al. “Empagliflozin, Cardiovascular Outcomes, and expenditure (2015)
Mortality in Type 2 Diabetes” N Engl J Med. 10.1056 (2015)
103
innovation in many therapeutic areas
Boehringer ingelheim was successful with breakthroughs in more
than just diabetes research in 2015. the pharmaceutical company
also successfully developed innovative medications for patients in
StuDIeS
other therapeutic areas:
Respiratory diseases I: A new therapeutic option for patients who
suffer from the rare and devastating disease of idiopathic pulmo­
nary fibrosis (IPF).
Respiratory diseases II: For the maintenance treatment in
currently in progress at Boehringer Ingelheim
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) we introduced
(status: December 2015)
a new maintenance product to relieve symptoms in adult
patients.
85,778
Cardiology: A specific reversal agent can rapidly reverse the
effect of the oral anticoagulant dabigatran in emergency situa­
tions, such as when an important surgery is required.
Oncology: For the treatment of advanced non­small cell lung
cancer, a Boehringer Ingelheim compound can inhibit the
PAtIentS
growth of new blood vessels by withholding nutrients the tumour
requires to grow and expand. which the studies that are currently in progress
will overall recruit (status: December 2015)
–– 09 ––I n n o v a tIo n n e e d s
in
spir
aT ion
–– 10 ––INSPIRATION Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
se e i n g T h r o u g h
d i f f e r e nT e y e s
Getting to know other people and cultures enriches our work
with new perspectives. Boehringer Ingelheim is convinced that a broad
horizon and the freedom to think bring out the best ideas.
Bright red chillies gleam in the afternoon sun. At the market in glance, there is no sign here of poverty, hardship or disease.
Tamil Nadu, southern India, the heat is oppressive and the Instead there is an abundance of freshly picked fruit and vege-
air dusty. The traders’ improvised wooden tables and barrows tables at prices equivalent to a few euro cents – a real bargain
sag under the weight of heavily laden baskets full of corn, for the 15 European employees of Boehringer Ingelheim who
herbs and spices. The brightness of the fruit and vegetables wander through the south Indian market in April 2015. It’s a
competes with the colourful saris of the customers carefully far cry from the supermarket prices they are used to paying
checking each item to see if it is fresh enough and the quality back home.
is right. Then the lively bartering over the price begins. At first
–– 11 ––INSPIRATION Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
»
for us it’s about more than
leadership training – it’s about instilling a
set of values for the future and the culture
within our company. we want to promote
innovative thinking in order to improve access
to healthcare where people today only
access it with difficulty.
«
Manuela Pastore
mANAgER Of ThE BOEhRINgER INgElhEIm
INITIATIvE mAkINg mORE hEAl Th
In November 2015, the second
group of Boehringer Ingelheim
managers were taking part in the
Insights Week in India.
–– 12 ––INSPIRATION Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
frank kornely
Team leader of
Cardiovascular Marketing
Boehringer Ingelheim
Germany
I initially hoped that the Insights trip
would help me learn more about how busi-
ness works in this region and what makes
the country and its people tick. But much
more happened. This journey was truly an
But they are not viewing the market today from the per- exposure trip, as it really exposed us to new
spective of Western tourists but as people earning the average things and new experiences. Unlike tradi-
Indian wage. They each have 30 Indian rupees (around 40 euro tional seminars or coachings, we didn’t just
cents) at their disposal. This is the amount that people living learn loads of facts about a market or par-
in the region can spend on food every day. “Anyone at the ticular methods of solving problems. We
market with this amount of money quickly realises that it is learned to take a closer look at things and
next to impossible to buy enough, good food,” says manuela to question the way we think and work.
Pastore, manager of the Boehringer Ingelheim initiative In our day-to-day work, we take
making more health (mmh). She set up and organised the standards for granted. We have the business
leadership programme trip to southern India for 15 colleagues. world with its rules and our private lives,
Those taking part in the trip spend a week familiarising which we might conduct with completely
themselves with the day-to-day life of the locals and getting a different standards. Today, I take a more
picture of local mmh initiative projects through which open and flexible approach to working out
Boehringer Ingelheim promotes innovative projects to support the standards that will actually take us for-
healthcare. ward, whether it’s budgeting or managing
» my team. In my experience – and this goes
for both the Making More Health projects as
after the week in india,
well as our daily life at work – everyone
the participants’ heads are wants to make a personal contribution and
make a difference, using their very individ-
full of images, impressions
ual skills and abilities. Standardised solutions
and ideas. that apply across the board simply put the
brakes on the motivation we all contribute.
«
–– 13 ––INSPIRATION Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
»
sabine nikolaus
the change
Head of Prescription
Medicine Countries of perspective is
Regional Centre Vienna
Boehringer Ingelheim very inspiring.
Austria
«
The Making More Health projects in
India have really impressed me. The social
entrepreneurs who put these projects
together achieve so much with simple
means. What fascinates me about their
approach is how they talk to people, exam-
ine their situation very closely, and want to
understand what they really need. It is only
then that they develop a solution with them
– a solution that will bring about an
improvement from these people’s perspec-
tive, not one that we consider an improve-
ment from our western viewpoint. I am
convinced that many important innovations
and trends in the field of healthcare will
emerge in this social area. I travel a lot in
my day-to-day work, experience many
different countries and cultures and work
together with the most diverse range of
company departments. This week in India
has once again focused my attention on
the complexity and diversity of different
countries, markets and environments. There
are many ways to improve people’s health
in their particular environment. I regard this
experience as so important that I have per-
suaded three country managers from my
team to also take part in the Insights Week.
As part of the Insights Week,
participants have the opportunity to
talk to people in hospitals and
primary healthcare clinics.
–– 14 ––INSPIRATION Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
krystian fikert
MMH Fellow
Founder and CEO of
MyMind – Centre for
Mental Wellbeing
Ireland
As an MMH Fellow, I took part in the
Insights trip to find out more about health-
care projects in India and to exchange ideas
with the Fellows based there. The high sui-
cide rate in India and the psychological
problems arising from the deep-rooted
caste system shocked me. There was so
much work to be done. Making More Health
supports centres for mental health in India,
strengthens the self-confidence of people
and local communities and does invaluable
work to create better mental health in the
homeless community.
They visit the new nursery set up in a rural region using My social enterprise, MyMind, pur-
mmh funds and see that it has become an important point of sues a similar approach in Ireland to put
contact for locals on healthcare issues. They speak to people mental health within everyone’s reach and
in hospitals and basic healthcare clinics and find out how make care and support accessible and
well-trained the medical staff is. They observe how a lack of affordable to all who need it. The Insights
resources often gives rise to creative, pragmatic solutions – week gave me lots of ideas as to how we
and the dynamic that ideas by social entrepreneurs can can use our model to also help people in
develop. They also experience, however, how bureaucratic and developing countries such as India, or how
cultural obstacles, as well as a lack of knowledge, prevent we can develop ideas together from which
people from seeking medical care, and how simple problems everyone benefits. In India, I saw first-hand
by European standards are often much more complex in prac- the high levels of poverty and mental health
tice than they seem at first. problems that plague the community, and I
“After a week in India, the participants’ heads are full of thought about how MyMind could provide
images, impressions and ideas,” says manuela Pastore. “This early intervention services to deal with high
inspiration will stay with them for a long time, accompanying level of suicide among students and young
people living there. I realised that there is so
much to be done in developing countries.
–– 15 ––INSPIRATION Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
patrick buckley
Head of Sales and
Executive Manager
of Ireland
Boehringer Ingelheim
UK
I was expecting to arrive in a poverty -
stricken country. But I quickly had to ques-
tion this view. The people we met showed
Participants in the second
that their happiness was less dependent on
Insights Week say hello to children
in a children’s home. material things than mine. My definition of
poverty was not the same as theirs. I also
learned to question the way in which I solve
problems. We ascertained, for example, that
it would be relatively straightforward to
improve the health of a lot of children there
by implementing a few simple hygiene rules.
My first thought was to teach the par-
ents these rules – a simple solution at first
them through their day-to-day work. It also often leads them to question glance. But would it really change people’s
processes and routines within their team that they had previously taken routines and cultural attitudes over the long
as given.” In their daily professional lives, the participants on the term? An MMH-supported Ashoka Fellow
“Insights India” trip are successful, hard-working managers, heading came up with an idea that is much more
regional teams of experts in the medical field, developing marketing effective: children make their own soap as
campaigns and managing sales in key European markets. At first glance, part of a school project and then give it to
their day-to-day work does not have much in common with the daily lives their parents as a present. As anyone with
of people in India and the mmh projects. But it is precisely this change of children knows, parents are very proud of
perspective and the break from entrenched daily routines, values and such gifts and want to give their children the
thought patterns that is so inspiring. “Even weeks or months after the pleasure of seeing them make use of them.
trip, participants are still getting in touch with us because they’ve just These experiences have broadened my
come up with an idea for the making more health programme, because horizons and reminded me how important
they want to recommend young leaders to take part in the next Insights it is to keep an open mind to approaches that
week in India, or because they have successfully tried out innovative go beyond the usual solutions and attitudes.
approaches in their own teams and in their daily work.”
–– 16 ––INSPIRATION Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
he l p i n g e a c h
oTh e r
Deeply-embedded in Boehringer Ingelheim’s
corporate culture is helping other people.
lEARNINg fROm EAch OThER
Appreciating differences in culture and language is particularly
important for Boehringer Ingelheim as an international company. There
are people from some 60 nations working at corporate headquarters in
Ingelheim, germany. This is why the great sympathy within the company
for the everyday lives of the large number of refugees in germany comes
as no surprise. “Empathy and respect are fundamental pillars of the cor-
porate culture at Boehringer Ingelheim,” says Stefan Rinn, country man-
ager germany. “That’s also the attitude we take towards people who
come to us as refugees: treat each other with empathy and respect and
learn from each other.” At the Boehringer Ingelheim event “cooking with
friends”, for instance, refugee families, migrants and sponsors from the
company prepare food together and get to know each other – some of
the contacts even evolving into friendships. At company workshops at
the State Institution for Asylum Seekers and Deportees in Ingelheim,
for example, the refugees not only learn something about germany,
but are also given the opportunity to say what they find really strange
about the country – just learning from each other, about each other and
with each other.
–– 17 ––INSPIRATION Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Volunteering for patients
“We’re seeking doctors, nurses and nurse practitioners!”
Employees at Boehringer Ingelheim’s Ridgefield site in the
USA have responded to this appeal to donate their time and
skills to serve patients without health insurance. As a registered
nurse, Tricia keller now volunteers at the Boehringer Ingelheim
Americares free clinic in neighbouring Danbury. more than
1,200 uninsured patients per year receive medical help there.
Over the past 13 years, Boehringer Ingelheim cares
foundation has donated over $2.4 million US dollars to improve
the clinic and enable it to help more patients. Support from
Boehringer Ingelheim goes far beyond financial commitment.
Employees also volunteer as Spanish and Portuguese interpret-
ers to help patients speak with their providers. “my volunteer-
ing gives me an opportunity to help patients and see life from
a different perspective,” says Tricia. “It truly enriches my life.”
Happy feet
getting out in the fresh air is one of the best sources of
inspiration for many people. To bring more movement into the
employees’ lives, Boehringer Ingelheim has set up the “happy
feet” campaign in china. for three months, employees were
encouraged to make part of their journey to work on foot.
To start the campaign the company organised a “Walking
challenge” on 5 may 2015. That day, 1,119 Boehringer Ingelheim
employees clocked up some 5,700 kilometers, corresponding
to the width of china from west to east. Boehringer Ingelheim
converted the distance into money and was thus able to
donate around 30,000 yuan (about 4,000 euros) to a children’s
hospital in Shanghai.
–– 18 ––INSPIRATION Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
» M a n a g eMe nT n e e d To
Boehringer ingelheiM:
MaKing More healTh i n s p i r e Th e i r Te aMs «
Through the Making More Health (MMH)
shawn liu
initiative, employees at Boehringer Ingelheim have for
Global HR Strategy and Trans-
five years been supporting and inspiring innovations for
formation Lead (former Global
improving healthcare throughout the world.
Head of Leadership Develop-
ment)
CoMMITMenT
over
you were one of the first participants new experiences in order to help them
in the Making More health “insights keep an open mind to the require-
3,700 india” week. how did the trip inspire ments of an increasingly complex and
you personally? fast- moving global economy. The In-
I was inspired first and foremost by sights programme makes an important
the many impressive people we were contribution to this: our management
Boehringer Ingelheim employees
fortunate to meet – people who run operates in an environment that is com-
involved in MMH initiatives
nGos, hospital managers and self-help pletely new to them. They learn how
group managers. all of them manage nGos and social entrepreneurs lead their
InspIraTIon
very difficult, demanding projects with teams with passion and motivation
all modesty and passion in order to im- and often under conditions of great
prove people’s quality of life. To see uncertainty, partly under enormous
More THan
these projects succeed, they quite natu- pressure and with very limited resources.
700 rally employ all the means available to
them. These people show what leader- Why is this experience important for
ship can accomplish if we are all guided management?
by shared values and pursue a clear our success in the future will de-
healthcare innovations
goal. We can learn a lot from players in pend on our management staff being in
the social sector, and from their ideas a position to deal innovatively with per-
supporT and parTnersHIps
and leadership style. manent change, as well as completely
new environments and a diverse range
3 Why is the Making More health in- of players. They have to recognise and
sights programme becoming a fixed promote good ideas – no matter who
part of the global leadership develop- they come from. Innovation occurs
ment programme at Boehringer ingel- when motivated people give their all.
heim as of 2016? Management must inspire their teams
“exposure” is an important compo- and allow themselves to be inspired by
nent of our management development. new experiences and impressions time
global ideas competitions our management should always face and again.
–– 19 ––I n n o v a tIo n n e e d s
part
ner
ship
–– 20 ––partn ers hIp Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
in n o v a t i n g
t o g e t h e r
Paola Casarosa started working in Boehringer Ingelheim’s
laboratories in 2007. Today, she is looking for external partners
in the field of prescription medicines. This involves casting
a very wide net all over the world — and knowing how important
partnerships with biotech startups are in developing
innovations.
–– 21 ––partn ers hIp Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
»
by paving the way for external
partnerships, we are helping to
ensure that our pipeline is
always well-stocked with new
medicines.
«
Boston is one
of the world’s
biotech hotspots.
When Dr paola Casarosa talks about her meetings tant to be present in person and to meet the right
with start-ups and academic institutions in Boston, people,” she says. “Our strategy in prescription
she quickly becomes passionate. “the biotech Medicines has a substantial external component.”
scene is one-of-a-kind. Whenever I’m over there, Dr Casarosa comes from turin, Italy where
I’m fascinated by how rapidly the biomedical sci- she graduated in medical chemistry. she then com-
ence is evolving, with new biotechs, ventures and pleted her doctorate in molecular pharmacology
investors every time. and even more people are in the netherlands. after holding several posts with
excited by the entrepreneurial atmosphere which other pharmaceutical companies, she moved
one breathes over there,” she says. to Boehringer Ingelheim in 2007, initially working
she is the Corporate Vice president for Busi- in research before joining the business develop-
ness Development and Licensing/prescription ment team in 2010. For the last three years, she has
Medicines at Boehringer Ingelheim. she visits the been working on developing therapeutic alliances
city on the Us east Coast several times a year to and strategic partnerships. “By paving the way for
strengthen Boehringer Ingelheim’s visibility as part- external partnerships, we are helping to ensure that
ner of choice and get to know potential new part- our pipeline is always well-stocked with new
ners. One of her 20 colleagues is also a permanent medicines.”
fixture there with an office in Boston. “It’s impor-
–– 22 ––partn ers hIp Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
she is thus working at a key interface within the com- thomson reuters for the first time named Boehringer Ingelheim
pany: Boehringer Ingelheim has consistently built up partner- as one of the 100 most innovative companies from all industries.
ships with biotechs in recent years. today, around 50 per cent “Our search for partnerships is driven by our ambition to fill
of programmes in the early and middle stages of Boehringer therapeutic gaps” says Dr Casarosa. “Our work is characterised
Ingelheim’s pipeline have an external innovation component, by a scientific and medical rationale, and this is paying off.”
be it from biotech or academia. Boehringer Ingelheim wants to
invest even more into partnerships. Over the next five years,
the company is set to spend 1.5 billion euros on cooperations
with external partners.
»
successful partnerships
partnerships in the early stages
Boehringer ingelheim works successfully with external partners to
of research are a very effective integrate as many innovative ideas as possible into research and
development projects. here are just a few examples:
way of creating the greatest
benefit for both sides.
In oncology, Boehringer Ingelheim has concluded an exclusive
licensing agreement with the Korean company Hanmi Pharma-
«
ceutical. The partners want to work together to develop a targeted
Dr Casarosa regularly visits biotechnology hotspots: therapy for patients with lung cancer who display a particular
besides Boston, also san Francisco and tokyo. she and her type of mutation. In the field of cancer immunotherapy,
team have held partnering days in these cities over the past Boehringer Ingelheim is working with the Tübingen-based com-
three years in order to facilitate a dialogue with promising pany CureVac to develop a therapeutic tumour vaccine.
institutions and start-ups. these invitation-only events offer a
more personal way to engage with innovators. the focus is In the early clinical arena, Boehringer Ingelheim recently
on one-on-one interactions and roundtable discussions, seeking exercised its option and acquired an investigational drug
open feedback from established and future partners on from Pharmaxis Ltd. to treat a progressive liver condition
Boehringer Ingelheim’s partnering approach and specific needs. (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, NASH).
“partnerships in the early stages of research are a very effec-
tive way of creating the greatest benefit for both sides,” Together with the Californian company Circuit Therapeutics,
underlines Dr Casarosa. “It helps us create the right working Boehringer Ingelheim works with optogenetic methods to identify
relationship and best position the compound or platform new therapy approaches for psychiatric and cardiometabolic
by jointly shaping its development.” diseases.
as a research-driven pharmaceutical company,
Boehringer Ingelheim draws on a global network. “that’s
important for our partners because we have the capabilities
to transform research findings into successful new medicines
which can help patients in need,” says Dr Casarosa.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s track record in product approvals
with regulatory agencies speaks for itself as the company
gained new approvals for a total of eleven new drug treat-
ments from either the Us Food and Drug administration (FDa)
or the european Medicines agency (eMa) in 2014 and 2015. It
is with good reason that in 2015, Boehringer Ingelheim ranked
among the top ten most innovative companies which IDea
pharma nominates once a year. In addition, the news agency
–– 23 ––partn ers hIp Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
ve n t u r e c a p i t a l
f o r i n n o v a t i v e
i d e a s
Boehringer Ingelheim’s Venture Fund, equipped with
100 million euros, has invested in a portfolio of 16 different biotech
start-ups with promising therapeutic ideas — and, according to
Dr Frank Kalkbrenner, head of the Venture Fund, Boehringer Ingelheim
is expressly looking for additional partnerships.
–– 24 ––partn ers hIp Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
BoeHRINGeR INGeLHeIm VeNTURe FUND
facts and figures
INITIAL CAPITAL
dr Kalkbrenner, what kind of companies are you investing in? 100
We’re always looking for young companies doing research in
so-called scientific platforms – that is to say, novel therapeutic concepts,
new disease mechanisms or therapeutic modalities with the potential of
application in different indication areas. a good example are vaccines.
naturally, they should primarily prevent infections – act prophylactically.
million euros
But vaccines can also be employed therapeutically, against tumours in
particular, as they stimulate the immune system to attack tumour cells.
the new scientific platforms we’re looking for can also be outside
Holdings in start-ups at a very
the therapeutic areas that we at Boehringer Ingelheim are typically focus-
early stage (e.g. for financing
ing on. For example, companies in which we are shareholders are currently from research and development
working on topics like tissue regeneration for the treatment of hearing loss, to clinical proof of concept for a
new therapeutic principle)
or on new therapeutic modalities such as gene therapy for the treatment
of ophthalmologic diseases.
What does Boehringer Ingelheim get out of it? Further investment possible,
depending on the start-up’s
through our holdings, we have our ear to the ground on the latest
development
developments in the biotech industry. We would otherwise only have
access to the knowledge and know-how within the framework of our
therapeutic areas, but not beyond. the founders of the biotech compa-
ToTAL INVeSTmeNT
nies also benefit from our participation beyond the financing aspects –
a true win-win partnership. as a member of their supervisory board, we
actively contribute to the development of the companies. Building on our
experience in drug discovery and development, we can help them shape
their strategies and assist them in decision making. In addition, using of up to
10
our network, we support them in searching new partners or additional
investors when needed.
are long-term partnerships possible with Boehringer Ingelheim?
each investment in this highly innovative but also risky area is like
a little smart bet. not every project leads to success. But in the near million euros per company
future we assume that one or more of the Boehringer Ingelheim partner-
ships will come from the Venture Fund portfolio. the optimal outcome of
venture capital
our equity investment is when I go over to my colleague from Business
=
Development & Licensing, paola Casarosa to tell her, “Look, our portfolio
investments in very young, mainly
company has made an exciting invention, you need to speak with them
technology-oriented companies with a
and explore the potential of a collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim’s promising, but simultaneously
research and development.” uncertain, future.
–– 25 ––partn ers hIp Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
d i s c o v e r i n g n e w
t h i n g s to g e t h e r
Crowdsourcing, cooperations with public institutions and
universities — Boehringer Ingelheim’s research and development focuses
on a variety of external partnerships.
new approaches to exploring
external innovation
Crowdsourcing initiatives with academics bring together the best
scientists and ground-breaking new approaches in an attempt to solve
complex medical questions. For example, Boehringer Ingelheim initi-
ated a crowdsourcing project in 2015, uniting an interdisciplinary team
Boehringer ingelheim expands Bilat -
of experts from around the world to research new, disease-modifying
eral partnerships with universities
approaches in the treatment of chronic-obstructive pulmonary disease
(CoPD). Globally, 210 million people are currently affected by CoPD
and this figure is rising. By 2030, forecasts predict that the disease will Bilateral partnerships with universities are a major pillar of
be the world’s third-biggest cause of death. Boehringer Ingelheim is Boehringer Ingelheim’s approach in researching new therapy options,
financing the research project for up to four years. The researchers are i.e. new disease mechanisms and new therapeutic modalities or tech-
working at the Biomed X Innovation Center on the campus of the nologies. one new cooperation, for example, is with the University of
University of Heidelberg, Germany. Biomed X takes scientific requests Texas mD Anderson Cancer Center to develop new medicines for the
from pharma companies, collects research proposals via internet from treatment of pancreatic cancer. It accounts for four per cent of cancer
applicants, selects the best proposals and builds a team of researchers deaths worldwide. effective medicines are therefore urgently needed.
at their Heidelberg facility, working closely with pharma scientists and In addition, the company has concluded four new partnerships
university groups. with renowned institutes. Together with the Icahn School of medicine
at mount Sinai, massachusetts General Hospital, the Scripps Research
Institute and Weill Cornell medicine, Boehringer Ingelheim will explore
companies and puBlic institutions
the “microbiome”, e.g. the gut microflora to discover new approaches
research together for success
for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) such as Crohn’s
disease and ulcerative colitis. These collaborations aim to identify new
Within medical research, public-private partnerships bring the biomarkers to guide clinical studies, as well as new therapeutic targets
best academic and private researchers together around the same table. to be jointly validated, which offer the potential for innovative medicines
In basic research and in pre-competitive space, such partnerships to address the significant unmet medical need of IBD patients.
increasingly result in major progress that is advantageous to all
involved. Some examples of open partnerships between companies
and scientific institutions include the Structural Genomics Consortium
(SGC), the Innovative medicines Initiative (ImI) and the G-protein
Coupled Receptor (GPCR) Consortium, where Boehringer Ingelheim plays
an active role together with other research-driven pharmaceutical
companies, universities and scientific institutions.
–– 26 ––partn ers hIp Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Boehringer ingelheim’s commitment
to research & development
11
5 1.5
BILLIoN eURoS BILLIoN eURoS BILLIoN eURoS
of this will be assigned is the amount of this will be
to pre-clinical research Boehringer Ingelheim will be investing in invested in partnerships with
and development R&D (including medicine) by the year external partners
2020
50
%
oF INNoVATIoNS IN THe eARLy
AND mIDDLe ReSeARCH PHASeS
come from external partnerships
–– 27 ––I n n o v a tIo n nE E D S
sus
ta in
abi l i t y
–– 28 ––im p r o v i n g
s u s t a i n a b l y
brazil
solana Farm
At Boehringer Ingelheim, taking responsibility
for nature and the climate goes without saying.
At the same time, this generates greater
efficiency and innovative products.
–– 29 ––SuS TAIN ABIlITy Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Adrian von Treuenfels is head of the
Solana Farm in Brazil where Boehringer Ingelheim
cultivates medicinal plants.
A little paradise starts right next to the fields. 193,000 plants to date. 20 years after the reforesta-
Dozens of birds fly over the dense treetops, blue tion of the initial areas, there are now 176 hectares
butterflies flutter about, while a coati trots off. covered with young forest. “Every year, the refor-
Trees, bushes and shrubs grow together rampantly. ested area binds over ten tonnes of CO ,” explains
2
Native forest surrounds the cropland of Solana von Treuenfels.
Farm in southern Brazil – although much of it was While planting trees may not be one of a phar-
planted by human hand. maceutical company’s main areas of business,
600 kilometres west of São Paolo, Boehringer sustainability has always been an important topic for
Ingelheim is cultivating a medicinal plant that can the staff of Boehringer Ingelheim. And everyone –
be used to make the antispasmodic precursor for society and the company alike – benefits to some
the medicines buscopan® and spiriva®. Erosion extent. On Solana Farm, for instance, medicinal
makes farming difficult there. “As a result, we plants are planted along contour lines, which provides
decided in the mid-1990s to reforest the steep additional protection from erosion. Any pesticides
slopes going down to the water,” says the head of used are subject to the strictest criteria. This
the farm, Adrian von Treuenfels. 70 employees col- protects the environment and makes the land more
lected seeds and seedlings from native forests, nur- fertile over the long term as the ecosystem remains
tured them to saplings and planted them out – over largely intact.
–– 30 ––SuS TAIN ABIlITy Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Native forest surrounds the
farmland of Solana Farm and provides
habitat for numerous animals, such
as coatis and butterflies.
In the mid-1990s,
Boehringer Ingelheim decided
to partly reforest the area of
Solana Farm.
“Today, it is a matter of course that we always ask ourselves: what
impact will my actions have, how can we be more sustainable?”, says
Dr Andreas Gäbler, who is responsible for the Boehringer Ingelheim
“BE GREEN” initiative. Its aim by 2020 is to enable the company to
reduce its emissions of CO equivalents by 20 per cent for each euro of
2
revenues earned, as compared to 2010. To do this, Boehringer Ingelheim
is making whatever savings it can in terms of energy and resources –
and not least through its innovations as well as more efficient, environ-
mentally friendly products and processes.
– 31 –SuS TAIN ABIlITy Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Boehringer Ingelheim takes
totally new paths with respimat®.
Pictures: assembly in Dortmund,
Germany.
Manufacturing the respimat® inhaler at the Dortmund the medicine in powder form instead of as a liquid. Boehringer
facility in Germany is a case in point. In many ways, it has much Ingelheim pursues this course with its handihaler® as did
in common with the distant Solana Farm in Brazil. For one other pharmaceutical companies that also switched to powder
thing, the respimat® is a device that enables people with chronic inhalers. The devices are not ideal for everyone, however,
lung disease to inhale the medicine spiriva® in such a fine because the patient has to be able to inhale deeply so that the
mist that the medicine enters even the small airways. And it is fine powder can enter the lungs.
spiriva® whose active substance comes from the medicinal “At the time, we therefore decided to take a completely
plants on Solana Farm. new path,” explains Dr Joachim Eicher. He is a senior expert in
But above all, the respimat® and the Brazilian farm share the respimat® manufacturing department and co-developed
similarities in terms of innovations protecting the climate. the inhaler’s nozzle for Boehringer Ingelheim 20 years ago.
In the 1990s, after the Montreal Protocol came into force, The respimat®, which came onto the market in 2004, features
Boehringer Ingelheim management decided to drastically a spring that forces the liquid medicine through tiny little
reduce chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) emissions as a result of the nozzles under mechanical pressure. This technique creates a
damage they were doing to the ozone layer. This meant that a mist of around 230 million micrometre-size droplets. It is a
better solution had to be found for the standard pocket inhal- technical milestone that also benefits the global climate, as
ers of the day. Since the 1950s, they had contained environ- the propellant in standard devices constitutes up to 300 g CO
2
mentally harmful propellants that converted the liquid medi- equivalent per inhaler, each of which is often only used for a
cine stored in the cartridge into fine droplets. One of the best month. “We now save 100 per cent on these emissions,” says
alternatives available at the time was for the inhaler to deliver Dr Eicher with pride.
–– 32 ––SuS TAIN ABIlITy Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
mouthpiece
uniblocK
Dosing chamber
Dose release button
upper housing
spring
capillary tube
clear base
Injection moulding cartriDge
of respimat® plastic
components.
Boehringer Ingelheim is continually working office is heated using hot-water pipes in the
towards becoming more sustainable. Many small concrete ceilings.
projects that contribute to reducing greenhouse Progress is also being made with existing
gases are also of importance here — such as the buildings, as another example from the Ingelheim
construction of the “BI5” in Ingelheim, Boehringer site shows: in the pharmaceutical active substance
Ingelheim’s largest administration building world- building, Boehringer Ingelheim has switched the
wide. It was designed to use as little energy as pos- lighting system to energy-saving technology, the
sible. Heat exchangers recover heat from extracted cooling systems in the control rooms have been
air. In the summer, the ventilation system cools the turned up by a few degrees, and heat recovery has
space using the cool air that results when water been optimised. The result: the building’s energy con-
evaporates. In effect, it is an airconditioning system sumption decreased by around 5 per cent between
that does not use any additional electricity. The 2010 and 2012 alone.
In October 2015, the respimat®
production facility received
environmental certification to
ISO 14001 standards.
– 33 –SuS TAIN ABIlITy Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Dr Gäbler can now report that Boehringer Ingelheim has been able to decrease
its CO emissions at its biggest sites by 15.5 per cent – and that is in relation to
2
the energy consumption to floor space ratio, i.e. the total floor space of all storeys
of a building. “We’ve come a long way but we’re not there yet. We have to keep
getting better – on every level,” says Dr Gäbler.
The company has also been rewarded for its far-sightedness. A new law
came into force in Brazil a few years ago: within a short period of time,
20 per cent of the area owned by farms had to be forested. For von Treuenfels,
head of Solana Farm, the new regulation was not a problem. “Thanks to the
reforestation project, we had immediately fulfilled the quota.”
Boehringer Ingelheim
paid particular attention to
environmental aspects when
building “BI5”, its largest
administrative building
worldwide.
–– 34 ––reDucing the eco-
boehringer ingelheim
anD sustainability logical Footprint
A SOUnd BASIS
Boehringer Ingelheim wants to be even more sustainable.
For this reason, Professor Andreas Barner, Chairman of the
15.5 Board of Managing Directors, signed the “Responsible
Care® Global Charter” in July 2015. This concerns a com-
% mitment of the chemical industry to more sustainability in
everyday corporate life. Some examples of current initiatives:
WASTe
At its Ridgefield facility in the USA, Boehringer Ingelheim tries to
avoid waste wherever possible. Most of the remaining waste is used
to generate energy, while the rest is recycled wherever possible. The
proportion of recycled waste was increased from 12 per cent in 2010
to 30 per cent in 2014. As a result, no more dangerous pharmaceuti-
cal waste ends up as landfill. This also reduces the risk of polluting
the soil and groundwater.
A CleAn fleeT
eneRGy ConSuMPTIon
Airconditioning and heating systems at all Boehringer Ingelheim
facilities in China and Japan have now been set to fixed temperatures.
The airconditioning system at the Boehringer Ingelheim headquar-
ters in Japan only operates during office hours. Thanks to these
changes, energy consumption has been significantly lowered.
WASTeWATeR
At many of its facilities, Boehringer Ingelheim operates modern
water treatment plants that ensure complete compliance with legal
limits. One example is the Spanish Malgrat de Mar facility, where
wastewater is processed in three biological steps and filtered
through sand.
ReSouRCeS
In Germany in 2012, Boehringer Ingelheim introduced paper made
from 100 per cent recycled fibres that also carries the “Blue Angel”
sustainability certification.
8.251
mk/g
( as of: 2015)
Reduction in CO emissions relating to the energy 2
consumption to floor space ratio at key facilities
since 2010
The Boehringer Ingelheim vehicle fleet in Germany:
trend in CO emissions of Boehringer Ingelheim
2
company cars
6.821
mk/g
2010
2.221
mk/g
SuS TAIN ABIlITy Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Target by
2015 2020
29
electric vehicles
–– 35 ––I n n o v a tIo n nE E D S
in
d ep en
dence
–– 36 ––Z e b r a f i s h
n e w s
As a privately owned pharmaceutical company,
Boehringer Ingelheim has been focused on
research and development for over 130 years.
The company’s curiosity enables it to support basic
research that may only lead to new medicines
in the long term.
–– 37 ––InDe Pen DenCe Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
“Toddler” was discovered by chance. The minute its biggest sponsor and sole shareholder but does
signal peptide, named Toddler for its small size and not intervene in its projects and research fields.
seemingly unsteady movement, plays a major role Currently, some 200 scientists work there, studying
in the development of the zebrafish (Danio rerio) the basics of molecular biology. As an independent
embryo: if it’s missing, the heart does not develop institute, there is only one remit: to conduct basic
properly. The significance of the protein for the research at the highest possible level.
zebrafish remained undiscovered for decades. By And it pays off: over a period of 27 years, IMP
the mid-1990s, studies of the fish embryo seemed authors have published more than 1,900 scientific
quite complete. “Scientists thought they had articles and registered 93 patents. Five IMP
discovered everything there was to know,” says researchers have also received Austria’s highest
Dr Andrea Pauli, the scientist who discovered Toddler. endowed research prize, the Wittgenstein Award.
Dr Pauli has been a group leader at the Boehringer Ingelheim is currently expanding its
Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP) in commitment to IMP, investing around 50 million
Vienna, Austria, since September 2015. Boehringer euros in the construction of a new building fea-
Ingelheim supports the basic research institute as turing new, spacious laboratory areas.
How important Toddler is for the
zebrafish remained undiscovered
for decades.
–– 38 ––InDe Pen DenCe Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Dr Pauli’s innovative discovery
would not have been possible
without her independence as a
basic researcher.
Without her independence as a basic researcher, Dr Pauli’s innova-
tive discovery would not have been possible. “Because I had the freedom
to pursue a sidetrack, my studies eventually led me to Toddler.” The
researcher had in fact been trying to track down a completely different
mechanism. Perhaps Toddler will one day find its way from basic research
into the Boehringer Ingelheim biomedical laboratories – after all, the
Toddler peptide is a cellular component of many forms of life, including
humans. However, its actual function is still unknown. A very similar
peptide called apelin is currently enjoying significant attention from the
pharmaceutical research community. “It would be great if we were able to
discover something through basic research that could ultimately be used
in medicine and thereby help people,” IMP researcher Dr Pauli says.InDe Pen DenCe Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
»
T h e c o n c e pT
h a s p r o v e n iTs
w o rTh
«
–– 40 ––InDe Pen DenCe Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Dr Jan-Michael Peters has headed the Research Institute
of Molecular Pathology (IMP) in Vienna, Austria, since 2013.
In an interview, he explains how the pharmaceutical industry
benefits from independent basic research.
Dr Peters, your institute conducts basic research. Does inno- ogy and pharmaceutical research. The concept has proven
vation need this independence? Is it the only way for scien- its worth. I think it’s an admirably far-sighted strategy of
tists to come up with new ideas? Boehringer Ingelheim. It also works well because the company
Dr Jan-Michael Peters: Yes, I am convinced that this is is privately owned, which enables it to plan and act longer-
the case. It is only possible to break new ground if you want to term. Other pharmaceutical companies are also exploring new
understand things. My primary interest is not to cure diseases directions, but they don’t have an IMP inspiring them to try
– I want to understand how biological processes actually func- certain new ideas.
tion, such as cell division. If you choose this path, you can’t
know in advance where the journey will take you. In the ideal case, pharmaceutical research leads to a new
medicine or an innovative therapy. When was the last time
that sounds like unlimited intellectual freedom. that your institute’s research contributed to such a discovery?
exactly. And this freedom is extremely important Johannes Zuber, a physician and molecular biologist and
because without it, we would not be able to be the first to one of our group leaders, searches for new possibilities in tar-
make biological discoveries. It is also only in this way that we geted cancer therapy. His approach is to find cancer cells’
can attract the best curiousity-driven scientists. We would not weak points that can serve as possible targets for novel drugs.
have access to this kind of people if we were suspected of He was able to identify the gene BRD4, which could be
conducting contract research. considered the Achilles’ heel of acute myeloid leukaemia, a
particularly aggressive form of blood cancer. Today, only four
So you are allowed to research completely independently? years after his discovery, several BRD4 inhibitors are already in
The only expectation from Boehringer Ingelheim is basic clinical testing.
research at the highest international level.
and if you discover a link that could have practical applications?
Then we’re delighted about it. And we see it as our
responsibility as scientists to give something back to human-
kind. We then approach the research team at Boehringer
Ingelheim to tell them that we have discovered something that
might be of interest to them. By founding the IMP it was
intended to establish a stronger link between molecular biol-
–– 41 ––InDe Pen DenCe Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
space for free,
creaTive Thinking
“The readiness, in keeping with the family tradition, to give
preference to leaving acquired means in the company is of
fundamental significance for the future.” With this statement,
ernst Boehringer (1896-1965), the younger son of company
founder Albert Boehringer, confirmed his belief that the tire-
less safeguarding of economic independence had been and
would continue to be of decisive importance for the success of
the family-owned company. This entrepreneur and humanisti-
cally inclined world citizen saw this as an essential basis of
any innovative ambition — in pharmaceutical research as well
as in the humanities. Throughout his life, ernst Boehringer
demanded and promoted the safeguarding of this valuable
asset by establishing space for employees to pursue the free
and creative thinking which is indispensable to innovation. He
also constantly enabled the technical basis for the research
and development of medicines at the highest possible level.
» With good reason: he was well aware that one depended on
and actually made possible the other. For this, his conviction —
it’s important to
innovation thanks to independence, independence thanks to
anticipate things,
innovation —, ernst Boehringer worked and fought all his life.
otherwise it’s too late.
«
dr michael siebler
ernst boehringer Head of the Boehringer Ingelheim Company Archive
The courage To keep
Things independenT
A research-driven pharmaceutical company needs a lot of capi- founder of Boehringer Ingelheim, Albert Boehringer. While
tal. After all, not every active substance becomes a pharmaceu- attempting to discover citric acid, he stumbled across some-
tical medicine and lots of approaches turn out to be dead ends. thing else entirely: lactic acid. Boehringer made a courageous
But the Boehringer Ingelheim shareholder family does not see decision. He continued to research his supposed mistake and
this as a reason to only make short-term investments — on the built up a lactic acid industry. He constantly reinvested his
contrary: because they are independent of the ups and downs profits in research and thus paved the way for the company
of the capital market, the shareholders have greater staying Boehringer Ingelheim as we know it today.
power. A good example in the company history was the
–– 42 ––IMPRINT Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
,
i f y o u h ave a n y q u er i es o r c o mm e nt s
.
p le a s e d o n o t h es i tate t o c o nta ct u s
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
Binger Straße 173
55216 Ingelheim
Germany
Telephone + 49 6132 77-0
Fax + 49 6132 72-0
ContaCt
Corporate Division Communications
E-mail webmaster@boehringer-ingelheim.com
Internet www.boehringer-ingelheim.com
Issued by
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
ConCept, desIgn and layout
MPM Corporate Communication Solutions, Mainz
www.mpm.de
photos and IllustratIons
Rainer Mirau (p. 5), Marion Carniel (p. 6), Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (p. 6, 7),
Lennart Nilsson (p. 8), Getty Images (p. 11, 22), Simone Silbernagel, MPM (p. 13 – 16),
Fotolia (p. 17, 18), dieth + schröder fotografie (p. 21 – 23), Julio Vilela (p. 29 – 31, 34), Thinkstock,
iStockphoto (p. 31), Lukas Beck (p. 37 – 41)
prInted by
Neue Süddeutsche Verlagsdruckerei GmbH, Ulm
CopyrIght
© Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, 2016
All rights reserved. No part of this Annual Report 2015 may be reproduced or transmitted in any
form or by any means, electronic or photocopy, without permission in writing from Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH. Figures from third parties used in the annual report are based on data avail-
able at the time the financial statement was drawn up.www.boehringer-ingelheim.com
annualreport.boehringer-ingelheim.comB o e h r i n g e r i n g e l h e i m
2015
AnnuAl REPORT
Value through Innovationf i na n ci a l h ig h li g h ts s u mm a ry r ep o r t
Amounts in millions of eUr,
unless otherwise indicated 2015 2014 Change
net sales 14,798 13,317 11%
by region
Europe 28% 31%
Americas 47% 44%
Asia, Australia, Africa 25% 25%
by business
Prescription Medicines 76% 76%
Consumer Health Care 10% 11%
Animal Health 9% 8%
Biopharmaceuticals 4% 4%
Industrial Customers and other sales 1% 1%
Research and development 3,004 2,654 + 13%
Personnel costs 4,518 4,116 + 10%
Average number of employees 47,501 47,743 – 1%
Operating income 2,269 2,140 + 6%
Operating income as % of net sales 15.3% 16.1%
Income after taxes 1,577 1,047 + 51%
Income after taxes as % of net sales 10.7% 7.9%
Shareholders’ equity 9,603 8,111 + 18%
Return on shareholders’ equity 19.4% 14.7%
Cash flow 2,605 1,850 + 41%
Investments in tangible assets 591 548 + 8%
Depreciation of tangible assets 475 449 + 6%
Top 4 products Top 4 products
Prescription medicines Consumer health Care
net sales 2015 in eUr million Change net sales 2015 in eUr million Change
spiriva® 3,553 + 9.8% dulcolax® 225 + 12.5%
pradaxa® 1,287 + 7.4% buscopan® 223 + 0.5%
micardis® 956 – 12.1% mucosolvan® 168 + 3.7%
trajenta® / jentadueto® 909 + 42.9% pharmaton® 140 + 2.9%OvE Rv iEw
OuR COMPAnY
01
ThE ShAREhOldERS ’ PERSPECTivE
02
KEY ASPECTS 2015
06
highlighTS in MEdiCinE in 2015
12
gROuP MAnAgEMEnT REPORT
17
COnSOlidATEd
FinAnCiAl STATEMEnTS
39
PROduCT PORTFOliO
69c o n t e n t
OuR COMPAnY 01 PROduCT PORTFOliO 69
The Shareholders’ Perspective 02 BRANDED PRESCRIPTION MEDICINES 70
Key Aspects 2015 06 Respiratory diseases 70
Corporate bodies 11 Cardiovascular diseases 72
Highlights in medicine in 2015 12 Metabolic diseases 76
Oncology 78
gROuP
Diseases of the central nervous system 78
MAnAgEMEnT REPORT 17
Infectious diseases 80
Information about the Group of companies 18
Report on economic position 27 CONSUMER HEALTH CARE 82
Report on post-balance sheet date events 34 Cough and cold 82
Risk Report 34 Sore throat 84
Report on expected developments 36 Pain 86
Gastrointestinal diseases 88
COnSOlidATEd Vitamins and supplements 90
FinAnCiAl STATEMEnTS 39 Leg vein health 92
Urological diseases 92
Overview of the major
consolidated companies 40
Consolidated balance sheet 42 ANIMAL HEALTH 94
Consolidated profit and loss statement 43 Food producing animals – swine 94
Cash flow statement 44 Food producing animals – poultry 94
Statement of changes in group equity 45 Food producing animals – cattle 96
Notes to the consolidated Companion animals – horse 100
financial s tatements 46
Companion animals – small animals 102
Auditor’s report 66o u r c o m p a n y
The Boehringer Ingelheim Group is one of the world’s 20 leading pharmaceutical
companies. Headquartered in Ingelheim, Germany, Boehringer Ingelheim
operates globally with 145 affiliates and a total of some 47,500 employees. The
focus of the family-owned company, founded in 1885, is researching,
developing, manu facturing and marketing new medications of high therapeutic
value for human and veterinary medicine.
Social responsibility is an important element of the corporate culture at
Boehringer Ingelheim. This includes worldwide involvement in social
projects, such as the initiative “Making More Health” and caring for the employees.
Respect, equal opportunities and reconciliation of work and family life
form the foundation of the mutual cooperation. In every thing it does, the company
focuses on environmental protection and sustainability.
–– 01 ––the ShareholderS’ PerSPeCtiVe Boehringer ingelheim 2015
Christian Boehringer
Chairman of the ShareholderS ’
Committee
T H E S H A R E H O L D E R S ’
P E R S P E C T I V E
When we look back on the over 130-year history of Boehringer Ingelheim, what
becomes most apparent are the changes that we have undergone: the transition from a
small factory manufacturing tartaric acid in Nieder-Ingelheim, Germany, starting with
27 employees, to an international research-driven pharmaceutical company; our
departure from traditional business areas such as baking powder and, most recently,
the US generics business; establishing new segments such as biopharmaceutical
–– 02 ––the ShareholderS’ PerSPeCtiVe Boehringer ingelheim 2015
production and, not least, increasing employee numbers to around 47,500 globally
today. But what remains important to us – now as much as ever – is innovation. Only
innovation makes it possible to create added value and make a difference with new,
effective medicines in both human pharmaceuticals and animal health, as well as
provide prescription-free medications in the best formulations.
As the shareholder family, we see it as our primary responsibility to create an envi-
ronment where innovation is possible. We know that innovations in our industry do
not just happen overnight. On average, it takes over ten years to develop a new me-
dicine from an initial research idea and put it on the market. After market launch,
depending on the country, there might be another ten years left before the patent for
a prescription medicine expires. This is why we have to plan and provide a reliable
financial framework for the very long term. Today, this is more important than ever,
given the upheaval in the global pharmaceuticals market. An increasingly ageing
population, financed by the social insurance contributions of ever fewer young people,
is leading to serious changes to our healthcare systems. These changes are taking
place rapidly. As a research-driven pharmaceutical company, we need innovation at
all levels in order to actively shape this upheaval. It is therefore necessary to ques-
tion traditional methods and to find new solutions.
The research-driven pharmaceutical industry’s contribution becomes obvious with
regard to the increase in life expectancy, but also with regard to the fact that we live
ever longer while our healthy years equally increase markedly.
Since we were founded, one of our biggest strengths as a family-owned company
has been our ability to adapt and thus maintain our long-term independence. 2015
was a year in which we announced, initiated or concluded numerous changes. In
order to maintain our competitiveness in future, we want to concentrate on busi-
nesses where we can take a leading position. For this, a business must have a certain
critical mass. This was not the case for our generics business in the USA. In this
context, we decided in summer 2015 to sell Roxane, our US business.
A few months later, we announced that we were entering exclusive negotiations with
Sanofi with regard to the strategic swap of our over-the-counter (OTC) medicines
business for Sanofi’s animal health business. As a result of the exchange, both
companies would then become leading competitors in two different disciplines on
the international pharmaceuticals market.
–– 03 ––the ShareholderS’ PerSPeCtiVe Boehringer ingelheim 2015
Part of our long-term strategy as a shareholder family also involves discussing and
agreeing on changes to the Board of Managing Directors in a way that is cons id er-
ate, careful and plannable. With Dr Andreas Neumann filling the now stand-alone
Human Resources position, we want to emphasise the significance of this f unction
and take future requirements into account through long-term, inter national staff
development and planning. The creation of a separate Innovation depart ment
with Dr Michel Pairet at the helm is also a commitment to the research and deve-
lopment of important medicines with added value.
The succession procedure, set for mid-2016, with regard to the Chairman of the
Board of Managing Directors is also a decision directed towards ensuring contin uity
and a future-oriented outlook: Hubertus von Baumbach, as successor to Professor
Andreas Barner, is well prepared for the challenges facing the company, with his
knowledge of the company’s various business areas and his experience as a member
of the Board of Managing Directors. Together with his colleagues, he will drive
forward the transformation of Boehringer Ingelheim in order to strengthen the
paramount goal of maintaining the independence of the company over the long term.
After all, it is the people at Boehringer Ingelheim who bring about innovation. With
a new management position for Human Resources, we are taking this human
factor into account with a view to adapting our long-term and international staff
development and planning to orient them towards future requirements. This
involves increasing our focus on our corporate culture, which is particularly impor-
tant in times of change. Our culture at Boehringer Ingelheim has always been
defined by openness and mutual esteem, empathy, trust, respect and passion. The
importance of humaneness at the company was first emphasised by Ernst
Boehringer, the younger son of the company’s founder: “Human intellect does not
take priority – intellect must be complemented by the heart. The brain alone
does not bring human closeness.”
–– 04 ––the ShareholderS’ PerSPeCtiVe Boehringer ingelheim 2015
As the shareholder family, we want to thank every employee at Boehringer
Ingelheim for the work they carried out in 2015: for their efforts and their wealth
of ideas, for their courage always to face new challenges, and, not least, for
their readiness to strike out in new directions. 2016 will offer many opportunities
to take forward the topic of innovation at Boehringer Ingelheim. As an
independent, family-owned company, we want to continue to make progress together
to the benefit of patients.
signed by
christian boehringer
chairman of the shareholders’ committee
–– 05 ––KeY aSPeCtS 2015 Boehringer ingelheim 2015
andreas Barner, Wolfgang Baiker, huBertus von BaumBaCh,
JoaChim hasenmaier, miChel Pairet, allan hillgrove, andreas neumann
(left to right), the Board of managing direCtorS
K E Y A S P E C T S 2 0 1 5
2015 was once again a most eventful year for Boehringer Ingelheim – from both a
medical-research and a business perspective. Looking back on the year, our
company recorded more submissions, approvals and product launches than ever
before in our over 130-year history. These successes are also reflected in our
significant growth in 2015. With major strategic decisions, we also set the course in
the past year for our long-term growth.
–– 06 ––KeY aSPeCtS 2015 Boehringer ingelheim 2015
At Boehringer Ingelheim, the well-being of patients and animals is central to what
we do – in the field of human pharmaceuticals and in animal health. Our aim
is to develop new, effective medicines for diseases for which there is high unmet medical
need for new treatment options.
Innovation is the prerequisite for sustainable growth. Our successes in the past
financial year speak for themselves in this regard. However, the market environment
is becoming ever more challenging for the entire pharmaceutical industry. Al-
though the global pharmaceuticals market continues to grow, market access for
innovative medicines is proving increasingly difficult. At the same time, price
pressure continues to rise in many countries, such as in our key markets, the USA,
Japan and Europe. We are feeling the impact of this predominantly in prescription
medicines – our most important business. Despite this, we succeeded with expected
moderate single-digit growth in local currency terms in achieving total net sales
of around 14.8 billion euros. Our biggest sales contributors remained the respiratory
medicine spiriva®, the anti-coagulant pradaxa®, and micardis®, which is used to
treat high blood pressure. We achieved sales of over one billion euros with our
diabetes medicines trajenta® and jardiance®. Another major growth driver was
ofev®, a product used in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).
Innovative medicines in human pharmaceuticals and animal health products will
also determine the growth of the company and its success in future. Robust
investment planning for international research and development is a major element
of this. We consider our investment of eleven billion euros in the international
research and development of human pharmaceuticals over the next five years alone
to be the right approach. Of this, five billion euros will go to pre-clinical research
and 1.5 billion euros to collaborations with external partners. Our research teams
are currently working on a total of over 100 different projects.
–– 07 ––SChwerPunKte 2015 Boehringer ingelheim 2015
One outstanding example of the success of our research and clinical trials is our
new diabetes medicine, jardiance®. It is the first-ever diabetes medicine that has
been able to reduce the number of deaths due to cardiovascular disease in a
specially designed clinical trial. Another milestone is praxbind®, a specific reversal
agent to the oral anticoagulant pradaxa®, which we developed ourselves. 2015
was also a successful year for our respiratory medicines portfolio, with spiriva®
respimat® having now received approval from the US Food and Drug Adminis-
tration (FDA) for the indication asthma as well. Our new chronic obstructive pulmo-
nary disease (COPD) medicine, spiolto® was approved for use in several EU
countries as well as in the USA. At the start of last year, the European Commis-
sion also issued authorisation for ofev® to be used in the treatment of the rare
respiratory disease idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
Our pipeline continues to be very promising. Phase II trials of our new biological
investigational active ingredient for the treatment of the skin condition psoriasis
have shown that it improves the condition of the skin more quickly and for longer
than the current gold standard, ustekinumab. In the central nervous system
therapy area, we have been delighted with the excellent progress made by the clinical
testing of several substances for the treatment of schizophrenia and Alzheimer’s
disease. Another example is a new medicine to combat a specific type of lung cancer,
which has been designated by the US drug authority (FDA) as a breakthrough therapy.
We assume that the pharmaceuticals market will continue to change rapidly. This
makes it all the more important, therefore, that we retain our scope for growth and
innovation so that we can continue to be successful on the market in future. This
includes focusing on our core competencies and areas of business where we already
play a leading role globally or have the potential to become a global leader. We were
–– 08 ––SChwerPunKte 2015 Boehringer ingelheim 2015
able to make headway with major strategic decisions in 2015, including the sale of
of Roxane, our US generics business, and, at the end of the year, the announce-
ment that we were entering into exclusive negotiations with Sanofi regarding the
exchange of our over-the-counter (OTC) medicines business for Sanofi’s animal
health business. This would mean that Boehringer Ingelheim would part ways
with its traditional OTC medicines business. We are convinced that our new, stronger
animal health business would be exceptionally well placed for further growth
and thereby make us one of the leading global companies. This step was no easy deci-
sion, despite the evident marked consolidation of both market segments. We are,
however, certain that the OTC part of Boehringer Ingelheim will make it possible for
Sanofi to climb to world number one in the business.
Another important step for the future is our decision to invest half a billion euros in
the expansion of our biopharmaceutical production facilities. As a pioneer in
this field with more than 30 years of experience, the company has produced over
25 biopharmaceutical medicines worldwide. We will establish a new, large-scale
biopharmaceutical production facility in Vienna, Austria, for the future production
of active substances made using cell cultures. Thus, we will take into account
future requirements both of production capacities for contract manufacturing and
of in-house biopharmaceuticals. In addition, we are expanding production of
the pocket-sized inhaler respimat® for our respiratory medicines portfolio at our
Ingelheim and Dortmund facilities in Germany.
Our research and development pipeline is well-stocked. The new research strategy
implemented in 2015 should ensure long-term innovation performance. In
the medium-term, current product launches and the expansion of our business
activities in emerging markets will strengthen growth across all business areas.
–– 09 ––KeY aSPeCtS 2015 Boehringer ingelheim 2015
Across all activities in our company, we can build on our global workforce of
around 47,500 committed and motivated employees. We know that the innovative
strength and success of Boehringer Ingelheim are fundamentally down to their
knowledge, experience, commitment and expertise. We would like to thank all of
our employees for their outstanding performance and exceptional team spirit.
signed by signed by
andreas barner wolfgang baiker
signed by signed by
hubertus von baumbach joachim hasenmaier
signed by signed by
allan hillgrove andreas neumann
signed by
michel pairet
–– 10 ––CorPorate BodieS Boehringer ingelheim 2015
CO R P O R A T E bO D I E S
shareholders’ Committee Board of managing directors
christian boehringer prof. dr dr andreas barner
Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee Chairman of the Board
Corporate Board Division Human
christoph boehringer Resources (until 30.09.2015)
Corporate Board Division Research,
erich von baumbach jr. Development and Medicine (until 31.12.2015)
isabel boehringer dr wolfgang baiker
Corporate Board Divisions Biopharmaceuticals
dr mathias boehringer and Operations
hubertus von baumbach
Corporate Board Division Finance
advisory Board
dr joachim hasenmaier
egbert appel Corporate Board Divisions Animal Health and
Chairman of the Advisory Board Consumer Health Care
Trustee, Martin Hilti Family Trust
President, Hilti Foundation allan hillgrove
Corporate Board Division
kurt beck Pharma Marketing and Sales
Former Minister-President
dr andreas neumann (from 01.10.2015)
dr andreas kreimeyer Corporate Board Division Human Resources
Former member of the Board of Executive Directors
and Research Executive Director BASF SE dr michel pairet (from 01.01.2016)
Corporate Board Division Research and
jan rinnert non-clinical Development
Chairman of the Board of Management
Heraeus Holding GmbH
–– 11 ––HigHligHts in medicine in 2015 Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Progress for
patients
Medical milestones
Boehringer Ingelheim continues its long tradition of commit- kidney disease compared with placebo and reduced clinically
ting resources to create “Value through innovation” and relevant renal events by more than a third. These data are now
advance public health. Significant progress is measured by extensively discussed with regulatory authorities and diabetes
patients when they see or feel value or an advance in their specialists worldwide.
treatments due to innovation. Two highlights of “Value through The approval of praxbind® in the US and Europe high-
innovation” in 2015 are the EMPA-REG OUTCOME® study lights another research and development innovation that is
and the approval of praxbind®. important for patients with atrial fibrillation. The approval of
More than half of the people living with type 2 diabetes praxbind® means that pradaxa®, a blood thinning agent
eventually die from cardiovascular complications, with many indicated for the prevention of stroke in patients with atrial
of these patients having a significant reduction in their life fibrillation, now has a specific reversal agent. praxbind® pro-
expectancy as much as twelve years. In September 2015, the vides physicians with an additional tool when reversal of the
main results of the large cardiovascular outcomes trial, anticoagulant effects of pradaxa® is needed in the rare
EMPA-REG OUTCOME®, were publicly shared at a major dia- situations of emergency surgery/urgent procedures or in life-
betes congress. Empagliflozin (jardiance®), a compound threatening or uncontrolled bleeding. The approval of p raxbind®
for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, reduced the risk of dying was based on data in healthy volunteers as well as results from
from cardiovascular causes by more than a third in this an interim analysis of the real-world RE-VERSE AD™ patient study.
clinical trial. Further results from the EMPA-REG OUTCOME® The RE-VERSE AD™ study data was simultaneously published in
study subsequently presented in 2015 showed that the over- the New England Journal of Medicine and presented at a major
all cardiovascular effect of empagliflozin was also seen in high- international congress in June 2015. Boehringer Ingelheim is
risk patients already suffering from heart failure or renal committed to making praxbind® available as widely as possi-
impairment at the beginning of the study. Additional data from ble worldwide and by continuing to obtain regulatory approval
EMPA-REG OUTCOME® presented in late 2015 suggested that in all countries where pradaxa® is licensed.
the drug also significantly slowed the progression of diabetic
–– 12 ––HigHligHts in medicine in 2015 Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
CARDIOVASCULAR
Advancing anticoagulation care
Regulatory authorities in the US and Europe commitment to innovative care for In the area of acute stroke treatment,
approved praxbind® (idarucizumab) patients at risk of devastating blood clots. where actilyse® is the only approved
in 2015 as a specific reversal agent for Boehringer Ingelheim continues to evolve treatment for acute ischaemic stroke,
pradaxa® (dabigatran etexilate). the anticoagulant landscape with the Boehringer Ingelheim launched ‘The
Boehringer Ingelheim began research enrolment of the first patients into the Angels Initiative’. The initiative will pro-
on praxbind® in 2009, before the first RE-CIRCUIT ™ and RE-COVER DVT/PE™ vide doctors with the tools, resources and
approval of pradaxa® for stroke preven- studies. With its latest indication – treat- support required to set up stroke net-
tion in atrial fibrillation, which occurred in ment and prevention of recurrence of works to improve the treatment of acute
2010. The in-house development of both deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmo- ischaemic stroke, thereby advancing
pradaxa® and its reversal agent p raxbind® nary embolism (PE) – pradaxa® is now local stroke care across the globe.
by Boehringer Ingelheim scientists approved in over 70 countries globally.
demonstrates the company’s continued
RESPIRATORy
2015 – an important year
Boehringer Ingelheim is proud of its safety of nintedanib is also being investi- chance to manage their symptoms better
heritage in respiratory disease. 2015 was gated in a phase III trial in patients with from early stages of the disease. This
another important year: ofev® (nintedanib) systemic sclerosis, another rare and life- could allow patients to remain active for
received approval in the EU and Japan threatening disease. a longer time.
as a treatment for patients with idiopathic Chronic obstructive pulmonary One year after the first approval in
pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). IPF is a rare, disease (COPD) is a progressive lung dis- Europe, spiriva® respimat® is now avail-
severely debilitating and fatal lung disease ease. By 2030, COPD is predicted to be able for use in asthma in over 50 coun-
characterised by lung tissue scarring the third leading cause of death globally. tries including the US. The extensive clini-
causing loss of oxygen transfer into the spiolto® respimat® (tiotropium/olo- cal evidence is reflected by the inclusion
blood. ofev® can slow disease progres- daterol) was launched in 2015 for the of spiriva® respimat® in the latest version
sion significantly. It is now available in treatment of patients with COPD. s piolto® of the Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA)
many countries and has been recom- is built on tiotropium, the active ingredi- report 2015.
mended in the updated international IPF ent in spiriva®. Studies demonstrate that
treatment guidelines. The efficacy and spiolto® respimat® offers patients a
–– 13 ––HigHligHts in medicine in 2015 Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
ONCOLOGy
Huge unmet needs in lung cancer
In 2015, Boehringer Ingelheim continued its efforts two comparator treatments. giotrif® and vargatef®
in improving cancer treatment, particularly for patients (nintedanib), another lung cancer treatment for patients
suffering from lung cancer. Two head-to-head trials with adenocarcinoma of the lung, provide the foun-
comparing afatinib (giotrif®/gilotrif®) with estab- dation for Boehringer Ingelheim’s lung cancer portfolio.
lished agents have strengthened the profile of our Several other compounds are in advanced
first approved treatment in lung cancer. In squamous development for lung cancer. For example, a global piv-
cell carcinoma of the lung, afatinib showed positive otal trial programme is underway for BI 1482694,
survival data. This resulted in regulatory submissions which could be a treatment option for patients whose
to the US FDA and to the European EMA for this new lung cancer progresses on EGFR TKI treatment.
indication. Afatinib is already approved for patients Boehringer Ingelheim aims to achieve first approvals
with specific types of EGFR mutation-positive non- for this compound in 2017. Beyond lung cancer
small cell lung cancer. In this indication the drug Boehringer Ingelheim’s strategy is aimed at develop-
demonstrated delayed tumour progression compared ing innovative treatment options for patients with
to gefitinib, another EGFR specific treatment for lung haematological cancer and developing innovative
cancer. In both trials, afatinib was as tolerable as the immuno-oncology treatments.
METABOLIC DISEASES
Growing portfolio across all diabetes stages
In addition to results from EMPA-REG OUTCOME®, treatment needs for this complex condition, are well
the overall diabetes portfolio grew significantly in 2015. underway. Beyond EMPA-REG OUTCOME® for
Together with our alliance partner Eli Lilly and Com- jardiance®, two large cardiovascular outcome trials
pany, we have now launched six different diabetes (CAROLINA® and CARMELINA®) for trajenta® are on
products in major geographies. In addition to trajenta® track to complete on time.
(linagliptin), jentadueto® (linagliptin/metformin) Treatment of diabetes requires a holistic
and jardiance® (empagliflozin), there have been approach beyond medications. Boehringer Ingelheim
launched combination drugs glyxambi® (linagliptin/ has been conducting IntroDia™, the world’s largest
empagliflozin) and synjardy® (empagliflozin/metformin). survey to better understand the early conversations
As the first biosimilar insulin to be approved in between physicians and patients with type 2 diabe-
Europe, the new insulin glargine product abasaglar® tes. Patient data from this survey have been pre-
was launched in several European countries as well sented in late 2015 and will serve as the basis to
as in Japan in 2015. develop solutions to improve early conversations in
Further clinical trials and regulatory submis- type 2 diabetes.
sions for combination tablets, meeting the individual
–– 14 ––HigHligHts in medicine in 2015 Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
CENTRAL NERVOUS S ySTEM (CNS)
The mysteries of the human brain
Boehringer Ingelheim is concentrating on development, of which one, a PDE9- never be the solution for illnesses like
identifying brain chemistry responsible inhibitor, is in a phase II study. Alzheimer’s or schizophrenia – but that,
for some of the most common and debili- Boehringer Ingelheim also includes in addition to pharmacological treatment,
tating symptoms across a range of brain research activities in other fields of psy- supporting therapies are both sensible
diseases including schizophrenia, chiatry, including treatment-resistant and necessary,” explains Dr Jürgen Reeß,
Alzheimer’s disease and treatment-resis- depression. All compounds under investi- Therapeutic Area Head CNS. “Accord-
tant depression. One major symptom is gation are designed to increase the brain’s ingly, we also employ elements like cog-
cognitive impairment – meaning a reduced neuroplasticity, allowing it to once again nitive performance training in the context
mental ability to concentrate, think, learn form new connections between nerve of our studies and investigate whether or
and memorise – which leads to signifi- cells. In this way, it is hoped that the cog- not the positive effects of the individual
cant problems in social life and everyday nitive impairments could be normalised. treatment elements can be boosted when
functioning. The therapeutic area CNS Boehringer Ingelheim plans to pres- used in combination – a truly innovative
has a well-stocked pipeline, including a ent the first phase II results in 2016. “We approach in our industry.”
couple of molecules at early stage clinical recognise that medication alone can
IMMUNOLOGy
Successes in immunology research
The past year has also shown innovation months in nearly triple the percentage of BI 655064, which are being investigated in
in immunology. Boehringer Ingelheim’s patients on risankizumab compared with several diseases in immunology. AbbVie
frontrunner biologic, the IL-23p19 ustekinumab. has a long standing heritage in immunol-
blocker 655066 (anticipated substance In light of the current high potential ogy, and partnering with AbbVie is the best
name: risankizumab), demonstrated in of risankizumab and the second frontrun- way to ensure these medicines reach the
a phase II trial that after nine months, ner molecule in the Boehringer Ingelheim right people and achieve their full potential.
69 per cent of patients with moderate-to- immunology pipeline, maximising the Boehringer Ingelheim has been
severe plaque psoriasis maintained number of patients around the world involved in research and development in
clear or almost clear skin (PASI 90) with who will have access to this promising the immunology space for many years
risankizumab in the higher dose group potential treatment once approved is and will continue to invest in the research
compared to 30 per cent of patients on critical from a public health perspective. and development of other, earlier phase
ustekinumab. Patients also achieved this Boehringer Ingelheim has therefore en- compounds in the immunology pipeline
skin clearance significantly faster and for tered into an agreement to form a global while proactively building the pipeline
more than two months longer than those collaboration with AbbVie to bring for- and capabilities in this important area.
on ustekinumab. Completely clear skin ward two of the most advanced investiga-
(PASI 100) was maintained after nine tional compounds, risankizumab and
–– 15 ––Group manaGement report Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
–– 16 ––group management report
G r o u p m a n aGe m e n t
r e p o r t 2 0 1 5
Information about the group of companies 18
report on economic position 27
report on post-balance sheet date events 34
risk report 34
report on expected developments 36
–– 17 ––Konzernlagebericht grundlagen des Konzerns
group management report InformatIon aBout the group of companI es Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
InformatIon about the
Group of companIes
Group manaGement report 2015
InformatIon about the
Group of companIes
The Group’s business model Boehringer Ingelheim. Promising product authorisations
Boehringer Ingelheim is a family-owned company which were obtained in 2015 with ofev®, which offers people
was established in 1885 and is based in Ingelheim, with the rare, fatal respiratory disease idiopathic pulmonary
Germany. The focus of the company is on the research fibrosis (IPF) a new treatment option, and praxbind®, the
and development, production and sale of innovative antidote to the anticoagulant pradaxa®, which revokes
pharmaceuticals improving health and quality of its effects within minutes of intake.
life and contributing great therapeutic b enefit to both
human and animal health. With 145 affiliated The business aim of Boehringer Ingelheim is to drive
companies and around 47,500 employees worldwide, the forward with the innovative development of its existing
Group achieved net sales of EUR 14.8 billion in 2015, product portfolio through organic growth, also in cooper-
making it one of the world’s top 20 pharmaceutical
companies. Boehringer Ingelheim’s business activities
cover prescription medicines, consumer health care, Net sales by business (in EUR million)
animal health, biopharmaceuticals and industrial cus-
tomers. Prescription Medicines
2015 11,201
Prescription medicines form the core of the company’s 2014 10,101
activities. Medicines from Boehringer Ingelheim have
long been standard treatments for respiratory disorders, Consumer Health Care
cardiovascular disease, metabolic disease, oncology and
2015 1,513
diseases of the central nervous system. In 2015, the com- 2014 1,437
pany’s biggest revenue contributor was once again
spiriva®, which is used to treat chronic obstructive pul- Animal Health
monary disease (COPD) and has now also been approved
2015 1,363
for use in asthma patients. pradaxa®, which is used to 2014 1,130
prevent strokes in patients with atrial fibrillation, as well
as for the prevention and treatment of thromboembolic Biopharmaceuticals
disorders, and micardis®, which has been well estab-
2015 576
lished for over 15 years and used in the treatment of 2014 501
hypertension, both make a sig nificant contribution to the
company’s success. trajenta® and jardiance®, which Industrial Customers and other sales
are on an impressive trajectory and are used to treat type 2
2015 145
diabetes, are also supporting positive growth at 2014 148
–– 18 ––group management report
Net sales by region (in EUR million) Australia /Africa (AAA) is also gaining significance for
the Group, making up 25% of the Group’s total net sales in
2015. The three biggest markets, the USA, Japan and
Germany accounted for around 57% of sales last year.
Research and development (R&D)
In line with Boehringer Ingelheim’s mission statement,
Europe 4,127 4,081
2015 2014 the primary goal is to research and develop innovative
medicines and therapies for the treatment of diseases for
Asia, which there are as yet no satisfactory treatments available.
Australia,
Africa Our aim at all times is to make a major contribution in
Americas 6,923 5,937 (AAA) 3,748 3,299
2015 2014 2015 2014 areas where the need for treatment is high and to occupy
a leading position in major indication areas.
To achieve this aim, in addition to our own research and
ation with its external partners. To do this, Boehringer development teams, Boehringer Ingelheim can draw on a
Ingelheim operates a global research network. global network comprising academic groups and biotech
companies. In addition, we are expanding our product
Within consumer health care, dulcolax®, buscopan®, portfolio with partnership agreements and the systematic
mucosolvan® and pharmaton® are among the com- inlicensing of technologies and products. In the year
pany’s highest selling medicines. under review, for example, Boehringer Ingelheim con-
cluded a licensing agreement with the Korean company
Animal health is another major pillar of Boehringer Hanmi Pharmaceutical for the development of a targeted
Ingelheim’s business. The pig vaccine ingelvac circoflex®, therapy for lung cancer patients with certain epidermal
used to treat porcine circovirus type 2, is the most signifi- growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations.
cant product in animal health in terms of sales. To boost
Boehringer Ingelheim’s competitiveness in the animal Boehringer Ingelheim’s research and development
health area over the long term, the company entered exclu- activities are the basis for the company’s success. Together
sive negotiations with the French company Sanofi S.A. in with our generally innovative prowess, it has been the
December 2015 with the aim of trading Sanofi’s animal primary driver behind the Group’s positive growth in
health business for Boehringer Ingelheim’s consumer recent years. In-house research and development will also
health care business. Both parties are counting on the continue to be a top priority in the future. An example of
transaction being finalised towards the end of 2016. the consistent implementation of our strategy is the
research facility in Vienna, Austria, which was inaugu-
The biopharmaceuticals business comprises the manufacture rated in November 2015. Oncological research takes place
of own-brand marketable products, the development of in the lab facility in order to open up new therapy options
biosimilars, and – as one of the world’s leading companies – to doctors and help people with tumours. Investments in
process development and contract manufacturing in the facility amounted to around EUR 20 million.
commercial production for third-party customers.
In the 2015 financial year, we employed an average
Once again, Boehringer Ingelheim achieved the majority of 7,895 people at our research and development sites.
of its sales in 2015 in the Americas (47%) and Europe A total of just around EUR 3 billion was invested in
(28%) regions. However, revenue from the region of Asia / the research and development of new medicines,
–– 19 ––group management report InformatIon aBout the group of companI es Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Research and development 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
expenditure in eur million 3,004 2,654 2,743 2,795 2,516
– as % of net sales 20.3 19.9 19.5 19.0 19.1
prescription medicines expenditure in eur million 2,780 2,333 2,444 2,563 2,372
– as % of prescription medicines net sales 24.8 23.1 22.4 22.5 23.5
average number of employees 7,895 8,104 7,741 7,492 7,159
Investments in tangible assets (without investments in infrastructure) in eur million 77 78 114 139 112
corresponding to 20.3 % of the Group’s net sales and thus spiolto® respimat® is based on tiotropium and enhanced
also, as forecast, to the same level as the previous year. by the long acting beta-agonist olodaterol. The large
TOviTO® phase III clinical trial programme is investigat-
Human pharmaceuticals ing the efficacy and safety of spiolto® respimat® and
Boehringer Ingelheim carried out research and develop- includes 12 clinical trials with more than 15,000 patients
ment in 2015 for its prescription medicines and consumer enrolled in total.
health care businesses at facilities in the USA, Germany,
Austria, Italy and Japan. Last year, an above-average number New data from a sub-group analysis from the pivotal
of registrations of new products were obtained or sub- phase III TONADO®1 studies were presented at the Ameri-
mitted. The key focus of our research work in 2015 was can Thoracic Society Congress (ATS) in Denver. Data
on the following indication areas: showed spiolto® respimat® provided lung function
benefit to patients with COPD right from the start of
• Respiratory diseases maintenance therapy, with the greatest benefit shown in
• Cardiometabolic diseases (cardiovascular and metabolic patients with moderate COPD (GOLD 2).2 In the sum-
diseases) mer, the publication of the Phase IIIb OTEMTO® 1 & 2
• Oncology trials in respiratory medicine provided new data which
• Diseases of the central nervous system showed spiolto® respimat® offers consistent, clinically
• Immunology meaningful improvements in quality of life versus placebo
in patients with COPD.3
Expenditure for R&D in prescription medicines accounted
for 24.8% of net sales generated in this business.
2015 was a landmark year for Boehringer Ingelheim in
respiratory. For the last 90 years, the company has been
* in the us the brand name is: stiolto® respimat®, in canada inspiolto®
active in this field and emerged as a leader in lung dis-
respimat®
1) Buhl r, maltais f, abrahams r, et al. tiotropium and olodaterol fixed-dose
eases. Last year the therapeutic area (TA) respiratory has
combination versus mono-components in copD (goLD2-4). eur respir J 2015
again brought new treatment advances to patients. apr;45(4):969-79
2) Buhl r, abrahams r, grönke L, et al. tiotropium plus olodaterol fixed-Dose
combination therapy provides Lung function Benefits when compared with
tiotropium alone, Irrespective of prior treatment with a Long-acting Broncho-
In chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) spiolto®* dilator: post hoc analyses of two 1-Year studies. ats 2015 congress abstract
64799
respimat® (tiotropium/olodaterol) received approval in 3) singh D, ferguson gt, Bolitschek J, et al. tiotropium+olodaterol shows clini-
cally meaningful improvements in quality of life. res med 2015 DoI: http://
the US, Canada, Japan and in many European countries. dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rmed.2015.08.002
–– 20 ––group management report
The ENERGITO® study showed that the lung function Mid-year, ofev® was included in the updated interna-
improvement with spiolto® respimat® is superior to an tional ATS/ERS/JRS/ALAT Clinical Practice Guideline
inhaled corticosteroid therapy (fluticasone propionate + for the Treatment of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis. This
salmeterol fixed-dose combination FDC) in patients with marked an important step forward for patient care. The
moderate to severe COPD.4 committee noted the high value of ofev® on patient-
important outcomes, such as disease progression as meas-
spiriva® respimat® is the first new class of inhaled asthma ured by a declining rate in forced vitality capacity (FVC).
treatments to be approved in over a decade. One year after
the first approval in Europe, spiriva® respimat® is now Boehringer Ingelheim is now expanding its research with
available for use in asthma in over 50 countries, including nintedanib into other progressive fibrotic lung diseases.
the USA. In September 2015, the US Food and Drug One of these devastating conditions is the rare disease
Administration (FDA) approved spiriva® respimat® systemic sclerosis, commonly accompanied by pulmonary
(tiotropium bromide) inhalation spray for use in the treat- manifestations. In December, the SENSCIS™ (Safety and
ment of asthma as long-term, once-daily, maintenance Efficacy of Nintedanib in Systemic SClerosIS) phase III
treatment in patients 12 years of age and older. study began recruiting patients. The study will include
patients with systemic sclerosis and associated interstitial
spiriva® soft-mist inhaler (respimat®) has been included as lung disease.
add-on asthma therapy in the most recent Global Initia-
tive for Asthma (GINA) report 2015, Global Strategy for A further focus of Boehringer Ingelheim’s research activities
Asthma Management and Prevention. is the field of cardiovascular disorders. 2015 marked a further
advancement in anticoagulation care. Boehringer Ingelheim
At the beginning of 2015, Boehringer Ingelheim announced presented the first results from a patient study investigat-
that the European Commission (EC) had approved ninte- ing the effect of praxbind®, a specific reversal agent to the
danib for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis anticoagulant pradaxa®, which revokes its effects within
(IPF), following an expedited review and positive CHMP minutes of intake, in a real-world emergency setting. The
(Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use) interim results from the ongoing phase III RE-VERSE AD™
opinion on 20 November 2014. Nintedanib is marketed in study were presented at the International Society of Throm-
the EU, Japan, USA and other countries under the brand bosis and Haemostasis Congress in Toronto, Canada, in June
name OFEV®. IPF is a rare, severely debilitating and fatal and simultaneously published in the New England Journal
lung disease and with ofev® Boehringer Ingelheim is of Medicine. praxbind® will support the care of p radaxa®-
offering a new treatment option for patients with this treated patients during emergency situations by providing
devastating disease. physicians with an additional tool when reversal of the anti-
coagulant effects of pradaxa® is needed.
The pivotal Phase III INPULSIS® trials, as well as the
Phase II TOMORROW trial, demonstrated that ofev® In the indication area of metabolic disorders, the focus of
consistently slows disease progression in patients with research and development is on drugs for the treatment
IPF by reducing the annual decline in lung function. of diabetes.
Results of the cardiovascular outcomes trial EMPA-REG
OUTCOME® demonstrated that jardiance® (empagli-
flozin) is reducing death caused by cardiovascular compli-
4) Beeh Km, Derom e, echave-sustaeta J, et al. energIto: efficacy and safety of
once-daily combined tiotropium + olodaterol versus twice-daily combined cations. The overall cardiovascular effect of jardiance®
fluticasone propionate + salmeterol. poster pa4366 ers 2015 abstract number:
750338 was also seen in high- risk patients already suffering from
–– 21 ––group management report InformatIon aBout the group of companI es Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
heart failure 5 or renal impairment at study beginning.6 incidence of adverse events. Nintedanib, Boehringer
Additional data from EMPA-REG OUTCOME® showed Ingelheim’s second approved lung cancer treatment, is
that jardiance® also significantly slowed the progression being evaluated in indications beyond lung cancer; 2015
of diabetic kidney disease compared with placebo and saw the initiation of two registration trials investigating this
reduced clinically relevant renal events by more than a triple angiokinase inhibitor in patients with advanced
third.7 In 2015, we received approval and launched the colorectal cancer and in patients with malignant pleural
combination drugs glyxambi® (linagliptin/empagliflozin) mesothelioma.
and synjardy® (empagliflozin/metformin). Further
clinical trials and regulatory submissions for additional The German Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health
combination tablets, meeting the individual treatment Care (IQWiG) stepped up its rating of afatinib to “out-
needs for this complex condition, are well underway. standing therapeutic benefit”, based on the positive overall
Beyond EMPA-REG OUTCOME® for jardiance®, two survival data shown in comparison to chemotherapy in
large cardio vascular outcome trials (CAROLINA® and two independent trials for patients with the most frequent
CARMELINA®) for trajenta® are on schedule to complete EGFR mutation (del19). Nintedanib received positive
on time. evaluations by health technology assessment bodies such
as the UK’s National Institute for Health and Care Excel-
In the indication area oncology Boehringer Ingelheim has lence (NICE) and IQWiG.
successfully advanced research and development of its
pipeline compounds and marketed treatments, with the The approvals of giotrif® and vargatef® have laid the
aim of providing new treatment options that may offer foundation for Boehringer Ingelheim’s lung cancer port-
patients added therapeutic value and contribute to quality folio. Several other compounds are in advanced develop-
of life improvements. ment for lung cancer. For example, the global pivotal
ELUXA™ trial programme is underway for BI 1482694,
In 2015, Boehringer Ingelheim continued its efforts in which could be a treatment option for patients whose lung
improving cancer treatment, particularly for patients cancer progresses on EGFR TKI treatment. This com-
suffering from lung cancer. Two head to head trials com- pound has been granted a breakthrough therapy designa-
paring afatinib (giotrif®/gilotrif®) with established tion by the US FDA, and Boehringer Ingelheim aims at
agents have strengthened the profile of our first approved first approvals for this compound in 2017.
treatment in lung cancer. In squamous cell carcinoma of
the lung, afatinib showed positive survival data.8 This Beyond lung cancer, Boehringer Ingelheim’s strategy is
resulted in regulatory submissions to the US FDA and aimed at developing innovative treatment options for
the EMA in this new indication. In afatinib’s already patients with hematological cancer, as well as broadening
approved indication, EGFR mutation-positive non-small our presence in the field of immuno-oncology.
cell lung cancer, the drug delayed tumour progression
more in comparison to gefitinib.9 In both trials, afatinib The research team in central nervous system (CNS) dis-
was as tolerable as comparator treatments with a similar eases at Boehringer Ingelheim focuses on identifying
5) Inzucchi s, et al. “empagliflozin and cardiovascular outcomes in patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the lung (LuX-Lung 8): an open-label
type 2 Diabetes mellitus at high cardiovascular risk.” 2015 scientific randomised controlled phase 3 trial. the Lancet oncology 2015;
6) Zinman, B., et al. “empagliflozin, cardiovascular outcomes, and mortality in DoI:10.1016/s1470-2045(15)00006-6.
type 2 Diabetes” n engl J med. 10.1056 (2015) 9) park K, et al. afatinib versus gefitinib as first-line treatment for patients with
7) Wanner c. et al., oral presentation: “empagliflozin and cardiovascular out- advanced non-small cell lung cancer harboring activating egfr mutations:
comes in patients with type 2 Diabetes and chronic Kidney Disease”. asn results of the global, randomized, open-label, phase IIb trial LuX-Lung 7.
2016 Kidney Week. abstract sa-po1199; J am soc neph. 26:2015, B7 LBa2, oral presentation at the esmo asia 2015 congress in singapore,
8) soria et al. afatinib versus erlotinib as second-line treatment of patients with 18-21 December 2015.
–– 22 ––group management report
brain malfunctions responsible for some of the most launched OTC ibuprofen therapy in Japan and is uniquely
important symptoms shared by different brain diseases positioned as a pain relief for women.
such as schizophrenia or Alzheimer’s disease.
Animal health
One of the major symptoms found across these diseases is In its research and development work in the field of animal
cognitive impairment. In the well-stocked CNS pipeline, health, Boehringer Ingelheim focuses on innovative
there are three molecules at an advanced stage of develop- vaccines for the protection of livestock and pets, as well as
ment, including a PDE9-inhibitor, which is already in on pharmaceutical products. At our facilities in the USA,
Phase II clinical development. Germany, China, Mexico, Japan and the Netherlands, we
focus on research into new drugs and the development
The CNS teams are confident that they will advance our of future therapeutic solutions. Since many vaccines
clinical programs over the next years so that Boehringer are based on local pathogens and pathogen variants, it is
Ingelheim gets closer to new treatment options for imperative that we are present in all key market regions
patients with these diseases. with local research and development and production
facilities.
In immunology, major important results were achieved
in a phase II psoriasis trial with Boehringer Ingelheim’s In the past year, around EUR 22 million was invested in
biologic risankizumab. Risankizumab is an IL-23p19 the expansion of existing facilities, as well as the con-
blocker that cleared skin better, faster and for longer than struction of a centre for clinical research in China. These
the current gold standard ustekinumab. investments demonstrate the company’s commitment
and its intention to sustainably strengthen its position in
After nine months, 69% of patients with moderate- to- animal health.
severe plaque psoriasis maintained clear or almost clear
skin (PASI 90) with risankizumab in the higher dose group, In the first half of the year, 22 EU countries granted
compared to 30% of patients on ustekinumab. Patients authorisation for two improved vaccines against
also achieved this skin clearance significantly faster and porcine respiratory and reproductive syndrome (PRRS),
for more than two months longer than those on usteki- ingelvac prrsflex® eu for piglets and reprocyc® prrs eu
numab. Completely clear skin (PASI 100) was maintained for sows via a decentralised process. The specially devel-
after nine months in nearly triple the percentage of oped vaccines take into account the different immune
patients on risankizumab compared with ustekinumab. reactions of adult pigs versus piglets. With its product
ingelvac prrsflex® eu, Boehringer Ingelheim is able to
Boehringer Ingelheim is investing in the research and offer the only PRRS vaccine on the European market
development of a range of earlier phase compounds in the that is specially designed for use in piglets. It minimises the
immunology pipeline for indications such as Crohn’s symptoms of respiratory disorders, reduces the trans-
disease, ulcerative colitis and lupus nephritis. mission of the virus and can be used for the active immu-
nisation of healthy swine from the age of 17 days. By
In the consumer health care business, Boehringer Ingelheim contrast, reprocyc® prrs eu can be used to vaccinate
successfully launched the products mucoangin® Sore young sows and breeding sows affected by PRRS in all
Throat Spray and DulcoSoft® in Europe. mucoangin® Sore phases of production, regardless of whether or not they
Throat Spray contains ambroxol and is indicated for are pregnant.
pain relief in acute sore throat, whereas dulcosoft® is a
gentle laxative. In Japan eve® a ex was also successfully Globally, Boehringer Ingelheim’s animal health business
launched this year. The eve® product range was the first received 183 product authorisations in 2015.
–– 23 ––group management report InformatIon aBout the group of companI es Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Biopharmaceuticals Boehringer Ingel heim invested in production capacity for
Boehringer Ingelheim is committed to its strategic decision respiratory disease products, the spiriva® handihaler®
of actively entering into the biosimilars business and and the respimat® platform, in 2015 to meet the demands
thereby increasing the access to high-quality biologics for of the market.
patients around the world. The company focuses on
driving its first wave of biosimilar compounds in immu- To cover the increasing demand for our anti-diabetic
nology and oncology while working on further molecules portfolio, Boehringer Ingelheim invested around
in pre-clinical development. In 2015, the pivotal phase III EUR 60 million in the production facilities in Mexico City
trials for BI 695501 (biosimilar candidate to Humira®) and and Koropi, Greece.
BI 695502 (biosimilar candidate to Avastin®) have been
initiated, and the programmes are well on track. Animal health
In the field of animal health, Boehringer Ingelheim is
Production primarily active in North and Central America, with a
Human pharmaceuticals production network comprising four facilities for manu-
The overarching aims in the production of human pharma- facturing vaccines, one facility for nutraceuticals and a
ceuticals are the reliable market launch of our products network of contract manufacturers for pharmaceutical
and the routine care of our patients using high-quality products. With the construction of a new Chinese facility
pharmaceuticals. in Taizhou continuing apace in 2015, an Asian location
will soon join the production network. As a major
To this end, Boehringer Ingelheim revised its supply component of our animal health growth strategy, this
strategy in 2015. With the motto ‘From Volume to Value’, facility will focus on the manufacture of vaccines against
our supply network is set to be reorganised in the next porcine and avian diseases for the Chinese market.
few years to reflect the requirements of our businesses.
Biopharmaceuticals
Our own production facilities focus on the manufacture The biopharmaceutical activities of Boehringer Ingelheim
of products of high relevance to our Group or whose in Germany (Biberach), Austria (Vienna), the USA
manufacturing technology requires a specific degree of (Fremont) and China (Shanghai) comprise the manufacture
expertise. As such, we operated 19 own production facilities of own-brand marketable products (such as actilyse®,
in eleven countries during the year under review. These metalyse® and praxbind®), the process development
can be divided into eleven pharmaceutical, three chemical of NBEs and biosimilars, and – as one of the world’s
and four biopharmaceutical facilities, as well as one pro- leading companies – process development and contract
duction facility for medical products. manufacturing in commercial production for third-party
customers. In doing so, Boehringer Ingelheim covers the
Our own production facilities are supplemented by entire bio pharmaceutical value chain from genetic
external contract manufacturers, which primarily focus development of the cell, followed by manufacturing and
on the manufacture of products that are in an advanced filling of the finished pharmaceutical product down to
stage of the life cycle. This ensures a reliable and competitive the product launch and global market supply. In compari-
supply of prescription medicines and consumer health son to the previous year, 2015 saw an overall increase to
care products. The close cooperation with external partners full use of capacity at production facilities. The active
secures Boehringer Ingelheim access to technologies substance praxbind® was successfully produced for
that are not currently available in our internal production Boehringer Ingelheim and launched on the American and
portfolio. European markets.
–– 24 ––group management report
The company’s own promising biopharmaceutical develop- employee protection is examined in regular audits
ment projects and the strong demand on the market for in order to continuously identify potential areas of
contract manufacturing were the basis for the decision improvement.
to make significant investments in expanding its bio-
pharmaceutical production capacity. Boehringer Ingel- The extensive work to analyse and decontaminate the soil
heim will be setting up a new, industrial-scale biopharma- on and around our Ingelheim facility in Germany contin-
ceutical production facility in Vienna for active sub- ued in 2015 in order to ensure appropriate protection of
stances that are made using cell cultures. The new the environment where necessary. As a result of techni-
production facility is due to go into operation in 2021. In cal progress, issues such as these can be analysed more
2015, we also pushed ahead with establishing our new precisely today. Experts in the fields of geochemistry,
facility in Shanghai for various biopharmaceutical develop- environmental toxicology and engineering are consulted
ment services for Chinese and international customers. for advice on implementing the measures and keep the
The pilot facility for the manufacture of biopharmaceutical public up to date on their progress.
clinical trial supplies successfully went into production
and made its first deliveries of GMP standard clinical trial In order to make a contribution towards reducing global
samples to customers in 2015. The building that will CO emissions, we have set ourselves the ambitious
2
house the commercial facility was completed and we goal of reducing our CO emissions in terms of sales by
2
expect that it will go into operation as planned in 2016. 20% by 2020 as compared with 2010 values. We aim to
do this by putting the focus on potential energy savings
Occupational safety and environmental and reductions in emissions, promoting the exchange of
protection expertise between the company’s facilities and on coordi-
The protection of our employees, our facilities and our nating projects at an international level.
environment, as well as the sustainable use of natural
resources and the promotion of environmental awareness The health and safety of our employees is a high priority
are major components of our company’s mission state- at Boehringer Ingelheim. This is reflected in our high
ment and are of prime importance to Boehringer Ingelheim. global safety standards and guidelines, as well as in the
In the past year, Boehringer Ingelheim won the 2015 implementation of our safety culture. The Group-wide
Environment Award of the German Federal State of BE SAFE initiative was launched in 2010 and aims to fur-
Rhineland- Palatinate for its outstanding efforts to pro- ther reduce the number of workplace accidents. It has
tect the environment, nature and natural resources. since been rolled out at almost all international facilities.
Compliance with social and environmental aspects has The focus of global measures was on human behaviour
been anchored in our corporate philosophy for many years in order to achieve the ambitious target of an accident
now. The company strives to maintain natural resources frequency rate (AFR) of less than 1.6 accidents per million
and advocates environmental awareness both within and hours worked. With an AFR of 1.9 in 2015, we stayed
outside of the company. Observing social and ecological slightly above the level of the prior year.
concerns is the only way to ensure that we can enjoy
sustainable financial success.
Group-wide, our company has developed binding stand-
ards in terms of environmental protection, health and
safety at work. These internal guidelines reflect the respec-
tive country-specific legal requirements. Compliance
with our standards and the status of environmental and
–– 25 ––group management report InformatIon aBout the group of companIes Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
report on economIc posItIon
Employee reporting One of the company’s aims is to strengthen the appeal
In 2015, Boehringer Ingelheim employed around of Boehringer Ingelheim as a top employer for our current
47,501 people worldwide. From a regional perspective, and future employees. Boehringer Ingelheim was the
the number of staff in America was reduced, while recipient of various awards for its efforts in this area in
the number of employees in Europe and the AAA 2015, including being named one of the most innovative
region increased. companies in the world by news agency Thomson Reu-
ters. This award is proof of the pioneering approach and
Average number of employees by region 2015 2014 long-term strategy of Boehringer Ingelheim’s HR work.
americas 13,623 14,033 In addition, the company received a top rating from
europe 23,817 23,771 around 35,000 students in a survey conducted by the
asia/australia/africa (aaa) 10,061 9,939 international research and consulting firm Universum
47,501 47,743 that aimed at identifying the most popular German
employers. Every year, Boehringer Ingelheim enables
A major success factor for the positive growth of the around 400 trainees to obtain practical work experience
Group is its innovative, dedicated and reliable staff. in a variety of areas within the company. In the past
Accordingly, we are very committed to actively devel oping year, the company received the highest rating for employer
and supporting our employees. In order to be best pre- quality in the pharmaceuticals industry in the “Prakti-
pared for the challenges ahead, as part of a comprehensive kantenspiegel 2015” (2015 Trainee Satisfaction Survey),
training system, we not only set great store by the one of the biggest employer branding studies in Germany.
acquisition of technical expertise but also by promoting
social skills. Boehringer Ingelheim was also named Employer of the
Year for 2015 in Germany, Austria and China. We
In addition to competitive salaries, Boehringer Ingelheim received top marks from the auditors of the international,
offers other benefits to its employees. These benefits independent Top Employers’ Institute in major HR
include company pension plans, flexible and home-based categories such as “talent strategy”, “staff planning” as
work options and countless health-related benefits. As well as “performance management and onboarding”.
a significant segment of our corporate strategy, it is part of This is evidence of the high appeal and development
our Talent Management department’s remit to ensure opportunities at our company – both for employees and
the employability of our staff, promote a wide range of for potential recruits.
opportunities for innovation at work, and motivate our
employees to nurture their own talents and develop as Social responsibility
individuals. Taking social responsibility is also an important aspect of
our corporate culture. Our commitment to the well-being
Vocational training has always been of major importance of our patients, employees and their families is the focus
to Boehringer Ingelheim. As part of its understanding of of a range of projects. In addition, we support people in
social responsibility, the company offers career oppor- need through various initiatives, particularly in countries
tunities to a great number of young people. At the same and regions where we are active as a company. All of our
time, we also tie a talented and well-qualified workforce company’s activities also focus on protecting and main-
of young professionals to the company against a back- taining the environment.
drop of demographic change. In 2015, 230 young profes-
sionals started their careers with Boehringer Ingelheim in In addition to the long-term initiatives, Boehringer Ingel-
Germany in over 25 different scientific, technical and heim also provides help where it is urgently needed. For
commercial fields. example, Boehringer Ingelheim has been helping asylum
–– 26 ––group management report
seekers in Germany with gifts and donations. An area for that the diversity of the markets is reflected in its work-
accomodation facilities for a refugee reception center was force. Creating a working environment that embraces
provided as well as its food supply. Boehringer Ingelheim is diversity and differences is one of the pillars of the
also involved with the integration of refugees. Interested corporate culture of Boehringer Ingelheim and is a con-
parties were invited to take tours of the facility, where tributing factor to the company’s success.
they were introduced to the various businesses and were
given a presentation of the German apprenticeship sys- Boehringer Ingelheim was once again involved in the
tem. Furthermore, refugees have already been integrated “Herzenssache Schlaganfall” (taking stroke to heart)
into apprenticeships in 2015 in the form of a one-year awareness-raising initiative last year. The campaign was
introductory training programme. named the best national patient information campaign
in 2015 and received the Health Media Award. The initia-
A major pillar of our social commitment is our Making More tive, which was launched by Boehringer Ingelheim in
Health (MMH) initiative. For over five years, Boehringer 2010, promotes projects that raise awareness of atrial
Ingelheim has been in partnership with Ashoka, a global fibrillation and the associated risk of stroke, as well as
non-profit organisation. The aim of this partnership is to improving public perception. Over 40 independent organi-
integrate health as a major factor in people’s lives around sations from around the world were involved in the
the world, including their families and their social envi- initiative. Awareness-raising events were carried out in
ronment. It aims to identify and support promising over 100 cities as part of the initiative, which was
ideas for improving health. In order to achieve this, supported by the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Kardiologie
Making More Health currently promotes more than 70 (German Cardiac Society, DGK).
selected social entrepreneurs around the world, who
are attempting to come up with effective solutions in the Boehringer Ingelheim continues to actively support
healthcare sector. research, science and culture. Long-term partnerships with
academic institutions serve to underline the company’s
Social commitment within the company is also encour- systematic focus on research and development. Since 2007,
aged at Boehringer Ingelheim. Our employees in more for example, Boehringer Ingelheim has invested in 20
than 30 countries work on the MMH initiative. In the research projects investigating infections with porcine
MMH Youth Venture project, entrepreneurial skills are circovirus type 2 (PCV-2) and associated diseases. In
developed by working together on designing social pro- addition to supporting and sponsoring scientific activities,
jects, actively supported by mentors from our workforce. scientists are also awarded the annual Boehringer
The initiative is supported by the Executive in Residence Ingelheim FENS Research Award for neuroscience, or the
(EiR) and MMH Insight India staff development pro- Heinrich Wieland Prize for research into biologically
grammes. This programme gives young managers the active substances and systems.
opportunity to support social entrepreneurs in the health-
care sector at their project facilities for a specific period
of time and to develop and promote a socially aware report on economIc
approach to business.
posItIon
With the integration of various experiences, cultural
backgrounds and personalities, Boehringer Ingelheim Macroeconomic environment
creates an openness to different approaches and opinions, The global economy expanded at a rate of + 2.6% in 2015.
living up to its motto ‘Value through Innovation’. As a This moderate growth was primarily due to the weak devel-
global company, it is important to Boehringer Ingelheim opment of emerging economies. The slowdown in the
–– 27 ––group management report report on economIc posItIon Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Chinese economy and the decrease in global demand for as measured by the consumer price index. One of the
commodities have both had a detrimental impact on main reasons for this was the decrease in oil prices as
growth in the emerging economies. compared with the previous year. By contrast, the cost of
services, food and rent increased. The rate of inflation for
In the major industrialised countries, the economic situa- the whole eurozone was 0.2% and, thus, also lower than
tion showed a clear upturn over the course of 2015. This the previous year.
was supported in particular by the continued positive
growth in the USA and the UK. The economic situation in In addition to the euro, the major currencies for the
the eurozone also showed improvements, stimulated by Boehringer Ingelheim Group are the US dollar (USD) and
the expansive monetary policy of the European Central the Japanese yen (JPY). The euro continued on its gener-
Bank and increased purchasing power of private house- ally weak course in 2015, following on from last year’s
holds. By contrast, economic growth in Japan was moder- phase. After a sharp devaluation in the first quarter of
ate in 2015 as the impetus from the monetary and fiscal 2015, the euro fluctuated within a relatively narrow range
policy decisions of the previous year lost effect. as compared with the other two currencies. In relation to
the US dollar, the rate varied between USD 1.06/EUR
Growth of 2.6% is still forecast for the global economy in (April) and USD 1.20/EUR (January). As compared with
2016. We can expect to see continued stable development the Japanese yen, the euro varied between JPY 127/EUR
in the USA and the UK. Furthermore, the economic (April) and JPY 145/EUR (January).
growth in the eurozone looks set to continue. The gradual
slowdown in China is likely related to its close economic The global pharmaceuticals market registered growth
ties with other emerging economies having a dampening of around 9% in the 2015 financial year. This growth
effect, which, according to experts, will lead to a further was driven by increasing demand for innovative medi-
slowing of growth in these countries. cines and increased access to medicines for patients in
emerging economies, where there was a particularly
Positive economic development continued in 2015 in noticeable rise in demand for generics and OTC medi-
Germany, with economic output up by 1.7%. The upturn cines. In the industrialised countries, the market was
was supported primarily by the positive development of depressed by health policy measures and price regulation,
the labour market, increased purchasing power of private as well as increased cost pressure on health care sys-
households and a rise in private consumption. In addi- tems. Patented pharmaceuticals in particular experienced
tion, regressive interest rates also improved conditions for radical changes in the market environment.
investments. Despite the rather restrained growth in
world trade in 2015, exports grew at 6.2%, supported by a Course of business
continually weak euro. To secure Boehringer Ingelheim’s independence over the
long term, our strategic focus is on the sustainable, long-
With a view to 2016, we can assume that the positive eco- term competitive development of the company, as well as
nomic growth in Germany will continue, with forecast stable earnings and sound financing. As in previous years,
growth of around 1.7%. A stronger expansion of the Ger- we based our approach on these principles in the year
man economy will be hindered by the predicted shrinkage under review.
in emerging economies, associated with lower demand for
German capital goods. 2015 was another challenging year for Boehringer Ingelheim.
It was an exceptionally eventful year in that our company
With an average rate of inflation of 0.3% in 2015, prices was able to record more submissions, approvals and prod-
in Germany decreased compared with the previous year, uct launches than ever before in its 130-year history. One
–– 28 ––group management report
outstanding example of the success of our research and The Americas region achieved sales growth of 16.6%
development is our new diabetes medicine jardiance®, compared with the previous year, with sales of
whose active substance not only regulates the blood sugar EUR 6,923 million. With around 47% of our total sales,
level but is also the first-ever diabetes medicine to be able the Americas region remains the biggest sales market for
to reduce the number of deaths due to cardiovascular dis- Boehringer Ingelheim. The euro-dollar exchange rate had
ease in people with type 2 diabetes in a specially designed a positive impact on the revenue situation in the year under
trial. The approval of praxbind® - the antidote to the review. Adjusted for currency effects, the increase in sales
anticoagulant pradaxa®, which revokes its effects within amounted to + 5.1%. Strong growth was recorded once
minutes of intake - in Europe and the USA was another more in the Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) region with 13.6%
major milestone for Boehringer Ingelheim. In addition, (+ 7.7% adjusted for currency effects). Boehringer Ingel-
the product ofev®, which offers people with the rare, fatal heim achieved revenues of EUR 3,748 million in this
respiratory disease IPF a new treatment option and region, corresponding to a stable share of around 25% of
improves their life expectancy, received market approval, the Group’s total revenues. The Europe region showed
as did spiolto®, which further improves the already posi- low sales growth (+ 1.1%) to EUR 4,127 million, which
tive therapy results with spiriva® in the treatment of meant that almost 28% of the Group’s sales were made in
COPD. Our product spiriva® respimat® received addi- this region.
tional authorisation from the US Food and Drug Adminis-
Net sales by region currency
tration (FDA) for use in patients with asthma. 2015 was
(in EUR million) 2015 2014 Change adjusted
also a year that heralded the implementation of some major
americas 6,923 5,937 + 16.6% + 5.1%
strategic decisions aiming to help us remain successful on
europe 4,127 4,081 + 1.1% + 1.0%
the market in the future and focus on those areas of busi-
asia/australia/africa
ness where we already play a leading role globally or (aaa) 3,748 3,299 + 13.6% + 7.7%
could become a global leader. Our US business with gener-
ics was sold to the company Hikma Pharmaceuticals In general, sales growth conformed with expectations.
PLC, following the signing of an agreement with the com- Supported by good results from clinical trials, we have
pany to this effect in July 2015. We assume that the transfer been able to launch promising new products and success-
of ownership will go ahead in the first quarter of 2016. In fully push ahead with well-established products. On the
addition, we entered into exclusive negotiations with the other hand, we are experiencing an increasingly difficult
French company Sanofi S.A. in December 2015 with the market situation with constantly challenging market access
aim of trading Sanofi’s animal health business for and growing price pressure in our key markets of the USA,
Boehringer Ingelheim’s consumer health care business. Japan and Europe. Overall, the company has asserted itself
Both parties are counting on the transaction being final- well despite the difficult conditions and has laid the foun-
ised towards the end of 2016. dations for further growth.
Boehringer Ingelheim recorded sales of EUR 14,798 mil- Boehringer Ingelheim recorded an operating result of
lion in the 2015 financial year, which corresponds to an EUR 2,269 million, corresponding to a return on sales of
increase of 11.1% as compared with the previous year’s 15.3%, which is 0.8 percentage points below the previous
value of EUR 13,317 million. The exchange rate develop- year's return on sales. On the other hand, the operating
ments on the foreign exchange markets and the associated result was increased in absolute terms by EUR 129 million,
exchange rate effects had a positive impact. Currency ad- confirming our expectations for 2015. The increase in
justed, Boehringer Ingelheim’s growth rate stood at 4.1%. sales and the cost-efficiency measures introduced in
2014 both had positive effects.
–– 29 ––group management report report on economIc posItIon Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
of EUR 1,287 million, which also corresponds to an
Key figures (in EUR million) 2015 2014 Change
increase over the 2014 level (+ 7.4%).
net sales 14,798 13,317 + 11.1%
operating income 2,269 2,140 + 6.0%
micardis®, a medicine used to treat high blood pres-
return on net sales 15.3% 16.1%
sure, achieved sales of EUR 956 million, down 12.1%
Results from operations on last year. This expected decline resulted from the
Boehringer Ingelheim’s business activities are divided loss of exclusivity in additional markets.
into prescription medicines, consumer health care, animal
Net sales (in EUR million) 2015 2014 Change
health, biopharmaceuticals and industrial customers.
spiriva® 3,553 3,237 + 9.8%
Net sales by businesses currency pradaxa® 1,287 1,198 + 7.4%
(in EUR million) 2015 2014 Change adjusted
micardis® 956 1,088 – 12.1%
prescription medicines 11,201 10,101 + 10.9% + 2.6%
trajenta® / jentadueto® 909 636 + 42.9%
consumer health care 1,513 1,437 + 5.3% + 7.1%
animal health 1,363 1,130 + 20.6% + 10.5%
With regard to the regional distribution of sales the
Biopharmaceuticals 576 501 + 15.0% + 15.0%
Americas, with a share of 50.1%, was once more by far
Industrial customers and
other sales 145 148 – 2.0% – 5.3% the largest market. In this region, Boehringer Ingelheim
generated net sales of EUR 5,613 million, which corre-
Prescription medicines sponds to a change of + 17.9% compared with the previ-
With around 76% of total revenue, prescription medicines ous year (+ 3.4% currency adjusted). The sales perfor-
is the main pillar of Boehringer Ingelheim’s business mance in our most important market in the Americas, the
activities. In 2015, revenues from prescription medicines USA, had the greatest impact on the development there,
amounted to EUR 11,201 million, including, as in previous with sales of EUR 4,825 million. In addition to positive
years, sales from generics in the USA. This is equivalent to growth, favourable exchange rate developments were major
a change of around + 10.9% (+ 2.6% currency adjusted) contributors to the increase in revenues, which came to
compared with the previous year. The positive sales growth + 3.4% currency adjusted.
is due to the successful launch of numerous new products
and good results from clinical trials. We are experiencing The second-biggest market, Europe, accounted for 24.4%
increasing price pressure, however, particularly for estab- with revenues of EUR 2,729 million. Sales thus remained
lished medicines, in a number of major markets. Overall, steady compared with 2014 (EUR 2,732 million) and were
Boehringer Ingelheim was able to assert itself well in this not subject to any significant exchange rate effects. Reve-
difficult environment and has laid the foundations for nues in Germany and France in particular were lower
further growth. than in the previous year.
Net sales by region
As in previous years, spiriva®, which is used to treat
(in EUR million) 2015 2014 Change
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), was
americas 5,613 4,762 + 17.9%
once again the biggest contributor to sales in 2015. It
europe 2,729 2,732 – 0.1%
achieved revenues of EUR 3,553 million within the
asia/australia/africa (aaa) 2,838 2,569 + 10.5%
reporting period and was thus above the level of the
previous year (EUR 3,237 million).
The AAA region achieved sales of EUR 2,838 million,
The second biggest sales contributor for Boehringer which is equivalent to 25.3% of total sales of prescription
Ingelheim, the anticoagulant pradaxa®, recorded sales medicines. This region showed an increase of + 10.5% as
–– 30 ––group management report
compared with last year (+ 4.3% currency adjusted). Sales The Americas region, the third largest sales market in the
of EUR 1,531 million were recorded in Japan, the biggest consumer health care business, ended the financial year
sales market for Boehringer Ingelheim in this region, cor- with a slight decline in revenues of – 0.7% (+ 8.6% currency
responding to a change of + 5.4% compared with the pre- adjusted) compared with the previous year, achieving total
vious year. sales of EUR 431 million.
Consumer health care Animal health
In consumer health care, sales increased by + 5.3% com- Revenues from products in the animal health business
pared with the previous year (currency-adjusted + 7.2%). increased to EUR 1,363 million in 2015, corresponding to
In this business, Boehringer Ingelheim generated revenue a 20.6% increase on the previous year (+ 10.5% currency
amounting to EUR 1,513 million. adjusted). Sales of products for livestock accounted for
the largest share of this, EUR 979 million, corresponding
In 2015, the biggest sales contributors in the consumer to around 72% of the entire animal health segment. As
health care segment were dulcolax®, buscopan®, in the previous year, the biggest sales contributor was the
mucosolvan®, pharmaton® and zantac®. All products swine vaccine ingelvac circoflex®, accounting for
generated revenue of significantly more than EUR 100 mil- EUR 281 million. In the pet segment, revenues amounted
lion each. As a result of positive growth of 12.5%, d ulcolax® to EUR 384 million.
was the biggest seller, with sales of EUR 225 million.
Net sales (in EUR million) 2015 2014 Change
buscopan® only showed a slight increase (+ 0.5%) and
ingelvac circoflex® 281 260 + 8.1%
generated sales of EUR 223 million. Positive results were
metacam® 101 93 + 8.6%
also achieved with mucosolvan®, with sales increasing
ingelvac® prrs 99 74 + 33.8%
by 3.7% to EUR 168 million.
duramune® 88 69 + 27.5%
Net sales (in EUR million) 2015 2014 Change
dulcolax® 225 200 + 12.5%
The growth of the animal health segment was most sig-
buscopan® 223 222 + 0.5%
nificant in the Americas region. Accounting for 51.2%
mucosolvan® 168 162 + 3.7%
of total sales, the biggest sales market for Boehringer
pharmaton® 140 136 + 2.9%
Ingelheim in this business grew by 26% (+ 8.6% currency
adjusted) to EUR 698 million. In the US market in par-
Of all the regions, Europe generated the highest sales of ticular, sales increased by 27.6% to EUR 578 million.
EUR 576 million. This corresponds to a 38.1% share of
global sales in the consumer health care business. As such, Boehringer Ingelheim also saw revenues grow in Europe
sales here were up by 2.3% on last year. In Boehringer in 2015, increasing to EUR 366 million, or a rise of 7.3%
Ingelheim’s key European market, Germany, revenues (+ 7.0% currency adjusted), and accounting for 26.9% of
increased by 8.2%. total revenues of the animal health business. While sales
in Germany were slightly above previous year's level,
The AAA region ended the 2015 financial year with sales sales in the UK experienced particularly positive growth
amounting to EUR 506 million and an increase of 15.3% (+ 19,6%).
compared with the previous year (+ 9.3% currency
adjusted). This region therefore accounted for 33.4% of With an increase of 26.3% (+ 21.1% currency adjusted),
Boehringer Ingelheim’s consumer health care business. the AAA region also recorded positive growth compared
with the previous year, recording sales of EUR 298 mil-
lion. China in particular was able to achieve impressive
–– 31 ––group management report report on economIc posItIon Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
growth of + 35.6%, with net sales amounting to Holding income increased by EUR 201 million to EUR
EUR 99 million. 183 million und contains income from dismissal of
related companies.
Biopharmaceuticals
Sales for 2015 in biopharmaceutical contract manufac- Income before taxes developed in line with the result
turing amounted to EUR 576 million, which represents from operating activities, increasing to EUR 1,849 mil-
growth of 15.0% compared with the previous year. lion. Tax expenses amounted to EUR 273 million. It
must be noted in this regard that under the provisions of
Industrial customers and other sales German commercial law, shareholders’ personal taxes
The industrial customer business consists of our third- arising from Group business activities may not be recog-
party businesses in the field of pharmaceutical and chemi- nised as tax expenses. Instead, these taxes are presented
cal production and our contract manufacturing business as part of withdrawals from Group equity. Taking this
for pharma chemicals. Sales of EUR 145 million were extraordinary effect into account, the actual tax ratio is
achieved in 2015, corresponding to a decrease in revenue markedly higher than the figure shown in the profit and
of – 2.0% (– 5.3% currency adjusted) compared with the loss statement.
previous year.
In the 2015 financial year, the net income of the
Presentation of expenditure and income Boehringer Ingelheim Group totalled EUR 1,577 mil-
Operating expenses at Boehringer Ingelheim increased to lion, corresponding to an increase of EUR 530 million
EUR 13,996 million in the 2015 financial year, represent- on the previous year’s level of EUR 1,047 million.
ing a rise of 11.9% compared with the previous year. Mate-
rial costs were 9.0% higher than the previous year, com- Financial position
ing in at EUR 2,111 million and making up 14.3% of Boehringer Ingelheim’s financial management instru-
total sales (14.5% in 2014). Personnel costs amounted to ments and methods are aimed at securing liquidity, mini-
EUR 4,518 million (+ 9.8%), corresponding to a personnel mising financial and economic risks and optimising the
cost ratio of 30.5%, which was slightly lower than the cost of capital with an appropriate capital structure. Our
previous year. financial activities are therefore geared towards support-
ing the business strategy.
Depreciation recorded an increase of EUR 35 million
(+ 6.4%) to EUR 586 million. Other operating expenses As a global company, exchange rate volatility has a significant
rose by 14.9% compared with the previous year, coming impact on Boehringer Ingelheim’s financial performance.
in at EUR 6,781 million. Among other items, this cost The importance of our US business and the associated
block includes commission and licence payments that are supply relationships mean that the exchange rate develop-
dependent on sales. ment of the US dollar constitutes the greatest individual
risk. Within the framework of Group-wide financial
The operating result was slightly higher than predicted at reporting, foreign exchange risk is calculated and hedged
EUR 2,269 million, which was 6.0% up on the previous through derivative financial instruments. The nature and
year (EUR 2,140 million). scope of these measures are set out in our Group guidelines
and are regularly discussed and approved by the relevant
In the reporting period, the financial result amounted to committee in a standardised process.
EUR – 603 million, down by EUR 187 million compared
with the previous year. This was largely due to the increased Investments are of great importance to Boehringer Ingel-
interest expense for pensions and similar obligations. heim from a strategic point of view. Continuous investment
–– 32 ––group management report
is a requirement for long-term success and the develop- cash flow led to an increase in liquidity to EUR 10,200
ment of the company, and forms the basis for the profita- million (+ 19.9%).
ble growth of our business divisions.
Net assets
A total of EUR 660 million was invested in tangible and In the 2015 financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim’s total
intangible assets in the year under review. assets amounted to EUR 23,285 million, an increase
of EUR 3,234 million (+ 16.1%) as compared with the
Over the years 2015 until 2018, Boehringer Ingelheim is previous year. Tangible and intangible assets totalled
investing around EUR 120 million in the expansion of EUR 3,870 million and were fully covered by consoli-
production capacity for the respimat® inhaler at its dated equity.
Dortmund and Ingelheim facilities in Germany. Boehringer
Ingelheim microParts GmbH in Dortmund manufactures As at the end of the year, financial investments amounted
the respimat® inhalation system, which is then filled with to EUR 5,933 million, which corresponds to an increase
the relevant active substances from the pharma ceutical of EUR 621 million on the previous year’s value. Inventories
production facility in Ingelheim, ready for global sales. showed growth of 11.0% to EUR 2,483 million. Trade
receivables rose by EUR 440 million to EUR 3,217 million
In addition, the new “BI5” administrative office was in- in 2015. Liquid funds, including securities within current
augurated at the Ingelheim facility in November 2015, assets, stood at EUR 4,536 million (2014: EUR 3,294 million).
representing an investment of around EUR 82 million
alltogether. This underlines the strategic role and signi- Due to the aforementioned changes in cash and cash
ficance of the location for the Group. equivalents, Group equity amounted to EUR 9,603 mil-
lion. In addition to equity, the pension provisions and
In 2015, Boehringer Ingelheim once again invested in the long-term liabilities are also available to the Group in the
significant growth market of China. The Group plans to long term. The total of these three items amounted to
invest around EUR 100 million in the expansion of its EUR 13,992 million in 2015, representing a share of 60.1%
manufacturing facilities and in the chemical research and of the total assets. Consequently, long-term disposable
development laboratory in Shanghai over the next five capital covers all intangible and tangible assets, invento-
years. Research and development in the fields of human ries and trade receivables.
and animal medicines will remain a top priority for
Boehringer Ingelheim. This is reflected in the investments While other provisions were around 30.2% higher than last
made in the research facilities in Germany, Austria and year at EUR 4,939 million, liabilities only increased margin-
the USA during 2015. ally by 2.5% to EUR 2,495 million during the previous year.
Cash flow amounted to EUR 2,605 million in 2015. Cash The status already shown in the financial position
flow from operating activities increased to EUR 2,232 mil- remains resoundingly positive on both the balance sheet
lion. As in previous years, this meant that investments and in the respective balance sheet ratios. To sum up,
could be financed entirely through funds generated by the Boehringer Ingelheim’s net assets, financial and earnings
company itself. A total of EUR 591 million was invested position confirm its credentials as a soundly financed and
in tangible assets (without consideration of subsidies) and profitable company.
EUR 69 million in intangible assets. In terms of cash flow
from financing activities, we recorded an outflow of funds
amounting to EUR 46 million. Overall, the changes in
–– 33 ––group management report report on post-BaLance sheet Date eVents Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
rIsK report
report on post-baLance
The persons responsible for the key businesses and
sheet Date eVents functions are included in the process of calculating and
assessing risks. The Group-wide risk and information
system ensures that all identified risks are analysed and
On 23.02.2016 Boehringer Ingelheim has signed an assessed carefully. Following an appropriate classifi-
agreement for development and commercialisation of two cation into various categories, adequate countermeasures
products belonging to the therapeutic area immunology. are initiated and their implementation is consistently
There is significant income related to this transaction, monitored.
which will impact the financial year 2016. The closing of
the transaction is subject to conditions defined in the In the year under review, internal auditing performed
agreement. targeted routine audits as well as extraordinary audits
around the world. In addition to adherence to legal
Since the end of the 2015 financial year, we have not requirements and internal Group guidelines, the main
become aware of any further events that are of material focal points were the functionality of systems, the
significance to the group of companies or that could lead effectiveness of internal controls for the prevention of
to a reappraisal of its net assets, financial position and loss of assets and the efficiency of structures and
results from operations. processes. Corresponding adjustments or optimisations
were initiated as necessary.
rIsK report
Individual risks
The most important risks to which Boehringer Ingel-
Risk and opportunity management heim is exposed are broken down into the following
The aim of the risk management system implemented at specific categories: financial risks, legal risks, production
Boehringer Ingelheim is to identify business-specific risks and environmental risks, personnel risks and sector-
and, in particular, risks that jeopardise the continued specific risks.
existence of the company as early as possible, to assess
them and to reduce them to a reasonable level by means Risks are identified below as being “concrete” when they
of suitable measures. appear to be controllable by means of specific manage-
ment procedures. The term “abstract” is used in the case
When assessing the risks in the context of holistic risk of risks that cannot be completely controlled, even by
management, we also endeavour to take into account the means of targeted management procedures, regardless of
resulting opportunities. Opportunity management is based the probability of their occurrence.
on the strategies and objectives of the company, individual
businesses and operating business units and is an integral Financial risks
part of the Group-wide planning and management systems. Relevant financial risks are themselves broken down as
Those responsible for the businesses and functions bear follows: currency risks, credit and country-specific risks,
direct responsibility for the early and systematic identifica- as well as the management of financial investment risks.
tion, analysis and use of opportunities. For Boehringer
Ingelheim as a research-driven and innovative, pharma- Currency risks
ceutical company, the c urrent research and development The global orientation of our business activities results in
activities are naturally considered a relevant opportunity. currency risks due to exchange rate volatility, particularly
A detailed description of these projects is illustrated in the with regard to the US dollar and Japanese yen. The Group
research and development chapter. monitors and quantifies these risks at regular intervals,
–– 34 ––group management report
making them predictable for future business by means of currently has product liability insurance for the company’s
relevant hedging strategies and appropriate financial risk profile. There is absolutely no guarantee, however,
instruments, such as forward exchange contracts. The that this insurance coverage can be maintained at reasonable
resultant risks are subsequently designated as being cost and acceptable conditions, or that it is sufficient to
concrete and therefore controllable. protect Boehringer Ingelheim against a claim or loss, or
against all potential claims or losses.
Credit and country-specific risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to various credit and Furthermore, product liability claims could tie up sub-
country-specific risks as a result of its international business stantial financial resources and management capacity and
activities. From the portfolio of trade accounts receivable be detrimental to the company’s image in the event that
and trade accounts payable, we have not identified any the market considers the product to be unsafe or ineffective
extraordinary risks for the Group beyond the usual level as a result of unexpected side effects. Boehringer Ingel-
in the sector. The same applies to possible default risks for heim closely monitors its products during development as
receivables, which are largely hedged against economic well as on the market and attributes particular impor-
and political risks. We will continue to carefully track tance to the benefit-risk ratio and its regular assessment.
credit and country-specific risks to be in a position to We regard this risk as abstract.
respond to negative changes in a timely manner. These
risks are therefore regarded as concrete. Patent protection risks
Protection of innovations through trademark, brand and
Management of financial investment risks patent rights is of particular importance to Boehringer
The Group pursues a defensive investment strategy in the Ingelheim as a research company. These commercial pro-
management of its financial assets. This is reflected in the tective rights are increasingly the target of attacks and
orientation of its portfolio, which is focused on European breaches. We have taken the necessary precautions to
Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) government bonds allow us to detect threats at an early stage and, by com-
with top credit ratings and short-term investments at mencing appropriate countermeasures, defend our legal
various banks, so that this results in a concrete and thus position using all legal means available to us so that
controllable risk. these risks are regarded as concrete.
Legal risks Production and environmental risks
The business activities of the Group are exposed to legal Our quality management system and compliance pro-
risks. A distinction is made between regulatory, liability cesses will be optimised in close cooperation with the
and patent protection risks. relevant authorities in order to ensure compliance with
cGMP standards (current good manufacturing practice)
Regulatory risks in future. Risks in this area continue to be of high signifi-
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to risks arising from legal cance to the Group and are classified as abstract.
disputes and proceedings as well as official investigations.
As the legal or administrative decisions in ongoing or future In order to guarantee the supply of our products to the
proceedings cannot be predicted, we regard the resultant market, we have implemented measures that guarantee
risks as being abstract. reliable and high-quality supplies for internal and external
customers. In addition to supplier management on the
Liability risks procurement side, this also involves building up internal
The marketing and sale of pharmaceuticals are exposed to standby capacities. As a result, we see the risk as concrete.
a potential product liability risk. Boehringer Ingelheim
–– 35 ––group management report rIsK report Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
report on eXpecteD DeVeLopments
Risks in the areas of environment, health, safety and therefore keeping a close eye on the various changes in
sustainability (EHS&S) are pre-emptively minimised by its sales markets and has already started to respond to
ensuring global adherence to our high safety standards. current developments with cost-saving and efficiency-
Appropriate emergency plans have been drawn up for improving measures initiated in 2014.
possible incidents of any kind and are practised and
subjected to comprehensive quality testing at regular Overall statement on the risk situation
intervals. As a result of these measures, these risks are From a current perspective, we are not aware of any risks
classed as concrete. that alone or in conjunction with other risks could lead to
an impairment of the company’s assets, financial position
Personnel risks or earnings which could jeopardise the continued existence
Boehringer Ingelheim, as other companies, is exposed to of Boehringer Ingelheim.
demographic change and the resultant risk of being
affected by a lack of appropriately qualified personnel.
report on expecteD
This risk can have a substantial impact on the company’s
business activities. This potential risk has therefore been DeVeLopments
included in the long-term planning process for many
years and has acquired strategic significance as a result.
Boehringer Ingelheim counters the risk by means of a The year under review was an intense and challenging
comprehensive personnel concept. Regardless of their time for Boehringer Ingelheim, during which we laid the
ethnic background, gender or religion, we offer all foundations for the sustainable development and long-
company employees development opportunities based on term growth of our company with several major strategic
their vocational skills, social expertise, personal aptitudes decisions. The increasingly difficult market environment
and willingness to take on responsibility in accordance and increased unpredictability of doing business posed
with the needs of the company. In view of the counter- major challenges for the entire pharmaceutical industry
measures described above, the risk is regarded as concrete. and will continue to require significant attention from
Boehringer Ingelheim in 2016. With regard to competi-
Sector-specific risks tiveness, it is all the more important, therefore, that we
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to business risks specific retain our scope for growth and innovation so that we can
to the pharmaceutical industry. Some of these risks continue to be successful on the market in the future.
materialised in the past financial year (changes to the
healthcare system in the USA) and are increasing in We will also continue to renew our product portfolio in
significance as a result of their impact on Boehringer the 2016 financial year, with product launches forming
Ingelheim. They will continue to be classed as abstract. the basis of our future economic success. Clinical trials in
2015 once again showed that our new medicines can offer
In addition to the loss of exclusivity of products established patients significant therapeutic benefit. For example, our
on the market and risks associated with the development new diabetes medicine, jardiance®, is the first of its kind
and registration of new products, these risks increasingly whose active substance not only regulates the blood sugar
include changing and restrictive requirements relating level but also reduces the number of deaths due to cardio-
to pricing and reimbursement on many sales markets. Fre- vascular incidents in patients with type 2 diabetes and an
quently, the prices of pharmaceutical products are subject increased risk of cardiovascular disease. jardiance® is
not only to state monitoring and regulation, but also to sold as part of the strategic alliance between Boehringer
price pressure from cheaper generic drugs caused by the Ingelheim and Eli Lilly. The long-term collaboration for
state reimbursement systems. Boehringer Ingelheim is the joint development and marketing of diabetes active
–– 36 ––group management report
ingredients is being continued and also comprises other increasing cost pressure in the healthcare system that
active ingredients that will be ready for the market in the should be singled out in particular as a reason why fewer
next few years. The approvals in 2015 for praxbind®, a and fewer companies are prepared to invest large amounts
specific reversal agent for the anticoagulant pradaxa® in in the proper development of new medicines. As a result,
Europe and the USA, ofev®, which offers people with the there is significant price pressure in all major markets for
rare, fatal respiratory disease IPF a new treatment option prescription medicines. This, in conjunction with longer
and improves their life expectancy, and spiolto®, which planning and development cycles for new products,
further improves the already positive therapy results with makes business less predictable and requires us to recog-
spiriva® in the treatment of COPD, laid the foundations nise and seize opportunities quickly on the one hand,
for offsetting the expected decrease in sales as a result of while subjecting costs and strategies to continual moni-
the loss of exclusivity rights for other medicines. toring and adjustments on the other. To this end, we have
instigated initiatives over the past few years to accelerate
With regard to the many changes in healthcare systems our reactions to change, to reduce organisational com-
and the increasing price pressure, particularly for well- plexities and to lower our cost base in order to create
established medicines in many major markets, and with further potential for investments and thus to secure the
regard to increasing challenges to market access for company’s long-term success. With the difficult market
new products, we only expect to see low growth impetus environment on the one hand, and the potential resulting
for the pharmaceutical industry in the coming year. from the measures we have introduced as well as the
Boehringer Ingelheim has asserted itself in this difficult promising new product launches on the other, we expect
environment and created the basis for further growth, to see a 2016 operating result before special effects from
which is why we expect to see a minor increase in reve- company transactions that is slightly below last year’s level.
nues compared to the previous year when adjusted for
currency effects. As a family-run company with a long history and strong
tradition, Boehringer Ingelheim’s primary aim is to main-
Research and development costs remained high in 2015, tain the firm’s independence and competitiveness. As
in keeping with our strategy to drive growth and promote such, long-term and sustainable organic growth still takes
new products in the future primarily with products from precedence over short-term profit targets. We are confi-
our own research and development facilities. We invest in dent that we will achieve our ambitious targets thanks to
this area with care after close investigation of the thera- our great innovative strength based on a comprehensive
peutic benefit and the associated prospects for success. Our portfolio of prospective products, our global presence
comprehensive portfolio of prospective products with and the support of our highly qualified and motivated
promising study outcomes, along with newly approved employees. Current product launches and expansions in
products with significant sales potential, justifies our high emerging markets will boost growth in all our areas of
level of investment in research and development. In 2016, business. We will continue to stand by our vision “Value
we plan to invest into the research and development of through Innovation”, research and develop innovative
new pharmaceutical products on a similar level to the year products that offer high medical benefits and bring them
under review. to the market. The aim of our endeavours is to make new
medicines available that will enable doctors to treat patients
In addition to patent expiry and attacks on patents, the more effectively than is currently possible.
major challenges facing the research-driven pharmaceuti-
cal industry are the increasing amount of investment in
R&D as well as bigger hurdles and increased costs associ-
ated with product approvals. In this context, it is the
–– 37 ––consolidated financial statements Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
–– 38 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
c o n s o l i d a t e d f i n a n c i a l
s t a t e m e n t s 2 0 1 5
Overview of the major consolidated companies 40
Consolidated balance sheet 42
Consolidated profit and loss statement 43
Cash flow statement 44
Statement of changes in group equity 45
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 46
Auditor’s report 66
–– 39 ––OVERVIEw OF THE MAjOR CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
overview of the major consolidated companies
c. h. boehringer sohn
ag & co. Kg*
boehringer ingelheim boehringer ingelheim
boehringer ingelheim gmbh
europe gmbh international gmbh
germany D P R austria D P R austria R
Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim RCV Forschungsinstitut für Molekulare
Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, GmbH & Co. KG, Vienna Pathologie Gesellschaft mbH,
Ingelheim Vienna
Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma Ges.m.b.H., Vienna
Vetmedica GmbH, Ingelheim
belgium D
Boehringer Ingelheim
microParts GmbH, Dortmund czech republic D SCS Boehringer Ingelheim
Comm. V., Brussels
Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim s.r.o.,
Biopharmaceuticals GmbH, Prague
Ingelheim china D P
Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary
finland D Boehringer Ingelheim
Research Center GmbH & Co. KG,
International Trading (Shanghai)
Hannover Boehringer Ingelheim
Co. Ltd., Shanghai
Finland Ky, Espoo
philippines D
norway D
Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim
(Phil.), Inc., Manila
Norway KS, Asker
poland D
Boehringer Ingelheim Sp.zo.o.,
Warsaw
D Distribution
P Production
R Research and Development
* Sole, personally liable, managing shareholder:
Boehringer AG
–– 40 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
c. h. boehringer sohn
grundstücKsverwaltung gmbh & co. Kg
boehringer ingelheim
auslandsbeteiligungs gmbh
argentina D R france D P the netherlands D P taiwan D
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim B.V., Alkmaar Boehringer Ingelheim
Buenos Aires France S.A.S., Paris Taiwan Ltd., Taipeh
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Operations B.V., Alkmaar
australia D greece D P thailand D
Boehringer Ingelheim Pty. Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim Ellas AE, new zealand D Boehringer Ingelheim
North Ryde Athens (Thai) Ltd., Bangkok
Boehringer Ingelheim
(N.Z.) Ltd., Auckland
brazil D P india D turKey D
Boehringer Ingelheim do Brasil Boehringer Ingelheim portugal D Boehringer Ingelheim Ilac
Quimica e Farmaceutica Ltda., India Private Ltd., Mumbai Ticaret A.S., Istanbul
São Paulo Boehringer Ingelheim Lda., Lisbon
Solana Agro Pecuaria Ltda., Unilfarma Lda., Lisbon
indonesia D P united Kingdom D
Arapongas
PT Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim Ltd.,
singapore D
Indonesia, Jakarta Bracknell
canada D
Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim Singapore Pte. Ltd., Singapore
ireland D usa D P R
(Canada) Ltd., Burlington
Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim Corp.,
south africa D
Ireland Limited, Dublin Ridgefield, Connecticut
chile D
Boehringer Ingelheim (Pty.) Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim Ltda., Randburg Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
italy D P R
Santiago de Chile Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals (Pty.) Ridgefield, Connecticut
Boehringer Ingelheim Ltd., Randburg Boehringer Ingelheim
Italia S.p.A., Reggello USA Corporation,
china D P
Bidachem S.p.A., Ridgefield, Connecticut
south Korea D
Boehringer Ingelheim Shanghai Fornovo S. Giovanni Roxane Laboratories, Inc.,
Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd., Shanghai Boehringer Ingelheim Korea Ltd., Columbus, Ohio
Boehringer Ingelheim (China) japan D P R Seoul Boehringer Ingelheim
Investment Co. Ltd., Shanghai Vetmedica, Inc.,
Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim spain D P St. Joseph, Missouri
(China) Investment Co. Ltd., Shanghai Co. Ltd., Tokyo Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health SSP Co. Ltd., Tokyo Boehringer Ingelheim Roxane, Inc., Columbus, Ohio
España S.A., Barcelona
Operations (China) Co. Ltd., Taizhou Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer Ingelheim
Vetmedica japan Co. Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Barcelona Fremont, Inc.,
columbia D P Tokyo Europharma S.A., Barcelona Fremont, California
Boehringer Ingelheim
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Seiyaku Co. Ltd., Yamagata Laboratorios Fher S.A., Barcelona
Bogotá venezuela D
Boehringer Ingelheim
japan, Inc., Tokyo sweden D Boehringer Ingelheim C.A.,
Caracas
denmarK D P Boehringer Ingelheim AB, Stockholm
Boehringer Ingelheim mexico D P R
Danmark A/S, Copenhagen
Boehringer Ingelheim switzerland D
Promeco S.A. de C.V.,
Boehringer Ingelheim
ecuador D Mexico City (Schweiz) GmbH, Basel
Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica,
Boehringer Ingelheim del Ecuador Pharmaton S.A., Lugano
S.A. de C.V., Guadalajara
Cia. Ltda., Quito
–– 41 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
consolidated balance sheet
Assets (in millions of EUR) Notes 1) 31.12.2015 31.12.2014
Intangible assets (3.1) 606 592
Tangible assets (3.2) 3,264 3,070
Financial assets (3.3) 5,933 5,312
Fixed assets 9,803 8,974
Inventories (3.4) 2,483 2,237
Accounts receivable and other assets (3.5) 4,178 3,751
Securities 1,327 760
Cash and cash equivalents 3,209 2,534
Current assets 11,197 9,282
Deferred charges and prepaid expenses 163 155
Deferred taxes 2,122 1,640
Total assets 23,285 20,051
Liabilities and equity (in millions of EUR) Notes 1) 31.12.2015 31.12.2014
Shareholders’ capital 178 178
Group reserves 7,938 7,026
Balance sheet currency conversion difference — 94 — 142
Net income 1,577 1,047
Equity 9,599 8,109
Minority interests 4 2
Group equity 9,603 8,111
Negative difference from acquisition of companies 71 91
Provisions (3.6) 10,300 8,535
Accounts payable (3.7) 2,495 2,435
Liabilities 12,795 10,970
Deferred charges 573 574
Deferred taxes 243 305
Total liabilities and equity 23,285 20,051
1) For explanation, see relevant section in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
–– 42 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
consolidated profit and loss statement
(in millions of EUR) Notes 1) 2015 2014
Net sales (4.1) 14,798 13,317
Changes in inventories 177 180
Other internal work performed and capitalised 7 12
Other operating income (4.2) 1,283 1,139
Total revenues 16,265 14,648
Material costs (4.3) — 2,111 — 1,937
Personnel costs (4.4) — 4,518 — 4,116
Amortisation of intangible and depreciation of tangible assets (4.5) — 586 — 551
Other operating expenses (4.6) — 6,781 — 5,904
Operating income 2,269 2,140
Financial income (4.7) — 603 — 416
Holding income (4.8) 183 — 18
Income before taxes 1,849 1,706
Taxes 2) (4.9) — 273 — 660
Income after taxes 1,576 1,046
Third-party share 1 1
Net income (4.10) 1,577 1,047
1) For explanation, see relevant section in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
2) Due to legal requirements the disclosure of the shareholders’ personal taxes arising from consolidated business activities as tax expenses is not
allowed. These taxes are shown as withdrawals from the accrued group capital.
Items of the consolidated profit and loss statement that show no value due to rounding in millions of EUR will be disclosed.
–– 43 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CASH FLOw STATEMENT Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN GROUP EQUITy
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
cash flow statement
(in millions of EUR) 2015
Income after taxes (including third-party share) 1,576
write-downs / write-ups on fixed assets 1) 586
Change in provisions for pensions 443
Cash flow 2,605
Change in other provisions 936
Other non-cash income and expenses — 54
Gain / loss on disposals of fixed assets — 170
Change in inventories — 209
Change in accounts receivable and other assets not related to investing or financing activities — 355
Change in trade accounts payable and other liabilities not related to investing or financing activities — 66
Interest income / interest expenses — 43
Income tax expenses / income 273
Income taxes paid — 685
Cash flow from operating activities 2,232
Investments in intangible assets — 69
Investments in property, plant and equipment — 593
Investments in non-current financial assets 1) — 19
Proceeds from disposals of intangible assets 0
Proceeds from disposals of tangible assets 25
Proceeds from disposals of non-current financial assets 1) 188
Interest received 108
Cash flow from investing activities — 360
Cash receipts from grants 7
Interest paid — 65
Cash payment to owners — 9
Cash receipts from minority shareholders 3
Cash proceeds from borrowings of loans 18
Cash flow from financing activities — 46
Change in liquid funds from cash relevant transactions 1,826
Changes in liquid funds due to exchange rate movements and remeasurements 29
Financial funds 2) as of 1.1. 8,507
Financial funds 2) as of 31.12. 10,362
Changes in liquid funds due to DRS 21 — 162
Financial funds as of 31.12. after changes due to DRS 21 10,200
1) Excl. fixed-asset securities
2) Liquid funds, securities within fixed and current assets
(+) = source of funds, (—) = use of funds
–– 44 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
statement of changes in group equity
Sharehol- Accrued thereof cur- Minority thereof cur-
(in millions of EUR) ders’ capital 1) group capital rency effects Equity interests rency effects Group equity
Balance as of 31.12.2013 178 6,943 — 210 7,121 1 0 7,122
Contributions 0 40 0 40 2 0 42
withdrawals 0 — 167 0 — 167 0 0 — 167
Net income 0 1,047 0 1,047 — 1 0 1,046
Other changes 0 68 68 68 0 0 68
Balance as of 31.12.2014 178 7,931 — 142 8,109 2 0 8,111
Contributions 0 0 0 0 3 0 3
withdrawals 0 — 135 0 — 135 0 0 — 135
Net income 0 1,577 0 1,577 — 1 0 1,576
Other changes 0 48 48 48 0 0 48
Balance as of 31.12.2015 178 9,421 — 94 9,599 4 0 9,603
1) The shareholders’ capital consists of the equity of C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG and C. H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG. As of
31.12.2015, the capital consists only of the limited partner’s capital contribution. The shareholders’ personal taxes arising from consolidated business activities are
shown as withdrawals from the accrued group capital.
Items of the statement of changes in equity that show no value due to rounding in millions of EUR will be disclosed.
–– 45 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
1 Principles and methods
1.1 General principles
The consolidated financial statements of Boehringer Ingelheim for the 2015 financial year were prepared in
accordance with Section 264a of the German Commercial Code (HGB), in line with the legal requirements to
prepare consolidated financial statements and a group management report under Section 290 et seq. HGB.
In accordance with Section 297 (1) HGB, the consolidated financial statements consist of the consolidated
balance sheet, the consolidated profit and loss statement, the notes to the consolidated financial statements,
the cash flow statement and the statement of changes in equity.
The consolidated financial statements were prepared in euro in accordance with Section 298 (1) in conjunc-
tion with Section 244 HGB.
To improve the clarity and transparency of the consolidated financial statements, individual items of the con-
solidated balance sheet and the consolidated profit and loss statement have been combined. These items are
presented and explained separately in the notes. The additional disclosures required for the individual items
can also be found in the notes.
1.2 Information on companies included in the consolidation
The parent company of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim.
Boehringer AG, Ingelheim, is the sole, personally liable, managing shareholder of this company.
Besides C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, there is C. H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH
& Co. KG whose general partner is controlled by C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG.
The Boehringer Ingelheim Group consists of a total of 145 affiliated companies in Germany and abroad. In addi-
tion to C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG and C. H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG,
a further 121 companies in which C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG directly or indirectly holds the majority
of voting rights have been included in the consolidated financial statements under full consolidation rules.
In accordance with Section 296 (2) HGB, 20 companies were not included in the consolidation in the report-
ing year, as they are individually and collectively insignificant in terms of the net assets, financial position
and Group earnings. The total amount of the sales, equity and net income for the year of the companies not
included in consolidation account for less than 1% of the aggregated Group financial statements totals. These
companies were also not classified as associates in accordance with Section 311 (2) HGB due to a lack of
–– 46 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
significance. For two companies there are ongoing restrictions on control due to the terms of the articles of
association. These companies were not consolidated in accordance with Section 296 (1) (1) HGB.
The total number of affiliated companies fell by one compared to the previous year:
• One company was founded.
• One company was liquidated.
• One previously affiliated company has been reclassified as an investment.
The following subsidiaries were exempted from the reporting and disclosure obligations of Section 264 (3) HGB:
• Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Europe GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Secura Versicherungsvermittlungs GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Grundstücksgesellschaft mbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Finanzierungs GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim R&D Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund GmbH, Ingelheim
The following subsidiary companies are exempt from the duty to prepare and disclose annual financial state-
ments and management reports in accordance with Section 264b HGB:
• C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim
• C. H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim
• C. H. Boehringer Selbstmedikation KG, Ingelheim
• Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary Research Center GmbH & Co. KG, Hanover
1.3 Consolidation methods
For inventories and fixed assets, receivables, liabilities, and income and expense items, transactions between
the companies included in consolidation were eliminated as part of debt consolidation procedures in accordance
with Section 303 HGB, procedures to eliminate intercompany profits in accordance with Section 304 HGB
and income and expenses consolidation procedures in accordance with Section 305 HGB.
The revaluation method was applied when including subsidiary companies in the consolidation for the first
time in accordance with Section 301 HGB. Companies were included in the consolidation for the first time
on the date at which the company became a subsidiary.
The carrying amount of the shares held by the parent company was offset against the corresponding equity
of the subsidiary. Equity is carried at the amount of the fair value of the assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses
and deferred income and special reserves included in the consolidated financial statements as at the time of
consolidation. Any remaining balance after offsetting was capitalised as goodwill.
–– 47 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
1.4 Currency translation
Assets and liabilities resulting from foreign currency transactions were translated using the middle spot
exchange rate as at the balance sheet date. The realisation principle (Section 298 (1) in conjunction with
Section 252 (1) (4) (2) HGB) and the historical cost convention (Section 298 (1) in conjunction with Section
253 (1) (1) HGB) were applied to items with a remaining term of more than one year.
In these consolidated financial statements, the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries domiciled in a
state outside the eurozone which are denominated in a foreign currency have been converted into euro in
accordance with Section 308 a HGB using the modified closing rate method.
Using the modified closing date rate method, the asset and liability items of the annual financial statements
prepared in foreign currency were translated into euros using the average spot exchange rate as at the balance
sheet date, with the exception of equity, which was translated using the historical rate. Items included in the
profit and loss statement were translated into euros using the average rate. The resulting translation difference
was generally reported within consolidated equity below the reserves in “Difference in equity from currency
translation”. For annual financial statements from countries with hyperinflation, expected foreign currency
effects have already been recognised within the currency translation in accordance with section 256 a HGB
on financial statement II level to improve the true and fair view of the consolidated financial statements.
The exchange rates for the most important currencies for the Group changed as follows during the reporting
year (basis: EUR 1):
Year-end rate Average annual rate
31.12.2015 31.12.2014 2015 2014
US dollar 1.09 1.21 1.11 1.33
Japanese yen 131.07 145.23 134.28 140.38
Pound sterling 0.73 0.78 0.73 0.81
Canadian dollar 1.51 1.41 1.42 1.47
–– 48 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2 Accounting policies
2.1 Fixed assets
Acquired intangible assets and tangible fixed assets are carried at cost, less scheduled straight-line amortisa-
tion and depreciation determined under consideration of the technical and economic circumstances. This is
based on the following useful lives:
Intangible assets 2 to 15 years
Buildings 20 years
Technical equipment and machinery 10 years
Other equipment, operating and office equipment 3 to 10 years
Only straight-line depreciation and amortisation are used in the consolidated financial statements. Additional
write-downs are recorded to reflect impairments when the value of assets has been considered permanently
impaired. Production costs include materials and labour manufacturing costs, an appropriate portion of
materials and labour overheads, and the depreciation of fixed assets (to the extent caused by production).
All capitalised intangible assets have finite useful lives.
Goodwill from the first-time consolidation of shareholdings is usually amortised over a period of five years.
A useful life of ten years was applied to the goodwill for Boehringer Ingelheim Korea Ltd., acquired in 2007, as
past experience of products and sales markets together with the business conditions of Boehringer Ingelheim
Korea Ltd. indicates that this presents a true and fair view.
Financial assets essentially included shareholder rights, securities and loans and are carried at the lower of
cost or fair market value, if impaired.
2.2 Current assets and prepaid expenses
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and fair market value.
Raw materials, consumables and supplies are capitalised at the lower of average acquisition prices or fair
market value on the balance sheet date.
Finished goods and work in progress are measured at production cost on the basis of individual calculations,
taking into account the directly attributable costs of materials, direct labour costs, special direct costs, and an
appropriate share of production and materials overhead costs and depreciation.
Goods for resale are valued at the lower of either purchase cost or fair market value.
All identifiable risks in inventory assets arising from above-average storage periods, diminished marketability
and lower replacement costs were taken into account by recording appropriate valuation adjustments.
–– 49 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Inventories are valued loss-free, i.e. deductions were made from the expected sales prices to reflect costs yet
to be incurred.
Receivables and other assets were recognised at cost less allowances for specific risks and general credit risk.
Low-interest or non-interest-bearing receivables with a term of more than one year were discounted.
Securities classified as current assets include other securities and were recognised at the lower of cost or
quoted/market prices on the reporting date.
Cash and cash equivalents, consisting of cash, balances at banks and cheques were recognised at the lower of
cost or fair market value.
Deferred charges and prepaid expenses recorded in accordance with Section 250 (1) HGB include expenses
paid in advance in respect of a defined period of time after the balance sheet date.
Deferred charges recorded in accordance with Section 250 (2) HGB include proceeds which represent income
in respect of a defined period of time after the balance sheet date.
2.3 Negative difference from the acquisition of companies
The negative difference from the acquisition of companies was recognised following acquisitions on
31 March 2011 and 1 August 2012 in which the value of the net assets acquired exceeded the purchase
prices that were paid. The value of the negative difference from the acquisition of companies amounted to
EUR 157 million as of 1 January 2012, and was increased by the acquisition of the company acquired on
1 August 2012 by a further EUR 11 million. The negative difference from the acquisition of companies is
amortised over an estimated period of ten years. The release of the negative difference from the acquisition
of companies of EUR 20 million in the 2015 financial year to EUR 71 million is shown under other oper-
ating income. The release is consistent with the depreciation and amortisation of the excess assets at the
date of acquisition.
–– 50 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2.4 Group reserves
Group reserves include the retained earnings of the consolidated subsidiaries from prior years and consoli-
dation entries that affect earnings related to previous years.
2.5 Provisions
Tax provisions and other provisions include all uncertain liabilities and expected losses from executory contracts.
They were carried at the amount required to settle the obligation based on reasonable prudent commercial
judgement (i.e. including future cost and price increases). Provisions with a remaining term of more than one
year are discounted using the matched-term, average market interest rate for the last seven years (in accord-
ance with the Rückstellungsabzinsungsverordnung – German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions).
2.6 Liabilities
Liabilities are recognised at settlement amount.
2.7 Deferred taxes
To calculate deferred taxes arising from temporary or quasi-permanent differences between the carrying
amounts of assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses and deferred charges in the commercial balance sheet and
their carrying amounts for tax purposes or tax loss carryforwards, the amounts of the resulting tax benefits
and expenses at the time that the differences were reversed were measured using tax rates specific to the
respective consolidated company (12% – 41%). Deferred tax balances are not discounted. Differences due to
consolidation measures in accordance with Sections 300 to 305 HGB were also measured using the company-
specific tax rates applicable at the time of the expected reversal of the difference. Deferred tax assets on loss
carryforwards were taken into account if it is likely that they will be used within the next five years.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities were reported without set-off.
–– 51 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
3 Notes to the consolidated balance sheet
3.1 Intangible assets
Acquired
concessions/ Advance
(in millions of EUR) similar rights Goodwill payments Total
Procurement/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2014 1,506 573 14 2,093
Currency conversion difference 112 1 0 113
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0
Additions 54 0 3 57
Disposals — 55 0 — 2 — 57
Reclassifications 20 0 — 12 8
Balance as of 31.12.2014 1,637 574 3 2,214
Currency conversion difference 106 1 — 1 106
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0
Additions 56 0 13 69
Disposals — 49 — 5 0 — 54
Reclassifications 6 0 0 6
Balance as of 31.12.2015 1,756 570 15 2,341
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1.1.2014 954 557 0 1,511
Currency conversion difference 57 0 1 58
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0
Additions 97 5 0 102
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 49 0 0 — 49
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2014 1,059 562 1 1,622
Currency conversion difference 58 0 0 58
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0
Additions 106 5 0 111
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 49 — 5 0 — 54
Reclassifications — 1 0 — 1 — 2
Balance as of 31.12.2015 1,173 562 0 1,735
Book value as of 31.12.2014 578 12 2 592
Book value as of 31.12.2015 583 8 15 606
–– 52 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3.2 Tangible assets
Advance
Technical Other facilities/ payments/
Land and facilities and operating construction
(in millions of EUR) buildings machines equipment in progress Total
Procurement/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2014 2,796 3,209 2,003 480 8,488
Currency conversion difference 133 98 59 21 311
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 2 0 2
Additions 68 98 129 253 548
Disposals — 156 — 265 — 195 — 2 — 618
Reclassifications 196 61 74 — 339 — 8
Balance as of 31.12.2014 3,037 3,201 2,072 413 8,723
Currency conversion difference 127 76 53 17 273
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 49 73 117 352 591
Disposals — 296 — 276 — 148 — 2 — 722
Reclassifications 63 140 32 — 241 — 6
Balance as of 31.12.2015 2,980 3,214 2,126 539 8,859
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1.1.2014 1,688 2,351 1,562 0 5,601
Currency conversion difference 78 69 42 0 189
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 1 0 1
Additions 107 183 159 0 449
Write-ups 0 — 8 0 0 — 8
Disposals — 140 — 261 — 178 0 — 579
Reclassifications 27 — 39 12 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2014 1,760 2,295 1,598 0 5,653
Currency conversion difference 72 53 39 0 164
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 117 199 159 0 475
Write-ups — 7 — 4 0 0 — 11
Disposals — 284 — 268 — 136 0 — 688
Reclassifications 0 1 1 0 2
Balance as of 31.12.2015 1,658 2,276 1,661 0 5,595
Book value as of 31.12.2014 1,277 906 474 413 3,070
Book value as of 31.12.2015 1,322 938 465 539 3,264
–– 53 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
3.3 Financial assets
Investments Loans Investments
in affiliated to affiliated in related Investment Other
(in millions of EUR) companies companies companies securities loans Total
Procurement/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2014 3 0 124 4,636 22 4,785
Currency conversion difference 0 0 1 17 0 18
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 13 632 6 651
Disposals 0 0 0 — 42 — 5 — 47
Reclassifications 1 0 — 1 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2014 4 0 137 5,243 23 5,407
Currency conversion difference — 1 0 2 17 0 18
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 8 628 11 647
Disposals — 1 0 — 1 — 31 — 7 — 40
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2015 2 0 146 5,857 27 6,032
Accumulated amortisation
Balance as of 1.1.2014 0 0 44 1 3 48
Currency conversion difference 0 0 0 0 0 0
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 18 30 0 48
Write-ups 0 0 0 0 0 0
Disposals 0 0 0 — 1 0 — 1
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2014 0 0 62 30 3 95
Currency conversion difference 0 0 0 1 0 1
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 3 1 0 4
Write-ups 0 0 0 0 0 0
Disposals 0 0 0 — 1 0 — 1
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2015 0 0 65 31 3 99
Book value as of 31.12.2014 4 0 75 5,213 20 5,312
Book value as of 31.12.2015 2 0 81 5,826 24 5,933
As in the previous year, the “Other loans” item does not include any loans to shareholders.
–– 54 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3.4 Inventories
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2015 31.12.2014
Raw materials and supplies 560 486
Unfinished products 1,084 1,002
Finished products and goods for resale 838 749
Advance payments to suppliers 1 0
2,483 2,237
3.5 Accounts receivable and other assets
Residual Residual
term over term over
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2015 1 year 31.12.2014 1 year
Trade accounts receivable 3,217 2 2,777 1
Receivables from affiliated companies 1 0 9 0
Receivables from related companies 20 0 25 0
Other assets 940 29 940 27
4,178 31 3,751 28
The “Other assets” item includes receivables from shareholders of EUR 13 million (previous year:
EUR 98 million).
Receivables from affiliated companies, as in the previous year, almost exclusively consist of receivables
from loans.
Receivables from related companies essentially consist of trade accounts receivable.
3.6 Provisions
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2015 31.12.2014
Pension provisions 4,248 3,739
Tax provisions 1,113 1,003
Other provisions 4,939 3,793
10,300 8,535
–– 55 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations
The provisions for pensions and similar obligations were determined on the basis of actuarial calculations
using the projected unit credit method, taking into account future adjustments in salaries and pensions.
In addition to local biometric data (e.g. for Germany, mortality tables 2005 G published by Prof. Dr Klaus
Heubeck), pension obligations in the significant countries were calculated on the basis of the following actu-
arial parameters:
(in % as of 31 December 2015) Germany USA Japan
Discount rate 3.89 4.48 1.52
Salary increase 3.8 4.0 3,5 - 4,0
Pension increase 1.9 3.0 0.0
Discounting rates were determined by reference to average market rates for 15 year maturities in accordance
with the German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions of 18 November 2009. The interest rates used to
discount significant foreign pension obligations (USA and Japan) were determined with comparable param-
eters, in line with the German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions of 18 November 2009.
The plan assets intended solely to cover pension and similar obligations that are unavailable to all other cred-
itors (plan assets as defined in Section 246 (2) (2) HGB) were measured at fair market value, which is essentially
derived from stock market prices, and offset against the underlying pension and similar obligations. The fair
market value of the plan assets on the balance sheet date was EUR 1,410 million. The corresponding amount
required to settle offset pension obligations and similar obligations was EUR 5,658 million. Gains and losses
from plan assets and interest expense relating to pension and similar obligations were offset in accordance
with Section 246 (2) (2) HGB. In total, EUR 6 million earnings from plan assets and EUR 655 million interest
expense relating to pension and similar obligations are included in the financial result.
–– 56 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3.7 Liabilities
Residual term Residual term
less than 1 - 5 over 31.12. 31.12. less than
(in millions of EUR) 1 year years 5 years 2015 2014 1 year
Bank loans 496 507 0 1,003 989 180
Other accounts payable 1,286 65 141 1,492 1,446 1,233
of which:
- Trade accounts payable 759 0 0 759 733 733
- Advance payments 51 0 0 51 67 67
- Accounts payable
to affiliated companies 90 0 0 90 24 24
- Accounts payable
to related companies 1 0 0 1 1 1
- Other liabilities* 385 65 141 591 621 408
1,782 572 141 2,495 2,435 1,413
* Of which:
- from taxes (EUR million) 149 139
- social security liabilities (EUR million) 17 15
As in the previous year, there were no liabilities secured by mortgages or similar collateral rights on the
balance sheet date.
At the end of the year, there were liabilities to shareholders of EUR 52 million (previous year: EUR 10 million).
These are presented within “Other liabilities”.
Accounts payable to affiliated companies include loans amounting to EUR 89 million (previous year:
EUR 24 million) and trade accounts payable amounting to EUR 1 million (previous year: EUR 1 million).
–– 57 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
4 Notes to the consolidated profit and loss statement
The structure of the consolidated profit and loss statement was based on the total cost format.
4.1 Net sales
by business and business segment (in millions of EUR) 2015 2014
Prescription Medicines 11,201 10,101
Consumer Health Care 1,513 1,437
Animal Health 1,363 1,130
Biopharmaceuticals 576 501
Industrial Customers and other sales 145 148
14,798 13,317
by geographic region (in millions of EUR) 2015 2014
Europe 4,127 4,081
of which: Germany 902 912
Americas 6,923 5,937
of which: USA 5,746 4,638
Asia / Australia / Africa 3,748 3,299
of which: Japan 1,846 1,736
14,798 13,317
4.2 Other operating income
Other operating income includes income from currency translation of EUR 446 million (previous year:
EUR 581 million).
4.3 Material costs
(in millions of EUR) 2015 2014
Costs of raw material, supplies and goods for resale 1,561 1,421
Expenditure on services 550 516
2,111 1,937
–– 58 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4.4 Personnel costs
(in millions of EUR) 2015 2014
Salaries and wages 3,762 3,406
Social benefits and retirement benefits 756 710
of which: retirement benefits 143 143
4,518 4,116
All interest effects of the measurement of the provision for pensions and similar obligations were shown as a
separate item of financial income.
Average headcount 2015 2014
Production 14,200 13,878
Administration 5,350 5,694
Marketing and Sales 19,234 19,269
Research and Development 7,895 8,104
Apprentices 822 798
47,501 47,743
4.5 Amortisation of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets
Amortisation of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible fixed assets include extraordinary write-downs
of EUR 4 million (previous year: EUR 0 million).
4.6 Other operating expenses
Other operating expenses include expenses from currency translation of EUR 637 million (previous year:
EUR 227 million).
In addition, other operating expenses also include third-party services for research, development, medicine
and marketing purposes, administrative expenses, fees and contributions, commissions, rent, freight and
expenses for repairs carried out by third parties.
–– 59 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
4.7 Financial result
(in millions of EUR) 2015 2014
Interest expense relating to pensions and similar obligations and other provisions — 667 — 436
Other interest expense and similar expenditure — 113 — 113
Interest expense and similar expenditure — 780 — 549
Amortisation of and loss on disposal on financial assets and short-term investments — 1 — 30
Income from other investment securities and from long-term loans 136 127
Other interest income and similar proceeds 42 36
— 603 — 416
4.8 Holding income
(in millions of EUR) 2015 2014
Write-offs on financial assets — 3 — 19
Income from related companies 186 1
of which from disposal of related companies 185 0
183 — 18
4.9 Taxes
(in millions of EUR) 2015 2014
Income taxes 765 685
Deferred taxes — 492 — 25
273 660
Current income taxes essentially include the corporation and trade tax expenses of the companies included
in consolidation.
As a result of the conclusion of profit transfer agreements, significant German corporations have been
included in the trade and corporation tax group of the parent company C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG
since 1 January 2004. As the income taxes of the shareholders of C. H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG
incurred on operating income cannot be reported in the consolidated profit and loss statement, the tax
expenses represent only the trade income tax of the affected companies and other fully consolidated German
partnerships.
–– 60 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Total deferred tax assets amounted to EUR 2,122 million as at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets
primarily relate to differences in the carrying amounts recognised for provisions, fixed assets and inventories.
Deferred tax liabilities of EUR 243 million were recognised. These primarily relate to the differences in the
carrying amounts of tangible assets, inventories and provisions.
4.10 Net income
The net income for 2015 was positively influenced by prior-period operating income (essentially from the
reversal of other provisions) of EUR 303 million (previous year: EUR 163 million) and negatively influenced
by prior-period operating expenses of EUR 262 million (previous year: EUR 231 million).
5 Notes to the cash flow statement
The cash flow statement shows the changes in cash and cash equivalents (cash and long-term securities and
investments classified as current assets that can be sold at any time) of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group
resulting from cash in- and outflows in the reporting year. In accordance with German Accounting Standard
21 on the cash flow statement (GAS 21), the cash flow statement has been broken down according to cash
flows from operating activities and cash flows from investing and financing activities.
The changes in the balance sheet items of the affiliated companies included were translated using average
rates for the year. As on the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents are carried at the closing rate. The effect
of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents has been shown separately.
The financial funds comprise financial assets with a remaining maturity in excess of 3 months on date of
acquisition. This financial assets can be converted in cash in short-term.
The financial funds as of 31.12.2015 comprise the following items:
(in millions of EUR) 2015
Cash and cash equivalents 3,209
Securities 1,327
Financial assets 5,664
10,200
During the financial year, interest of EUR 108 million was received and EUR 65 million (previous year:
EUR 83 million) of interest was paid. Tax payments amounted to EUR 685 million (previous year:
EUR 547 million).
–– 61 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
6 Other disclosures
6.1 Contingent liabilities
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2015 31.12.2014
Liabilities from guarantees,
bills and cheque guarantees, warranties
and the granting of security for third-party liabilities 69 122
The risk of utilisation of the individual contingent liabilities is estimated as follows:
The risk of utilisation of guarantees for the liabilities to banks of affiliated companies is rated as low on
account of the solid net assets, financial position and results of operations of the subsidiaries in question.
6.2 Other financial commitments and off-balance sheet transactions
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2015 31.12.2014
Rental and leasing obligations 325 298
Purchase commitment 670 698
995 996
There are obligations from rental and lease agreements of EUR 325 million (previous year: EUR 298 million),
EUR 31 million of which (previous year: EUR 37 million) relate to long-term rental agreements with sub-
sidiaries not included in the consolidation.
The purpose of the lease agreements is the lower capital commitment compared to buying property and the
absence of the resale risk. Risks could arise from the term of the lease should it not be possible to continue to
utilise the properties fully, of which there are no indications at this time.
Other financial commitments include future expenses from follow-up investments, investments already
initiated and future major repairs. As at the balance sheet date, purchase commitments include future cash
flow effects of investments totalling EUR 477 million (previous year: EUR 543 million).
6.3 Derivative financial instruments and valuation units
Owing to its extensive international structure, the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is highly dependent on
developments in the world’s currencies and interest rates. To hedge these risks, particularly those emerging
from goods, services and financing, currency forwards and options are generally used for currency risks
and interest rate swaps, and options are used for interest rate risks.
–– 62 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The use of derivative financial instruments and the organisational processes are set out in internal guide-
lines. There is a strict separation between trading, processing, documentation and control.
Risk positions are regularly tracked, analysed and measured in a special Group-wide financial report. The
positions entered into are periodically re-evaluated and monitored. The fair market values of the derivative
financial instruments are calculated using standard market measurement methods (currency and interest
forwards using the net present value method, currency and interest options using recognised option pricing
models) on the basis of the market data available on the balance sheet date.
Currency and interest options are recognised at fair market value not exceeding the option premium paid or
received. They are derecognised on maturity.
Provisions of EUR 71 million were recognised for currency forwards not included in hedge accounting for
which there was a negative fair market value within a currency as at the balance sheet date. In line with the
imparity principle, positive fair market values within a currency are not recognised.
On the balance sheet date, the derivative financial instruments not included in hedge accounting valuation
groups were as follows:
Nominal value Market value
(in millions of EUR) 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 31.12.2015 31.12.2014
Foreign exchange forward contracts 2,737 1,458 — 11 20
To the extent that the requirements for hedge accounting of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with
highly probable forecasted transactions in accordance with Section 254 HGB are met, the foreign currency
forward exchange contracts are not recognised in the balance sheet in line with the net hedge presentation
method.
The following accounting policies apply to the recognition of hedges in accordance with Section 254 HGB:
Economic hedges are accounted for in the financial statements by the use of valuation groups. The valuation
groups are recognised for each foreign currency based on the net amount of highly probable forecasted trans-
actions and currency forwards that match the forecasted net cash flow in terms of maturity, nominal amount
and foreign currency (macro hedge). The highly probable forecasted transactions (incoming and outgoing
payments for planned sales and purchases) are derived from company planning. Ex-post analysis of planning
has shown that the planned transactions are highly probable.
–– 63 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
The opposing changes in value of the hedged item and the hedging instrument are fully offset as the critical
terms (maturity, nominal amount, and foreign currency) match. An effective hedge can therefore be assumed
both prospectively and retrospectively. The critical term match method is exclusively used to measure the
prospective and retrospective effectiveness of hedges.
As at 31 December 2015, hedges for highly probable forecast net cash flows were recognised as follows:
January to December 2016:
Net cash flow (in millions of EUR) FX forward contracts (in millions of EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
USD 1,182 USD — 1,063 USD — 167
JPY 909 JPY — 853 JPY 57
AUD 107 AUD — 92 AUD 1
MXN 101 MXN — 19 MXN 3
CAN 136 CAN — 66 CAN 3
GBP 240 GBP — 111 GBP — 7
January to December 2017:
Net cash flow (in millions of EUR) FX forward contracts (in millions of EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
USD 1,352 USD — 1,153 USD — 126
JPY 922 JPY — 637 JPY 50
AUD 17 AUD — 10 AUD 0
MXN 19 MXN — 15 MXN 1
CAN 24 CAN — 11 CAN 0
GBP 229 GBP — 78 GBP — 2
January to December 2018:
Net cash flow (in millions of EUR) FX forward contracts (in millions of EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
USD 1,473 USD — 816 USD — 21
JPY 840 JPY — 301 JPY — 3
GBP 227 GBP — 29 GBP 0
–– 64 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
January to February 2019:
Net cash flow (in millions of EUR) FX forward contracts (in millions of EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
USD 413 USD — 156 USD — 2
JPY 137 JPY — 41 JPY — 1
Furthermore as at 31 December 2015, hedges for foreign currency receivables were recognized as follows:
Receivables (in millions of EUR) Forward exchange contracts (in millions of EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Market value
RUB 128 RUB — 64 RUB 11
PLN 36 PLN — 6 PLN 0
The amount of the hedged foreign currency risk correlates to the relative change in the exchange rate between
the planning date and the realisation date of the forecast transactions. If all currencies were to appreciate or
depreciate against the euro by 10.0%, there would be a foreign currency risk of plus or minus EUR 849 million
without hedging.
As at balance sheet date, there is one floating-rate loan amounting to EUR 100 million. Interest rate swaps with
matching amounts and matching maturities were concluded to hedge the associated interest rate risk. As this
is exclusively for the purpose of converting the floating-rate loan portions to a fixed rate, use is made of hedge
accounting (micro hedges). The opposing changes in value of the hedged item and the hedging instrument
will fully offset due to the matching critical terms until 2016. The interest rate swaps, including accrued
interest had a negative fair market value of EUR – 3 million at the balance sheet date. The carrying amount
(equal to deferred accrued interest) was EUR 1 million and is reported under liabilities to banks. The net hedge
presentation method was used.
6.4 Research and development expenses
(in millions of EUR) 2015 2014
Research and development expenses 3,004 2,654
Non-capitalised research and development expenses include, amongst other items, the costs associated with
phase IV clinical studies.
6.5 Total auditor fees
Total fees charged to the Group by the auditor for the financial year was EUR 2.0 million. EUR 1.1 million of
this relates to audits of financial statements, EUR 0.2 million to other assurance services and EUR 0.7 million
to other services.
–– 65 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
AuDITOr’S rEpOrT
We have audited the consolidated financial state- We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial
ments prepared by C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG statements in accordance with § (Article) 317 HGB
& Co. KG, Ingelheim- comprising the balance (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German Commercial Code”)
sheet, the income statement, statement of changes and German generally accepted standards for the
in equity, cash flow statement and the notes to audit of financial statements promulgated by the
the consolidated financial statements, together Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public
with the group management report for the busi- Auditors in Germany) (IDW). Those standards
ness year from 1 January to 31 December 2015. require that we plan and perform the audit such
The preparation of the consolidated financial that misstatements materially affecting the pres-
statements and the group management report in entation of the net assets, financial position and
accordance with German commercial law is the results of operations in the consolidated financial
responsibility of the Managing Directors of the statements in accordance with (German) principles
managing corporate general partner. Our responsi- of proper accounting and in the group manage-
bility is to express an opinion on the consolidated ment report are detected with reasonable assurance.
financial statements and the group management Knowledge of the business activities and the eco-
report based on our audit. nomic and legal environment of the Group and
expectations as to possible misstatements are taken
into account in the determination of audit proce-
dures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related
internal control system and the evidence support-
ing the disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements and the group management report are
examined primarily on a test basis within the frame-
work of the audit. The audit includes assessing the
annual financial statements of the companies
included in consolidation, the determination of
the companies to be included in consolidation, the
accounting and consolidation principles used and
significant estimates made by Managing Directors
of the managing corporate general partner, as well
as evaluating the overall presentation of the con-
solidated financial statements and the group man-
agement report. We believe that our audit provides
a reasonable basis for our opinion.
–– 66 ––CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
With the exception of the following qualification,
our audit has not led to any reservations: Contrary
to § (Article) 314 (1) Nos.6 (a) and (b) HGB the
total remuneration granted to the members, the
former members of the board of managing directors
and the members of the supervisory body as
well as the pension provisions recognized and not
recognized for the former members of the board
of managing directors are not disclosed in the notes
to the consolidated financial statements.
In our opinion based on the findings of our audit,
with the qualification mentioned above, the
consolidated financial statements comply with the
legal requirements. The consolidated financial
statements give a true and fair view of the net assets,
financial position and results of operations of
the Group in accordance with (German) principles
of proper accounting. The group management
report is consistent with the consolidated financial
statements that comply with the legal requirements
and as a whole provides a suitable view of the
Group’s position and suitably presents the oppor-
tunities and risks of future development.
Frankfurt am Main, 25. February 2016
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
/s/ dr. ulrich störk /s/ michael conrad
Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Certified (German Certified
Public Accountant) Public Accountant)
–– 67 ––Product Portfolio Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
–– 68 ––PPRROODDUUcCTT PPOORRTTFFOOLLIIOO
P r o d u c t Po r t f o l i o
a s e l e c t i o n
Branded Prescription Medicines 70
Consumer Health Care 82
Animal Health 94
–– 69 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO BRAnDeD PResCRIPTIOn MeDICInes Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
BRAnDeD PResCRIPTIOn MeDICInes
resPiratory diseases
Respiratory diseases are very common. Chronic obstructive Bronchial asthma
pulmonary disease (COPD) and bronchial asthma are Bronchial asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder
among the most prevalent chronic diseases, and a frequent of the airways. The inflammation is accompanied by air­
cause of morbidity and premature deaths worldwide. way hyperresponsiveness, which leads to a narrowing of
the airways and recurrent episodes of wheezing, breath­
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a rare disease which lessness and coughing, these symptoms occur particularly
is severely debilitating and ultimately lethal. at night or in the early hours of the morning. It is now
known that asthma can be triggered by genetic and envi­
COPD ronmental factors (e.g. allergens and viral infections).
COPD is a chronic disease of the lungs that causes cough­ Unlike COPD, asthma can occur very early in childhood;
ing, excessive mucus production and inflammation and it can also present in adolescents or adults. Asthma is often
ultimately destroys the lung tissue. The alveoli and thus underestimated as an easy to manage condition. However
gas exchange are the most affected. These lead to a limita­ almost one in two patients with asthma still experience
tion of airflow, causing shortness of breath and other res­ symptoms while receiving maintenance therapy, putting
piratory symptoms. The airflow limitation is only partially them at increased risk of potentially life­threatening
reversible and usually worsens over time leading to disa­ asthma exacerbations.
bility and ultimately to death. Symptoms such as excess
cough and breathlessness are the main reasons why
COPD is very stressful for patients. Lung emphysema and
chronic bronchitis are the main manifestations of COPD.
COPD is caused by continuous damage to the lungs result­
ing from inhaling pollutants, primarily cigarette smoke.
However, other factors also need to be considered includ­
ing indoor and outdoor air pollution. The course of COPD,
which is a disease that occurs in the second half in a
human’s life, is characterised by an accelerated loss of lung
function compared to normal ageing and occasional sud­
den worsening of symptoms and function – referred to as
acute exacerbations. This can lead to a downward spiral
of worsening symptoms and even further inactivity.
–– 70 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
indications Brand names active ingredients
– Chronic obstructive spiriva® tiotropium bromide Maintenance treatment of patients with
pulmonary disease (COPD) spiriva® handihaler® COPD, including chronic bronchitis and
spiriva® respimat® emphysema), the maintenance treat-
ment of associated dyspnoea and for
prevention of exacerbations.
– Bronchial asthma spiriva® respimat® tiotropium bromide An add-on maintenance treatment in
adult patients with asthma who are
currently treated with the maintenance
combination of inhaled corticosteroids.*
* Spiriva® Respimat® is approved for use in asthma
in the EU, Japan, the USA and many other
countries. The label varies by country. Please refer
to the local product information.
– Chronic obstructive spiolto® respimat® tiotropium bromide, Maintenance treatment of airflow
pulmonary disease (COPD) stiolto™ respimat® olodaterol obstruction in patients with chronic
inspiolto™ respimat® hydrochloride obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
– Chronic obstructive striverdi® respimat® olodaterol Maintenance treatment of patients with
pulmonary disease (COPD) hyrochloride chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD).
– Reversible bronchospasms combivent® respimat® ipratropium bromide, A combination of a short acting anticho-
associated with obstructive salbutamol, sulphate linergic and beta-adrenergic for the
airway diseases management of reversible bronchos-
pasms associated with obstructive air-
way diseases in patients requiring more
than one bronchodilator.
– Chronic obstructive atrovent® ipratropium bromide Prevention and treatment of shortness
pulmonary disease (COPD) of breath in patients with chronic
– Chronic bronchitis obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
– Bronchial asthma and mild to moderate bronchial asthma
in adulthood and childhood as a supple-
ment to beta-agonists in cases of acute
asthma.
– Chronic obstructive airway berodual® ipratropium bromide, fenoterol Prevention and treatment of broncho-
disorders bronchodual® hydrobromide spasm in patients with asthma and
duovent® chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD).
–– 71 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO BRAnDeD PResCRIPTIOn MeDICInes Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
resPiratory diseases (continued)
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) As a result, individuals with IPF experience shortness
IPF is a progressive lung disease associated with a markedly of breath, even when resting, and often have difficulty
reduced life span and affecting as many as 14 – 43 people participating in everyday physical activities.
per 100,000 worldwide. IPF is characterised by progressive
scarring of lung tissue and loss of lung function over time. Acute IPF exacerbations are defined as rapid deteriora­
Development of scarred tissue is called fibrosis. Over time, tions of symptoms and lung function within days or
as the tissue thickens and stiffens with scarring, the lungs weeks. These events can occur at any point in the course
lose their ability to take in and transfer oxygen into the of the disease, even at first presentation. All patients
bloods tream, and vital organs do not get enough oxygen. with IPF are at risk of acute IPF exacerbations.
cardiovascular diseases
Cardiovascular diseases are the leading causes of death in transient ischaemic attack (TIA) are similar to stroke, but
many countries and are still increasing in prevalence. last for only a few minutes or hours and usually do not
result in permanent neurological damage. As a TIA may
Stroke precede a stroke, emergency medical care and subsequent
A stroke is the rapidly developing loss of brain functions preventive treatment is necessary.
due to a reduced blood flow to the affected brain tissue.
This can be due to ischaemia (lack of blood supply) caused Acute myocardial infarction
by thrombosis or embolism, or due to a bleeding. As a An acute myocardial infarction, or heart attack, is an
result, the affected area of the brain is unable to function acute event that occurs when a thrombus or clot suddenly
and the damage quickly becomes permanent, if untreated. prevents blood flow to an area of the heart muscle. Unless
A stroke is an acute event requiring emergency diagnosis the blood flow is restored quickly, the affected section of
and intervention. Worldwide, stroke is one of the leading heart muscle becomes permanently damaged. Heart attack
causes of death and long­term disability. Symptoms of a is a leading cause of death in all developed countries.
–– 72 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
indications Brand names active ingredients
– Bronchial asthma berotec® fenoterol hydrobromide symptomatic treatment of acute asthma
attacks.
Prophylaxis of exercise-induced asthma
bronchiale.
symptomatic treatment of allergic and
non-allergic asthma bronchiale and
other conditions with reversible airway
narrowing, e.g. chronic obstructive
bronchitis.
– Bronchial asthma alesion® epinastine hydrochloride Prophylactic treatment of patients with
– Allergic rhinitis flurinol® bronchial asthma. Prophylaxis and symp-
tomatic treatment of allergic rhinitis.
– Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ofev® nintedanib esylate Treatment of patients with idiopathic
(IPF) pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).
indications Brand names active ingredients
– H ypertension micardis® telmisartan; Treatment of hypertension.
– Cardiovascular morbidity micardisplus® telmisartan, hydrochlorothiazide For the reduction of the risk of myocar-
and mortality prevention micardis plus® dial infarction (heart attack), stroke or
death from cardiovascular (CV) causes in
micardis®hct
patients 55 years of age or older at high
co-micardis®
risk of developing major CV events who
are unable to take ACe inhibitors (UsA).
For the reduction of cardiovascular
morbidity in patients with manifest
atherothrombotic cardiovascular dis-
ease (history of coronary heart disease,
stroke or peripheral arterial disease), or
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus with
documented target organ damage (eU).
– Hypertension twynsta® telmisartan, amlodipine Treatment of hypertension alone or with
micamlo® other antihypertensive agents. As initial
micardis amlo® therapy in patients likely to need multi-
ple antihypertensive agents to achieve
micardis® duo
their blood pressure goals (UsA).
Add-on therapy in adult patients with
not adequately controlled blood pres-
sure on amlodipine, and replacement
therapy in adult patients receiving tel-
misartan and amlodipine from separate
tablets (eU).
–– 73 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO BRAnDeD PResCRIPTIOn MeDICInes Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
cardiovascular diseases (continued)
Hypertension and cardiovascular diseases Prevention of venous thromboembolism
Hypertension, also referred to as high blood pressure, is a Patients undergoing orthopaedic surgery are at consider­
chronic disease in which the blood pressure is chronically able risk of developing deep vein thrombosis in the legs or
elevated. Hypertension is also one of the major risk factors a potentially fatal pulmonary embolism. Both are also
for strokes, heart attacks, heart failure and chronic renal known as venous thromboembolism (VTE). Thrombo­
failure. embolic events may recur, and chronic venous insuffi­
ciency and/or pulmonary hypertension may develop in
About one billion people worldwide are affected by hyper­ the longer term. To prevent VTE events and their conse­
tension. The prevalence of hypertension increases steadily quences, patients should receive some kind of thrombo­
with age. As the world population is ageing and preventive prophylaxis.
strategies in terms of lifestyle changes are so far failing,
with swiftly increasing incidence of obesity, the prevalence Treatment of venous thromboembolism
of hypertension is set to increase even further. VTE is an umbrella term that encompasses deep vein
thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE). DVT is
Hypertension is a major risk factor for cardiovascular a process that occurs when a thrombus (blood clot) forms
morbidity and mortality. The organs at risk are primarily in a deep vein, most commonly in the calf or leg, and par­
the heart, the main blood vessels, the brain and the kid­ tially or completely blocks the flow of blood. One of the
neys. The primary goal of any antihypertensive treatment major contributing factors to DVT pathogenesis is venous
is to prevent cardiovascular events such as heart attacks or stasis. As the thrombus grows, a portion may break away
strokes, and finally to reduce cardiovascular mortality. from the main clot and travel in the circulatory system to
the lungs. The lodging of a blood clot in the arteries of the
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is responsible for nearly one lung is called a PE. VTE is a serious disorder with poten­
in three deaths worldwide and is thus the number one tially fatal consequences. Patients who already suffer from
medically related cause of death. Proper control of treat­ a VTE require anticoagulant treatment and secondary
able risk factors and the disease is therefore vital for the prevention of a recurrent thromboembolic event.
prevention of cardiovascular events.
Reversing anticoagulation
Atrial fibrillation Anticoagulants offer important benefits to patients at risk
Patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) are at higher risk of of thromboembolic events. However, even though rare,
developing blood clots, which can cause a disabling stroke there will be situations when rapid reversal of anticoagu­
if the clots travel to the brain. AF is the most common lation could be medically necessary.
type of arrhythmia. It is associated with a hypercoagula ble
state, which predisposes to stroke and systemic embolism.
This can be prevented by effective chronic anticoagulation.
–– 74 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
indications Brand names active ingredients
– secondary prevention of aggrenox® dipyridamole, Prevention of stroke following an
stroke or transient ischaemic asasantin® acetylsalicylic acid initial first stroke, or transient ischaemic
attacks (TIA) asasantin® retard attacks (TIA).
– H ypertension catapresan® clonidine; Treatment of hypertension.
catapres® hydrochloride clonidine
catapressan®
catapres-tts®
– Acute ischaemic stroke actilyse® alteplase Fibrinolytic treatment of acute ischae-
– Acute myocardial infarction actilyse® cathflo® mic stroke, acute myocardial infarction,
– Acute massive pulmonary acute massive pulmonary embolism.
embolism Fibrinolytic treatment of occluded cath-
– Catheter clearance due eters.
to thrombotic occlusion
– Acute myocardial infarction metalyse® tenecteplase Fibrinolytic treatment of acute myocar-
dial infarction.
– Hypertension motens® lacidipine Treatment of hypertension.
– stroke prevention in atrial pradaxa® dabigatran etexilate Prevention of strokes and blood clots
fibrillation pradaxar® in patients with abnormal heart rhythm
– Primary prevention of venous prazaxa® (atrial fibrillation).
thromboembolic events after
orthopaedic surgery Primary prevention of venous thrombo-
– Treatment and secondary embolic events (VTe) in adults after
prevention of venous throm- elective total hip or knee replacement
boembolic events surgery.
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT)
and pulmonary embolism (Pe), and
secondary prevention of recurrent DVT
and Pe in adults.
– specific reversal of pradaxa® praxbind® idarucizumab praxbind® is a specific reversal agent for
(dabigatran etexilate) dabigatran and is indicated in adult patients
treated with pradaxa® (dabigatran
etexilate) when rapid reversal of its anti-
coaculant effects is required: for emer-
gency surgery/urgent procedures; in
life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding.
–– 75 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO BRAnDeD PResCRIPTIOn MeDICInes Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Metabolic diseases
Diabetes
Type 2 diabetes is a chronic, progressive condition that can on average, decreased by up to twelve years and approxi­
cause long­term complications if it is not well controlled. mately 50 per cent of deaths in people with type 2 diabetes
are caused by cardiovascular disease.
Every year, 4.9 million deaths worldwide are linked directly
to the long­term effects of diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is the In addition to cardiovascular disease, serious complica­
most common form and accounts for up to 95% of all cases tions of diabetes include: nephropathy, leading to renal
in the developed world: it now affects 415 million people failure with potential risk for dialysis; retinopathy with
worldwide and is imposing an enormous burden on health potential loss of vision; an increased incidence of stroke
care systems globally. Without effective prevention and and cardiovascular diseases; peripheral neuropathy with
management, it is estimated that the number of cases will the risk of foot ulcers and of foot and leg amputations;
reach 642 million by 2040. Type 2 diabetes is one of the autonomic neuropathy causing gastrointestinal, genitouri­
major risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Life expectancy nary and cardiovascular symptoms and sexual dysfunction.
of people with type 2 diabetes at high cardiovascular risk is,
–– 76 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
indications Brand names active ingredients
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus trajenta® linagliptin Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus
tradjenta® to improve glycaemic control in adults,
trazenta® used in monotherapy (if metformin is
not tolerated or contraindicated) or in
trayenta®
combination therapy.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus jentadueto® linagliptin, metformin hydrochloride Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus
trayenta duo® to improve glycaemic control in adults
trajenta duo® when treatment with metformin does
not lead to sufficient control or when
trajentamet®
patients are treated with trajenta®
(linagliptin) and metformin.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus jardiance® empagliflozin Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus
jardianz® to improve glycaemic control in adults,
used in monotherapy (when diet and
exercise alone do not provide adequate
glycaemic control, and if metformin is
considered inappropriate due to intoler-
ance) or in combination therapy.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus synjardy® empagliflozin, Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus
metformin to improve glycaemic control in adults,
hydrochloride when treatment with metformin does
not lead to sufficient control or when
patients are treated with jardiance®
(empagliflozin) and metformin.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus glyxambi® empagliflozin, linagliptin Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus
to improve glycaemic control in adults
when treatment with both empagliflozin
and linagliptin is appropriate (Us).
–– 77 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO BRAnDeD PResCRIPTIOn MeDICInes Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
oncology
Cancer is a threat to global health. In 2012, an estimated symptoms are unspecific and may take many years to
14.1 million new cases of cancer were diagnosed world­ appear. Late diagnosis in an advanced stage of the disease
wide and 8.2 million people died from cancer. The most results in an often dismal prognosis, with only 4% of lung
common diagnosed cancer types are lung cancer (13%), cancer patients surviving five years or more following
breast cancer (10%), and colorectal cancer (9%). diagnosis.
Lung Cancer Lung cancer is more than just one disease. There are dif­
Lung cancer refers to malignant abnormal cell growth ferent subtypes such as small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and
inside the lung tissue, forming a cluster or tumour. It is non­small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). More than 10 differ­
the most common cancer with an estimated 1.8 million ent molecular genetic aberrations (mutations) present in
new cases per year worldwide (2012). Smoking is the pri­ the tumour have been identified. By focusing on molecu­
mary cause of the disease, contributing to 85% of the lar changes that are specific to the respective subtype of
cases. Recently, however, the incidence of lung cancer lung cancer, targeted therapies have become more effec­
among non­ smokers and women has increased. Lung tive than other treatments, showing a survival benefit and
cancer has a poor prognosis, with 1.6 million deaths per at the same time being less harmful to normal cells,
year, representing 20% of all cancer deaths. Lung cancer thereby reducing side effects.
diseases of the central nervous systeM
Mental and neurological diseases such as depression and such as dementia, depression and sleep disorders. The
Parkinson’s disease significantly impact patients and their primary symptoms are the result of a lack of the neuro­
families and are also a substantial burden to society. transmitter dopamine in distinct areas of the human brain.
Parkinson’s disease Restless legs syndrome (RLS)
Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a degenerative disorder of the Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common neurological
central nervous system. Patients usually notice motor disorder characterised by an uncontrollable urge to move
symptoms like hand tremor (shaking) as their first sign of the legs, primarily occurring in the evening and night
the disease, which progresses eventually to include shak­ hours. It is usually accompanied by unpleasant and some­
ing of the arms, legs or head. Other motor symptoms that times painful sensations in the legs as well as disturbed
may develop over time include stiffness that often results sleep resulting in daytime tiredness or sleepiness. The
in loss of facial expression and a gradual slowing or loss sensations are felt deep within the legs and are described
of motion, or “freezing”. About 30 – 40% of patients also as creeping, crawling or aching.
suffer from non­motor symptoms associated with PD,
–– 78 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
indications Brand names active ingredients
– non-small cell lung cancer giotrif® afatinib For the treatment of patients with
(nsCLC) gilotrif® metastatic non-small cell lung cancer
(nsCLC) whose tumors have activating
epidermal growth factor receptor (eGFR)
mutations.
– non-small cell lung cancer vargatef® nintedanib Combination therapy with docetaxel
(nsCLC) for the treatment of adult patients with
locally advanced, metastatic or locally
non-small cell lung cancer (nsCLC) of
adenocarcinoma tumour histology after
first-line chemotherapy.
indications Brand names active ingredients
– Parkinson’s disease (PD) sifrol® pramipexole symptomatic treatment of idiopathic
– Restless legs syndrome (RLs) mirapex® Parkinson’s disease. It may be used as
mirapexin® monotherapy or in combination with
levodopa. symptomatic treatment of
pexola®
idiopathic moderate to severe restless
legs syndrome.
– sleep disorders lendormin® brotizolam short-term treatment of disorders of
lindormin® initiating and maintaining sleep.
Insomnia requiring pharmacological
intervention.
–– 79 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO BRAnDeD PResCRIPTIOn MeDICInes Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
infectious diseases
HIV infection/AIDS
Acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a set of
symptoms and infections resulting from the damage to
the human immune system caused by the human immu­
nodeficiency virus (HIV). If untreated, infection with HIV
progressively reduces the effectiveness of the immune
system and leaves individuals susceptible to opportunistic
infections and tumours. Babies of infected mothers are at
risk of getting the virus during pregnancy, childbirth or
breastfeeding.
–– 80 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
indications Brand names active ingredients
– HIV/AIDs viramune® nevirapine For the combination therapy of HIV-1
viramune® xr infection and (in several countries) for
the prevention of mother-to-child trans-
mission of HIV-1 in pregnant women
who are not taking antiretroviral therapy
at time of labour.
Prolonged release tablets for once-daily
dosing within combination therapy.
– HIV/AIDs aptivus® tipranavir Indicated for combination antiretroviral
treatment of HIV-1-infected patients,
co-administered with 200 mg of ritona-
vir, who are treatment-experienced and
infected with HIV-1 strains resistant to
more than one protease inhibitor.
–– 81 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO COnsUMeR HeALTH CARe Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
COnsUMeR HeALTH CARe
cough and cold
mucosolvan® (ambroxol) and bisolvon® (bromhexine) Dextromethorphan, which is a symptomatic treatment of
are both indicated for secretolytic therapy in broncho­ irritable, non­productive cough, is marketed under a vari­
pulmonary diseases associated with abnormal mucus ety of tradenames in specific countries. It has a central
secretion and impaired mucus transport. cough suppressant effect, while aiming to normalize the
cough threshold.
Cough is the most common symptom of clinical impor­
tance and a frequent reason for consulting a doctor or The mucoviral® and bisolviral® antiviral nasal sprays
visiting a pharmacy. The clinical symptoms of cough and were launched in 2013. These sprays contain iota­carra­
expectoration have led to the development of drugs that geenan which is extracted from natural red seaweed. When
affect respiratory mucus, i.e. the mucoactive agents. applied nasally, iota­carrageenan acts like a protective
layer which physically inhibits infection of nasal epithe­
mucosolvan®, which promotes mucus clearance, facilitates lial cells by cold viruses since the viruses cannot dock to
expectoration and eases productive cough, allowing their specific receptors at the cell surface. In clinical trials,
patients to breathe freely and deeply. It is available in many use of mucoviral®/bisolviral® has been shown to
different product forms and formulations and typically reduce the viral load in the patients’ nasal secretion and
based on the active ingredient ambroxol. to relieve the symptoms of the cold.
Ambroxol is a mucoactive drug with several properties, In 2013, boxagrippal® was launched in Germany following
including secretolytic and secretomotoric actions that a successful switch from prescription to over­the­counter
restore the physiological clearance mechanisms of the (OTC) medicine status. The cold remedy combines the
respiratory tract, which play an important role in the body’s anti­inflammatory pain reliever (NSAID) ibuprofen and
natural defence mechanisms. Ambroxol stimulates syn­ the oral decongestant pseudoephedrine hydrochloride to
thesis and release of surfactant by type II pneumocytes. treat the most troublesome symptoms of a cold: blocked
nose and sinuses in combination with headache, fever
bisolvon® (bromhexine) has been on the market since and cold­related pain.
1963. Bromhexine is contained in various formulations of
bisolvon®. It has been shown to increase the proportion The active ingredient tramazoline for the treatment of
of serious bronchial secretion, making it more easily blocked noses is available in a number of countries
expectorated. Bromhexine also enhances mucus trans­ under a range of brand names including rhinospray®,
port by reducing mucus viscosity and by activating the muconasal®, and lasolvan® rhino.
ciliated epithelium.
–– 82 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
indications Brand names active ingredients
– Acute and chronic broncho- mucosolvan® ambroxol secretolytic therapy in acute and chronic
pulmonary diseases mucosan® bronchopulmonary diseases associated
surbronc® with abnormal mucus secretion and
impaired mucus transport.
lasolvan®
mucopect®
– Acute and chronic broncho- bisolvon® bromhexine secretolytic therapy in acute and chronic
pulmonary diseases bronchopulmonary diseases associated
with abnormal mucus secretion and
impaired mucus transport.
– Irritable cough silomat® dmp dextromethorphan symptomatic treatment of irritable,
bisoltussin® non-productive cough.
bisolvon® dry
bisolsek®
bisolvon® antitusivo
mugotussol®
mucotussin®
surbronc® toux sèche
– Common cold mucoviral® iota-carrageenan Antiviral treatment of common cold.
bisolviral® Also to be used for sustained moisturi-
surbroncviral® sation of the nasal mucosa.
– Common cold boxagrippal® ibuprofen, symptomatic treatment of nasal conges-
bisolfren® pseudoephedrine tion in combination with headache and/
or fever.
– nasal congestion rhinospray® tramazoline For the relief of swelling of the nasal
rhinospray® plus mucosa, i.e. nasal congestion, associated
muconasal® with the common cold and hay fever.
To facilitate drainage of secretion in
lasolvan® rhino
sinusitis and otitis media.
lasorin®
spray-tish®
rinogutt®
–– 83 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO COnsUMeR HeALTH CARe Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
sore throat
The sore throat product range offers solutions for both a local anaesthetic effect, which was described first in the
sore throat pain and hoarseness. late 1970s. The efficacy and safety of mucoangin® has
been shown in several recent clinical trials. mucoangin®
The main brands for the tratment of sore throat are is available as lozenges in a variety of flavours, and since
mucoangin® and lysopaine®. 2015 also in a spray format.
mucoangin® (ambroxol) is indicated for pain relief in lysopaine® (cetylpyridinium, lysozyme) combines a well­
acute sore throat. Pain in sore throat is the hallmark of known antiseptic with an enzyme that plays a key role in
acute pharyngitis, usually caused by a viral infection. The the body’s natural immune system. Its anti­bacterial formula
infection is, as a rule, self­limiting and the patient nor­ is indicated in sore throat of low intensity, without fever.
mally recovers in a few days. What is most bothersome for
the patient is the continuous pain in the throat, which is voxlysopaine®/lizivoz® is a lozenge with a double layer
maximised when swallowing. The main goal of the treat­ of natural Iceland moss and alum which offers a double
ment is thus to reduce pain. effect: it soothes the mucous membrane at the back of the
throat and calms the hoarseness; it also acts like a barrier,
In addition to its secretolytic activity, ambroxol is a potent protecting the throat against attacks from the outside.
inhibitor of the neuronal sodium channels and has shown
–– 84 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
indications Brand names active ingredients
– sore throat mucoangin® ambroxol Pain relief in acute sore throat.
lysopadol®
lysopain® dol
isodinemint®
lizipadol®
zerinol® gola
– sore throat lysopaine® cetylpyridinium, lysozyme Local adjuvant treatment of sore throat
of low intensity and without fever in
adults and children over 6 years old.
– Hoarseness voxlysopaine® Iceland moss, alum Helps to reduce hoarseness and improve
lizivoz® the strength of the voice.
lysopain® voice
zerinolvox®
–– 85 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO COnsUMeR HeALTH CARe Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Pain
Boehringer Ingelheim’s over­the­counter (OTC) pain port­ The three components suppress pain synergistically via
folio consists of a number of leading brands in different interaction with several pain­r elated molecular mecha­
countries around the world. The brand eve® is the leading nisms. As a result, thomapyrin® classic offers faster and
analgaesic in the Japanese OTC market. eve® offers products, superior efficacy compared with its single components
based on innovative ibuprofen formulations, which are which has also been proven by current clinical studies.
specifically tailored to the needs of the female consumer.
Leading products are eve® a, eve® quick and eve® a ex , For this reason, the triple combination is recommended
the latter being an innovative fast releasing galenical form by many national and international medical societies as first
developed by Boehringer Ingelheim scientists in Japan. choice acute treatment for tension­type headaches and
migraines. thomapyrin® is positioned as the expert treat­
In Brazil, anador® is a general pain brand for moderate ment for headaches. Several line extensions are a vailable:
to severe pain with a leading position in this market. thomapyrin® classic for headache, thomapyrin® inten-
Metamizole is the principle active ingredient of anador®. siv for stronger headache.
The brand thomapyrin® comprises products for the Another brand is finalgon® (nonivamid and nicoboxil),
treatment of acute pain of mild to moderate intensity and a topical cream for joint and muscle pains.
is primarily available in German­speaking countries.
thomapyrin® classic is the core product of the
thomapyrin® brand, which is composed of a triple combi­
nation of acetylsalicylic acid, paracetamol and caffeine.
–– 86 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
indications Brand names active ingredients
– Pain eve® a(*) ibuprofen, For adults older than 15 years for reduc-
eve® quick(*) allylisopropylacetylurea, dehydrated tion of fever and temporary relief of mild
eve® a ex(*) caffeine, magnesium oxide* to moderate aches and pains associated
with: headache, menstrual pain and
other body pains.
* Only available in Japan. * Only in eve® quick.
– Pain anador®(*) metamizole For moderate or severe acute pain
lisalgil® sodium/metamizole magnesium including colicky pain and tumor pain.
nolotil® High fever not responding to general
therapeutic measures.
prodolina®
* Only available in Brazil.
– Pain thomapyrin® classic acetylsalicylic acid, For adults and adolescents older than
thomapyrin® paracetamol, caffeine 12 years for acute treatment of mild to
intensiv(*) moderate headache, migraine attacks,
with and without aura, and for the treat-
ment of tension-type headache.
* Only available in
Germany.
– Pain lonarid® paracetamol, codeine phosphate Moderate to severe pain, for adults and
lonarid n® paracetamol, codeine phosphate, adolescents aged 12 years and older.
prontalgine®(*) caffeine
For adults and adolescents 15 years of
age and older for symptomatic treat-
ment of moderate to severe pain not
responding to peripheral analgesics.*
*Only available in France.
– Pain finalgon® nonivamid, nicoboxil To stimulate blood flow in the skin for
treating joint and muscle complaints.
–– 87 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO COnsUMeR HeALTH CARe Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
gastrointestinal diseases
In our gastrointestinal portfolio, we offer several brands buscopan® is the preferred choice for reliable relief from
such as dulcolax®, surulac®, laxoberal®, guttalax®, the pain and discomfort due to abdominal cramps. Its
buscopan®, vaprino® as well as the heartburn brands unique proven formula gently relaxes the cramped mus­
zantac® and gastol®. cles of the digestive tract and acts only where the pain
occurs, thus relieving the spasms that cause abdominal
Constipation is a common problem and dulcolax® is the pain. The active ingredient of buscopan® is hyoscine
leading over­the­counter (OTC) laxative remedy for con­ butylbromide which is derived from a natural substance
stipation relief worldwide. extracted from the Duboisia plant.
dulcolax® tablets have a special enteric comfort coating buscopan® offers a full line of products – the mono vari­
which ensures that the active ingredient in dulcolax® ant but also different combinations with analgesics (par­
tablets, bisacodyl, is taken to where it needs to act – the acetamol, ibuprofen and metamizol/dipyrone) as well as
colon. It stimulates the natural movement of the bowels to different formats (tablets, drops, suppositories, syrup,
provide gentle, predictable relief after 6 – 12 hours. One to solutions for intravenous injection).
two tablets taken before going to bed will provide relief
the next morning. The umbrella brand buscopan® also offers buscofem®
for menstrual pain relief.
Other products within the dulcolax® range include
dulcoease®, dulcoenema®, dulcosoft® and dulcogas®. In 2013, we extended our gastrointestinal portfolio with
vaprino®, a self­medication product for diarrhoea. Its
surulac® is the constipation brand in Japan, where consum­ active ingredient, racecadotril, is effective in various forms
ers are offered surulac® as a laxative tablet. laxoberal® of acute diarrhoea by reducing excessive secretion from
and guttalax® are the brands offering consumers consti­ the gut without changing gastrointestinal transit time or
pation relief with a flexible dosage format – namely drops. motility. Thanks to this new way of action, vaprino® ena­
bles fast relief from diarrhoea without blocking the bowels.
Abdominal cramping, pain and discomfort are common
ailments. Approximately one in four persons worldwide The zantac® brand (ranitidine) is owned in the USA by
suffers on a regular basis. Boehringer Ingelheim and represents one of the leading
heartburn brands in this market.
–– 88 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
indications Brand names active ingredients
– Constipation dulcolax® bisacodyl; Laxative for use in patients suffering
surulac® s bisacodyl, sennoside from constipation. In preparation for
diagnostic procedures, in pre- and
post-operative treatment, and in condi-
tions that require defecation to be facili-
tated.
– Constipation laxoberal® sodium picosulphate Laxative for use in cases of constipation
laxoberon® and in conditions that require defeca-
guttalax® tion to be facilitated.
dulcolax® np
– Constipation dulcosoft® macrogol Laxative used for the symptomatic treat-
ment of constipation, and it allows to
soften the hard feces and to facilitate
disposal.
– Gas and bloating dulcogas® simethicone Fast-acting granules that relieve gas and
bloating and prevent flatulence.
– Abdominal pain buscopan® hyoscine butylbromide; Treatment for the relief of abdominal
buscapina® hyoscine butylbromide, paracetamol cramping, pain and discomfort.
buscopan® plus
buscapina® plus
– Acute diarrhoea vaprino® racecadotril Treatment of symptoms of acute diar-
rhoea for adults.
– Heartburn zantac®(*) ranitidine Fast and lasting relief of heartburn.
* Only available in the USA.
–– 89 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO COnsUMeR HeALTH CARe Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
vitaMins and suPPleMents
pharmaton® is a multivitamin brand developed to sup­ pharmaton® 50+ contains a selected blend of vitamins,
port physical and mental well­ being. A full range of prod­ minerals and trace elements plus omega 3. The main indi­
ucts has been developed to meet the needs of different tar­ cations are: help to maintain cardio­vascular health and
get audiences (adult, adult 50+ and children). help covering the daily needs for vitamins, minerals and
omega­3 fatty acids, by acting complementary to daily
pharmaton® is a range of products for adults, containing nutrition.
a selected blend of vitamins, minerals and trace elements
plus the standardised Ginseng extract g115®. The main pharmaton® kiddi®, a range of products designed for
target indications are: exhaustion, tiredness, decreasing children, contains the essential amino acid lysine plus
concentration and mental alertness, as well as in cases of selected vitamins and minerals, which are important
deficient nutrition, loss of appetite, debility due to illness during the period of growth to support healthy physical
and convalescence. Numerous clinical studies have shown and mental development. It is also recommended in the
that a regular intake of pharmaton® has a positive effect preventive treatment of vitamin deficiencies.
on mental and physical performance and well­being.
–– 90 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
indications Brand names active ingredients
– Tiredness, decreasing concen- pharmaton® ginseng extract, To improve general well-being and
tration in cases of deficient pharmaton® vitality vitamins, minerals, support physical and mental energy.
nutrition, loss of appetite, pharmaton® geriavit® trace elements
debility due to illness and
geriatric pharmaton®
convalescence
gericomplex®
pharmaton complex®
pharmaton® fizzi
pharmaton® active life®
– Help to maintain cardiovas- pharmaton® 50+ vitamins, minerals and To improve general well-being and
cular health, and help cover- pharmaton® 50 plus omega-3 fatty acids support physical and mental energy.
ing the daily needs for vita-
mins, minerals and omega-3
fatty acids, by acting comple-
mentary to the daily nutrition
– Increased demand for vita- pharmaton® kiddi® vitamins, Covers the increased demand for vita-
mins in childhood minerals, mins, minerals and amino acids, espe-
amino acids cially during the period of growth. Pre-
ventive treatment in cases of vitamin
deficiencies, e.g. in cases of restricted or
inadequate diets, loss of appetite, sub-
sequent to illness, infections or surgery,
and during convalescence.
– Prophylaxis of iron and folic pharmaton® matruelle® vitamins, minerals, For women during and after pregnancy,
acid deficiency during preg- trace elements, preventing deficiency symptoms and
nancy omega-3 fatty acids covering the increased needs for vita-
(docosahexaenoic mins, minerals, trace elements and DHA.
acid, DHA) To provide protection against embryonal
neural tube diseases of the foetus, and
prophylaxis of iron and folic acid anae-
mia during pregnancy and breastfeeding.
–– 91 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO COnsUMeR HeALTH CARe Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
leg vein health
Under the brand name antistax®, Boehringer I ngelheim symptoms. antistax® helps to keep the fluid that flows out
markets a broad range of products developed for the pre­ of the small venous vessels (venules) into the surrounding
vention and treatment of symptoms attributable to chronic tissue at normal levels, even when standing or sitting for a
venous insufficiency. The most common symptoms of long time.
venous insufficiency observable for consumers are varicose
veins, oedema of the lower leg, heavy or tired legs, sensation Red vine leaf extract, the active ingredient in antistax®
of tension, tingling, cramps and pain. antistax® tablets products, has an anti­inflammatory effect and works on
are scientifically proven to help maintain healthy leg vein the endothelium inside the venules by sealing them from
circulation. the inside, thereby reducing the swelling and the sensation
of pain and heaviness.
Heavy, aching and tired legs often occur after long periods
of standing or sitting, and increase at the end of the day Products available in the antistax® range include a ntistax®
or during the summer when outdoor temperatures rise. tablets, and antistax® vein creme and antistax® cooling
antistax® tablets offer effective treatment of the described gel for the legs.
urological diseases
Benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) refers to an enlargement
of the prostate in middle­aged and elderly men, which can
lead to lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) such as fre­
quent nighttime urination, urge to urinate every few hours,
weak flow and a feeling of unfinished urinating.
–– 92 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
indications Brand names active ingredients
– Chronic venous insufficiency antistax® red vine leaf extract Prevention and treatment of symptoms
of chronic venous insufficiency; varicose
veins, leg oedema, painful swollen legs,
tingling legs, tired and heavy legs.
– Heavy, tired legs antistax® red vine leaf extract Relieves and revitalizes tired and heavy
Vein cream legs.
– Heavy, tired legs antistax® red vine leaf extract, menthol and Cools and refreshes heavy tired legs,
Fresh leg gel peppermint oil hydrates the skin.
indications Brand names active ingredients
– Benign prostate hyperplasia flomax relief® mr* tamsulosin Treatment of lower urinary tract symp-
(BPH) toms (LUTs) of a common condition
called benign prostate hyperplasia
(BPH).
* Only available in the UK as
an over-the-counter (OTC)
medication.
–– 93 ––product portfolIo ANIMAl HEAltH Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Food-producing animals – swine
Infectious respiratory diseases ingelvac mycoflex® is licensed for the active immunisa-
ingelvac circoflex® is the first single-dose piglet vaccine tion of pigs against enzootic pneumonia (EP) in a single-
for the control of porcine circovirus disease (PCVD). This dose regimen. Through its advanced adjuvant system, it
vaccine provides significant reduction of mortality in the provides long-lasting and effective protection, proven
acute phase of PCVD as well as improved growth rates in even in high-challenge situations.
the chronic phase of the disease. ingelvac circoflex®
protects with minimal systemic adverse reactions or injec- Infectious enteric diseases
tion site swellings and can be used during pregnancy and enterisol® ileitis is the first and only vaccine against
lactation. Our ingelvac® prrs products are licensed for ileitis caused by Lawsonia intracellularis. It is licensed to
active immunisation against the respiratory and reproduc- improve weight gain and to reduce growth variability
tive form of porcine reproductive and respiratory syn- associated with the disease. enterisol® ileitis helps to
drome (PRRS). reduce the total antimicrobial use in pork production.
Food-producing animals – poultry
volvac® is the umbrella brand of the Boehringer Ingelheim against various viral and bacterial diseases like avian
Animal Health poultry vaccine range. It consists of influenza, infectious bronchitis, Newcastle disease, infec-
a wide range of live and inactivated vaccines for broilers tious bursal disease, egg drop syndrome and avian coryza.
and layers. The vaccines provide protection of the birds
–– 94 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
IndIcat Ions Brand names actIve IngredIents
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac circoflex® recombinant vaccine for the active immunisation of pigs over
d iseases (porcine circovirus the age of two weeks against porcine
type 2, PCV 2) circovirus type 2 to reduce mortality, clini-
cal signs – including weight loss – and
lesions in lymphoid tissues asso ciated
with porcine circovirus diseases (pcVd).
In addition, vaccination has been shown
to reduce pcV 2 nasal shedding, viral
load in blood and lymphoid tissues, and
duration of viraemia.
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac® prrs mlv attenuated live vaccine (PRRS virus) depending on product, for active
d iseases ingelvac prrsflex® eu type 2 (prrs mlv) immunisation of pigs at various ages
reprocyc® type 1 (prrsflex® eu against porcine reproductive and
and reprocyc®) respiratory syndrome virus (prrSV).
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac mycoflex® inactivated vaccine for the active immunisation of pigs from
d iseases (Mycoplasma the age of three weeks to reduce lung
hyopneumoniae) lesions following infections with Myco-
plasma hyopneumoniae.
– Infectious enteric diseases enterisol® ileitis attenuated live vaccine (Lawsonia for the active immunisation of pigs from
intracellularis) the age of three weeks against intestinal
lesions caused by lawsonia intracellularis
infection and to reduce growth variabil-
ity and loss of weight gain associated with
the disease.
IndIcat Ions Brand names actIve IngredIents
– Various viral and bacterial volvac® polyvalent attenuated live for vaccination of healthy chickens
diseases in poultry and inactivated vaccine against diseases caused by the included
containing antigens for antigens. for the prevention of the most
vaccination against avian common diseases in broiler chickens and
influenza, Newcastle of diseases responsible for losses in egg
disease, avian coryza, egg production in layers.
drop syndrome, infectious
bronchitis, infectious bursal
disease, bacterium anatis
–– 95 ––product portfolIo ANIMAl HEAltH Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Food-producing animals – cattle
Mastitis
Mastitis is the inflammation of the udder in dairy cattle,
mainly caused by bacterial infection. Prevention and
treatment of mastitis in these animals is key to producing
healthy milk and minimising the symptoms associated
with this clinical situation. mamyzin® is an effective
injectable antimicrobial for the treatment of acute masti-
tis. ubrolexin® and today® are two products for the
treatment of acute bacterial mastitis, whereas ubrostar®
and tomorrow® are used to prevent mastitis during dry-
ing-off in dairy cattle at the end of their lactation period.
–– 96 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
IndIcat Ions Brand names actIve IngredIents
– M astitis mamyzin® penethamate hydroiodide Bovine mastitis caused by penicillin
sensitive organisms.
– M astitis ubrostar® penethamate hydroiodide, framyce- for treatment of subclinical mastitis at
benestermycin® tin sulphate, benethamine penicillin drying off, and the prevention of new
mamyzin® secado bacterial infections of the udder during
the dry period in dairy cows, caused by
bacteria susceptible to penicillin and
framycetin.
– M astitis ubrolexin® cefalexin, kanamycin combination treatment of clinical mastitis in lactating
dairy cows for bacteria susceptible to
the combination of cefalexin and kana-
mycin.
– M astitis today® cephapirin sodium treatment of clinical mastitis in lactating
cefa-lak® dairy cows (uS/canada).
– M astitis tomorrow® cephapirin benzathine for treatment of subclinical mastitis at
cefa-dri® drying off, and the prevention of new
bacterial infections of the udder during
the dry period in dairy cows (uS/can-
ada). for intramammary infusion into
the dry cow (uS only).
–– 97 ––product portfolIo ANIMAl HEAltH Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
Food-producing animals – cattle (continued)
Pain and inflammatory disorders Infectious diseases
metacam® is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug The pyramid® family of vaccines is providing a broad
(NSAID) and addresses the need for maintained profita- coverage against respiratory and reproductive diseases.
bility and the concern for animal welfare in animal pro- The range consists of several antigen combinations.
duction. Due to its long-acting nature and its outstanding
efficacy in controlling inflammatory symptoms, metacam® Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is one of the major and
helps to minimise losses from inflammation and maintain economically relevant cattle pathogens with a worldwide
profitability. At the same time, metacam® e ffectively distribution. The disease caused by BVDV results in marked
controls pain and supports the restoration of well-being production losses in dairy and beef herds. bovela® is a
in farm animals. The use of metacam® is c onvenient and vaccine that is designed to reduce some of the clinical signs
inflicts minimal stress on animals due to its low-volume, typical for BVD, and to prevent the birth of so-called per-
one-shot dosage. sistently infected animals caused by transplacental infec-
tion with BVDV. Vaccination with bovela® is expected to
metacam® is licensed as adjunctive therapy in the treat- provide protection within the herd against the disease and
ment of mastitis in lactating cows. In most countries it against the circulation of the virus.
is also indicated for use in calves affected by diarrhoea
and in cattle suffering from respiratory disease.
–– 98 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
IndIcat Ions Brand names actIve IngredIents
– pain and inflammatory metacam® meloxicam In cattle, metacam® is used together
d isorders with appropriate antibiotic therapy to
reduce clinical signs of disease in acute
respiratory infection. It can be used in
diarrhoea in combination with oral
rehydration therapy to reduce clinical
signs of the disease in calves of over
one week of age, and young, non-lactat-
ing cattle. It can also be used for the
relief of post-operative pain following
dehorning in calves and as supportive
therapy in the treatment of acute masti-
tis in combination with antibiotics.
– cattle infectious diseases pyramid® Several multivalent vaccine combi- for vaccination of healthy dairy or beef
– respiratory and reproductive presponse® nations including modified live cattle as an aid in prevention of diseases
diseases in cattle viruses: bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) caused by included antigens (uS and
Types 1 and 2, infectious bovine canada only).
rhinotracheitis (IBR), parainflu-
enza-3 (PI3) and bovine respiratory
syncytial virus (BRSV), and bacteria:
Pasteurella multocida, Mannheimia
haemolytica, L. canicola, L. grippoty-
phosa, L. hardjo, L. icterohaemmor-
rhagiae, and L. pomona
– Bovine viral diarrhoea (BVd) bovela® modified live BVDV *-1 strain, bovela® is used to protect cattle against
modified live BVDV *-2 strain BVd viral infection.
* Bovine viral diarrhoea virus
–– 99 ––product portfolIo ANIMAl HEAltH Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
companion animals – horse
Our main horse products focus on the therapeutic areas All vetera® vaccines are formulated utilising the uLTRAfIL™
of respiratory disease, lameness, colic and hormonal Purification Technology, removing most of the extraneous pro-
disorders. teins and allowing the horse’s immune system to focus on the
relevant antigens.
prascend® is indicated for the treatment of pituitary pars
intermedia dysfunction (PPID), which is also known as In the respiratory segment two products are available on a global
equine Cushing’s disease. prascend® substitutes for the level: ventipulmin® and equisolon®. Both products are
lack of dopamine in the pituitary pars intermedia. Clinical licensed for the treatment of respiratory disease including airway
signs are hypertrichiosis, laminitis, change in body con- obstruction in which horses wheeze, cough and have difficulty
formation and lack of performance. Treatment with in breathing due to bronchospasm and/or mucus accumulation.
prascend® is life-long. ventipulmin® and equisolon® can both be used alone or as
adjunctive therapy in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
vetera® vaccines are the first vaccine portfolio that (COPD) and in acute, sub-acute and chronic respiratory allergic
include m ultiple convenient combinations of disease pro- conditions.
tection for horses from as young as four months of age.
The vaccines protect against as many as nine infectious
organisms including influenza, herpes, the West Nile
virus, tetanus and others. This enables customised pro-
tection for each horse with limited needle injections.
–– 100 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
IndIcat Ions Brand names actIve IngredIents
– pituitary pars intermedia prascend® pergolide mesylate Symptomatic treatment of clinical signs
dysfunction (ppId) asso ciated with pituitary pars intermedia
dysfunction (ppId; also known as equine
cushing’s disease).
– up to 9-way combination vetera® Eastern, Western and Venezuelan for vaccination of healthy horses as an
vaccines against common encephalomyelitis, tetanus, West aid in the prevention of diseases caused
diseases in horses Nile virus, equine by included antigens (uS and canada
herpes virus, equine only).
influenza viruses
– Acute and chronic obstructive ventipulmin® clenbuterol treatment of respiratory disease in horses
respiratory diseases where airway obstruction due to bron-
chospasm and/or accumulation of mucus
is a contributing factor, and improved
mucociliary clearance is desirable.
– recurrent airway obstruction equisolon® prednisolone for the treatment of recurrent airway
(rAo) or heaves obstruction (rAo) or heaves in horses
in combination with environmental
measures.
–– 101 ––product portfolIo ANIMAl HEAltH Boehringer Ingelheim 2015
companion animals – small animals
The main small animal products address major chronic prozinc® is an aqueous protamine zinc (PZI) suspension
diseases: heart failure, kidney disease, epilepsy and oste- of recombinant human insulin that is used to reduce
oarthritis. hyperglycaemia in cats with diabetes mellitus.
As the first of a new class of heart treatments termed semintra® is an angiotensin II antagonist which is
inodilators, vetmedin® has been shown to significantly approved for reduction of proteinuria associated with
improve clinical signs and extend life expectancy in dogs chronic kidney disease (CKD) in cats. semintra®
with congestive heart failure originating from dilated decreases mean arterial blood pressure and proteinuria
cardiomyopathy or valvular insufficiency (mitral and/or and is available as an oral solution.
tricuspid regurgitation). vetmedin® works through two
complementary modes of action: it opens up the blood pexion® is an alternative treatment for canine epilepsy.
vessels taking blood to and away from the heart, thereby The active substance imepitoin primarily inhibits
lowering the pressure on the heart and reducing the seizures via potentiation of GABAA-receptor-mediated
work the heart has to do to pump blood around the dog’s inhibitory effects on neurons. pexion® is approved for
body. At the same time, vetmedin® has a direct effect on reduction of generalised seizures due to idiopathic epi-
the heart muscle, helping it to beat stronger and pump lepsy, and it has potential safety benefits over existing
blood more efficiently. standard treatment.
metacam® is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug duramune® and bronchishield® are vaccines designed
(NSAID). It is available as an oral suspension, tablets to aid in the prevention of a wide spectrum of common
and injectable solution for dogs and as an oral suspen- infectious diseases in dogs. These diseases can be very
sion and injectable solution for cats. In dogs, the indica- serious and in some cases even fatal. Effective preven-
tions include the alleviation of inflammation and pain in tion including appropriate vaccination reduces the impact
both acute and chronic musculo-skeletal disorders, as of these diseases on dogs.
well as the reduction of postoperative pain following
surgery. In cats, the indications include the alleviation of
inflammation and pain in acute and chronic musculo-
skeletal disorders, as well as for alleviation of mild to
moderate postoperative pain following surgical proce-
dures. The variety of formulations offers veterinarians
and owners the flexibility to use the formulations they
prefer to manage the various levels of inflammation and
pain associated with the licensed indications.
–– 102 ––PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
IndIcat Ions Brand names actIve IngredIents
– congestive heart failure vetmedin® pimobendan treatment of canine congestive heart
failure originated from dilatative cardio-
myophathy or valvular insufficiency
(mitral and/or tricuspid regurgitation).
for the treatment of dilated cardiomyopa-
thy in the preclinical stage (asymptomatic
with an increase in left ventricular
end-systolic and end-diastolic diameter)
in doberman pinschers following echo-
cardiographic diagnosis of cardiac disease.
– pain and inflammatory metacam® meloxicam In dogs, metacam® is used to reduce
diseases post-operative pain and inflammation
following orthopaedic (e.g. fracture oper-
ation) and soft tissue surgery.
In cats, metacam® is used to reduce
post-operative pain and inflammation
after ovariohysterectomy (spay opera-
tion), orthopaedic and minor soft tissue
surgery.
Moreover, it is used for the alleviation of
pain and inflammation in acute and
chronic musculo-skeletal disorders (dogs
and cats).
– feline diabetes mellitus prozinc® protamine zinc for the reduction of hyperglycaemia and
recombinant hyperglycaemia-associated clinical signs
human insulin in cats with diabetes mellitus.
– feline chronic kidney disease semintra® telmisartan reduction of proteinuria associated with
chronic kidney disease (cKd) in cats.
– canine idiopathic epilepsy pexion® imepitoin for the reduction of the frequency of
generalised seizures due to idiopathic
epilepsy in dogs after careful evaluation
of alternative treatment options.
– canine infectious diseases duramune® inactivated and attenuated vaccine for vaccination of healthy dogs as an aid
bronchishield® against canine distemper, canine in the prevention of diseases caused by
adenovirus type 2, coronavirus, included antigens (uS, canada and
parainfluenzavirus, parvovirus, Australia only).
Borrelia burgdorferi, Leptospira
canicola/grippotyphosa/
icterohaemor-
rhagiae/
pomona,
Bordetella
bronchi-
septica
–– 103 ––Comparison of BalanCe sheets 2006 ― 2015 Boehringer ingelheim 2015
C. h. Boehringer sohn aG & Co. KG, ingelheim
Comparison of BalanCe sheets 2006 ― 2015
(in millions of eur)
Assets (as of December 31) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
intangible assets 554 547 539 745 736 710 682 582 592 606
tangible assets 2,886 2,972 3,177 3,219 3,314 3,442 3,103 2,887 3,070 3,264
financial assets 3,043 1,638 1,739 1,699 3,168 3,953 4,222 4,737 5,312 5,933
Fixed assets 6,483 5,157 5,455 5,663 7,218 8,105 8,007 8,206 8,974 9,803
inventories 1,280 1,387 1,561 1,801 1,850 1,998 2,095 2,083 2,237 2,483
accounts receivable (incl. deferred charges and deferred taxes) 3,137 2,912 3,496 3,663 4,047 4,652 4,814 5,131 5,546 6,463
liquid funds 945 1,015 1,312 3,877 3,118 3,903 2,374 2,879 3,294 4,536
Current assets (incl. deffered charges and deferred taxes) 5,362 5,314 6,369 9,341 9,015 10,553 9,283 10,093 11,077 13,482
Total assets 11,845 10,471 11,824 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285
Liabilities and equity (as of December 31) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
shareholders‘ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178
reserves (incl. currency conversion difference) 3,275 1,385 3,101 3,964 5,408 5,812 4,763 5,619 6,884 7,844
net income 1,722 1,809 1,424 1,759 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,047 1,577
Total equity 5,175 3,372 4,703 5,901 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,121 8,109 9,599
minority interests 188 167 190 179 0 0 0 1 2 4
Group equity 5,363 3,539 4,893 6,080 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,122 8,111 9,603
Negative difference from acquisition of companies 0 0 0 0 0 157 134 104 91 71
provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 4,641 4,726 5,120 5,731 6,598 7,402 7,749 7,817 8,840 10,543
liabilities (incl. deferred charges) 1,841 2,206 1,811 3,193 3,161 3,633 3,229 3,256 3,009 3,068
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred charges) 6,482 6,932 6,931 8,924 9,759 11,035 10,978 11,073 11,849 13,611
Total liabilities and equity 11,845 10,471 11,824 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285
Summary of selected financial data 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
net sales 10,574 10,952 11,595 12,721 12,586 13,171 14,691 14,065 13,317 14,798
operating income 2,140 2,100 1,980 2,239 1,896 2,272 1,853 2,114 2,140 2,269
operating income as % of net sales 20.2 19.2 17.1 17.6 15.1 17.3 12.6 15.0 16.1 15.3
income after taxes 1,729 1,812 1,428 1,764 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,046 1,576
income after taxes as % of net sales 16.4 16.5 12.3 13.9 7.1 11.2 8.4 9.4 7.9 10.7
return on shareholders‘ equity (in %) 37.4 35.0 42.2 37.4 15.0 22.8 16.6 21.4 14.7 19.4
equity ratio (in %) 43.7 32.2 39.8 39.3 39.9 40.0 35.7 38.9 40.4 41.2
Cash flow 2,317 2,392 1,997 2,409 2,234 2,378 2,225 2,129 1,850 2,605
financial funds 3,934 2,581 2,932 5,384 6,113 7,711 6,467 7,514 8,507 10,200
personnel costs 2,836 2,886 3,004 3,221 3,358 3,664 4,024 4,071 4,116 4,518
personnel costs as % of net sales 26.8 26.4 25.9 25.3 26.7 27.8 27.4 28.9 30.9 30.5
average number of employees 38,428 39,800 41,300 41,534 42,224 44,094 46,228 47,492 47,743 47,501
research and development costs 1,574 1,900 2,109 2,215 2,453 2,516 2,795 2,743 2,654 3,004
r & D as % of net sales 14.9 17.3 18.2 17.4 19.5 19.1 19.0 19.5 19.9 20.3
investments in tangible assets 596 654 665 630 519 458 562 558 548 591
Depreciation of tangible assets 419 432 453 470 498 535 793 640 449 475imprint
Assets (as of December 31) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
intangible assets 554 547 539 745 736 710 682 582 592 606
tangible assets 2,886 2,972 3,177 3,219 3,314 3,442 3,103 2,887 3,070 3,264
financial assets 3,043 1,638 1,739 1,699 3,168 3,953 4,222 4,737 5,312 5,933 Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
Binger Straße 173
Fixed assets 6,483 5,157 5,455 5,663 7,218 8,105 8,007 8,206 8,974 9,803
55216 Ingelheim
inventories 1,280 1,387 1,561 1,801 1,850 1,998 2,095 2,083 2,237 2,483 Germany
accounts receivable (incl. deferred charges and deferred taxes) 3,137 2,912 3,496 3,663 4,047 4,652 4,814 5,131 5,546 6,463 Telephone + 49 6132 77-0
Fax + 49 6132 72-0
liquid funds 945 1,015 1,312 3,877 3,118 3,903 2,374 2,879 3,294 4,536
Current assets (incl. deffered charges and deferred taxes) 5,362 5,314 6,369 9,341 9,015 10,553 9,283 10,093 11,077 13,482
ContaCt
Total assets 11,845 10,471 11,824 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 Corporate Division Communications
E-mail webmaster@boehringer-ingelheim.com
Internet www.boehringer-ingelheim.com
Liabilities and equity (as of December 31) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
shareholders‘ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 issued By
reserves (incl. currency conversion difference) 3,275 1,385 3,101 3,964 5,408 5,812 4,763 5,619 6,884 7,844 Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
net income 1,722 1,809 1,424 1,759 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,047 1,577
ConCept, design and layout
Total equity 5,175 3,372 4,703 5,901 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,121 8,109 9,599
MPM Corporate Communication Solutions, Mainz
minority interests 188 167 190 179 0 0 0 1 2 4
www.mpm.de
Group equity 5,363 3,539 4,893 6,080 6,474 7,466 6,178 7,122 8,111 9,603
Negative difference from acquisition of companies 0 0 0 0 0 157 134 104 91 71 photos
provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 4,641 4,726 5,120 5,731 6,598 7,402 7,749 7,817 8,840 10,543 dieth + schröder fotografie (p. 2, 6)
liabilities (incl. deferred charges) 1,841 2,206 1,811 3,193 3,161 3,633 3,229 3,256 3,009 3,068
printed By
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred charges) 6,482 6,932 6,931 8,924 9,759 11,035 10,978 11,073 11,849 13,611
Neue Süddeutsche Verlagsdruckerei GmbH, Ulm
Total liabilities and equity 11,845 10,471 11,824 15,004 16,233 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285
Copyright
© Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, 2016
Summary of selected financial data 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
All rights reserved. No part of this Annual Report 2015 may
net sales 10,574 10,952 11,595 12,721 12,586 13,171 14,691 14,065 13,317 14,798 be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means,
operating income 2,140 2,100 1,980 2,239 1,896 2,272 1,853 2,114 2,140 2,269 electronic or photocopy, without permission in writing from
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH. Figures from third parties used
operating income as % of net sales 20.2 19.2 17.1 17.6 15.1 17.3 12.6 15.0 16.1 15.3
in the annual report are based on data available at the time the
income after taxes 1,729 1,812 1,428 1,764 888 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,046 1,576 financial statement was drawn up.
income after taxes as % of net sales 16.4 16.5 12.3 13.9 7.1 11.2 8.4 9.4 7.9 10.7
return on shareholders‘ equity (in %) 37.4 35.0 42.2 37.4 15.0 22.8 16.6 21.4 14.7 19.4
equity ratio (in %) 43.7 32.2 39.8 39.3 39.9 40.0 35.7 38.9 40.4 41.2
Cash flow 2,317 2,392 1,997 2,409 2,234 2,378 2,225 2,129 1,850 2,605
financial funds 3,934 2,581 2,932 5,384 6,113 7,711 6,467 7,514 8,507 10,200
personnel costs 2,836 2,886 3,004 3,221 3,358 3,664 4,024 4,071 4,116 4,518
personnel costs as % of net sales 26.8 26.4 25.9 25.3 26.7 27.8 27.4 28.9 30.9 30.5
average number of employees 38,428 39,800 41,300 41,534 42,224 44,094 46,228 47,492 47,743 47,501
research and development costs 1,574 1,900 2,109 2,215 2,453 2,516 2,795 2,743 2,654 3,004
r & D as % of net sales 14.9 17.3 18.2 17.4 19.5 19.1 19.0 19.5 19.9 20.3
investments in tangible assets 596 654 665 630 519 458 562 558 548 591
Depreciation of tangible assets 419 432 453 470 498 535 793 640 449 475