B O E H R I N G E R I N G E L H E I M
A N N U A L R E P O R T
2020
Value through Innovationf in a n ci a l h i gh l ig h ts s um m ar y r ep o r t
Amounts in millions of EUR,
unless otherwise indicated 2020 2019 Change
Net sales 19,566 18,997 + 3%
by region
Americas 45% 46%
Europe 30% 30%
Asia / Australia / Africa (AAA) 25% 24%
SUMMARY REPORT
by business
Human Pharma 74% 74%
2020
Animal Health 21% 21%
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 4% 4%
Discontinued Operations 1% 1%
Research and development expenses 3,696 3,462 + 7%
Personnel expenses 5,587 5,367 + 4%
Average number of employees 51,944 51,015 + 2%
Operating income 4,624 3,782 + 22%
Operating income as % of net sales 23.6% 19.9%
Group profit 3,062 2,721 + 13%
as % of net sales 15.6% 14.3%
Group equity 17,307 14,681 + 18%
Investments in tangible assets 1,046 1,073 – 3%
Depreciation of tangible assets 602 585 + 3%
Top 4 products — Human Pharma Top 4 products — Animal Health
Net Sales 2020 in million EUR Change Net sales 2020 in million EUR Change
jardiance® 2,480 + 15% nexgard® 804 + 9%
ofev® 2,055 + 38% frontline® 406 + 7%
spiriva® 1,793 – 13% heartgard® 312 – 2%
trajenta® / jentadueto® 1,512 – 3% ingelvac circoflex® /
flexcombo® 264 + 11%o v e r v i e w
THE CORE OF OUR LEITBILD
01
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
09
CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
49
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
81c o n t e n t
THE CORE OF OUR LEITBILD 01
The Shareholders’ Perspective 02
Key Aspects 2020 06
Corporate bodies 08
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT 09
Information about the Group 10
Report on economic position 32
Report on opportunities and risks 43
Report on expected developments 47
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49
Overview of selected consolidated companies 50
Consolidated balance sheet 52
Consolidated profit and loss statement 53
Cash flow statement 54
Statement of changes in group equity 55
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 56
Independent auditor’s report 77
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO 81
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS 82
Respiratory diseases 82
Cardiovascular and metabolic diseases 86
Oncology 92
Diseases of the central nervous system 94
Infectious diseases 94
ANIMAL HEALTH 96
Livestock – swine 96
Livestock – cattle/ruminants 98
Livestock – poultry 102
Veterinary Public Health (VPH) 104
Companion animals – horse 106
Companion animals – pets 108OUR COMPANY
Making new and better medicines for humans and animals is at
the heart of what we do. Our mission is to create breakthrough
therapies that change lives. Independent and family-owned,
Boehringer Ingelheim has the freedom to pursue its long-term
vision, looking ahead to identify the health challenges of the
future and targeting those areas of need where we can do the
most good.
As a world-leading, research-driven biopharmaceutical com-
pany, almost 52,000 employees create value through innovation
daily for our three business areas: Human Pharma, Animal
Health, and Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing. In 2020,
Boehringer Ingelheim achieved net sales of 19.6 billion euros.
Our significant investment of almost 3.7 billion euros in R&D
drives innovation, enabling the next generation of medicines
that save lives and improve quality of life.
We realize more scientific opportunities by embracing the power
of partnership and diversity of experts across the life-science
community. By working together, we accelerate the delivery of
the next medical breakthrough that will transform the lives
of patients now, and in generations to come.2
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
THE SHAREHOLDERS’ PERSPECTIVE3
THE SHAREHOLDERS’ PERSPECTIVE
2020 will go down in history as the year of the COVID-19 pandemic that cost more
than two million people their lives, destroyed livelihoods, and put our society
to a severe test. In light of this global challenge, the pharmaceutical industry has
expanded its research into COVID-19 at an unprecedented pace. After all, despite
comprehensive and diverse measures to protect life and health, it is the means of
pharmacy that can be used to combat and end the pandemic.
Until recently, it would have taken more than ten years from the identification of a
virus to the approval of a vaccine against it. The fact that vaccines and therapies have
now been developed and made market-ready within months was only made possible
by the close cooperation between pharmaceutical companies, academia, and public
author ities. Policymakers are responsible for creating conditions that make such
innovations possible, and the importance of an innovation-friendly environment for
society as a whole has never been clearer than during this pandemic.
With our company vision of “Creating value through innovation”, we affirm our
commitment to excellence in science. This applies not only to the fight against
COVID-19, but also to diseases for which no effective treatment options are available
yet. To continue to be able to pursue these objectives in the future, we want to remain
what makes Boehringer Ingelheim so unique — an independent and economically
strong family-owned company of global importance.
We would like to express special appreciation to our employees. In an often difficult
personal and professional environment, they have protected and supported one
another by showing extraordinary commitment and great solidarity, thus maintaining
the global supply of medicines that humans and animals so desperately need. Even
during lockdowns, our employees continued to do their research and develop new
therapies, not least to combat COVID-19. We would like to thank all of them for their
outstanding commitment.
s igned by
Christian Boehringer
Chairman of the Shareholders’ CommitteeTHE BOARD OF
MANAGING DIRECTORS
Michel Pairet Carinne BrouillonTHE BOARD OF
MANAGING DIRECTORS
Hubertus von Baumbach Michael Schmelmer Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok
The photo was taken in February 2020.6
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
The year 2020 was shaped by the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic – also for Boehringer Ingelheim. As a
research-driven biopharmaceutical company, we have been involved in the research and
development of therapies from the very beginning – on a national level with the German Center
for Infection Research as well as in a global alliance with other companies and institutions,
including the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the US National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases Research Center.
We also provided financial assistance and donated protective equipment and medicines as part of
our Global Support Program to help counter the pandemic. At all times, protecting our around
52,000 employees has been at the forefront of every decision we made.
Patient care has the highest priority for Boehringer Ingelheim. The high level of engagement from
our employees allowed us to sustain our production and logistics throughout 2020, despite
strained supply chains, and thus continue to supply all those people who depend on their required
medicines.
Thanks to the outstanding performance of our IT department, within less than a week, up to
40,000 users were able to perform their tasks outside the corporate network from home every day.
Other colleagues continued to be needed directly on site, for example in production facilities and
laboratories, but also in infrastructure, business operations, and site security.
An efficient infrastructure and the flexibility of our staff form the basis and are a prerequisite for
the resilience of our entire organization, which attained remarkable achievements in the past year.
Thanks to everyone’s efforts, we were able to grow in all three business areas. In 2020, we
invested more than ever before in researching future therapies. One important area of research
is oncology. Here, we are developing active substances that not only directly attack cancer cells,
but can also specifically activate the human immune system. We are pioneers in the scientific
understanding of inflammatory and fibrotic diseases of skin, intestinal, and lung tissue among
other things, as well as diseases of the central nervous system and metabolic diseases such as
the liver disease NASH (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis).7
KEY ASPECTS 2020
With the launch of the AMR Action Fund, we joined forces with other companies to ensure that
infections with multi-resistant bacteria can continue to be treated effectively with new antibiotics
in the future. Antibiotic resistance and, not least, COVID-19 show us how closely human and
animal health are linked. This commonality is at the heart of our strategy, particularly in animal
health, where we focus on synergies in research. External partnerships complement our market
activities, for example the cooperation with China-based New Ruipeng Group for pet healthcare.
From our research pipeline to patient information, a substantial part of our corporate activities
relies on various types of collaboration. We complement our in-house strengths with specific
external skill sets, such as the use of quantum computers for pharmaceutical drug development in
our basic research. We were the first pharmaceutical company to engage in this activity when we
entered into a partnership with Google Quantum AI at the beginning of 2021.
The progress made by the Group this past year is not a result of COVID-19, but rather an
achievement despite the challenges associated with the virus. We would like to extend our very
special thanks to all our employees worldwide who have made this possible through their high
level of personal commitment. Each and every one of us played a part in ensuring that Boehringer
Ingelheim continued to make a contribution to improving the lives of patients in 2020.
signed by signed by signed by
Hubertus vo n Baumbach Carinne Brouillon Michel Pairet
signe d by signe d by
Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok Michael Schmelmer8
CORPORATE BODIES
Shareholders’ Committee Board of Managing Directors
Christian Boehringer Hubertus von Baumbach
Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors
Christoph Boehringer Carinne Knoche-Brouillon
Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
Erich von Baumbach Human Pharma
Isabel Boehringer Dr. Michel Pairet
Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
Dr. Mathias Boehringer Innovation
Prof. Dr. Dr. Andreas Barner Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok
Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
Animal Health
Advisory Board Michael Schmelmer
Member of the Board of Managing Directors,
Dr. Nikolaus von Bomhard Finance & Group Functions
Chairman of the Advisory Board
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG
Dr. Hagen Duenbostel (from 01.01.2021)
Chief Executive Officer KWS SE
Dr. Andreas Kreimeyer (until 31.07.2020)
Former member of the Board of Executive Directors
and Research Executive Director BASF SE
Dr. Frank Mastiaux
Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG
Jan Rinnert
Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors, CEO
Heraeus Holding GmbHPAGE 10–48
G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T
Information about the Group 10
The Group’s business model 10
Research and development 12
Production 23
Employee reporting 26
Sustainable development 27
Report on economic position 32
Macroeconomic environment 32
Earnings position 34
Development of the businesses 36
Financial position 40
Net assets position 41
Report on opportunities and risks 43
Opportunities and risk management 43
Individual risks 43
Overall statement on the risk situation 46
Report on expected developments 47
TROPER
TNEMEGANAM
PUORG10
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP
The Group’s business model
Boehringer Ingelheim has stood for innovation for over 135 years. The Group is among the world’s
20 leading companies in this sector. Founded in 1885, the family-owned company with its headquarters
in Ingelheim am Rhein is today one of Germany’s most research-intensive companies. Its activities
focus on both human and animal patients. Boehringer Ingelheim’s strategic anchor is the goal of
achieving medical breakthroughs in those areas where the need is greatest. In its Human Pharma,
Animal Health and Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing businesses, the company has
51,944 employees worldwide in research and development (R&D), from production to commercialization
of its products and administration.
The Human Pharma business is the mainstay of Boehringer Ingelheim’s activities and accounts for a
74% share of overall sales. This business area is underpinned by an innovative portfolio, and in many
cases the company’s products are standard treatments in medicine. Research focuses on cardiovascu-
lar and metabolic diseases, oncology, respiratory diseases, immunology, diseases of the central nerv-
ous system (CNS) and retinal health.
jardiance® again jardiance®, a medicine for treatment of type 2 diabetes which also reduces the risk of cardiovascular
strongest diseases for type 2 diabetics with pre-existing cardiovascular conditions, was the Group’s biggest sell-
revenue contributor ing Human Pharma product for the second consecutive year. ofev®, which is used for the treatment of
the rare respiratory disease idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and increasingly also in a further indi-
cation – systemic sclerosis with interstitial lung disease (SSc-ILD) – registered especially strong growth.
UNmEsTa tSzeArlLösEeS n aBchY G BesUchSäIfNtenE (SinS % ) Group: 19,566 million EUR
4% 1%
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing Other sales
837 million EUR 193 million EUR
21% 74%
Animal Health Human Pharma
4,121 million EUR 14,415 million EUR11
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
NET SALES BY REGION (IN MILLION EUR)
Europe 5,879 5,689
2020 2019
Asia,
Australia,
Africa
(AAA) 4,798 4,478
2020 2019
Americas 8,889 8,830
2020 2019
Three other products also played a significant role in Boehringer Ingelheim’s success: spiriva®, which
is used for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) as well as asthma, trajenta®,
which is used for treatment of type 2 diabetes, and pradaxa®, which is used to prevent strokes in patients
with atrial fibrillation and for the prevention and treatment of thromboembolic disorders.
In its Animal Health business, Boehringer Ingelheim is one of the biggest providers of veterinary vac-
cines and medicines. Boehringer Ingelheim is the market leader in Germany and, at the global level, is
the second largest provider in the area of animal health. Its portfolio includes products for pets and
horses as well as livestock such as swine, ruminants and poultry. The company’s core brands n exgard®,
followed by frontline® and heartgard®, are the foundations of its success in the pets segment. In
the swine segment, the established swine vaccine ingelvac circoflex®, which is used to treat porcine
circovirus type 2, is an important component of the company’s product portfolio.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s biopharmaceutical activities comprise the manufacture of its own human
pharmaceutical products (such as actilyse®, metalyse® and praxbind®) and also – as one of the
world’s leading providers – process development and commercial production of biopharmaceuticals
for third-party industrial customers.
Other sales mainly comprise discontinued operations.
In the 2020 financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim once again achieved the majority of its sales in the
Americas (45%) and Europe (30%) regions. The Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) region includes countries
such as China and is of strategic significance for the Group’s future development, making up 25%
of its sales.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS12
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
Research and development
In line with its mission statement, Boehringer Ingelheim’s goal is to research and develop innovative
medicines and therapies for the treatment of diseases for which there are as yet no satisfactory treat-
ments available. Its major emphasis is on the development of medicines as well as new approaches
and therapies to prevent, detect and treat chronic diseases. Driven by the desire to make a difference
for patients, we aim to make a relevant contribution in areas where the need for treatment is high, in
the human pharmaceuticals segment as well as in the field of animal health.
We have a global research network of 13 countries, with major facilities in Germany (Biberach and
Ingelheim am Rhein), the USA (Ridgefield, Connecticut; Duluth, Georgia; and St. Joseph, Missouri),
Austria (Vienna), Japan (Kobe) and France (Lyon) as well as China (Shanghai). Boehringer Ingelheim
continues to explore opportunities for expanding and renewing its existing product portfolio through
organic growth. We thereby rely on long-established relationships with academic institutions, biotech
companies and public research institutions. In the scientific area, we collaborate in over 150 projects
with more than 120 academic institutions spanning three continents.
R&D expenses We also expand our research portfolio in a targeted fashion with supplementary cooperation and
increased to license agreements. A key component of Boehringer Ingelheim’s innovation strategy is to supplement
18.9% of net sales our own broad-based R&D portfolio with partnerships. While the company’s own research activities
are highly productive and competitive, in Human Pharma we are aiming to source at least 30% of all
new molecules in our pipeline through acquisitions from third parties. Our high scientific standards,
the business development relationships which we have forged over time, and the early investments
made by the Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund have proven to be a strong advantage here. The
Group’s research and development expenses have increased considerably in recent years – in the past
three years, their growth has even outpaced our revenue trend.13
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Research and development
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Expenses in million EUR 3,696 3,462 3,164 3,078 3,112
– as % of net sales 18.9 18.2 18.1 17.0 19.6
Human Pharma expenses in million EUR 3,283 3,042 2,780 2,714 2,870
– as % of Human Pharma net sales 22.8 21.8 22.1 21.5 23.9
Animal Health expenses in million EUR 412 419 384 357 180
– as % of Animal Health net sales 10.0 10.4 9.7 9.2 12.3
Average number of employees 9,504 9,154 8,552 8,589 8,055
Investments in tangible assets in million EUR
(without investments in infrastructure) 181 183 136 71 92
In 2020, Boehringer Ingelheim acquired the Belgian veterinary biotech company Global Stem cell Tech- Research network
nology NV, which is dedicated to the research, development and production of evidence-based, regen- expanded
erative medicines that are already used to treat orthopedic diseases in animals. In its Human Pharma
business, Boehringer Ingelheim reinforced its position in the area of immunoncology therapies by
acquiring shares in the Canadian company Northern Biologics Inc., which was subsequently renamed
BI IO Canada Inc. The Group also expanded its portfolio of collaborations and partnerships: In the past
year, Boehringer Ingelheim entered into new partnerships which include relationships with the U.S.
firm Mirati Therapeutics, Inc., which is investigating the use of “PAN-KRAS” inhibitors in the fight
against tumors, and with the Swiss company Numab Therapeutics AG, with the goal of developing and
commercializing multi-specific antibody therapies for potential treatment of lung and gastrointestinal
cancers as well as geographic atrophy. Another new partner, CDR-Life Inc., which is likewise headquar-
tered in Switzerland, also focuses on the latter indication. On the other hand, Boehringer Ingelheim’s
new cooperation with the British company Enara Bio Ltd. aims to discover novel antigens for future
cancer immunotherapies. In addition, with Click Therapeutics, Inc. in the USA, we are pursuing an inno-
vative approach to the development and commercialization of a digital therapeutic for the treatment of
schizophrenia. Shortly before the end of the year, Boehringer Ingelheim signed an agreement to acquire
NBE-Therapeutics AG in the area of oncology. The transaction was completed on January 20, 2021.
Additionally, we negotiated the acquisition of contract manufacturer Labor Dr. Merk & Kollegen GmbH.
Completion of this transaction is subject to the usual closing conditions and is expected to take place
over the course of the 2021 financial year.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS14
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
R&D SITES
17
11 13
12
14
20 19
3 9 1516
10 6 4 8 18
25
5 7 22 24
2 23
Animal Health (AH) 1
Human Pharma (HP) 21 26
AMERICAS EUROPE ASIA/OCEANIA
Brazil Belgium Australia
1. Paulínia (AH) 11. Evergem (AH) 21. Sydney (AH)
Mexico Germany China
2. Guadalajara/Tateposco (AH) 12. Biberach (HP) 22. Shanghai (AH)
13. Ingelheim am Rhein (AH) 23. Taizhou (AH)
USA 14. Katharinenhof-Rohrdorf (AH)
3. Ames, Iowa (AH) Japan
4. Athens/Colbert, Georgia (AH) France 24. Kobe (HP)
5. Duluth, Georgia (AH) 15. Lyon (AH) 25. Tokyo (AH)
6. Fulton, Missouri (AH) 16. Saint-Vulbas (AH)
7. Gainesville, Georgia (AH) New Zealand
8. North Brunswick, New Jersey (AH) Netherlands 26. Auckland (AH)
9. Ridgefield, Connecticut (HP) 17. Lelystad (AH)
10. St. Joseph, Missouri (AH)
Austria
18. Innsbruck (HP)
19. Vienna (HP)
Switzerland
20. Geneva (HP)
In the 2020 financial year, BI X, Boehringer Ingelheim’s digital laboratory, opened a second facility.
With a total of 67 employees, it now has a presence in Shanghai as well as in Ingelheim am Rhein. In
the past year, the BI X development teams transferred several innovative digital products to the com-
pany’s businesses. For instance, “ADAM” helps researchers in early pharmaceutical research to identify
the most relevant candidates in order to address a target molecule. BI X also added to its portfolio of
services a company-wide scouting service, which helps to identify and evaluate potential partners in
the field of digital technologies.15
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Since 2010, the Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund has driven innovation through its strategic invest-
ments in early-stage science and technology. The Venture Fund invests in biotech and start-up compa-
nies with innovative concepts and technologies that have the potential to provide ground-breaking
therapeutic platforms. The Venture Fund also founds companies when it identifies promising research
projects in universities and academic institutions.
The Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP) in Vienna is a biomedical research institute, which
is primarily funded by Boehringer Ingelheim. With more than 200 scientists from approximately
40 countries, the IMP conducts research into molecular and cellular mechanisms that form the basis
of complex biological life processes as well as human diseases. The IMP is one of the world’s leading
institutions of its kind: As of late 2020, 13 of its 16 group leaders had received at least one of the pres-
tigious grants awarded by the European Research Council (ERC). With a success rate of 58% in its
ERC applications in the period from 2014 to 2018, the IMP was ranked third among 172 European
research institutes and universities. Five of its six senior scientists have been elected full members of
the European Molecular Biology Organization (EMBO).
Boehringer Ingelheim’s R&D activities – the preclinical as well as clinical research and development –
are the basis for the company’s sustainable success. Our innovative capability has played a key role in
the Group’s positive business development over the past years. In-house R&D – supplemented by
external cooperation and partnerships – will also continue to be a top priority in the future.
In the 2020 financial year, we employed an average of 9,504 people at our R&D facilities. A total of
around 3.7 billion EUR was invested in the research and development of new medicines. This is above
the level in 2019 and corresponds to around 18.9% of the Group’s net sales in 2020.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS16
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
Human Pharma
More than 60 new In 2020, it became particularly apparent that trusting collaboration and modern science are decisive
active substances in our for our goal: to transform the lives of patients in areas of significant unmet medical need. In Human
Human Pharma portfolio Pharma R&D we are focused on the areas of cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, oncology, respiratory
diseases, immunology, diseases of the central nervous system (CNS), and retinal health.
By the end of 2020, our Human Pharma research portfolio included more than 60 new substances, on
whose development and registration we work in around 100 clinical and preclinical projects.
DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE END OF 2020 PHASE
CARDIOMETABOLIC DISEASES
Hemodynamic modulator 1 Phase I
Hemodynamic modulator 2 Phase I
Anorectic > Phase I
Transcient receptor potential channel inhibitor * Phase I
BI 456906 > Phase II
GLP1/GCGR agonist * | Obesity
Empagliflozin / New indication Phase III
SGLT2 inhibitor | CKD
Empagliflozin / New indication > ** Phase III
SGLT2 inhibitor | CHF
ONCOLOGY
PD-1 antibody Phase I
mRNA vaccine * Phase I
VEGF/Ang-2 antibody * Phase I
BET inhibitor Phase I
LRP 5/6 inhibitor Phase I
MDM2-p53 antagonist * Phase I
SIRP1α antagonist * Phase I
SOS1::KRAS inhibitor * Phase I
MEK inhibitor * Phase I
kisima® cancer vaccine > * Phase I
TRAILR2/CDH17 antibody > Phase I
DLL3/CD3 bispecific antibody > * Phase I
STING agonist Phase I
Xentuzumab (BI 836845) * Phase II
IGF1/2 antibody | mBC17
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE END OF 2020 PHASE
RESPIRATORY DISEASES
Cysteine protease inhibitor * Phase I
Leukocyte protease inhibitor Phase I
BI 1015550 > Phase II
Anti-fibrotic | IPF
IMMUNOLOGY
Epithelial barrier stress modulator Phase I
Receptor serine / threonine kinase Phase I
Spesolimab (BI 655130) Phase II
IL36R antibody | GPP
Spesolimab (BI 655130) Phase II
IL36R antibody | PPP
Spesolimab (BI 655130) Phase II
IL36R antibody | AtD
Spesolimab (BI 655130) Phase II
IL36R antibody | CD
Spesolimab (BI 655130) Phase II
RORγ antibody | Psoriasis
CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DISEASES
Phosphodiesterase inhibitor * Phase I
NMDA receptor modulator > Phase I
Osoresnontrine (BI 409306) * Phase II
PDE 9 inhibitor | FEP
Osoresnontrine (BI 409306) * Phase II
PDE 9 inhibitor | REX
BI 425809 Phase II
GlyT1 inhibitor | CIAS
BI 1358894 > * Phase II
TRPC 4/5 inhibitor | MDD
BI 1358894 * Phase II
TRPC 4/5 inhibitor | BoPD *
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS18
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE END OF 2020 PHASE
RETINAL HEALTH
Neuronal damage modulator Phase I
VEGF/Ang-2 antibody * Phase I
Ischemia modulator > Phase I
COVID-19
SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibody > * Phase I
BI 764198 > * Phase II***
TRPC 6 inhibitor | Cov-19 iARDS
Indication abbreviations:
AtD: Atopic dermatitis Cov-19 MDD: Major depressive disorder
iARDS: COVID-19 induced acute
BoPD: Borderline personality disorder respiratory distress syndrome MI: Myocardial infarction
CD: Crohn's disease FEP: First episode psychosis PPP: Palmoplantar pustulosis
CHF: Congestive heart failure GPP: Generalized pustular psoriasis REX: Reduction of relapse
CIAS: C ognitive impairment HF: Heart failure in schizophrenia
in schizophrenia
IPF: Idiopathis pulmonary fibrosis
CKD: Chronic kidney disease
mBC: Metastatic breast cancer
* Partnered projects or acquired assets.
** Study complete, submissions ongoing. In progress: Prevention of HF post MI.
*** Study terminated end of February 2021.
> Key pipeline advances (Dec 2019 – Dec 2020).
Interconnected cardio-renal-metabolic conditions – affecting the heart, kidneys, and metabolic sys-
tem – are the leading cause of mortality worldwide and account for up to 20 million deaths annually.
Building on our expertise in developing innovative treatments for a range of cardiovascular and met-
abolic conditions, our R&D strategy in cardiometabolic diseases takes a holistic view on the thera-
peutic needs of people affected by multiple, related cardiovascular and metabolic conditions. To
explore the impact of empagliflozin (jardiance®) on major clinical cardiovascular and renal out-
comes in a spectrum of cardio-renal-metabolic conditions, the Boehringer Ingelheim and Lilly Alli-
ance has developed the EMPOWER program. With more than 377,000 adults enrolled worldwide it is
one of the broadest and most comprehensive clinical programs for an SGLT2 inhibitor to date. In
2020, we reported positive results of the EMPEROR-Reduced Phase III trial in adults with heart
failure with reduced ejection fraction, with and without diabetes. In addition, we announced the
initiation of EMPACT-MI in collaboration with the Duke Clinical Research Institute, the only trial
in the SGLT2 inhibitor class to investigate the prevention of heart failure after acute myocardial
infarction in patients with and without diabetes.
We are convinced that we can use highly innovative approaches to make a difference by transforming
the lives of cancer patients with a focus on lung cancer and cancers of the gastrointestinal tract. We are
collaborating with the oncology community to deliver scientific breakthroughs and first-in-class
treatments that can help win the fight against cancer. Our commitment has resulted in treatments for
lung cancer (giotrif® and vargatef®) and from our rich pipeline we have advanced 15 compounds
into clinical development. We are taking cancer on by focusing on scientific approaches of cancer
cell-directed agents and immuno-oncology therapies as well as their smart combination — here we are
in a good competitive position. In projects with our partners such as The University of Texas MD Ander-
son Cancer Center, Mirati Therapeutics, Numab Therapeutics, Oxford BioTherapeutics, and others we
have also achieved progress in both approaches and their combination in 2020.19
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Scientific research on new therapeutic concepts for people with respiratory diseases is another focus
for Boehringer Ingelheim. For example, in 2020, following more than a decade of research, a break-
through in pulmonary fibrosis therapy was achieved: Since 2014, ofev® (nintedanib) has been a treat-
ment option for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) to slow down the decline in lung function in more
than 80 countries. For people living with systemic sclerosis associated interstitial lung disease
(SSc-ILD) and other chronic fibrosing interstitial lung diseases with a progressive phenotype (PF-ILDs),
no approved treatment option had existed in most countries so far. As the first and only therapy, ofev®
now is approved in more than 50 countries for the treatment of SSc-ILD and in more than 40 countries
for the treatment of PF-ILDs. This marks a turning point in the treatment of a wide range of rare forms
of pulmonary fibrosis. But there is still further therapeutic need. With the InPedILD™ study, Boehringer
Ingelheim is investigating the dosing and safety profile of nintedanib in children and adolescents. Yet
not all projects can be completed successfully: In 2020, Boehringer Ingelheim and Bridge Biotherapeu-
tics mutually agreed on the termination of the collaboration on an autotaxin inhibitor for fibrosing
interstitial lung diseases including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).
Boehringer Ingelheim is dedicated to discovering and developing first-of-their-kind therapies that will
help treat serious inflammatory diseases, which can greatly impact patients’ lives emotionally and
physically. With a deep understanding of molecular pathways, Boehringer Ingelheim is pioneering
scientific breakthroughs that target, repair, and prevent inflammatory diseases of the skin, gut, and
joints. Spesolimab is the most advanced investigational compound in Boehringer Ingelheim’s immu-
nology pipeline. Boehringer Ingelheim aims to give people with serious inflammatory diseases the
chance to lead a self-determined and fulfilled life.
Some of the most important neuropsychiatric diseases, such as schizophrenia or depression, continue
to be at the center of Boehringer Ingelheim’s research on central nervous system diseases. Here,
Boehringer Ingelheim is currently further broadening its development activities: In 2020, Boehringer
Ingelheim started two Phase II trials for treatments of borderline personality disorder and major
depressive disorder and had positive results from a Phase II clinical trial in patients with cognitive
impairment associated with schizophrenia. Furthermore, we broadened our innovative activities in
schizophrenia by in-licensing a digital therapy from Click Therapeutics.
Retinal diseases such as age-related macular degeneration are the leading cause for legal blindness in
the developed world. Although current therapies for some retinal diseases exist, they have limited
effectiveness in the real world, and significant unmet treatment needs still exist. In 2020, Boehringer
Ingelheim therefore again expanded the global research and development activities for retinal dis-
eases, with the first assets already in clinical development. The work of our scientists is complemented
by collaborations with academic and patient organizations, alongside partnerships with biotech com-
panies. While new partnerships have been announced in 2020, the development of an anti-inflamma-
tory AOC3 inhibitor for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe non-proliferative diabetic
retinopathy (NPDR) with Pharmaxis has been discontinued.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS20
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
As a research-driven biopharmaceutical company, we utilize our different areas of expertise to find
medical treatments for COVID-19. We initially had a look at our portfolio to identify compounds that
may have the potential to manage the symptoms and tissue damage related to the SARS-CoV-2 infec-
tion. To directly tackle the virus, we have worked together with Cologne University Hospital (UKK), the
University of Marburg (UMR) and the German Center for Infection Research (DZIF). We identified a
SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibody which entered Phase I clinical studies sponsored by UKK. In addi-
tion, we are involved in different consortia such as the CARE (Corona Accelerated R&D Europe) con-
sortium, a project of the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) of the European Union and the
COVID-19 Therapeutics Accelerator (CTA) of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF). The aim is
to identify the next generation of neutralizing antibodies and novel small molecule inhibitors of viral
proteins or host factors responsible for the replication of SARS-CoV-2. We provided compounds
from our historical small molecule library including legacy HIV and HCV assets from previous virology
projects, as well as molecules selected through computational screening against the proteases of
SARS-CoV-2. Through further screening, we hope to provide starting points for new compound
optimization campaigns to be conducted as part of these collaborative consortium efforts.
We are convinced that novel platform approaches will enable us to discover new medicines across
therapeutic approaches and disease boundaries by tackling common disease-causing mechanisms.
With this strategy, we study immune modulations in the context of oncology and inflammation, or in
fibrotic diseases across organs such as the lung, liver, eye, and kidney.
The following table shows the relevant changes in current clinical studies (Phase III) and in studies in
people with COVID-19:21
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
CLINICAL TRIAL PHASE CHANGES IN 2020
EmpaLinaMet XR (fixed-dose combination tablet Phase III Approved in the USA.
of empagliflozin, linagliptin and metformin completed
in 2019.
extended release (XR) for the treatment of adults
with type 2 diabetes).
EMPEROR-Reduced (NCT03057977), a Phase III, Phase III Study completed, primary endpoint met and
randomized, double-blind trial investigating once- published in New England Journal of Medicine.
daily empagliflozin compared with placebo in
Empagliflozin significantly reduced the com­
adults with heart failure with reduced ejection
bined relative risk of cardiovascular death and
fraction, both with and without diabetes, who are
hospitalization for heart failure by 25% in
receiving current standard of care.
adults with and without diabetes who had
heart failure with reduced ejection fraction.
Empagliflozin also significantly reduced the
relative risk of first and recurrent hospitali­
zations for heart failure by 30% and signi­
ficantly slowed kidney function decline.
EMPEROR-Preserved (NCT0357951), a phase III Phase III Ongoing.
randomized, double-blind trial investigating once
daily empagliflozin compared with placebo in
adults with chronic heart failure and preserved
ejection fraction, both with and without diabetes,
who are receiving current standard of care.
inbuild® (NCT02999178) was a double blind, Phase III Approved in more than 40 countries,
randomized, placebo-controlled trial evaluating completed including in the USA and the EU.
in 2019.
the efficacy and safety of Nintedanib over 52
weeks in patients with progressive fibrosing inter-
stitial lung disease (PF-ILD).
senscis® (NCT02597933) was a double blind, Phase III Approved in the EU in April 2020, now
randomized, placebo-controlled trial evaluating completed approved in more than 50 countries.
in 2019.
efficacy and safety of oral nintedanib treatment
for at least 52 weeks in patients with systemic
sclerosis-associated interstitial lung disease
inpedild™ (NCT04093024) is a double blind, Phase III Ongoing.
randomized, placebo-controlled trial evaluating
the dosing and safety profile of nintedanib in
children and adolescents between 6 and 17 years
old with clinically significant fibrosing interstitial
lung disease.
BI 764198 (NCT04604184) Phase II Ongoing.*
TRPC6 inhibitor| ARDS in COVID-19
Study of an inhibitor of TRPC6 (inhibitor of the
transient receptor potential cation channel 6), to
investigate whether this selective inhibitor may
reduce the need for ventilator support, improve
patient recovery rates and ultimately save lives in
patients hospitalized for COVID-19.
BI 767551 (NCT04631705, NCT04631666) Phase I/IIa Ongoing.
Studies investigate the efficacy and safety of a
neutralizing antibody that is in development as
a new therapeutic and prophylactic treatment
option against COVID-19.
* Study terminated end of February 2021.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS22
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
Animal Health
In its research and development activities in the area of animal health, Boehringer Ingelheim concen-
trates on the research, development, and supply of pioneering treatments and preventive therapies in
areas where the medical need is currently unmet and where we will have the greatest impact. This
includes innovative vaccines and antiparasitics for the protection of livestock and pets, as well as phar-
maceutical products for the treatment of chronic diseases.
In 2020, the R&D unit of our Animal Health business was renamed Animal Health Global Innovation
and given a new organizational structure which is based on a disease and system-centered research
and development approach. This enables us to more effectively examine diseases in larger populations
and on a cross-species basis, to step up our cooperation with our Human Pharma colleagues and
external partners, and to bring to the market pioneering innovations in treatment as well as in preven-
tive veterinary therapies.
We have defined six regional innovation centers in strategically important regions in order to boost this
approach and encourage cooperation. Three of these are situated in the United States, two in Europe
(France/Netherlands and Germany) and one in China. These centers consist of local clusters with spe-
cific areas of competence and enable us to cooperate within disciplines and on a multidisciplinary
basis, and to implement our strategy at a local level. Following the concentration of our vaccine
research and development activities in France and the USA, our German facility in Hanover discontin-
ued its activities at the end of 2020.
External partnerships also play a key role – it is not possible to realize innovations on a broad scale and
in new areas through our internal efforts alone. In addition to our internal research and development
activities, we evaluate external projects and products and, where appropriate, seek to pursue joint
development routes with our partners. In July, we acquired the Belgian veterinary biotech company
Global Stem cell Technology NV, which specializes in the research, development and manufacturing of
evidence-based, regenerative medicines – stem-cell therapies – for the treatment of orthopedic and
immunological animal diseases. This acquisition will enable us not only to strengthen our existing
capacities in the equine segment, but also to produce groundbreaking innovations for other species. In
September, we joined forces with the Fraunhofer Institute for Molecular Biology and Applied Ecology
IME in order to develop the next generation of safe, effective, and sustainable antiparasitics.
In 2020, we initiated more than 450 clinical studies worldwide and were awarded more than 240 prod-
uct authorizations, including approval in the EU and the USA for the innovative and award-winning
aservo®equihaler® for the alleviation of severe equine asthma. Obtaining approvals for new products
and new areas of application and expanding the geographic scope of our sales activities for existing
products are additional important aspects of our research and development activities which help us to
create value through innovation.23
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
PRODUCTION FACILITIES
12
24
2114
11 15
13 22
16 20
17 19
10
7 9 6 23 29
8 18 26
3
2527
4 5
28
2
1
30
Animal Health (AH)
Human Pharma (HP)
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing (Bio)
AMERICAS EUROPE Italy ASIA / OCEANIA
Brazil Belgium 19. Fornovo (HP) China
1. Itapecerica (HP) 11. Evergem (AH) 20. Noventa (AH) 25. Nanchang (AH)
2. Paulínia (AH) 26. Shanghai (HP, Bio)
Denmark Netherlands 27. Taizhou (AH)
Mexico 12. Kalundborg (AH) 21. Lelystad (AH)
3. Guadalajara (AH) Indonesia
4. Xochimilco (HP) Germany Austria 28. Bogor (HP)
13. Biberach (Bio) 22. Vienna (Bio)
Puerto Rico 14. Dortmund (HP) Japan
5. Barceloneta (AH) 15. Ingelheim am Rhein (HP) Spain 29. Yamagata (HP)
23. Sant Cugat (HP)
USA France New Zealand
6. Athens, Georgia (AH) 16. Lyon (AH) United Kingdom 30. Auckland (AH)
7. Fremont, California (Bio) 17. Toulouse (AH) 24. Pirbright (AH)
8. Gainesville, Georgia (AH)
9. St. Joseph, Missouri (AH) Greece
10. Worthington, Minnesota (AH) 18. Koropi (HP)
Production
Human Pharma
In the Human Pharma business, our globally acting production division is responsible for the reliable
supply of top-quality medicines for patients. The ongoing development of the company’s internal pro-
duction facilities and our strategic cooperation with external manufacturers have established a mod-
ern, flexible market supply network which encompasses the entire value chain, from suppliers of start-
ing materials to worldwide logistics and the distribution of finished pharmaceutical products.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s production facilities concentrate on products that are strategically important
for the company, as well as on state-of-the-art and in some cases unique manufacturing technologies.
At the same time, partnerships with external manufacturers add specialist technologies to our produc-
tion network that are not available in-house. They also expand the production capacity of standard
technologies for products which have very high capacity requirements or are already far advanced in
terms of their life cycle.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS24
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
In the 2020 financial year, this global network included Boehringer Ingelheim’s own plants in nine
countries. The Group has four biopharmaceuticals facilities. It also has two facilities for the manufac-
ture of pharmaceutical active substances; one that produces medical devices, and eight that manu-
facture finished pharmaceutical products. Even during the past year, which was unusual due to
COVID-19-related logistical challenges, Boehringer Ingelheim was able to ensure a steady supply of
medicines for patients. This was possible due to the fact that key manufacturing steps and technolo-
gies have been established at multiple facilities and that an inventory reserve concept is implemented
at every step of the supply chain. The continuing digitalization of our production network and of the
overall supply chain plays a key role in ongoing development measures to ensure the security of supply.
Delivery capacity and patient care are top priorities for Boehringer Ingelheim. The company consist-
ently makes important investments in the development and transformation of production capacities
in our chemical and pharmaceutical network. At its Ingelheim am Rhein headquarters, Boehringer
Ingelheim made significant progress in line with its planning with the implementation of a key invest-
ment in a flexible plant for the industrialization of newly developed medicines and their initial market
supply. We initiated the expansion of production technologies and capacities for pharmaceutical active
substances at our Fornovo (Italy) facility and for finished pharmaceutical products at our Koropi
(Greece) and Yamagata (Japan) facilities, to ensure the supply of anti-diabetic products (particularly
jardiance®) as well as pipeline products. The continuing expansion of Biopharmaceuticals at our
Vienna facility serves to expand our own capacities in the network for newly developed products and
covers the increased demand for actilyse® and other products.
The ongoing implementation of the Group’s supply chain strategy optimizes management of the value
chain from the supplier to the customer (“end-to-end”). The use of modern digital and automated
processes and technologies enables a high level of transparency and efficient management of the
global production network supply chain.
Animal Health
17
In 2020, Animal Health products were manufactured for worldwide sale in a network of 17 production
facilities in twelve countries. In addition to the company’s own facilities, in 2020 around 135 contract
Animal Health manufacturers turned out products for Boehringer Ingelheim. The company’s product portfolio com-
production facilities prises vaccines, pharmaceutical products and nutraceuticals. These traditional products are supple-
in twelve countries mented with diagnostic products as well as monitoring solutions, including digital applications which
are used for livestock monitoring or which link livestock owners with veterinarians. Optimization of the
company’s production network continues and remains a priority, with the goal of ensuring a robust,
efficient supply of all its products.
In 2020, Boehringer Ingelheim invested in capacity expansion for the strongest revenue contributor,
nexgard®, at its Barceloneta (Puerto Rico) facility; in the expansion of small animal vaccine produc-
tion at the company’s facility in Athens, Georgia (USA); in the expansion of vaccine capacity in Lyon
(France) and St. Joseph, Missouri (USA); and in capacity expansion for foot-and-mouth disease
vaccines in Jonage (France). It also invested in the development of innovative technologies for the
manufacture of our products.25
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing
Boehringer Ingelheim pursues its biopharmaceutical activities at its facilities in Biberach (Germany), One of the leading
Vienna (Austria), Fremont (California, USA) and Shanghai (China). These comprise the manufacture of providers for
own-brand marketable products (such as actilyse®, metalyse®, and praxbind®) and of biopharma- industrial customers
ceuticals for clinical testing. BI is also one of the world’s leading companies in process development,
launch preparation, and commercial production of biopharmaceuticals for third-party industrial
customers. Twelve of the top 20 pharmaceutical companies and innovative biotech firms are clients of
our Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing business. Boehringer Ingelheim covers the entire
biopharmaceutical value chain, from development of the production cell (mammalian cells as well as
microorganisms) and the production process, to the manufacture of the active substance and the
finished pharmaceutical product, to product launch and global market supply.
Capacity utilization of the network’s industrial-scale production facilities remained at a very high level
in 2020. There was increased market demand for actilyse® at our Biberach facility; in addition, two
new customer products (monoclonal antibodies for cancer therapy) were approved in our Biopharma-
ceutical Contract Manufacturing business. Process validation (as a precondition of approval) was
successfully completed for another two products. In 2020, our facility in Fremont, California (USA)
succeeded in gaining authorization to produce a customer’s pharmaceutical product. It will thus be
possible to meet rising product demand within the network from both Biberach and Fremont. A further
customer product at our Vienna facility was also approved by international authorities. Despite the
challenging external conditions associated with COVID-19, our cell culture plants in Biberach, Shanghai
and Fremont and our microbial production in Vienna continued to reliably manufacture and deliver
biopharmaceuticals for patients worldwide without incurring interruptions.
We have almost completed the process of expanding our capacities at our Vienna facility. Initial test
runs were successfully completed at the end of the year. The commissioning and qualification process
is well advanced, whereby the measures to ensure employees’ safety in the context of COVID-19 have
made this work even more complex. In early 2020, our new energy center was already operating at full
capacity, while our new cell culture production building has now been granted official authorization to
operate. An additional, microbial expansion project for the production of a recombinant vaccine with
a very high level of demand is expected to complete the commissioning and qualification process on
time in 2021. These two projects are of key strategic significance in view of the growing global impor-
tance of biotechnologically produced active substances.
In Shanghai (China), hospital products and products for the commercial market were manufactured for
both the local and export markets in line with our planning. Our first biopharmaceutical product to win
approval under China’s new contract manufacturing regulatory requirements was the first commercial
product delivered to our customer. Its approval and launch were the final milestones in a pilot project
between Boehringer Ingelheim and the Chinese regulatory authorities. The new rules governing coop-
eration between a marketing authorization holder – our customer – and a contract manufacturer were
evaluated and successfully applied. Boehringer Ingelheim’s facility in Shanghai was thus recognized as
a contract manufacturer (CMO) by the Chinese authorities. We successfully completed the expansion
of our “Oasis” production facility in Shanghai with a second 2,000 L bioreactor. Commercial produc-
tion began in early October.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS26
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
Employee reporting
Number of employees In 2020, Boehringer Ingelheim employed 51,944 people on average worldwide. This represents an
continues to increase increase of +1.8% over the previous year. The number of staff increased in every region.
Average number of employees by region
2020 2019
Americas 13,176 13,113
Europe 27,379 26,884
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 11,389 11,018
51,944 51,015
A major success factor for the positive growth of the Group is our engaged and motivated staff. We
place considerable emphasis on actively developing and supporting our employees. In order to be best
prepared for the challenges ahead, we emphasize the acquisition of technical expertise and also
promote social skills as part of a comprehensive qualification system.
The core aspects of our mission statement were particularly relevant in 2020: The success of our
company relies on the strength of our employees; we aim to improve human and animal health; and
we feel a sense of responsibility toward the communities in which we operate. As part of our global
support program in the fight against COVID-19, we enabled all our employees to take up to 10 days of
fully paid leave in the period from April 1 to December 31, 2020, so they could volunteer with external
organizations. We will offer all of our employees the same opportunity in 2021. In this way, we can help
meet the urgent need for volunteers with a medical background. The impact of the COVID-19 pan-
demic on work and private life has demanded a great deal from all employees, which is why all
employees worldwide were given the opportunity to take a paid vacation from December 24, 2020
until January 3, 2021 inclusive.
By investing in a flexible infrastructure and digital technologies even prior to the pandemic, we had cre-
ated important prerequisites that enable 40,000 users to work seamlessly from home at the same time.
We were thus able to protect our employees while safeguarding our business activities, ensuring the
global supply of medicines, and making progress in researching treatment options. Pre-established
central digital tools, work flows, and digital channels also ensured communication with medical
experts, veterinarians and pet owners.
However, the pandemic has not only raised challenges for us. It has also identified opportunities. Early
on, we adapted digital learning formats and training concepts for our apprentices and students who are
enrolled in dual-study courses to COVID-19 conditions. We established additional training courses to
help our employees work in virtual teams. We document all our new experiences and insights regarding
new virtual work methods and tools, meeting formats, business travel, as well as the role of offices, in
a “future of work” concept. In the future, this will provide a global framework for a modern and flexible
approach to work at Boehringer Ingelheim – beyond COVID-19.27
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Boehringer Ingelheim’s success is based on innovation as well as its presence in 80 countries. The
global nature of our value chain, the international nature of our clientele, and the stringent and sub-
stantially varying requirements of national regulators demand great flexibility on our organization as a
whole. We are convinced that relationships based on trust as well as mutual openness, respect, and
empathy are values that make us strong and competitive. Diversity of thought and a spirit of inclusion
in our relationships with one another promote a capacity for innovation in every area of our business.
In addition to competitive salaries, Boehringer Ingelheim offers other benefits to its employees. These
benefits include a range of company pension plans, flexible and home-based work options, and
numerous health-related benefits. As a significant segment of our corporate strategy, the human
resources department’s scope of duties includes promoting a wide range of opportunities for innova-
tion at work and helping our employees to nurture their own talents and to develop as individuals.
Vocational training has always been of major importance to Boehringer Ingelheim. The company pro-
vides many young people with career entry opportunities. At the same time, we also tie a talented and
well-qualified workforce of young professionals to the company against a backdrop of demographic
change. However, at our company, vocational training does not just mean passing on expertise. We also
emphasize getting to know one another and enable young professionals to experience the many
aspects of our company and our values.
In 2020, our new recruits began their training or dual-study courses in unusual circumstances.
Boehringer Ingelheim anticipated the effects of the pandemic and developed a concept that enabled
people to get to know one another in person, subject to strict safety concepts at our plants, while also
providing a large number of new digital learning formats. At Boehringer Ingelheim’s German facilities,
216 young people started their careers in more than 32 different scientific, technical and commercial
fields, through training and dual-study courses. On average, more than 700 young people worldwide
were enrolled in our vocational training program in 2020.
One of the company’s aims is to strengthen the appeal of Boehringer Ingelheim as an employer for our
current and future employees. In 2020, Boehringer Ingelheim once again won recognition as a top
employer from the auditors of the international, independent Top Employers Institute. In addition to
Germany, Boehringer Ingelheim also received this award in Argentina, Austria, Brazil, China, Colombia,
Indonesia, Italy, Malaysia, the Philippines, Poland, Romania, Russia, Singapore, Spain, South Korea,
Thailand and Vietnam.
Sustainable development
Sustainability has been firmly anchored in our corporate philosophy since our company’s founding in
1885. As a family-owned business, Boehringer Ingelheim plans in generations and for generations. Our
sustainable development efforts leverage our unique strengths as a global human and animal health
company and are guided by our core values of empathy, respect, passion, and trust as well as by our
Focus, our Leitbild. We aspire towards a healthier world where our people and communities can reach
their full potential and aspire to have a positive impact on health, society, and our planet.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS28
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
To achieve sustainability for future generations our efforts focus on three main areas:
1. More Health – Focusing on good health of people and animals
2. More Potential – Focusing on people and communities
3. More Green – Focusing on the environment
MORE HEALTH – Key initiatives
Angels
To optimize stroke care, Boehringer Ingelheim established the “Angels Initiative” together with the
European Stroke Organisation (ESO), the World Stroke Organization (WSO), the Stroke Alliance for
Europe (SAFE) and many other national stroke associations and companies. In the past year, this initi-
ative achieved its goal of developing a network of over 4,300 clinics worldwide in 112 countries, which
ensure that stroke patients are treated in line with defined standards. Overall, more than 40,000 doc-
tors and nurses are involved.
LastMile
South of the Sahara, small farmers in Africa do not always have access to veterinary treatments.
Boehringer Ingelheim’s “LastMile” initiative seeks to tackle this problem together with the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation and GALVmed. The goal is long-term, sustained improvement in the availa-
bility of veterinary medicine and the creation of awareness about this issue. This project was launched
in Kenya in 2018 and is currently being expanded to include further central markets such as Cameroon,
Nigeria, Mali, Burkina Faso, and Ethiopia. There are also plans to include Tanzania. The initiative targets
ruminants such as sheep, goats, and cattle as well as poultry. Our mission is to establish long-term
partnerships with small farming communities to promote sustainable economic activities in the target
countries. In 2020, Boehringer Ingelheim launched a mobile app as part of this initiative. This enables
the local “LastMile” teams and employees to manage their daily activities and to work more effectively
with farmers, traders and veterinarians. The app helps with the precise monitoring of activities, data
collection, and evaluation of the impact and scope of the initiative. It thus helps us better understand
challenges and improve our knowledge of the small-farming sector. In the future, this will enable us to
make informed decisions based on reliable data.
MORE POTENTIAL – Key initiatives
Making More Health
A major pillar of our social commitment is our Making More Health (MMH) initiative in partnership
with Ashoka. Since its start in 2010, it has continuously developed as a social entrepreneurship move-
ment, both within our company and externally. The emphasis is on co-creating sustainable solutions
that empower local communities and start-ups while leveraging Boehringer Ingelheim’s employees’
expertise and engagement in vulnerable communities. MMH helps people living on the poverty line
with many different areas of their daily lives, such as health, infrastructure, education and income-gen-
erating measures. These activities and various projects aim for systemic change. MMH supports the
activities and the development of sustainable business models of social entrepreneurs worldwide and
has established a broad and diverse network of local and international partners from different sectors.
Co-creation as a bridge between social and commercial entrepreneurship brings together social entre-
preneurs and non-profit organizations from the health care sector with Boehringer Ingelheim employ-
ees and their resources.29
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Networking across all traditional visible and invisible borders is a central element of a successful social
movement, in order to identify, promote, and implement innovative solutions for far-reaching and
complex challenges in the health care sector. Through the MMH network, which consists of more than
100 social entrepreneurs in the area of health care, Boehringer Ingelheim and Ashoka – one of the
world’s largest non-profit organizations – have together reached approximately 9.3 million people
worldwide.
The MMH initiative promotes employees’ commitment to social entrepreneurship in order to advance
health care projects in many different countries, by working with local, external partners as well as
colleagues from throughout Boehringer Ingelheim. Several MMH leadership programs have been
established over the past 10 years: 1) Insights India and Insights Kenya in rural southern India and
Kenya, 2) the MMH Business Accelerator in Kenya Nigeria and Ghana, 3) social intrapreneurship online
courses, 4) the “Executives in Residence” program that provides opportunities to collaborate with
social entrepreneurs in our MMH network, and 5) an internal competition promoting employees’
own projects.
These MMH leadership programs have nurtured our staff’s social entrepreneurial thinking and activi-
ties and have contributed significantly to local communities. We have also strengthened our network-
ing philosophy through partnerships with non-profit organizations and social enterprises in the health
care sector. A large number of local projects have taken shape in which our employees are actively
involved. Above all, improving health means understanding people’s environment and their everyday
challenges and offering solutions where they are needed. Health awareness, affordability, accessibility
of health services, and acceptance play a key role here. MMH is active in the university sector, with the
goal of helping students and lecturers learn more about social entrepreneurial thinking and practical
activities through the development of health care-related projects.
Diversity & Inclusion
Boehringer Ingelheim is convinced that employees with diverse ideas, strengths, interests, and back-
grounds are critical to the success of our company. We see a major competitive advantage in the diver-
sity of our employees. It not only helps us to better fulfill the various needs and requirements of our
patients around the globe, but also strengthens our performance in the workplace. We are determined to
create a work environment in which all of our employees are granted the same high level of respect – irre-
spective of their gender, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, worldview, abilities, age, sexual orientation
or identity. We steadfastly oppose any form of discrimination.
As part of our global commitment in this area, we are participating in multiple internal and external
initiatives, which are intended to promote diversity & inclusion. Throughout our company, we support
the ongoing development of networks in which employees from different walks of life are granted a
voice. This includes networks on gender roles in the working world, people who identify as LGBTIQ+,
and people with disabilities.
Outside of our company, we are active members of national and international associations that pro-
mote communication and the exchange of knowledge and best practices. We are delighted to have not
only published but successfully executed the first action plan in Germany for implementation of the UN
Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 2012-2020, and that we thus serve as an exam-
ple for many companies in Germany. Continuing the focus of the 2020 PROUT AT WORK conference
and the motto “Achieving.More.Together,” we sought optimal ways in which various diversity dimen-
sions can work together and benefit from one another.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS30
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
Be Safe
Health protection and safety are a prerequisite for our production, processes, business planning and
decision-making. We offer all employees a safe workplace. Our “BE SAFE – Zero by Choice” program
promotes the exchange of best practices; it increases our employees’ level of safety awareness as
well as their training.
MORE GREEN – Key initiatives
The protection of employees and the environment, as well as the sustainable use of natural resources
and the promotion of environmental awareness, are major components of our company’s mission
statement and are of prime importance to Boehringer Ingelheim.
Group-wide, our company has developed binding standards in terms of environmental protection and
health and safety at work. These internal guidelines reflect the respective country-specific require-
ments. In many cases, they go far beyond the standards prescribed by law. In particular, we follow
international standards and guidance documents and closely cooperate with various associations.
Within Boehringer Ingelheim, our Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) department is
responsible for this strategic focus.
In 2011, we launched our “BE GREEN – Future by Choice” program. This underwent further develop-
ment in 2020 and set new strategic, global goals for the period up to 2030, while taking our business
growth into account. With this program, we optimize “green” activities at all our facilities and business
areas worldwide, while factoring in the value chain. The program considers many different environ-
mental aspects: building up facilities close to nature to provide habitats for a variety of plants and ani-
mals, encouraging “green” behavior of our employees, adopting measures to avoid water and air pol-
lution, using renewable energy, reducing waste and creating environmentally friendly products as well
as implementing certified systems for environmental protection and energy management.
We continuously work on measures to reduce CO emissions at our facilities. We aim to continuously
2
lower the greenhouse gas emissions associated with our global operations by purchasing energy from
renewable sources, and we are planning further reductions in our emissions across our value chain. We
are concentrating on the sustainability of our major projects and have established a BE GREEN capital
expenditures fund as well as an internal CO pricing method in order to invest in a green future and
2
promote environmentally friendly solutions.31
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Using digitalized solutions, we are working on implementing globally efficient processes with stand-
ardized software solutions. Global digitalization projects such as the collection of environmental data
for our Group-wide “BE GREEN” program and electronic signature solutions for EH&S audit systems
were successfully supported and implemented. This digitalization approach enables us to rationalize
our activities throughout the world and to reduce our expenditure without suffering quality or per-
formance losses.
Certification of production and R&D facilities to standards such as ISO 14001, ISO 45001, and
ISO 50001 serves as the basis for internally and externally recognized EHS management systems.
Many BI facilities have already achieved a solid certification status. The systematic, continuous
improvement of EHS&S facilitates compliance with legislation, reduces licensing fees and generates
energy savings. The reduction in internal audits and a positive public profile are just two further exam-
ples of why these global standards should be maintained.
Boehringer Ingelheim is aware of the need for active water management programs. Access to suffi-
ciently clean water has an impact on social and cultural justice, ecological sustainability and commer-
cial benefits. We are therefore introducing water management programs at all facilities that are prone
to water risk and are reducing the volume of medicines left in production wastewater; we require our
suppliers to do the same. Our production facility in Xochimilco (Mexico) has a valid Alliance Water
Stewardship (AWS) certification. In 2019, Boehringer Ingelheim was the first pharmaceutical company
worldwide to receive certification according to this globally recognized standard.
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) poses an increasingly serious threat to global public health and requires
action at every level of government as well as by businesses and society at large. For this reason,
Boehringer Ingelheim joined the AMR Industry Alliance – one of the largest private coalitions estab-
lished to offer sustainable solutions for combating antimicrobial resistance.
Boehringer Ingelheim supports the objectives of the Nagoya Protocol and is concerned with those
aspects of biodiversity, which are relevant for its activities in the pharmaceutical sector.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS32
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
REPORT ON ECONOMIC POSITION
2020 will remain in our memories for a long time. The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic has caused a great deal
of suffering for many people all over the world, and many have experienced considerable economic
cutbacks. We would like to extend our sympathy to them. Thanks are due to those who have made tre-
mendous efforts to care for sick and particularly vulnerable people, as well as families, during the lock-
down. At the same time, we are pleased that the research-driven biopharmaceutical industry is able
to utilize its strong global partnerships to develop solutions at an unprecedented pace. This allows
us to look confidently to the future.
Macroeconomic environment
In 2020, world economic output fell by around 3.5% – its largest decline in several decades – chiefly
due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. In the second quarter especially, the consequences of
anti-pandemic measures such as lockdowns and curfews resulted in a dramatic reduction in economic
output, trade volume, and private investments, particularly in the developed and emerging economies.
Extensive public investments cushioned the impact of the immediate economic consequences on
consumers and companies. Unlike during previous crises, parts of the service industry were particu-
larly badly affected by the social distancing measures.
The ongoing trade tensions between the USA and China and the United Kingdom’s Brexit negotiations
with the EU placed an additional burden on international trade and investment activities in general.
However, these overall conditions had a more direct and immediate impact in the strongly cyclical sec-
tors of the economy. Due to the essential nature of their products and their long-term preparation for
Brexit, the pharmaceutical markets were less affected by these hurdles. In general, they are predomi-
nantly influenced by the performance capability of national economies and the demographic develop-
ment of societies, especially on a long-term basis. Their performance is also shaped by the continuous
global improvement in access to medical care. The global pharmaceutical market thus grew in the past
financial year, unlike many other sectors, which were severely affected by the crisis. However, the
growth was lower than in the previous year. Preliminary estimates currently suggest growth of at least
3% (Source: IQVIA). This was due to the fact that, especially in the industrialized nations, visits to doc-
tors’ offices and hospitals were postponed during the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in a decline
in the demand for products. In addition, social distancing measures resulted in delays to clinical
studies in the pharmaceutical industry and thus affected research activity schedules. Since its core
business is stable compared with other sectors, pharmaceutical firms were able to make a strong
contribution to the fight against COVID-19 by increasing their research and development investments
in the SARS-CoV-2 virus.33
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
In 2020, there were continued efforts in a number of countries – including in core markets – to reduce
rising health care expenditures by means of regulatory action to lower pharmaceutical prices. There are
also an increasing number of initiatives seeking a shift of the burden of payment onto patients, which
limit the opportunities for access to innovative medicines. These include, for example, government-
imposed industry-wide price reductions, mandatory reference price systems and imports of medicines
from lower-cost countries. The approaches also include the mandatory substitution of patented med-
icines with generics. Furthermore, the protection of our intellectual property is under increasing pres-
sure. The "Pharmaceutical Strategy for Europe" presented by the European Commission at the end of
2020 has the declared aim of sustainably strengthening the attractiveness of Europe as a research and
production location and improving access to medicines and therapies. An important prerequisite for
achieving this objective remains a reliable legal framework that promotes innovation and ensures the
protection of intellectual property. We are critical of tendencies which are aimed at weakening incen-
tive instruments. They would be the wrong signal and would further shift future cutting-edge research
and investment in pharmaceutical innovation to other regions of the world, with an impact also on
supply in Europe.
The animal health industry, which focuses on pets and livestock, is on a very strong growth path in the
emerging markets in particular, due to population growth and improving living standards for many
people. The animal health market is characterized by rising demands for animal proteins as well as the
increasing popularity of pets. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on these segments varied. While
product sales increased in the pet segment despite limited physical access to veterinary clinics at
times, the livestock segment partly experienced a drastic decline in demand due to closures of slaughter-
houses and restaurants. Online channels are becoming increasingly important and have largely made
up for the lack of physical access during the COVID-19 pandemic. In general, consolidation through
mergers on both the supplier and the customer side is ongoing, which leads to increased competition.
In the future, growth in the Animal Health business will largely be driven by therapeutic innovation.
In order to grow faster than the market, investment in innovation in this area will be vital. In therapeutic
areas in particular, the company expects to be able to realize synergies from its Human Pharma
business. Continuous, sustained and competitive investment in innovation will play a key role,
analogous to the Human Pharma segment.
In the 2020 financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim implemented an extensive range of measures to min-
imize the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on its employees, patients, and society at large, and to
protect the health of its workforce. Another important aspect of its activities was safeguarding produc-
tion and the supply of medicines for patients as well as veterinary pharmaceuticals for pet and live-
stock owners. Boehringer Ingelheim was able to realize this objective in 2020 thanks to its broad pro-
duction and supplier network. In the second quarter of the year, the company even fulfilled peak
wholesaler and pharmacy demand generated by their strategic stockpile purchases.
In this environment, Boehringer Ingelheim defended its market position thanks to the dedication of its
workforce, its capacity for innovation, and its particularly strong and competitive investment in inno-
vation. It will thus be able to make a major contribution to human and animal health.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS34
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
In 2021, according to the International Monetary Fund, the global economy will grow by 5.5%. The
trade policy of the new US government and the withdrawal agreement concluded between the United
Kingdom and the EU offer the prospect of a significant upswing. The successful production, distribu-
tion and application of COVID-19 vaccines should also have a positive effect. However, according to
the IMF, there are also many risks which, if realized, could lead to weaker growth. These include further
lockdowns due to the uncontrolled spread of the COVID-19 pathogen, heightened geopolitical ten-
sions, and weather-related natural disasters.
Due to its global presence, Boehringer Ingelheim is affected by changes in foreign exchange rates, par-
ticularly those of the US dollar (USD), the Japanese yen (JPY) and, increasingly, the Chinese renminbi
(CNY). The US dollar fluctuated between 1.07 EUR/USD (January) and a low of 1.23 EUR/USD (Decem-
ber). Following an interim high of 114.65 EUR/JPY (May), the Japanese yen ended the year at a low of
127.23 EUR/JPY (December), around 4% lower than at the start of the year. The Chinese renminbi
reached a high of 7.55 EUR/CNY (February) and an interim low of 8.26 EUR/CNY (July). Emerging mar-
kets currencies were also highly volatile in 2020. Significant transactional currency risks are hedged
through suitable currency instruments.
Currency development
Effect on
net sales
Average rate — basis: EUR 1 2020 2019 (in million EUR)
US dollar 1.14 1.12 — 140
Japanese yen 121.78 122.06 3
Chinese renminbi 7.87 7.73 — 17
Earnings position
A stable and competitive earnings position and solid financing guarantee Boehringer Ingelheim’s inde-
pendence and are therefore central to our activities. It is on this basis that we pursue our guiding prin-
ciple of “Value through Innovation” and contribute to improvements in human and animal health by
means of innovative therapies.
19.6
Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, business performance was positive in 2020. Boehringer Ingelheim
recorded net sales of 19,566 million EUR, which corresponds to a + 3.0% increase compared with the
billion EUR in sales previous year’s 18,997 million EUR. The exchange rate development on the foreign exchange markets
and the associated exchange rate effects had a negative impact on the sales trend. Adjusted for these
effects, the Group grew by + 5.6%. All regions contributed to this growth.
With sales of 8,889 million EUR and a 45% share of overall sales, the Americas region remains
Boehringer Ingelheim’s key sales market. For the Americas region, sales increased by + 0.7% year-over-
year (currency-adjusted + 4.8%). Sales in the Europe region rose by + 3.3% to 5,879 million EUR (currency-
adjusted + 4.2%). This region accounts for 30% of the Group’s net sales. This growth was driven by
the countries in Central and Eastern Europe as well as Germany, Spain, and the United Kingdom, while
in Italy the Group was unable to match the previous year’s sales volume. The Asia/Australia/Africa
(AAA) region also realized strong growth of + 7.1% (currency-adjusted + 8.8%). Revenues of 4,798 mil-
lion EUR were generated in this region, corresponding to a 25% share of the Group’s total revenues. The
strategically important Chinese market provided 6.0% of the company’s overall sales volume, which
represents a currency-adjusted increase of + 20.5% year-over-year. Among other factors, the market35
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
benefited here from the decline in the incidence of African swine fever, which had negatively affected
growth in 2019.
Net sales by region (in million EUR)
currency
2020 2019 Change adjusted
Americas 8,889 8,830 + 0.7% + 4.8%
Europe 5,879 5,689 + 3.3% + 4.2%
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 4,798 4,478 + 7.1% + 8.8%
In our Human Pharma business, in 2020 we once again made our products available to more patients Growth in
thanks to new approvals in additional countries; we also further strengthened established products. all regions
Boehringer Ingelheim had already begun to introduce digital customer relations strategies in previous
years. Our local sales organizations successfully expanded these strategies under COVID-19 restric-
tions, and they played an even more important role in our customer relations activities. The strategic
growth areas of our Animal Health business registered positive results. However, some parts of the
livestock segment were strongly impacted by the effects of COVID-19 measures (for instance, our cus-
tomers’ sales declined due to the closure of slaughterhouses and restaurants).
Key figures (in million EUR)
2020 2019 Change
Net sales 19,566 18,997 + 3.0%
Operating income 4,624 3,782 + 22.3%
Return on net sales 23.6% 19.9%
Income before taxes 4,305 3,496 + 23.1%
Income after taxes 3,062 2,721 + 12.5%
The materials ratio (taking into consideration the change in inventory) improved to 12.9% (2019:
13.2%). Personnel expenses increased primarily due to the additional employees hired in the areas of
research, development, medicine and biopharmaceutical medicine production, which are of strategic
significance for Boehringer Ingelheim. In addition to the increase in the average number of employees
(+1.8%), the higher personnel expenses reflect effects associated with additional vacation days, which
we granted our employees in 2020 to provide them with support, as well as the performance-related
compensation which enables our employees to share in the company’s success.
Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets increased by 196 million EUR by
comparison with 2019. This rise mainly reflected higher valuation adjustments on intangible assets in
the Animal Health and Human Pharma businesses. Depreciation of tangible assets also increased, due
to the continuing high volume of investment activities.
The increase in operating income to 4,624 million EUR in 2020 demonstrates that Boehringer Ingel-
heim is resolutely pursuing its long-term goal of profitable growth in all business areas. In addition to
the positive sales trend for our business activities, lower operating costs year-over-year also contrib-
uted to the improved level of operating income. The return on sales thus increased to 23.6% in the
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS36
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
2020 financial year (2019: 19.9%). Income before taxes rose, due in particular to the higher operating
income. Financial income declined overall due to reduced income from plan assets to cover pension
and similar obligations, as well as a lower level of income from long-term securities; this was partly off-
set by holding income, which was influenced by one-off effects.
Income after taxes was 12.5% higher than in the previous year and reflects the favorable course of
business. It is noteworthy in this regard that, under the provisions of German commercial law, share-
holders’ personal taxes arising from Group business activities may not be recognized as tax expenses.
Instead, these taxes are presented as part of withdrawals from Group equity. When taking this specificity
into account, the actual tax ratio is markedly higher than the figure shown in the profit and loss statement.
3,062
Despite challenging market conditions in some business areas, Boehringer Ingelheim registered a pos-
itive performance in the 2020 financial year. The improved level of profitability enabled additional
million EUR research and development investments, including in the race to develop therapies to treat the health
Group profit effects of COVID-19. Following a Group profit of 2,721 million EUR in the previous year, in 2020 this
figure rose by 341 million EUR to 3,062 million EUR.
Development of the businesses
As in the previous year, Boehringer Ingelheim’s activities were divided into the Human Pharma, Animal
Health, and Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing businesses.
Net sales by businesses (in million EUR)
currency
2020 2019 Change adjusted
Human Pharma 14,415 13,961 + 3.3% + 5.8%
Animal Health 4,121 4,035 + 2.1% + 5.0%
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 837 786 + 6.5% + 6.6%
Other sales 33 41 – 19.5% – 19.7%
Discontinued Operations 160 174 – 8.0% + 1.0%
Human Pharma
With around 74% of total Group revenue, Human Pharma was the main pillar of Boehringer Ingel-
heim’s business activities. In the context of the COVID-19 restrictions, the company effectively
expanded the scope of the digital information strategies, which it had already established in previous
years. This was crucial, since important scientific symposia and the activities of pharmaceutical repre-
sentatives were greatly limited or could not take place due to contact restrictions. Human Pharma sales
amounted to 14,415 million EUR in 2020. This is equivalent to growth of +3.3% (currency-adjusted
+5.8%) compared with the previous year. This positive sales trend resulted primarily from increased
sales of products in the jardiance® family and ofev®. The company achieved growth year-over-year in
all regions. Despite price pressure – particularly for established medicines – Boehringer Ingelheim suc-
cessfully held its own and continues to pursue the reorganization of its Human Pharma product port-
folio as planned. This included the sale of non-strategic products in the 2020 financial year. The grow-
ing licensing business – in particular of skyrizi®, which has been licensed to AbbVie – also contributes
to the positive development of the Human Pharma segment.37
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
As in the previous year, jardiance®, which is used to treat type 2 diabetes, was the company’s biggest
revenue contributor in 2020. We achieved sales of 2,480 million EUR with jardiance® in the reporting
period, which represents a currency-adjusted increase of +18.1% year-over-year.
Net sales (in million EUR)
currency
2020 2019 Change adjusted
jardiance® 2,480 2,152 + 15.2% + 18.1%
40.6
ofev® 2,055 1,491 + 37.8% + 40.6% %
spiriva® 1,793 2,058 – 12.9% – 10.8%
currency-adjusted
trajenta® / jentadueto® 1,512 1,559 – 3.0% – 0.3% growth of ofev®
pradaxa® 1,492 1,529 – 2.4% – 0.2%
Last year, ofev® was Boehringer Ingelheim’s second-strongest revenue contributor for the first time.
This product is used to treat idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and, to an increasing extent, for two addi-
tional indications, SSc-ILD and PF-ILD. ofev® generated sales of 2,055 million EUR, which represents
currency-adjusted growth of 40.6%. This significantly exceeded the previous year’s figure.
spiriva®, which is used for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), is the
third-strongest product in Boehringer Ingelheim's portfolio, with sales of 1,793 million EUR. This revenue
was lower than in the previous year (2,058 million EUR), as expected in view of the product’s life cycle.
trajenta® and jentadueto® for treatment of type 2 diabetes registered a slightly lower sales volume of
1,512 million EUR. With sales of 1,492 million EUR in the 2020 financial year, the anticoagulant
pradaxa® likewise fell marginally short of the previous year’s result but nonetheless remains one of
Boehringer Ingelheim’s strongest revenue contributors.
Risankizumab, a medication for treatment of plaque psoriasis, which was mainly developed by
Boehringer Ingelheim, is successfully marketed globally through our partner AbbVie under the brand
name skyrizi®. Revenues from the license agreement increased by 17.5% in 2020 year-over-year
(currency-adjusted + 17.5%).
With regard to the regional distribution of revenues in the Human Pharma business, the USA was
once again the largest market with a share of 39%. Here, Boehringer Ingelheim generated sales of
5,658 million EUR, which corresponds to a 1.5% increase compared with the previous year (currency -
adjusted + 3.4%).
The EUCAN region (Europe, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand), our second-biggest market,
accounted for 32%, with revenues of 4,585 million EUR. Sales increased by + 4.7% (currency-adjusted
+ 6.0%) compared to 2019 (4,381 million EUR).
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS38
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
In the past year, the company’s emerging markets registered sales growth of + 3.2% (currency-adjusted
+ 10.4%). Sales rose from 2,753 million EUR in the previous year to 2,841 million EUR in 2020. The
People’s Republic of China was a key driving force in the region, with a currency-adjusted growth rate
of + 12.7%.
In Japan, sales increased by + 6.4% to 1,331 million EUR (currency-adjusted + 6.2%). Last year’s sales
amounted to 1,251 million EUR.
Net sales by region (in million EUR)
currency
2020 2019 Change adjusted
USA 5,658 5,576 1.5% 3.4%
EUCAN 4,585 4,381 4.7% 6.0%
Emerging Markets 2,841 2,753 3.2% 10.4%
Japan 1,331 1,251 6.4% 6.2%
Animal Health
The sales in the Animal Health business amounted to 4,121 million EUR in 2020. This is equivalent to
growth of + 2.1% (currency-adjusted + 5.0%) compared with the previous year.
Net sales (in million EUR)
currency
2020 2019 Change adjusted
nexgard® 804 740 + 8.6% + 12.0%
frontline® 406 379 + 7.1% + 9.2%
heartgard® 312 318 – 1.9% + 0.0%
ingelvac circoflex® / flexcombo® 264 238 + 10.9% + 14.9%
Antiparasitics The swine and pet antiparasitics segments developed successfully and outperformed expectations. The
drive growth increased sales in the pet segment in the USA compensated for declining sales in the ruminant and
equine segments. In the USA region especially, livestock medication sales declined due to the tempo-
rary closures of slaughterhouses and restaurants due to COVID-19. In China, the decrease in the inci-
dence of African swine fever had a positive impact on the swine segment. The swine vaccine ingelvac
circoflex® thus achieved a global growth rate of + 10.9% to 264 million EUR (currency adjusted + 14.9%).
However, the pet segment accounts for the three best-selling medicines in Boehringer Ingelheim’s
Animal Health business: nexgard® enjoyed revenues of 804 million EUR (2019: 740 million EUR), with
a currency-adjusted growth level of + 12.0% year-over-year. The antiparasitic frontline® achieved
sales of 406 million EUR, a + 9.2% improvement on the previous year’s level on a currency-adjusted
basis. heartgard®, another antiparasitic, registered a – 1.9% decline and sales of 312 million EUR
(2019: 318 million EUR).39
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
There was a decline in sales in the poultry segment. The equine segment was also unable to match the
previous year's strong performance. This was primarily a reflection of the cancellation in 2020 of
equestrian events – at which we present our innovative equine health solutions – due to COVID-19.
The decline in sales in the ALAMEA (Asia, Latin America, Middle East, Africa) region is mainly attribut-
able to developments in the Middle East and Africa region. The COVID-19 crisis has aggravated existing
economic difficulties in this region and triggered a significant decline in demand, especially in the
poultry segment. In addition, Boehringer Ingelheim discontinued its unprofitable ruminant business in
India. The region TCM (The Chinese Market) registered 43.0% currency-adjusted growth.
In the 2020 financial year, the Animal Health business was confronted with various production and
supply bottlenecks because of the COVID-19 pandemic; this included delays in the delivery of raw
materials and active ingredients and capacity constraints in freight transport (especially air and sea
freight). Thanks to the significant commitment of all employees, particularly in production and sales,
Boehringer Ingelheim was able to ensure the market supply to the extent possible, and thus minimize
potential revenue losses.
Net sales by region (in million EUR)
currency
2020 2019 Change adjusted
USA 1,815 1,768 + 2.7% + 4.6%
EUCAN 1,244 1,233 + 0.9% + 2.2%
ALAMEA 770 829 – 7.1% + 0.2%
TCM 292 205 + 42.3% + 43.0%
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing
In the Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing business, revenue was + 6.5% higher (currency- Continued strong growth
adjusted + 6.6%) than in the previous year due to strong demand for our customers’ market products. in the Biopharmaceutical
The order situation for the entire business has developed positively, resulting in a high level of Contract Manufacturing
capacity utilization.
Other sales / discontinued operations
Other sales mainly contain discontinued operations, which were winding down as expected. Under
discontinued operations we aggregate activities of minor strategic importance for Boehringer
Ingelheim, which include obligations and income resulting from the business swap with Sanofi.
Discontinued operations still include the buscopan® business in Brazil, whose divestiture was
completed in 2020.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS40
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
Financial position
Boehringer Ingelheim’s financial management strategy aims to safeguard the company’s financing
by means of its operating cash flow as far as possible, to minimize financial risks and optimize the
cost of capital.
(in million EUR) 2020
Financial funds as of 1.1. 2,195
Cash flow from operating activities 3,963
Cash flow from investing activities — 326
Cash flow from financing activities 168
Change in financial funds from cash relevant transactions 3,805
Change in financial funds due to change of consolidated companies or exchange rate movements
and valuation adjustments 105
Financial funds as of 31.12. 6,105
Cash inflow from operating activities amounted to 3,963 million EUR, which represents an increase of
619 million EUR in comparison to the previous year (3,344 million EUR). This is attributable to the
positive business performance.
Cash outflow from investing activities amounts to 326 million EUR and remains significantly lower
than in the previous year, despite a continuing high level of investment in strategic infrastructure for
our business activities and external innovation. This was especially due to the divestiture of our holding
in Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC in 2020.
High capital Further milestones were reached in the 2020 financial year in terms of major investments in fixed
expenditure volume assets, such as the expansion of the production facilities in Vienna (Austria) for Biopharmaceutical
Contract Manufacturing. They included the first successful test runs at production scale in our fermen-
tation unit. In 2020, we invested more than 300 million EUR in our long-established Vienna site. The
development center for biopharmaceutical medicines (BDC), currently under construction in Biberach,
also achieved important project milestones in 2020. Around 70 million EUR were invested in the BDC,
supplementing a number of significant investments in Boehringer Ingelheim’s global research and
development network.
In Jonage (France), Boehringer Ingelheim is investing in a new antigen production center in the area of
Animal Health for regulatory animal disease control, in response to the growing demand for medicines
to treat foot-and-mouth and bluetongue disease. Due to the magnitude of the COVID-19 pandemic in
France, this investment project failed to match the envisaged level of progress in 2020. The infection
rates in France and the countermeasures employed will determine whether further delays arise in 2021.
Also noteworthy is the Group’s acquisition of the Belgian company Global Stem cell Technology NV in
the area of Animal Health R&D.
Cash inflow from financing activities amounts to 168 million EUR and mainly comprises tax refunds for
shareholders’ personal taxes associated with the Group’s activities in previous years, as well as research
bonuses received – in particular with regard to our investments in research in Austria.41
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Overall, after taking into consideration changes within the group of consolidated companies as well as
changes due to exchange rate movements and valuation-related changes, the Group’s financial funds
increased by 3,910 million EUR to 6,105 million EUR as of December 31, 2020.
Net assets position
(in million EUR) 31.12.2020 31.12.2019 Change Change in %
Assets
Intangible and tangible assets 9,345 9,636 — 291
Financial assets 8,553 9,162 — 609
Fixed assets 17,898 18,798 — 900 — 4.8%
Inventories 3,863 3,563 300
Trade accounts receivable 4,302 4,196 106
Other receivables and other current assets 950 1,241 — 291
Securities 1,499 0 1,499
Cash and cash equivalents 4,606 2,195 2,411
Current assets 15,220 11,195 4,025 + 36.0%
Other assets 3,769 3,487 282
Total assets 36,887 33,480 3.407 + 10.2%
Equity and liabilities
Group equity 17,307 14,681 2,626 + 17.9%
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 5,581 5,185 396
Tax provisions and other provisions 9,739 9,336 403
Accounts payable and loans 1,912 1,715 197
— thereof residual term over 1 year: 77 83 — 6
Liabilities 17,232 16,236 996 + 6.1%
Other liabilities and difference from capital
consolidation 2,348 2,563 — 215
Total equity and liabilities 36,887 33,480 3,407 + 10.2%
As of December 31, 2020, Boehringer Ingelheim’s total assets amounted to 36,887 million EUR, an
increase of 3,407 million EUR as compared with the previous year. This increase was due, in particular,
to the rise in the level of cash and cash equivalents which was attributable to the positive cash flow
in the financial year.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS42
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
Despite the high level of investment in the strategic expansion of the company’s business in Human
Pharma research in Germany, Biopharmaceuticals in Vienna (Austria) and Fremont, California (USA),
as well as Animal Health in France, overall intangible and tangible fixed assets decreased due to
depreciation and amortization as well as exchange rate effects. In spite of negative currency effects,
working capital (receivables and inventories) increased, particularly due to the buildup of safety stocks
in the Human Pharma business, especially in Germany, the USA, and Austria. Trade accounts receivable
increased on business grounds in the USA and China in particular. Other receivables and other assets
declined due to exchange rate effects, lower tax prepayments in France and decreases in Germany.
Other assets increased due to higher deferred tax assets resulting from temporary differences between
the valuations in the consolidated companies’ tax balance sheets and the valuations in the consoli-
dated balance sheet as well as the positive market trend for plan assets for pensions and similar obli-
gations in the USA.
Despite negative exchange rate effects, Group equity increased due to the Group profit in 2020. Equity
amounted to 17,307 million EUR as of December 31, 2020. The equity ratio thus improved to around
47% (December 31, 2019: 44%) in spite of the higher balance sheet total. In addition to equity, the pen-
sion provisions and long-term liabilities are also available to the Group as capital in the long term.
These three items totaled 22,965 million EUR as of December 31, 2020, representing a 62% share of
total assets. Consequently, as in previous years, long-term disposable capital continues to cover all
intangible and tangible fixed assets as well as working capital.
Pension provisions increased in Germany, especially due to a lower actuarial discount rate. The increase
in other provisions correlates to the change in the level of revenue, since this includes provisions for
discounts in the USA and for royalty payments. Provisions for environmental and legal risks, unclaimed
vacation and other personnel-related expenses also rose. Exchange rate effects in particular had the
opposite effect. The increase in liabilities mainly relates to other liabilities as well as trade accounts
payable, in Germany especially. The other liabilities declined, mainly due to the release of the difference
arising from capital consolidation and lower deferred income.
The net assets position likewise reflects Boehringer Ingelheim’s positive development in the 2020
financial year. Boehringer Ingelheim remains a soundly financed company, incurring considerable
capital expenditure in the development of its business and research activities in order to ensure its
long-term growth and thus its independence.43
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
REPORT ON OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
Opportunities and risk management
When assessing the risks in the context of holistic opportunities and risk management, we also
endeavor to take into account the resulting opportunities.
Opportunity management is based on the strategies and objectives of the company and of individual
businesses and operating business units, and is an integral part of the Group-wide planning and man-
agement systems. Those responsible for the businesses and functions bear direct responsibility for the
early and systematic identification, analysis and use of opportunities.
For Boehringer Ingelheim as a research-driven biopharmaceutical company, its current research and
development activities are naturally considered an opportunity. Relevant projects have already been
outlined in the research and development (R&D) chapter. We also consider digitalization to be an
opportunity and see new technological possibilities in the areas of research and (particularly clinical)
development, as well as in the support of patients during therapy. In the current COVID-19 pandemic,
we are giving greater priority to this opportunity for digitalization in many different areas, but
especially in sales and administration.
The aim of the risk management system implemented at Boehringer Ingelheim is to identify busi-
ness-specific risks as early as possible (particularly risks that jeopardize the continued existence of the
company), to assess them, and to reduce them to a reasonable level by means of suitable measures.
The persons responsible for the key businesses and functions are also included in the process of cal-
culating and assessing risks. The Group-wide risk and information system ensures that all identified
risks are analyzed and assessed carefully. Following appropriate classification, adequate risk manage-
ment measures are initiated and their implementation is consistently monitored.
In the year under review, internal auditing performed targeted routine audits as well as extraordinary
audits around the world. In addition to adherence to legal requirements and internal Group guidelines,
the main focal points were the functionality of systems, the effectiveness of internal controls for the
prevention of loss of assets and the efficiency of structures and processes. Corresponding adjustments
or optimizations were initiated as necessary.
Individual risks
The most important risks to which Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed are broken down into the follow-
ing specific categories: financial risks, legal risks, production and environmental risks, personnel risks
and industry-specific risks.
Risks are identified below as being “concrete” when they appear to be controllable by means of
specific management procedures. The term “abstract” is used in the case of risks that cannot be
completely controlled, even by means of targeted management procedures, regardless of the probability
of their occurrence.
Financial risks
Relevant financial risks are themselves broken down as follows: currency risks, credit and country-
specific risks, as well as financial investment and shareholding risks.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS44
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
Currency risks
The global orientation of our business activities is subject to opportunities and risks due to exchange
rate volatility, particularly with regard to the US dollar and Japanese yen – but also with regard to
emerging markets’ currencies, especially the Chinese renminbi. The Group monitors and quantifies
these risks at regular intervals, making them predictable for future business by means of relevant hedg-
ing strategies and appropriate financial instruments, such as forward exchange contracts. The resultant
risks are subsequently designated as being concrete and controllable and therefore limited.
Credit and country­specific risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to various credit and country-specific risks as a result of its interna-
tional business activities. From the portfolio of trade accounts receivable and trade accounts payable,
we have not identified any extraordinary risks for the Group beyond the usual level in the industry since
the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, also compared with previous years. The same applies to possible
default risks for receivables, which are largely hedged against economic and political risks. We will con-
tinue to carefully track credit and country-specific risks, so as to be in a position to respond to negative
changes in a timely manner. These risks, which we consider moderate, are therefore regarded as concrete.
Financial investment and shareholding risks
The Group pursues a defensive investment strategy in the management of its financial assets.
This is reflected in the orientation of its portfolio, which is focused on European Economic and Mone-
tary Union (EMU) government bonds with top credit ratings and short-term money market deposits.
This results in a concrete, controllable and thus limited risk – but therefore only limited opportunities –
for the major part of the financial investments. The net book value of some of the strategic investments
in related companies is affected by market and business circumstances, which leads to a higher level
of volatility in the fair market value. All specific risks have been covered by respective impairments in
the consolidated financial statements.
Legal risks
The business activities of the Group are exposed to legal risks. A distinction is made between regula-
tory, liability and patent protection risks.
Regulatory risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is exposed to risks arising from legal disputes and proceedings as well as official
investigations. As the legal or administrative decisions in ongoing or future proceedings cannot be
predicted, we regard the resultant risks as being abstract and high.
Liability risks
The marketing and sale of pharmaceuticals are exposed to a potential product liability risk. Boehringer
Ingelheim currently has product liability insurance for the company’s risk profile. There is absolutely no
guarantee, however, that this insurance coverage can be maintained at reasonable cost and acceptable
conditions, or that it is sufficient to protect Boehringer Ingelheim against a claim or loss, or against all
potential claims or losses. In case it is foreseeable that the product liability insurance does not cover or
only partially covers a specific liability risk, the remaining risk exposure has been covered by a provision.
We therefore see a moderate risk for the Group here.45
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Furthermore, product liability claims could tie up substantial financial resources and management
capacity and be detrimental to the company’s image in the event that the market considers the product
to be unsafe or ineffective as a result of unexpected side effects. We see this as an abstract and
moderate risk.
Patent protection risks
Protection of innovations through trademark and patent rights is of particular importance to Boehringer
Ingelheim as a research-driven biopharmaceutical company. These commercial protective rights are
increasingly the target of attacks and breaches. We have taken the necessary precautions to allow us to
detect threats at an early stage and, by commencing appropriate countermeasures, defend our legal
position using all legal means available to us so that these factors are regarded as concrete and
moderate risks.
Production and environmental risks
Our quality management system and compliance processes are continuously optimized in close coop-
eration with the relevant authorities in order to ensure compliance with cGMP standards (current good
manufacturing practices). Risks in this area continue to be of high significance to the Group and are
classified as abstract. Boehringer Ingelheim implemented risk-mitigating measures in the past year in
order to counter COVID-19-specific threats to its production activities. These include the physical
segre gation of production teams when possible, the obligation to wear a mask, an increase in the
supply of disinfectants, and in-house initiatives for testing the COVID-19 status of employees. In order
to protect facility-based functions, employees whose presence is not site-dependent were asked
to work from home.
In order to guarantee the supply of our products to the market, we have implemented measures that
guarantee reliable and high-quality supplies for internal and external customers. In addition to supplier
management on the procurement side, this also involves building up internal standby capacities.
Overall, this represents a concrete and moderate risk.
Risks in the areas of environment, health, safety and sustainability (EHS&S) are preemptively mini-
mized by ensuring global adherence to our high safety standards. Appropriate emergency plans have
been drawn up for possible incidents of any kind and are practiced and subjected to comprehensive
quality testing at regular intervals. As a result of these measures, these risks are classed as concrete
and limited.
Personnel risks
Boehringer Ingelheim, as other companies, is exposed to demographic change and the resultant risk of
being affected by a lack of appropriately qualified personnel. This potential risk can have a substantial
impact on the company’s business activities. It has therefore been included in the long-term planning
process for many years and has gained strategic significance as a result.
Boehringer Ingelheim counters the risk by means of a comprehensive personnel concept. In the con-
text of global personnel management, this also presents the Group with opportunities. Regardless of
their ethnic background, gender or religion, we offer all of our company’s employees development
opportunities based on their professional abilities, social skills, personal aptitudes, and willingness to
take on responsibility in accordance with the needs of the company. In view of the measures described
above, the risk is regarded as concrete and moderate.
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS46
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
Boehringer Ingelheim is likewise exposed to human resources risks as a result of the COVID-19
pandemic. If the pathogen were to spread, this would have a significant impact both in and outside of
our production activities. The company is therefore closely monitoring the situation in the vicinity of its
sites. It also emphasizes working from home, using digital applications rather than in-person meet-
ings, and curbing employee travel to a large extent. In view of these measures, this is considered to be
a concrete and moderate risk.
Industry-specific risks
Boehringer Ingelheim is subject to the industry-specific business risks of the pharmaceutical industry.
These risks have partly materialized in the past financial year and are becoming increasingly important
for Boehringer Ingelheim due to their effects. They continue to be classed as abstract and high. In addi-
tion to the loss of exclusivity of products established on the market and risks associated with the
development and registration of new products, these risks increasingly include changing and restric-
tive requirements relating to pricing and reimbursement in many markets. Frequently, the prices of
pharmaceutical products are subject not only to state monitoring and regulation, but also to price pres-
sure from cheaper generic drugs caused by state reimbursement systems. Boehringer Ingelheim is
keeping a close eye on the various changes in its sales markets and takes appropriate measures in
response to current developments.
Overall statement on the risk situation
From a current perspective, we are not aware of any risks that alone or in conjunction with other risks
could lead to a lasting impairment of the company’s assets or financial or earnings position and could
jeopardize the continued existence of Boehringer Ingelheim.47
GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS
Boehringer Ingelheim can look back on a successful 2020 financial year in which we achieved our
ambitious targets, in terms of both absolute figures and our contribution to the wellbeing of patients,
pets, and livestock. We were able to safeguard the company’s sustainable development and profitable
growth, even during volatile months for the world economy and the pharmaceutical industry.
The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and a more difficult industry environment will continue to pose
challenges for Boehringer Ingelheim in 2021. While this makes planning for the coming cycle more dif-
ficult than usual, we nonetheless look forward to the year ahead with confidence. For 2021, we envis-
age a partial recovery of the world economy from the deep recession of the past year. Due to our expe-
rience last year, we are optimistic that we will be able to cope with temporary setbacks and new
lockdowns without experiencing substantial supply problems.
In view of global efforts to reduce the prices of medicines, financial flexibility remains critical for the
growth and innovation of Boehringer Ingelheim. Assuming that the approved vaccines and other med-
icines currently undergoing the approval process help curb the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect strong
general market growth for prescription pharmaceuticals. The “Focus to Accelerate” initiative in our
Animal Health business represents a strategic reorientation. In the future, it will allow us to provide our
customers with even more innovative solutions, including through external partnerships. The continu-
ing spread of African swine fever remains a significant factor, despite an improved situation in some
key markets such as China. Our priorities in our biopharmaceuticals business are supplying the market
with our own products and contract manufacturing for customers. Beyond this, the launch of our LSCC
large-scale production facility in Vienna (Austria) remains a focus.
For 2021, we expect Boehringer Ingelheim to achieve a slight year-on-year increase in net sales on a
comparable basis (adjusted for currency and extraordinary effects).
Our consistently high R&D expenditure, which once again increased in 2020, is compatible with our
strategic focus on continuing to drive growth and the flow of new products. In 2020, we once again
achieved our goal of obtaining some of our R&D through external innovation and partnerships. We will
continue to actively pursue this strategy in 2021.
We invest in our own and external R&D after close investigation of the therapeutic benefit and the
associated prospects for success. The flow of innovative medicines in our research pipeline shows
short-, medium- and long-term growth potential. For 2021, we anticipate a significant increase in R&D
investments for new medicines; we also expect to continue our high level of commitment to research
on medicines that will help alleviate the effects of the COVID-19 disease.
In addition to patent expiry and attacks on patents, the major challenges facing the research-driven
pharmaceutical industry are the increasing amount of investment in R&D as well as bigger hurdles and
increased costs associated with product approvals. Also of particular note is the previously mentioned
growing cost pressure in health care systems. In 2020, policymakers’ readiness to contribute to the
substantial investments needed for the development of new medicines was apparent in the area of
COVID-19 research. Only by providing vaccines and therapeutics will it be possible to successfully
tackle the COVID-19 pandemic in the long term. In the past year, research-driven pharmaceutical com-
panies displayed an unprecedented level of networking and energy to develop solutions extremely
quickly, thus proving the societal value of research and innovation. Additional concrete steps are
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS48
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
needed so that the contribution of pharmaceutical companies to the increased efficiency of the overall
health care system is remunerated appropriately. Animal health research likewise requires major
investments in both preventive research and diagnostic options.
In conjunction with the long planning and development cycles for new products, growing public cost
pressure means that business is less predictable. It requires us to quickly recognize and seize opportu-
nities in both Human Pharma and Animal Health on the one hand while continuously monitoring and
adjusting costs and strategies on the other. In 2020, we implemented measures in all our business
areas to accelerate the speed of our response to changes, to reduce the complexity of the organization,
and to optimize the cost base. In this way, we are creating potential for capital expenditure and
securing the company’s long-term success.
In view of its increased research activities in the coming financial year, Boehringer Ingelheim expects a
slightly lower operating result for 2021 on a comparable basis (adjusted for currency and extraordinary
effects).
As a family-owned company, Boehringer Ingelheim’s primary aim remains the creation of “Value
through Innovation.” This safeguards our competitiveness and our long-term entrepreneurial
independence. We are confident that we will achieve our ambitious targets in all our business areas,
thanks to our considerable innovative strength, which rests on a comprehensive portfolio of prospec-
tive products, our global presence, and the support of our highly qualified and motivated employees.
We remain committed to our “Ambition 2025” for our company as a whole. We will research and
develop innovative products in human and veterinary medicine and bring them to the market in areas
of high medical need, and we will break new ground with therapeutic approaches. The aim of our
endeavors is to make new medicines available to both humans and animals so they can be treated
more effectively with new therapies.PAGE 50—80
C O N S O L I D A T E D F I N A N C I A L
S T A T E M E N T S
Overview of selected consolidated companies 50
Consolidated balance sheet 52
Consolidated profit and loss statement 53
Cash flow statement 54
Statement of changes in group equity 55
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 56
Independent auditor‘s report 77
LAICNANIF
DETADILOSNOC
STNEMETATS50
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
OVERVIEW OF SELECTED CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES
C.H. BOEHRINGER SOHN
AG & CO. KG, INGELHEIM AM RHEIN
BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
VETMEDICA GMBH,
INGELHEIM AM RHEIN
ARGENTINA D ITALY D P TAIWAN D GERMANY D P R
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Corporate
Argentina S.A., Buenos Aires Italia S.p.A., Milan Taiwan Co., Ltd., Taipei Center GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
AUSTRALIA D R JAPAN D R THAILAND D Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma
Australia Pty. Ltd., North Ryde Japan Co., Ltd., Tokyo (Thailand) Limited, Bangkok
GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim microParts
BELGIUM D P R MEXICO D USA D P R
GmbH, Dortmund
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund
Belgium S.A., Brussels México S.A. de C.V., Mexico City USA, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
Global Stem cell Technology NV, Newport Laboratories, Inc., Boehringer Ingelheim
Evergem NETHERLANDS D P R Wilmington, Delaware Biopharmaceuticals GmbH,
Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
BRAZIL D P R Netherlands B.V., Velserbroek Boehringer Ingelheim Middle East
and Africa GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
do Brasil Ltda., São Paulo NEW ZEALAND D P R
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
CANADA D New Zealand Limited, Auckland
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Canada Inc., Burlington PHILIPPINES D
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
CHINA D P R Philippines, Inc., Makati City
Nanchang Boehringer Ingelheim
Animal Health Co., Ltd., Nanchang PUERTO RICO P
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
(Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Shanghai
Puerto Rico LLC, Barceloneta
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Operations (China) Co., Ltd., Taizhou
SOUTH AFRICA D
Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica
(China) Co., Ltd., Taizhou Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
South Africa Pty Ltd., Randburg
DENMARK D P
SOUTH KOREA D
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Denmark A/S, Copenhagen Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Korea Ltd., Seoul
FRANCE D P R
SPAIN D
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
France, Lyon Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
España, S.A., Barcelona
GREAT BRITAIN D P
Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
UK Limited, Bracknell
D Distribution
P Production
R Research and development51
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OVERVIEw OF SELECTED CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES
C.H. BOEHRINGER SOHN
GRUNDSTÜCKSVERWALTUNG GMBH & CO. KG,
INGELHEIM AM RHEIN
BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM
INTERNATIONAL GMBH,
INGELHEIM AM RHEIN
ARGENTINA D CZECH REPUBLIC D JAPAN D P R SERBIA D
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., Boehringer Ingelheim, spol. s.r.o., Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim Co., Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim Serbia DOO
Buenos Aires Prague Tokyo Beograd, Belgrade
Boehringer Ingelheim Seiyaku,
AUSTRALIA D DENMARK D Yamagata SOUTH AFRICA D
Boehringer Ingelheim Pty. Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim Danmark A/S, Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals
North Ryde Copenhagen MEXICO D P (Proprietary) Ltd., Randburg
Boehringer Ingelheim Mexico S.A. de
AUSTRIA D P R ECUADOR D C.V., Mexico City SOUTH KOREA D
Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica S.A.
Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Boehringer Ingelheim Del Ecuador Boehringer Ingelheim Korea Ltd., de C.V., Guadalajara
Co. KG, Vienna Cia. Ltda., Quito Seoul
Boehringer Ingelheim Promeco S.A.
Forschungsinstitut für molekulare
de C.V., Mexico City
Pathologie Gesellschaft mbH, Vienna FINLAND D SPAIN D P
ViraTherapeutics GmbH, Rum
Boehringer Ingelheim Finland Ky, NETHERLANDS D Boehringer Ingelheim España S.A.,
Espoo Barcelona
BELGIUM D Boehringer Ingelheim B.V., Alkmaar
SCS Boehringer Ingelheim Comm.V., FRANCE D SWEDEN D
Brussels NEW ZEALAND D
Boehringer Ingelheim France S.A.S., Boehringer Ingelheim Aktiebolag,
Paris Boehringer Ingelheim (N.Z.) Ltd., Stockholm
BRAZIL D P Auckland
Boehringer Ingelheim do Brasíl GREAT BRITAIN D SWITZERLAND D R
Química e Farmaceutica Ltda., NORWAY D
Boehringer Ingelheim Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim (Schweiz)
São Paulo Bracknell Boehringer Ingelheim Norway KS, GmbH, Basel
Asker
Amal Therapeutics S.A., Geneva
CANADA D GREECE D P
Boehringer Ingelheim (Canada) Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim Ellas A.E., PERU D TAIWAN D
Toronto Athens Boehringer Ingelheim Peru S.A.C., Boehringer Ingelheim Taiwan Ltd.,
Lima
Taipei
CHILE D HONG KONG D
Boehringer Ingelheim Ltda., Boehringer Ingelheim (Hong Kong) PHILIPPINES D THAILAND D
Santiago de Chile Ltd., Hong Kong Boehringer Ingelheim (Philippines), Boehringer Ingelheim (Thai) Ltd.,
Inc., Manila
Bangkok
CHINA D P INDIA D
Boehringer Ingelheim Shanghai Boehringer Ingelheim India Private POLAND D TURKEY D
Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd., Shanghai Ltd., Mumbai Boehringer Ingelheim Sp. z o.o., Boehringer Ingelheim Ilaç Ticaret
Boehringer Ingelheim Warsaw
A.S., Istanbul
Biopharmaceuticals (China) Co., Ltd.,
INDONESIA D P
S Bh oa ehng rih na gi er Ingelheim (China) PT Boehringer Ingelheim Indonesia, PORTUGAL D USA D P R
Investment Co., Ltd.,Shanghai Jakarta Unilfarma-Uniao Internacional de Boehringer Ingelheim
Laboratórios Farmacêuticos, Lda.,
Boehringer Ingelheim International Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
Lisbon
Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., ISRAEL D Wilmington, Delaware
Shanghai Boehringer Ingelheim Fremont, Inc.,
Boehringer Ingelheim Israel Ltd., RUSSIA D Wilmington, Delaware
Tel Aviv
COLOMBIA D OOO Boehringer Ingelheim, Moscow Boehringer Ingelheim USA
Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware
Boehringer Ingelheim S.A., ITALY D P
Santa Fé de Bogotá SAUDI ARABIA D
Boehringer Ingelheim Italia S.p.A., VIETNAM D
Milan Boehringer Ingelheim Saudi Arabia
Trading, Riyadh Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health
Bidachem S.p.A., Fornovo S. Giovanni
Vietnam Limited Liability Company,
Ho Chi Minh City
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP52
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
Assets (in million EUR) Notes 1) 31.12.2020 31.12.2019
Intangible assets (3.1) 4,295 4,882
Tangible assets (3.2) 5,050 4,754
Financial assets (3.3) 8,553 9,162
Fixed assets 17,898 18,798
Inventories (3.4) 3,863 3,563
Accounts receivable and other assets (3.5) 5,252 5,437
Securities 1,499 0
Cash and cash equivalents 4,606 2,195
Current assets 15,220 11,195
Prepaid expenses 330 313
Deferred tax assets 3,194 3,000
Exceeding amount of plan assets 245 174
Total assets 36,887 33,480
Equity and liabilities (in million EUR) Notes 1) 31.12.2020 31.12.2019
Shareholders’ capital 178 178
Group reserves 17,672 14,709
Balance sheet currency conversion difference — 544 — 207
Equity attributable to the parent company 17,306 14,680
Non-controlling interests 1 1
Group equity 17,307 14,681
Difference from capital consolidation 1,283 1,471
Provisions (3.6) 15,320 14,521
Accounts payable and loans (3.7) 1,912 1,715
Liabilities 17,232 16,236
Deferred income 385 441
Deferred tax liabillities 680 651
Total equity and liabilities 36,887 33,480
1) For explanations, see relevant section in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.53
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET | CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
(in million EUR) Notes 1) 2020 2019
Net sales (4.1) 19,566 18,997
Changes in finished goods and work in process 328 224
Other own work capitalized 2 11
Other operating income (4.2) 3,358 2,040
Total revenues 23,254 21,272
Cost of materials (4.3) — 2,567 — 2,534
Personnel expenses (4.4) — 5,587 — 5,367
Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets (4.5) — 1,376 — 1,180
Other operating expenses (4.6) — 9,100 — 8,409
Operating income 4,624 3,782
Financial income (4.7) — 523 — 369
Holding income (4.8) 204 83
Income before taxes 4,305 3,496
Income taxes 2) (4.9) — 1,243 — 775
Income after taxes 3,062 2,721
Net income (4.10) 3,062 2,721
Non-controlling interests 0 0
Group profit 3,062 2,721
1) For explanations, see relevant section in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
2) Due to legal requirements, the shareholders’ personal taxes arising from group business activities are shown as withdrawals from the group reserves.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP54
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(in million EUR) 2020
Income after taxes (including non-controlling interests) 3,062
Amortization/reversal of write-downs of intangible assets and depreciation/reversal
of write-downs of tangible assets 1,376
Change in provisions for pensions and similar obligations (including change of plan assets) 365
Change in other provisions 868
Other non-cash income and expenses — 196
Gain/loss from disposals of fixed assets — 195
Grants received — 87
Change in inventories — 517
Change in accounts receivable and other assets not related to investing or financing activities — 414
Change in accounts payable and other liabilities not related to investing or financing activities 100
Interest income/interest expenses 29
Other income from investments — 13
Income/expenses from the sale of businesses — 298
Income taxes 1,243
Income taxes paid — 1,360
Cash flow from operating activities 3,963
Payments to aquire intangible fixed assets — 170
Payments to aquire tangible fixed assets — 1,046
Payments to aquire financial fixed assets — 265
Payments to aquire or generate plan assets — 28
Payments relating to purchase price adjustments of consolidated entities — 7
Investments in consolidated companies — 152
Proceeds from disposals of intangible fixed assets 0
Proceeds from disposals of tangible fixed assets 13
Proceeds from disposals of financial fixed assets 1,052
Cash receipts from the sale of businesses 302
Interest received 22
Income from dividends 13
Income taxes paid from the sale of businesses — 60
Cash flow from investing activities — 32655
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CASH FLOw STATEMENT | STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN GROUP EQUITY
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(in million EUR) 2020
Cash receipts from grants 66
Interest paid — 37
Cash receipts from shareholders of the parent company 1) 103
Proceeds from loans 178
Cash repayments of loans — 142
Cash flow from financing activities 168
Change in financial funds from cash relevant transactions 3,805
Changes in financial funds due to change of consolidated companies 1
Changes in financial funds due to exchange rate movements and valuation adjustments 104
Financial funds 2) as of 1.1. 2,195
Financial funds 2) as of 31.12. 6,105
1) This line mainly contains aperiodic tax refunds of personal taxes arising from the group business activities of the shareholders.
2) Cash and cash equivalents and securities within current assets.
(+) = source of funds, (-) = use of funds
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN GROUP EQUITY
Balance sheet Equity
currency attributable Non-
Shareholders’ Group conversion to the parent controlling Group
(in million EUR) capital 1) reserves 2) difference company interests equity
Balance as of 31.12.2018 178 12,453 — 298 12,333 1 12,334
withdrawals 0 — 465 0 — 465 0 — 465
Net income 0 2,721 0 2,721 0 2,721
Currency effects 0 0 91 91 0 91
Balance as of 31.12.2019 178 14,709 — 207 14,680 1 14,681
withdrawals 0 — 99 0 — 99 0 — 99
Net income 0 3,062 0 3,062 0 3,062
Currency effects 0 0 — 337 — 337 0 — 337
Balance as of 31.12.2020 178 17,672 — 544 17,306 1 17,307
1) The shareholders’ capital consists of the equity of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG and C.H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung
GmbH & Co. KG. The shareholders’ capital consists only of the limited partner’s capital contribution.
2) The shareholders’ personal taxes arising from group business activities are shown as withdrawals from the group reserves.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP56
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Principles and methods
1.1 General principles
The consolidated financial statements of Boehringer Ingelheim for the 2020 financial year were prepared in
accordance with Section 264a of the German Commercial Code (HGB), in line with the legal requirements to
prepare consolidated financial statements under Section 290 et seq. HGB.
In accordance with Section 297 (1) HGB, the consolidated financial statements consist of the consolidated balance
sheet, the consolidated profit and loss statement, the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the cash flow
statement, and the statement of changes in equity.
The consolidated financial statements were prepared in euros in accordance with Section 298 (1) in conjunction
with Section 244 HGB.
To improve the clarity and transparency of the consolidated financial statements, subtotals have been added in the
consolidated profit and loss statement; furthermore, individual items of the consolidated balance sheet and the
consolidated profit and loss statement have been combined. These items are presented and explained separately in
the notes. The additional disclosures required for the individual items can also be found in the notes.
1.2 Registry information
The parent company is registered under the name C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, with its headquarters in
Ingelheim am Rhein, in the commercial register of Mainz district court under the number HRA 21732.
1.3 Information on the group of consolidated companies
The parent company of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein.
Boehringer AG, Ingelheim am Rhein, is the sole unlimited partner of this company.
The Boehringer Ingelheim Group consists of a total of 176 affiliated companies in Germany and abroad. 149 subsid-
iaries have been included in the consolidated financial statements of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG under full
consolidation rules. C.H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG is a special purpose entity in
which C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG bears a majority of the risks and opportunities in economic terms.
C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG holds a majority of the voting rights in the other subsidiaries, either directly
or indirectly.
In accordance with Section 296 (2) HGB, 24 subsidiaries were not included in the consolidation in the reporting
year, as they are individually and collectively insignificant to the Group’s net assets, financial, and earnings position.
The total amount of the sales, equity, and net income for the year of the subsidiaries not included in consolidation
accounts for less than 1% of the aggregated Group financial statements totals. For two further subsidiaries there are
ongoing restrictions on control due to the terms of the articles of association. In accordance with Section 296 (1)
No. 1 HGB, these companies were not consolidated either.57
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
The total number of subsidiaries increased by one compared to the previous year:
• Four companies were acquired.
• One company lost its separate legal identity by merger.
• Two affiliated companies were liquidated.
The following subsidiaries were exempted from the reporting and disclosure obligations of Section 264 (3) HGB:
• Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Europe GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Finanzierungs GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Secura Versicherungsvermittlungs GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Grundstücks-GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim R&D Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Invest GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health France Participations GmbH, Ingelheim am Rhein
The following subsidiaries were exempted from the reporting and disclosure obligations of Section 264b HGB:
• C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
• C.H. Boehringer Sohn Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
• Boehringer Ingelheim Veterinary Research Center GmbH & Co. KG, Hanover
Boehringer Ingelheim participates in one joint venture company, which has not been included in the consolidated
financial statements using either the proportionate method or the equity method, since it is not material. Further-
more, Boehringer Ingelheim holds an interest in 20 associated companies, which also have not been accounted for
using the equity method due to their lack of significance. The resulting effect on the Group’s total assets and net
income is less than 1%.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP58
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
1.4 Consolidation methods
For inventories and fixed assets, receivables, liabilities, and income and expense items, transactions between the
companies included in consolidation were eliminated as part of debt consolidation procedures in accordance with
Section 303 HGB, procedures to eliminate intercompany profits in accordance with Section 304 HGB and income
and expenses consolidation procedures in accordance with Section 305 HGB.
The revaluation method was applied when including subsidiaries in the consolidation for the first time in accord-
ance with Section 301 HGB. Companies were included in the consolidation for the first time on the date on which
the company became a subsidiary.
The book value of the shares held by the parent company was offset against the corresponding equity of the subsi-
diary. Equity was carried at the amount of the fair value of the assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses, deferred income,
and special reserves included in the consolidated financial statements as of the time of consolidation. Any remain-
ing positive balance was recorded as goodwill; any remaining negative balance was recorded as a difference from
capital consolidation.
1.5 Currency translation
Assets and liabilities resulting from foreign currency transactions were translated using the average spot exchange
rate as of the balance sheet date. The realization principle (Section 298 (1) in conjunction with Section 252 (1)
No. 4 half-sentence 2 HGB) and the historical cost convention (Section 298 (1) in conjunction with Section 253 (1)
sentence 1 HGB) were applied to items with a remaining term of more than one year.
In these consolidated financial statements, the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries domiciled in a state
outside the eurozone that are denominated in a foreign currency have been converted into euros using the modified
closing rate method, in accordance with Section 308a HGB.
Using the modified closing rate method, the asset and liability items of the annual financial statements prepared in
foreign currency were translated into euros using the average spot exchange rate as of the balance sheet date, with
the exception of equity, which was translated using the historical rate. Items included in the profit and loss state-
ment were translated into euros using the annual average rate. The resulting translation differences were reported
within consolidated equity below the reserves in “Balance sheet currency conversion difference”.
The exchange rates for the Group’s most important currencies changed as follows during the reporting year (basis: 1 EUR):
Spot rate Average rate
31.12.2020 31.12.2019 2020 2019
US dollar 1.23 1.12 1.14 1.12
Japanese yen 126.49 121.94 121.78 122.06
Chinese renminbi 8.02 7.82 7.87 7.7359
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
2 Accounting policies
2.1 Fixed assets
Acquired tangible and intangible assets are carried at cost, less scheduled straight-line amortization and depreciation
determined under consideration of the technical and economic circumstances. This is based on the following
useful lives:
Goodwill 10 years
Other intangible assets 2 to 19 years
Buildings 20 years
Technical facilities and machines 10 years
Other facilities, operating equipment 3 to 10 years
Only straight-line depreciation and amortization are used in the consolidated financial statements. Additional
write-downs are recorded to reflect impairments when the value of assets has been considered permanently
impaired. Manufacturing costs include materials and labor manufacturing costs, an appropriate portion of materi-
als and labor overheads, and the depreciation of fixed assets (to the extent caused by production). Manufacturing
costs do not include financing costs.
All capitalized intangible assets have finite useful lives.
In the current financial year, the acquisition of Global Stem cell Technology NV and an additional milestone payment
for ICD-Therapeutics GmbH resulted in a total increase in goodwill of 84 million EUR.
Financial assets primarily include investment securities, shareholder rights, and loans and were carried at the lower
of cost or fair market value, if impaired. In the event that the reasons for the impairment losses recognized in
previous financial years were no longer applicable, corresponding reversals were recorded.
2.2 Current assets, prepaid expenses, deferred income, and exceeding amount of plan assets
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or fair market value.
Raw materials, consumables, and supplies are capitalized at the lower of average acquisition prices or fair market
value on the balance sheet date.
Finished goods and work in progress are measured at manufacturing cost on the basis of individual calculations,
taking into account the directly attributable costs of materials, direct labor costs, special direct costs, an appropriate
share of material and production overhead costs, and production-related depreciation.
Goods for resale are valued at the lower of either acquisition cost or fair market value.
All identifiable risks in inventories arising from above-average storage periods, diminished marketability, and lower
replacement costs were taken into account by recording appropriate valuation adjustments.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP60
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
Inventories are valued loss-free – that is, deductions were made from the expected sales prices to reflect costs yet
to be incurred.
Receivables and other assets were recognized at cost less allowances for specific risks and general credit risk.
Low-interest or non-interest-bearing receivables with a term of more than one year were discounted.
Securities classified as current assets solely include other securities and have been recognized at the lower of cost
or the fair market value/the stock market price as of the reporting date.
Cash and cash equivalents, consisting of cash, balances at banks, and checks, were recognized at the lower of cost
or fair market value.
Prepaid expenses recorded in accordance with Section 250 (1) HGB include expenses paid in advance in respect of
a defined period of time after the balance sheet date.
Deferred income recorded in accordance with Section 250 (2) HGB includes proceeds that represent income in
respect of a defined period of time after the balance sheet date.
The fair market value of pension plan assets and the corresponding present value of pension obligations have been
offset according to German GAAP. The exceeding amount of plan assets has been capitalized separately.
2.3 Group reserves
Group reserves include the retained earnings of the consolidated subsidiaries from prior and current years and
consolidation entries that affect earnings.
2.4 Difference from capital consolidation
The difference from capital consolidation reported on December 31, 2020 was primarily a result of the business
swap of Boehringer Ingelheim’s consumer healthcare business and Sanofi’s animal health business, which was
completed on January 1, 2017. This resulted in a difference from capital consolidation of 1,986 million EUR. The
difference is amortized over an estimated period of 15 years. The remaining balance of the difference amounted to
1,283 million EUR as of December 31, 2020.
The difference from capital consolidation was primarily influenced by the current year release of 188 million EUR.
The income from the release of the difference arising from capital consolidation is included in other operating
income. The release is made corresponding to the amortization of those assets of the acquired company identified
in the purchase price allocation not previously recognized in that company’s balance sheet.61
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
2.5 Provisions
Tax provisions and other provisions include all uncertain liabilities and expected losses from executory contracts.
They were carried at the amount required to settle the obligation based on reasonable prudent commercial judg-
ment (that is, including future cost and price increases). Provisions with a remaining maturity of more than one year
were discounted using the matched-term, average market interest rate. In the case of pension provisions this inter-
est rate results from the average market interest rate over the last ten years and in the case of other provisions
from the average market interest rate over the last seven years (in accordance with the “Rückstellungsabzinsungs-
verordnung”, German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions).
2.6 Accounts payable and loans
Accounts payable and loans were recognized at settlement amount.
2.7 Deferred taxes
To calculate deferred taxes arising from temporary or quasi-permanent differences between the carrying amounts of
assets, liabilities, prepaid expenses, and deferred income in the commercial balance sheet and their carrying
amounts for tax purposes or tax loss carryforwards, the amounts of the resulting tax benefits and expenses at the
time that the differences will reverse were measured using tax rates specific to the respective consolidated company
(4%–39%). Deferred tax balances are not discounted. Differences due to consolidation measures in accordance with
Sections 300 to 305 HGB were also measured using the company-specific tax rates applicable at the time of the
expected reversal of the difference. Deferred tax assets on loss carryforwards were taken into account if it is likely
that they will be used within the next five years.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities were reported without offsetting.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP62
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
3 Notes to the consolidated balance sheet
3.1 Intangible assets
Acquired
concessions/ Advance
(in million EUR) similar rights Goodwill payments Total
Acquisition/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2019 6,908 29 26 6,963
Currency conversion difference 54 0 0 54
Changes in consolidated companies 34 57 0 91
Additions 214 0 7 221
Disposals — 117 0 0 — 117
Reclassifications 23 0 — 21 2
Balance as of 31.12.2019 7,116 86 12 7,214
Currency conversion difference — 276 0 0 — 276
Changes in consolidated companies 99 84 0 183
Additions 162 0 8 170
Disposals — 116 0 0 — 116
Reclassifications 15 0 — 11 4
Balance as of 31.12.2020 7,000 170 9 7,179
Accumulated amortization
Balance as of 1.1.2019 1,840 3 0 1,843
Currency conversion difference 12 0 0 12
Changes in consolidated companies — 2 0 0 — 2
Additions 589 6 0 595
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 117 0 0 — 117
Reclassifications 1 0 0 1
Balance as of 31.12.2019 2,323 9 0 2,332
Currency conversion difference — 110 0 0 — 110
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0
Additions 762 12 0 774
Write-ups 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 116 0 0 — 116
Reclassifications 4 0 0 4
Balance as of 31.12.2020 2,863 21 0 2,884
Book value as of 31.12.2019 4,793 77 12 4,882
Book value as of 31.12.2020 4,137 149 9 4,29563
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
3.2 Tangible assets
Other Advance
Technical facilities/ payments/
Land and facilities and operating construction
(in million EUR) buildings machines equipment in progress Total
Acquisition/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2019 3,925 3,970 2,228 972 11,095
Currency conversion difference 27 19 14 3 63
Changes in consolidated companies — 61 — 97 — 3 — 8 — 169
Additions 62 85 156 770 1,073
Disposals — 46 — 84 — 110 — 7 — 247
Reclassifications 175 172 85 — 434 — 2
Balance as of 31.12.2019 4,082 4,065 2,370 1,296 11,813
Currency conversion difference — 156 — 95 — 66 — 25 — 342
Changes in consolidated companies 0 1 0 0 1
Additions 57 69 129 791 1,046
Disposals — 34 — 63 — 83 — 1 — 181
Reclassifications 158 30 113 — 305 — 4
Balance as of 31.12.2020 4,107 4,007 2,463 1,756 12,333
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1.1.2019 2,223 2,857 1,735 0 6,815
Currency conversion difference 16 13 10 0 39
Changes in consolidated companies — 60 — 95 — 3 0 — 158
Additions 190 225 170 0 585
Write-ups 0 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 40 — 77 — 104 0 — 221
Reclassifications 8 — 14 5 0 — 1
Balance as of 31.12.2019 2,337 2,909 1,813 0 7,059
Currency conversion difference — 94 — 63 — 48 0 — 205
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 184 228 190 0 602
Write-ups 0 0 0 0 0
Disposals — 31 — 59 — 79 0 — 169
Reclassifications 12 — 45 29 0 — 4
Balance as of 31.12.2020 2,408 2,970 1,905 0 7,283
Book value as of 31.12.2019 1,745 1,156 557 1,296 4,754
Book value as of 31.12.2020 1,699 1,037 558 1,756 5,050
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP64
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
3.3 Financial assets
Investments Loans to Investments Loans to
in affiliated affiliated in related related Investment
(in million EUR) companies companies companies companies securities Other loans Total
Acquisition/manufacturing costs
Balance as of 1.1.2019 12 0 1,001 0 5,166 38 6,217
Currency conversion difference 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Changes in consolidated companies — 6 0 — 11 0 0 0 — 17
Additions 0 0 45 4 3,071 5 3,125
Disposals 0 0 — 81 0 — 46 — 8 — 135
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2019 6 0 954 4 8,191 35 9,190
Currency conversion difference 0 0 — 3 0 — 1 — 1 — 5
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 227 1 33 4 265
Disposals 0 0 — 838 0 — 27 — 8 — 873
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2020 6 0 340 5 8,196 30 8,577
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as of 1.1.2019 0 0 141 0 15 3 159
Currency conversion difference 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 3 0 2 0 5
Write-ups 0 0 — 60 0 — 7 0 — 67
Disposals 0 0 — 68 0 — 1 0 — 69
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2019 0 0 16 0 9 3 28
Currency conversion difference 0 0 — 1 0 — 1 0 — 2
Changes in consolidated companies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Additions 0 0 3 0 0 0 3
Write-ups 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Disposals 0 0 — 5 0 0 0 — 5
Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Balance as of 31.12.2020 0 0 13 0 8 3 24
Book value as of 31.12.2019 6 0 938 4 8,182 32 9,162
Book value as of 31.12.2020 6 0 327 5 8,188 27 8,553
As in the previous year, the “Other loans” item does not include any loans to shareholders.65
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
3.4 Inventories
(in million EUR) 31.12.2020 31.12.2019
Raw materials and supplies 811 635
Unfinished goods 1,891 1,763
Finished goods and goods for resale 1,152 1,155
Advance payments to suppliers 9 10
3,863 3,563
3.5 Accounts receivable and other assets
Residual Residual
(in million EUR) 31.12.2020 term over 1 year 31.12.2019 term over 1 year
Trade accounts receivable 4,302 7 4,196 2
Receivables from affiliated companies 21 0 19 0
Receivables from related companies 21 0 29 0
Other assets 908 161 1,193 176
5,252 168 5,437 178
The “Other assets” item includes receivables from shareholders of 23 million EUR (previous year: 123 million EUR).
Receivables from affiliated companies almost exclusively consist of receivables from loans.
Receivables from related companies primarily consist of trade accounts receivable.
3.6 Provisions
(in million EUR) 31.12.2020 31.12.2019
Pension provisions and similar obligations 5,581 5,185
Tax provisions 1,746 1,816
Other provisions 7,993 7,520
15,320 14,521
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP66
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations
The provisions for pensions and similar obligations were determined on the basis of actuarial calculations using the
projected unit credit method, taking into account future adjustments in salaries and pensions.
In addition to local biometric data (in Germany, for example, 2018 G mortality tables published by Prof. Dr. Klaus
Heubeck which have been adjusted for group-specific death probabilities and invalidity rates), pension obligations
in the significant countries were calculated on the basis of the following actuarial parameters:
(in % as of December 31, 2020) Germany USA Japan
Discount rate 2.31 3.70 0.95
Salary increase 3.50 4.00 3.51
Pension increase 1.88 3.00 0.00
Discounting rates were determined by reference to average market rates for 15-year maturities in accordance with
the German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions of March 11, 2016. The interest rates used to discount
significant foreign pension obligations (USA and Japan) were determined with comparable parameters, in line with
the German Regulation on the Discounting of Provisions of March 11, 2016.
The difference calculated in accordance with Section 253 (6) HGB amounts to 803 million EUR (previous year:
743 million EUR).
The plan assets intended solely to cover pension and similar obligations that are unavailable to all other creditors
(plan assets as defined in Section 246 (2) sentence 2 HGB) were measured at fair market value, which is essentially
derived from stock market prices, and offset against the underlying pension and similar obligations. The fair market
value of the plan assets on the balance sheet date was 2,165 million EUR. The related amount of pension obligations
and similar obligations was 7,501 million EUR.
Tax provisions
The tax provisions also include provisions for double taxation risks, which have resulted following the implementation
of the action plans of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) as part of their
international initiative known as the “Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting” (BEPS).67
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
Other provisions
Other provisions mainly include provisions for discounts and guarantees, personnel-related provisions, provisions
for outstanding invoices, as well as provisions for litigation, legal claims, and compensation for damages.
3.7 Accounts payable and loans
Residual term Residual term
less than thereof less than
(in million EUR) 1 year over 1 year over 5 years 31.12.2020 31.12.2019 1 year
Bank loans 243 8 0 251 256 247
Other accounts payable 1,592 69 28 1,661 1,459 1,385
thereof:
— Trade accounts payable 924 4 0 928 830 822
— Advance payments received 196 23 10 219 192 170
— Accounts payable
to affiliated companies 3 5 5 8 8 3
— Accounts payable
to related companies 0 0 0 0 2 2
— Other liabilities * 469 37 13 506 427 388
1,835 77 28 1,912 1,715 1,632
* thereof:
– from taxes (in million EUR) 201 205
– social security liabilities (in million EUR) 29 35
As in the previous year, there were no liabilities secured by mortgages or similar collateral rights on the balance
sheet date.
At the end of the year, there were liabilities to shareholders of 163 million EUR (previous year: 61 million EUR).
These are presented within the “Other liabilities” item.
Accounts payable to affiliated companies include loans amounting to 4 million EUR (previous year: 4 million EUR)
and trade accounts payable amounting to 4 million EUR (previous year: 4 million EUR).
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP68
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
4 Notes to the consolidated profit and loss statement
The structure of the consolidated profit and loss statement is based on the total cost format. Other taxes are included
in other operating expenses.
To provide a better view of the earnings position, cost of materials has been partially reclassified to other operating
expenses. The previous year’s figure has been adjusted by 384 million EUR for better comparability.
4.1 Net sales
by businesses (in million EUR) 2020 2019
Human Pharma 14,415 13,961
Animal Health 4,121 4,035
Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 837 786
Other sales 33 41
Discontinued Operations 160 174
19,566 18,997
by region (in million EUR) 2020 2019
Americas 8,889 8,830
Europe 5,879 5,689
Asia/Australia/Africa (AAA) 4,798 4,478
19,566 18,997
4.2 Other operating income
Other operating income includes income from currency translation of 1,964 million EUR (previous year: 811 million EUR).
4.3 Cost of materials
(in million EUR) 2020 2019
Costs of raw material, supplies, and goods for resale 2,005 1,963
Expenditure on services 562 571
2,567 2,53469
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
4.4 Personnel expenses
(in million EUR) 2020 2019
Wages and salaries 4,586 4,349
Social benefits and retirement benefits 1,001 1,018
thereof: retirement benefits 261 267
5,587 5,367
Interest effects of the measurement of the provisions for pensions and similar obligations are shown under
financial income.
Average headcount 2020 2019
Production 16,940 16,590
Marketing and sales 18,468 18,463
Research and development 9,504 9,154
Administration 6,310 6,104
Apprentices 722 704
51,944 51,015
4.5 Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets
Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of tangible assets include impairment losses of 369 million EUR
(previous year: 181 million EUR).
4.6 Other operating expenses
Other operating expenses include expenses from currency translation of 2,150 million EUR (previous year:
1,056 million EUR).
In addition, other items included in operating expenses are mainly the charges made to record provisions for legal
risks and restructuring, as well as third-party services for research, development, medicine, and marketing pur-
poses, administrative expenses, fees and contributions, commissions, rent, freight, and expenses for repairs carried
out by third parties.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP70
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
4.7 Financial income
(in million EUR) 2020 2019
Interest expenses and similar expenses — 559 — 526
Amortization of and loss on disposal of financial fixed assets and short-term investments — 7 — 2
Income from other investment securities and from long-term loans 12 105
Other interest income and similar income 31 54
— 523 — 369
The “Interest expenses and similar expenses” item includes the interest result from provisions for pensions and
similar obligations and other provisions in the amount of 499 million EUR (previous year: 437 million EUR) as well
as other interest expenses and similar expenses in the amount of 60 million EUR (previous year: 89 million EUR).
Gains and losses from plan assets and interest expense relating to pension and similar obligations were offset
in accordance with Section 246 (2) sentence 2 HGB. In total, 270 million EUR in earnings from plan assets and
657 million EUR in interest expense relating to pension and similar obligations are included in the interest result
from provisions for pensions and similar obligations and other provisions.
4.8 Holding income
(in million EUR) 2020 2019
Write-downs on financial assets — 3 — 4
Write-ups of financial assets 0 60
Income from related companies 207 27
thereof: from disposal of related companies 194 12
204 83
4.9 Income taxes
(in million EUR) 2020 2019
Current income taxes 1,529 1,027
Deferred taxes — 286 — 252
1,243 775
Current income taxes primarily include the corporation and trade tax expenses of the consolidated companies.
The total balance of deferred tax assets as of the balance sheet date amounted to 3,194 million EUR (previous year:
3,000 million EUR). Deferred tax assets primarily arise on the difference between the carrying amounts of provisions
for pension obligations and for discounts, tax goodwill, intangible assets, inventories, and tangible assets. Deferred
tax liabilities of 680 million EUR (previous year: 651 million EUR) were recorded. These primarily relate to differences
between the carrying amounts of intangible assets, tangible assets, inventories, and provisions.71
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
4.10 Net income
The net income for 2020 was positively influenced by non-period income (primarily from the reversal of other pro-
visions) of 634 million EUR (previous year: 630 million EUR) and was negatively influenced by non-period expenses
(in particular by taxes for previous years and additional expenses related to other provisions) of 226 million EUR
(previous year: 206 million EUR).
5 Notes to the cash flow statement
The cash flow statement shows the changes in financial funds of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group resulting from
cash inflows and outflows in the reporting year. Due to the development of Boehringer Ingelheim’s investment
strategy, investments which do not have the status of cash equivalents according to German Accounting Standard
(DRS) no. 21 comprise an increased proportion of the Group’s long-term investment securities. We have therefore
revised the definition of financial funds in the 2020 financial year. Financial funds now merely comprise cash and
short-term investments which can be converted into cash in the short term. The financial funds figure as of January
1, 2020, has been restated to ensure comparability.
The changes in the balance sheet items of the affiliated companies included were translated using average rates for
the year. As on the balance sheet, financial funds are carried at the spot rate. The effect of exchange rate changes on
the financial funds has been shown separately.
The financial funds as of December 31, 2020 comprised the following items:
(in million EUR) 2020
Cash and cash equivalents 4,606
Securities 1,499
6,105
The financial funds included 14 million EUR in restricted funds as of the balance sheet date.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP72
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
6 Other disclosures
6.1 Contingent liabilities
(in million EUR) 31.12.2020 31.12.2019
Liabilities from guarantees 44 25
Warranties and the granting of securities for third-party liabilities 55 70
99 95
The risk of utilization of these contingent liabilities is assessed as low on account of the good net assets, financial,
and earnings position.
6.2 Other financial commitments and off-balance sheet transactions
(in million EUR) 31.12.2020 31.12.2019
Rental and lease obligations 470 486
Residual other financial commitments 1,845 1,610
2,315 2,096
Within the rental and lease obligations, 23 million EUR (previous year: 29 million EUR) relate to long-term rental
agreements with subsidiaries not included in the consolidation.
The purpose of the lease agreements is the lower capital commitment compared to buying property and the absence
of the resale risk. Risks could arise from the term of the lease should it not be possible to continue to utilize the
properties fully. There are no indications of this at this time.
The residual other financial commitments include investments with future effects on cash flows of 1,090 million EUR
(previous year: 1,279 million EUR).
6.3 Derivative financial instruments and valuation units
Due to its extensive international structure, the Boehringer Ingelheim Group is highly dependent on developments
in the world’s currencies and interest rates. To hedge these risks, particularly those emerging from delivery of goods,
services, and financing, currency forwards and options are generally used for currency risks. Interest rate swaps and
options are used for interest rate risks.
The use of derivative financial instruments and the organizational processes are set out in internal guidelines.
There is a strict separation between trading, processing, documentation, and control.73
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
Risk positions are regularly tracked, analyzed, and measured in a special Group-wide financial report. The positions
entered into are periodically reevaluated and monitored. The fair value of the derivative financial instruments is cal-
culated using generally accepted market valuation methods (currency forwards based on the present value method)
taking into account the market data as of the balance sheet date.
Provisions of 53 million EUR were recognized for currency forwards not included in hedge accounting for which
there was a negative fair value within one currency as of the balance sheet date. In line with the imparity principle,
positive fair values within one currency are not recognized.
On the balance sheet date, the derivative financial instruments not included in hedge accounting valuation units
were as follows:
Nominal value Fair value
(in million EUR) 31.12.2020 31.12.2019 31.12.2020 31.12.2019
Foreign exchange forward contracts 5,183 5,620 41 — 71
To the extent that the requirements for hedge accounting of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with highly
probable forecast transactions in accordance with Section 254 HGB are met, the foreign currency forward exchange
contracts are not recognized in the balance sheet in line with the net hedge presentation method.
The following accounting policies apply to the recognition of valuation units in accordance with Section 254 HGB:
Economic hedges are accounted for in the financial statements by using valuation units. The valuation units are
recognized for each foreign currency based on the net amount of highly probable forecasted transactions and
currency forwards that match the forecasted net cash flow in terms of maturity, nominal amount, and foreign
currency (macro hedge). The highly probable forecasted transactions (incoming and outgoing payments for planned
sales and purchases) are derived from company planning. Ex-post analysis of planning has shown that the planned
transactions are highly probable.
The opposing changes in value of the hedged item and the hedging instrument are fully offset as the critical terms
(maturity, nominal amount, and foreign currency) match. An effective hedge can therefore be assumed both
prospectively and retrospectively. The critical term match method is exclusively used to measure the prospective
and retrospective effectiveness of hedges. Excess amounts under hedging transactions are not included in the
valuation units.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP74
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
As of December 31, 2020, hedges for highly probable forecasted net cash flows were recognized as follows:
January to December 2021:
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 1,900 USD 2,113 USD 78
JPY 905 JPY 729 JPY 14
AUD 117 AUD 92 AUD — 3
MXN 94 MXN 94 MXN — 5
CAD 238 CAD 203 CAD 2
GBP 191 GBP 147 GBP — 3
January to December 2022:
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 2,020 USD 1,477 USD 88
JPY 919 JPY 481 JPY 18
AUD 12 AUD 10 AUD 0
MXN 26 MXN 16 MXN — 1
CAD 27 CAD 27 CAD 0
GBP 33 GBP 31 GBP — 1
January to December 2023:
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 2,049 USD 940 USD 70
JPY 912 JPY 233 JPY 7
January to February 2024:
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 2,036 USD 502 USD 39
JPY 178 JPY 26 JPY 175
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES
January to February 2025:
Net cash flow (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
USD 645 USD 165 USD 13
Furthermore, as of December 31, 2020, valuation units for foreign currency receivables were recognized as follows:
Receivables (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
RUB 111 RUB 63 RUB 7
PLN 49 PLN 19 PLN 0
As of December 31, 2020, valuation units for foreign currency receivables resulting from loans were recognized
as follows:
Receivables (in million EUR) Foreign exchange forward contracts (in million EUR)
Nominal value Nominal value Fair value
AUD 18 AUD 18 AUD 0
BRL 60 BRL 60 BRL — 1
CNY 57 CNY 57 CNY 0
CZK 6 CZK 6 CZK 0
MXN 206 MXN 206 MXN — 8
PLN 11 PLN 11 PLN 0
RUB 11 RUB 11 RUB 0
THB 46 THB 46 THB 0
USD 62 USD 62 USD 2
The amount of the hedged foreign currency risk correlates to the relative change in the exchange rate between the
planning date and the realization date of the forecasted transactions. If all currencies were to appreciate or depreciate
against the euro by 10.0%, there would be a foreign currency risk of +/-1,294 million EUR without hedging.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP76
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
6.4 Research and development expenses
(in million EUR) 2020 2019
Research and development expenses 3,696 3,462
Non-capitalized research and development expenses include, among other items, the costs associated with clinical
studies.
6.5 Total auditor fees
Total fees charged to the Group by the auditor for the financial year amounted to 5.4 million EUR. 1.6 million EUR of
this relates to audits of financial statements, 0.8 million EUR to other assurance services, 2.3 million EUR to tax
advisory services, and 0.7 million EUR to other services.
6.6 Subsequent events
On December 7, 2020, Boehringer Ingelheim undertook to purchase 100% of the shares in the Swiss biotech com-
pany NBE-Therapeutics AG for an overall price of up to 1,180 million EUR. The purchase price consists of a payment
made for completion of the transaction as well as future performance-related payments, depending on the achieve-
ment of certain clinical and regulatory milestones. The transaction was completed on January 20, 2021. As of the
date of acquisition, Boehringer Ingelheim held an interest of around 25% in NBE-Therapeutics through a fully
consolidated subsidiary.
Since the end of the 2020 financial year, we have not become aware of any further events that are of material signif-
icance to the Group or that could lead to a reappraisal of its net assets, financial, and earnings position.
6.7 Shareholdings
The list of companies included in the consolidated financial statements and the complete list of shareholdings
presented in accordance with Section 313 (2) HGB are included in the audited consolidated financial statements
submitted to the German Federal Gazette.
Ingelheim am Rhein, March 2, 2021
Boehringer AG
Board of Managing Directors
Hubertus von Baumbach Carinne Knoche-Brouillon Dr. Michel Pairet
Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok Michael Schmelmer77
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
Qualified Audit Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements and Audit Opinion on the
Group Management Report
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein,
and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2020, the
consolidated profit and loss statement, cash flow statement and statement of changes in group equity for the
financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2020, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including
the recognition and measurement policies presented therein. In addition, we have audited the group management
report of C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2020.
In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in the audit,
• except for the effects of the matter described in section “Basis for the Qualified Audit Opinion on the Consoli-
dated Financial Statements and the Audit Opinion on the Group Management Report” the accompanying consol-
idated financial statements comply, in all material respects, with the requirements of German commercial law
and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2020
and of its financial performance for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2020, in compliance with
German Legally Required Accounting Principles, and
• the accompanying group management report as a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position.
In all material respects, this group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements,
complies with German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future
development.
Pursuant to Section 322 (3) sentence 1 HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch: German Commercial Code], we declare that,
except for the qualification of the audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements mentioned, our audit has
not led to any reservations relating to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements and of the
group management report.
Basis for the Qualified Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Audit Opinion on the
Group Management Report
Contrary to Section 314 (1) number 6 letters a) and b) HGB the total remuneration granted to the members and the
former members of the board of managing directors as well as the pension provisions recognized and not recog-
nized for the former members of the board of managing directors are not disclosed in the notes to the consolidated
financial statements.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report in accord-
ance with Section 317 HGB and in compliance with German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement
Audits promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW). Our
responsibilities under those requirements and principles are further described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for
the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the Group Management Report” section of our auditor’s
report. We are independent of the group entities in accordance with the requirements of German commercial and
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP78
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
professional law, and we have fulfilled our other German professional responsibilities in accordance with these
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report.
Other Information
Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the annual report, with the
exception of the audited consolidated financial statements and group management report and our auditor’s report.
Our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report do not cover the other
information, and consequently we do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in so doing, to consider whether
the other information
• is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements, with the group management report audited
for content or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or
• otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Responsibilities of Management for the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Group Management Report
Management is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that comply, in all material
respects, with the requirements of German commercial law and that the consolidated financial statements, in com-
pliance with German Legally Required Accounting Principles, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, finan-
cial position and financial performance of the Group. In addition, management is responsible for such internal
control as they, in accordance with German Legally Required Accounting Principles, have determined necessary to
enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due
to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to
continue as a going concern. They also have the responsibility for disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern. In addition, they are responsible for financial reporting based on the going concern basis of accounting,
provided no actual or legal circumstances conflict therewith.
Furthermore, management is responsible for the preparation of the group management report that, as a whole, pro-
vides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and is, in all material respects, consistent with the consolidated
financial statements, complies with German legal requirements, and appropriately presents the opportunities and
risks of future development. In addition, management is responsible for such arrangements and measures (sys-
tems) as they have considered necessary to enable the preparation of a group management report that is in accord-
ance with the applicable German legal requirements, and to be able to provide sufficient appropriate evidence for
the assertions in the group management report.79
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the
Group Management Report
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and whether the group management report as a
whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and, in all material respects, is consistent with the con-
solidated financial statements and the knowledge obtained in the audit, complies with the German legal require-
ments and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development, as well as to issue an auditor’s
report that includes our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
Section 317 HGB and in compliance with German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Audits
promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) will always detect a material misstatement. Misstatements
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial state-
ments and this group management report.
We exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements and of the group
management report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of
arrangements and measures (systems) relevant to the audit of the group management report in order to design
audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on
the effectiveness of these systems.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by management and the reasonableness of estimates
made by management and related disclosures.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty
exists, we are required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated
financial statements and in the group management report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our
respective opinions. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to be able to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements present the underlying transactions and events in
a manner that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial
position and financial performance of the Group in compliance with German Legally Required Accounting Principles.
OILOFTROP
TCUDORP80
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activ-
ities within the Group to express audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group man-
agement report. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain
solely responsible for our audit opinions.
• Evaluate the consistency of the group management report with the consolidated financial statements, its
conformity with [German] law, and the view of the Group’s position it provides.
• Perform audit procedures on the prospective information presented by management in the group management
report. On the basis of sufficient appropriate audit evidence we evaluate, in particular, the significant assump-
tions used by management as a basis for the prospective information, and evaluate the proper derivation of the
prospective information from these assumptions. We do not express a separate opinion on the prospective infor-
mation and on the assumptions used as a basis. There is a substantial unavoidable risk that future events will
differ materially from the prospective information.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we
identify during our audit.
Frankfurt am Main, 2 March 2021
KPMG AG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Original German version signed by
Kneisel Krauß
Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer
[German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor]OILOFTROP
TCUDORP
PAGES 82–111
P R O D U C T P O R T F O L I O
A S E L E C T I O N
Human Pharmaceuticals 82
Animal Health 9682
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
RESPIRATORY DISEASES
Respiratory diseases are very common. Chronic obstructive Bronchial asthma
pulmonary disease (COPD) and bronchial asthma are among Bronchial asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the
the most prevalent chronic diseases and a frequent cause of airways. The inflammation is accompanied by airway hyper­
morbidity and premature deaths worldwide. responsiveness, which leads to a narrowing of the airways and
recurrent episodes of wheezing, breathlessness and coughing.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a rare disease which is These symptoms occur particularly at night or in the early
severely debilitating and ultimately lethal. hours of the morning. It is now known that asthma can be trig­
gered by genetic and environmental factors (e.g. allergens and
COPD viral infections). Unlike COPD, asthma can occur very early in
COPD is a chronic disease of the lungs that causes coughing, childhood; it can also be present in adolescents or adults.
excessive mucus production and dyspnea and ultimately Asthma is often underestimated as an easy­to­manage condi­
destroys the lung tissue. The alveoli and thus gas exchange are tion. However, almost one in two patients with asthma still
the most affected. This leads to a limitation of airflow, causing experience symptoms while receiving maintenance therapy,
shortness of breath and other respiratory symptoms. The air­ putting them at increased risk of potentially life­threatening
flow limitation is only partially reversible and usually worsens asthma exacerbations. In addition, patients often adjust their
over time, leading to disability and ultimately to death. Symp­ daily lives to accommodate their conditions and avoid physical
toms such as excess cough and breathlessness are the main exertion in day­to­day activities, which has a negative impact
reasons why COPD is very stressful for patients. Lung emphy­ on quality of life.
sema and chronic bronchitis are the main manifestations of
COPD.
COPD is caused by continuous damage to the lungs resulting
from inhaling pollutants, primarily cigarette smoke. However,
other factors also need to be considered including indoor and
outdoor air pollution. The course of COPD, which is a disease
that occurs in the second half in a human’s life, is character­
ized by an accelerated loss of lung function compared to nor­
mal ageing and by occasional sudden worsening of symptoms
and function referred to as acute exacerbations. This can lead
to a downward spiral of worsening symptoms and thus further
inactivity.83
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Chronic obstructive spiriva® tiotropium bromide Maintenance treatment of patients with COPD
pulmonary disease (COPD) spiriva® handihaler® (including chronic bronchitis and emphysema),
spiriva® respimat® maintenance treatment of associated dyspnoea
and for prevention of exacerbations.
– Bronchial asthma spiriva® respimat® tiotropium bromide An add­on maintenance bronchodilator treat­
ment in patients aged six years and older with
severe asthma who experienced one or more
severe asthma exacerbations in the past year.*
* spiriva® respimat® is approved for use in asthma in
the EU, Japan, the USA and many other countries. The
label varies by country. Please refer to the local product
information.
– Chronic obstructive spiolto® respimat® tiotropium bromide, Maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction
pulmonary disease (COPD) stiolto® respimat® olodaterol hydrochloride in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary
inspiolto® respimat® disease (COPD).
– Chronic obstructive striverdi® respimat® olodaterol hydrochloride Maintenance treatment of patients with chronic
pulmonary disease (COPD) obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
– Reversible bronchospasms combivent® respimat® ipratropium bromide, A combination of a short­acting anticholinergic
associated with obstructive salbutamol, sulphate and beta­adrenergic for the management of
airway diseases reversible bronchospasms associated with
obstructive airway diseases in patients requir­
ing more than one bronchodilator.
– Chronic obstructive atrovent® ipratropium bromide Prevention and treatment of shortness of
pulmonary disease (COPD) breath in patients with chronic obstructive
– Chronic bronchitis pulmonary disease (COPD) and mild to moder­
– Bronchial asthma ate bronchial asthma in adulthood and child­
hood as a supplement to beta­agonists in cases
of acute asthma.
– Chronic obstructive airway berodual® ipratropium bromide, Prevention and treatment of symptoms in
disorders bronchodual® fenoterol hydrobromide chronic obstructive airway disorders with
duovent® reversible airflow limitation such as bronchial
asthma and especially chronic bronchitis with
or without emphysema.84
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
RESPIRATORY DISEASES (CONTINUED)
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) Other chronic fibrosing interstitial lung diseases
IPF is a chronic progressive lung disease associated with a (ILDs) with a progressive phenotype beyond
markedly reduced life span and affecting as many as 14 – 43 peo­ idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF)
ple per 100,000 worldwide. IPF is characterized by progressive Interstitial lung diseases are a heterogeneous group of more
scarring of lung tissue and a loss of lung function over time. than 200 mostly rare conditions of the lung that run the risk of
Development of scarred tissue is called fibrosis. Over time, as developing pulmonary fibrosis. Fibrosis is a pathological mul­
the tissue thickens and stiffens with scarring, the lungs lose tiplication of the connective tissue leading to usually chronic
their ability to take in and transfer oxygen into the blood­ and irreversible scarring of the lung tissue. The course of inter­
stream, and vital organs do not get enough oxygen. As a result, stitial lung disease may develop into a progressive fibrosing
individuals with IPF experience shortness of breath, even when ILD, leading to a decline function associated with increased
resting, and often have difficulty coping with the demands of morbidity and mortality. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is
everyday life due to their limited physical capacity. a phenotype of a chronic fibrosing ILD. The course of the dis­
ease and symptoms are similar to chronic PF­ILDs, despite the
Acute IPF exacerbations are defined as rapid deteriorations of underlying ILD diagnosis. On average, 18­32% of ILD patients
symptoms and lung function within days or weeks. These will develop progressive pulmonary fibrosis.
events can occur at any point in the course of the disease, even
at first presentation, and are associated with high mortality. All
patients with IPF are at risk of acute IPF exacerbations.
Systemic sclerosis associated interstitial lung
disease (SSc-ILD)
Systemic sclerosis (SSc), also known as scleroderma, is a rare
incurable autoimmune disease affecting connective tissue. The
disease is estimated to affect 15 to 24 people in every 100,000
in Europe and 2.5 million worldwide. SSc impacts four times as
many women as men, and the onset of the disease typically
occurs at a young age – between 25 and 55 years. It can cause
scarring (fibrosis) of the skin as well as major organs such as
the heart, lungs, digestive tract and kidneys and can have
life­threatening complications. Approximately 25% of patients
develop significant pulmonary involvement within three years
of diagnosis. When SSc affects the lungs, it can cause intersti­
tial lung disease (ILD), known as SSc­ILD. It is a key driver of
mortality among people with SSc, accounting for approxi­
mately one third of deaths.85
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Bronchial asthma berotec® fenoterol hydrobromide Symptomatic treatment of acute asthma
attacks.
Prophylaxis of exercise­induced asthma bron­
chiale.
Symptomatic treatment of allergic and non­
allergic asthma bronchiale and other conditions
with reversible airway narrowing, e.g. chronic
obstructive bronchitis.
– Bronchial asthma alesion® epinastine hydrochloride Prophylactic treatment of patients with bron­
– Allergic rhinitis flurinol® chial asthma. Prophylaxis and symptomatic
treatment of allergic rhinitis.
– Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ofev® nintedanib In more than 80 countries for the treatment of
(IPF) patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).
– Systemic sclerosis associated
In more than 50 countries as therapy for
interstitial lung disease
SSc­ILD to slow down the rate of decline in
(SSc­ILD)
pulmonary function.
– Chronic fibrosing interstitial
lung diseases (ILDs) with a In more than 40 countries for the treatment of
progressive phenotype other chronic fibrosing interstitial lung diseases
(ILDs) with a progressive phenotype beyond IPF.86
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
CARDIOVASCULAR AND METABOLIC DISEASES
Cardiovascular (CV) disease is the leading cause of death Prevention and treatment of venous
worldwide and is still increasing in prevalence. Currently, it is thromboembolism
responsible for nearly one in three deaths worldwide. One key Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is an umbrella term that
risk factor for developing cardiovascular disease is the pres­ encompasses deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary
ence of diabetes: people with type 2 diabetes are two to four embolism (PE). DVT occurs when a thrombus (blood clot) forms
times more likely to develop cardiovascular disease than peo­ in a deep vein, most commonly in the leg, and partially or com­
ple without diabetes, and as a result, their life expectancy is up pletely blocks the flow of blood. As the thrombus grows, a por­
to 12 years shorter. Proper control of diabetes and other treat­ tion may break away from the main clot and travel in the circu­
able risk factors is therefore vital for the prevention of cardio­ latory system to the lungs. The lodging of a blood clot in the
vascular events. arteries of the lung is called a PE. VTE is a serious disorder with
potentially fatal consequences.
Stroke
Stroke is the rapidly developing loss of brain functions caused Patients undergoing orthopedic surgery are at considerable
by a disrupted blood flow to the affected brain tissue. This can risk of developing DVT, and chronic venous insufficiency and/
be due to ischemia (lack of blood supply) caused by thrombo­ or pulmonary hypertension may develop in the longer term. To
sis or embolism, or due to bleeding (hemorrhagic stroke). As a prevent VTE events and their consequences after orthopedic
result, the affected area of the brain is unable to function and surgery, patients should receive some kind of thromboprophy­
the damage quickly becomes permanent, if untreated. A stroke laxis. Patients who have already suffered from VTE require anti­
is an acute event requiring emergency diagnosis and interven­ coagulant treatment for secondary prevention of a recurrent
tion. Worldwide, stroke is one of the leading causes of death thromboembolic event.
and long­term disability.
Reversing anticoagulation
Symptoms of a transient ischemic attack (TIA) are similar to Anticoagulation therapy offers important benefits for patients at
stroke, but last for only a few minutes or hours and do not risk of thromboembolic events. However, even though rare,
result in permanent neurological damage. As a TIA may pre­ there may be situations when rapid reversal of anticoagulation is
cede a stroke, emergency medical care and subsequent pre­ medically necessary, e.g. if a patient taking an anticoagulant is
ventive treatment may be necessary. involved in a severe car accident and needs emergency surgery.
Atrial fibrillation
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained heart
rhythm condition, affecting approximately 2% of the total pop­
ulation. One in four adults over 40 develops AF in their lifetime.
Patients with AF are at higher risk of developing blood clots in
their upper left heart chamber, which can cause a stroke if the
clot breaks loose and travels to the brain. AF leads to a five­fold
increase in the risk of stroke, resulting in up to three million
patients worldwide suffering AF­related strokes each year. For
patients with AF, the risk of stroke can be reduced by appropri­
ate anticoagulation therapy.87
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Stroke prevention in atrial pradaxa® dabigatran etexilate Prevention of strokes and blood clots in
fibrillation pradaxar® patients with atrial fibrillation.
– Primary prevention of venous prazaxa®
Primary prevention of venous thrombo­embolic
thromboembolic events after
events (VTE) in adults after elective total hip or
orthopedic surgery
knee replacement surgery.
– Treatment and secondary
prevention of venous Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and
thromboembolic events pulmonary embolism (PE), and secondary
prevention of recurrent DVT and PE in adults.
– Specific reversal of pradaxa® praxbind® idarucizumab praxbind® is a specific reversal agent for
(dabigatran etexilate) dabigatran and is indicated in adult patients
treated with pradaxa® (dabigatran etexilate)
when rapid reversal of its anticoagulant effects
is required: for emergency surgery/urgent
procedures; in life­threatening or uncontrolled
bleeding.
– Hypertension micardis® telmisartan Treatment of hypertension. For the reduction of
– Cardiovascular morbidity and the risk of myocardial infarction (heart attack),
mortality prevention stroke or death from cardiovascular (CV) causes
in patients 55 years of age or older at high risk
of developing major CV events who are unable
to take ACE inhibitors (US).
For the reduction of cardiovascular morbidity in
patients with manifest atherothrombotic car­
diovascular disease (history of coronary heart
disease, stroke or peripheral arterial disease), or
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus with
documented target organ damage (EU).
– Hypertension micardisplus® telmisartan; Treatment of hypertension alone or with other
micardis® plus hydrochlorothiazide antihypertensive agents, to lower blood pres­
micardis® hct sure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk
co-micardis® of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events,
primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions.
Not indicated for initial therapy (US).
Treatment of essential hypertension.
micardisplus® fixed dose combination is
indicated in adults whose blood pressure is
not adequately controlled on telmisartan
alone (EU).88
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
CARDIOVASCULAR AND METABOLIC DISEASES (CONTINUED)
Hypertension and cardiovascular diseases
Hypertension (high blood pressure) is a chronic disease in
which the blood pressure is chronically elevated. Hypertension
is also one of the major risk factors for stroke, heart attacks,
heart failure and chronic renal failure. The primary goal of anti­
hypertensive treatment is to prevent such cardiovascular
events and to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality.
Acute myocardial infarction
An acute myocardial infarction, or heart attack, occurs when a
thrombus (blood clot) suddenly prevents blood flow to an area
of the heart muscle. Unless the blood flow is restored quickly,
the affected section of heart muscle becomes permanently
damaged. Heart attacks are one of the most common causes of
death in industrialized countries.89
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Hypertension twynsta® telmisartan, amlodipine Treatment of hypertension alone or with other
micamlo® antihypertensive agents. As initial therapy in
micardis® amlo patients likely to need multiple antihypertensive
micardis® duo agents to achieve their blood pressure goals
(US).
Add­on therapy in adult patients with not ade­
quately controlled blood pressure on amlodip­
ine, and replacement therapy in adult patients
receiving telmisartan and amlodipine from
separate tablets (EU).
– Acute ischemic stroke actilyse® alteplase Fibrinolytic treatment of acute ischemic stroke,
– Acute myocardial infarction actilyse® cathflo® acute myocardial infarction, acute massive
– Acute massive pulmonary pulmonary embolism. Fibrinolytic treatment of
embolism occluded catheters.
– Catheter clearance due to
thrombotic occlusion
– Secondary prevention of aggrenox® dipyridamole, Prevention of stroke following an initial first
stroke or transient ischemic asasantin® acetylsalicylic acid stroke, or transient ischemic attacks (TIA).
attacks (TIA) asasantin® retard
– Acute myocardial infarction metalyse® tenecteplase Fibrinolytic treatment of acute myocardial
infarction.
– Hypertension catapresan® clonidine; Treatment of hypertension.
catapres® clonidine hydrochloride
catapressan®90
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
CARDIOVASCULAR AND METABOLIC DISEASES (CONTINUED)
Diabetes and the cardio-renal-metabolic system A collaborative multidisciplinary team approach to optimize
Type 2 diabetes is a chronic, progressive condition associated patient care by coordinating treatment of related comorbidi­
with elevated blood sugar levels. People with type 2 diabetes ties, including the use of emerging medications with broad
have a high burden of comorbidities and risk factors, which cardiovascular, renal, and metabolic effects, can help improve
include heart failure, kidney disease, hypertension, and obe­ outcomes for people with these serious chronic conditions.
sity. Cardio­renal­metabolic conditions affect more than one
billion people worldwide and are a leading cause of death.
Effective treatment of people with type 2 diabetes, in addition
to diet and exercise, demands an early and balanced multi­
disciplinary approach. The interconnected nature of the cardio­
renal­metabolic systems requires addressing blood sugar
control and cardiovascular risk factors in the short term and
reducing the overall risk of disease progression and associated
heart and kidney complications in the long term.91
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
Indications Brand Names** Active Ingredients
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus jardiance® empagliflozin Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes melli­
jardianz® tus as an adjunct to diet and exercise to
improve glycemic control and to reduce the risk
of cardiovascular death in adults with type 2
diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascu­
lar disease.*
* US indication, December 2016. The label varies by country.
Please refer to the local product information.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus synjardy® empagliflozin, Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes melli­
jardiance duo® metformin tus as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve
jardianz duo® hydrochloride glycemic control when treatment with both
synjardy® xr empagliflozin and metformin is appropriate.*
* US indication, December 2016. The label varies by country.
Please refer to the local product information.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus glyxambi® empagliflozin, linagliptin Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes melli­
tradiance® tus as an adjunct to diet and exercise to
jardianz dpp® improve glycemic control in adults with type 2
diabetes mellitus when both empagliflozin and
linagliptin are appropriate treatments.*
* US indication, March 2015. The label varies by country.
Please refer to the local product information.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus trajenta® linagliptin Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes
tradjenta® mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise to
trazenta® improve glycemic control, used in monotherapy
trayenta® (if metformin is not tolerated or contraindicated)
or in combination therapy.
– Type 2 diabetes mellitus jentadueto® linagliptin, metformin Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes
trayenta duo® hydrochloride mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise to
trajenta duo® improve glycemic control when treatment with
trajentamet® metformin does not lead to sufficient control
jentadueto® xr or when patients are treated with trajenta®
(linagliptin) and metformin.
** Diabetes portfolio in collaboration with Eli Lilly and Company.92
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
ONCOLOGY
Cancer is a threat to global health. In 2018, an estimated There are different subtypes such as small cell lung cancer
18 million new cases of cancer were diagnosed worldwide and (SCLC) and non­small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). More than ten
9.6 million people died from cancer, nearly one in six global different molecular genetic aberrations (mutations) present in
deaths (WHO World Cancer Factsheet 2018). The most com­ the tumor have been identified. By focusing on molecular
mon diagnosed cancer types were lung cancer (nearly 12%), changes that are specific to the respective subtype of lung
breast cancer (nearly 12%), colorectal cancer (10%), prostate cancer, targeted therapies have become more effective than
cancer (7%) and stomach cancer (6%). other treatments. They show a survival benefit and are at the
same time less harmful to normal cells, thereby reducing side
Lung cancer effects.
Lung cancer refers to malignant abnormal cell growth inside
the lung tissue. It is the most common cancer with an esti­
mated 2.1 million new cases per year worldwide (2018). Smok­
ing is the primary cause of the disease, contributing to almost
90% of the cases. Recently, however, the incidence of lung
cancer among non­smokers has increased. Lung cancer has a
poor prognosis, with 1.8 million deaths per year, representing
nearly 20% of all cancer deaths. Lung cancer symptoms are
unspecific so that the disease may take many years to appear.
Late diagnosis in an advanced stage of the disease results in
an often dismal prognosis, with only 10 – 15% of lung cancer
patients surviving five years or more following diagnosis.93
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Non­small cell lung cancer giotrif® afatinib First­line treatment of adult patients with locally
(NSCLC) gilotrif® advanced or metastatic non­small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC) whose tumors have activating
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)
mutations.
For the treatment of patients with locally
advanced or metastatic NSCLC of squamous
histology progressing on or after platinum­based
chemotherapy.
– Non­small cell lung cancer vargatef® nintedanib Combination therapy with docetaxel for
(NSCLC) the treatment of adult patients with locally
advanced, metastatic or locally recurrent
non­small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) of
adenocarcinoma tumor histology after
first­line chemotherapy.94
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
DISEASES OF THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM
Mental and neurological diseases such as depression and associated with PD, such as depression and sleep disorders.
Parkinson’s disease significantly impact patients and their The primary symptoms are the result of a lack of the neuro­
families and are also a substantial burden to society. transmitter dopamine in distinct areas of the human brain.
Parkinson’s disease Restless legs syndrome (RLS)
Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a degenerative disorder of the cen­ Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common neurological disor­
tral nervous system. Patients usually notice motor symptoms der characterized by an uncontrollable urge to move the legs,
like hand shaking (tremor) as their first sign of the disease, primarily occurring in the evening and night hours. It is usually
which may progress to include shaking of the arms, legs or accompanied by unpleasant and sometimes painful sensa­
head. Other motor symptoms that may develop over time tions in the legs as well as disturbed sleep resulting in daytime
include stiffness that often results in loss of facial expression tiredness or sleepiness. The sensations are felt deep within the
and a gradual slowing or loss of motion, or “freezing”. About legs and are described as creeping, crawling or aching.
30 – 40% of patients also suffer from non­motor symptoms
INFECTIOUS DISEASES
HIV infection/AIDS
Acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a set of symp­
toms and infections resulting from the damage to the human
immune system caused by the human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV). If untreated, infection with HIV progressively reduces the
effectiveness of the immune system and leaves individuals sus­
ceptible to opportunistic infections and tumors. Babies of
infected mothers are at risk of getting the virus during preg­
nancy, childbirth or breastfeeding.95
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
HUMAN PHARMACEUTICALS
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Parkinson’s disease (PD) sifrol® pramipexole Symptomatic treatment of idiopathic
– Restless legs syndrome (RLS) mirapex® pramipexole dihydrochloride Parkinson’s disease. It may be used as mono­
mirapexin® monohydrate therapy or in combination with levodopa.
pexola® Symptomatic treatment of idiopathic moderate
mirapex® er to severe restless legs syndrome.
sifrol® er
– Sleep disorders lendormin® brotizolam Short­term treatment of disorders of initiating
and maintaining sleep.
Insomnia requiring pharmacological inter­
vention.
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– HIV/AIDS viramune® nevirapine For the combination therapy of HIV­1 infection
viramune xr® and (in several countries) for the prevention of
mother­to­child transmission of HIV­1 in preg­
nant women who are not taking antiretroviral
therapy at time of labor.
Prolonged release tablets for once­daily dosing
within combination therapy.
– HIV/AIDS aptivus® tipranavir Indicated for combination antiretroviral treat­
elodius® ment of HIV­1­infected patients, co­adminis­
tered with 200 mg of ritonavir, who are treat­
ment­experienced and infected with HIV­1
strains resistant to more than one protease
inhibitor.96
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
LIVESTOCK – SWINE
Infectious respiratory diseases Integrated Health Management (IHM)
ingelvac circoflex® is the first single-dose piglet vaccine for With farmera® and soundtalks™ we will empower pig pro-
the control of porcine circovirus disease (PCVD). ingelvac ducers, breeders, retailers, and consumers to improve health,
circoflex® contains impranflex® adjuvant which allows for animal welfare, and efficiency by giving insights, predictions,
fresh mixing with ingelvac mycoflex® to form flexcombo® and recommendations through our IHM solutions.
with the TwistPak system. Our ingelvac® prrs products are
licensed for active immunization against the respiratory and
reproductive form of porcine reproductive and respiratory syn-
drome (PRRS).
ingelvac provenza® protects against multiple IAV-S strains,
providing protection where pigs are most vulnerable.
Infectious enteric diseases
enterisol® ileitis is the first and only oral live vaccine against
ileitis, globally the most prevalent enteric disease in swine
caused by Lawsonia intracellularis. It is licensed to improve
weight gain and to reduce growth variability associated with
the disease. enterisol® ileitis helps to reduce the total anti-
microbial use in pork production.97
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
ANIMAL HEALTH
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac circoflex® recombinant vaccine For the active immunization of pigs over the
diseases (porcine circovirus age of two weeks against porcine circovirus
type 2, PCV2 ) type 2 to reduce mortality, clinical signs –
including weight loss – and lesions in lym-
phoid tissues associated with porcine circovirus
diseases (PCVD). In addition, vaccination has
been shown to reduce PCV 2 nasal shedding,
viral load in blood and lymphoid tissues, and
duration of viremia.
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac® prrs mlv attenuated live vaccine Depending on the product, for the active
diseases ingelvac prrsflex® eu (PRRS virus type 2, type 1 ) immunization of pigs at various ages against
reprocyc® prrs eu porcine reproductive and respiratory
syndrome virus (PRRS).
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac mycoflex® inactivated vaccine For the active immunization of pigs from
diseases (Mycoplasma the age of three weeks to reduce lung lesions
hyopneumoniae) following infections with Mycoplasma
hyopneumoniae.
– Infectious respiratory ingelvac provenza® attenuated live influenza vaccine For the vaccination of pigs one day of age or
diseases (LAIV) older against influenza virus strains H1N2 and
H3N2.
– Infectious enteric disease enterisol® ileitis attenuated live vaccine For the active immunization of pigs from the
(Lawsonia intracellularis) age of three weeks against intestinal lesions
caused by Lawsonia intracellularis infection
and to reduce growth variability and loss of
weight gain associated with the disease.
– Respiratory diseases soundtalks™* sound monitors, gateways and soundtalks™ is sound monitoring technology
algorithms that detects early symptoms of respiratory dis-
tress in swine thanks to its 24/7 monitoring and
algorithms.
– Data capture forms and tools farmera® mobile app. Digital data management farmera™ allows being more efficient, effec-
and communication platform for swine tive, and proactive by enabling evidence-based
production decision making with real-time information
when managing health and production in
production companies.
* soundtalks™ is a trademark of SoundTalks, N.V.98
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
LIVESTOCK – CATTLE/RUMINANTS
Our cattle/ruminants business is a global leader in antiparasitic
brands such as ivomec®, longrange® and eprinex®. These
world renowned parasiticides treat and protect grazing animals
from the harmful effects of internal and external parasites.
zactran® treats cattle with bacterial pneumonia and sheep with
digital dermatitis infections.
bovela® is for active immunization of cattle of three months of
age in terms of reproductive infectious diseases.99
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
ANIMAL HEALTH
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Internal and external ivomec® ivermectin Depending on formulation, the product is for
parasites of cattle the treatment of nematodes, lice, mites, ticks,
flies, lungworms and liver flukes.
– Internal and external longrange® eprinomectin, long-acting The Theraphase® technology used to develop
parasites of cattle this formulation of eprinomectin allows a
single treatment to last up to 100-150 days —
long enough to break the parasite life cycle
and effectively reduce parasite burdens on the
pasture. longrange® is effective in the con-
trol of most internal and external parasites of
cattle: gastrointestinal roundworms, lung-
worms, grubs, mites.
– Internal and external eprinex® eprinomectin Depending on formulation, the product is for
parasites of ruminants the treatment of nematodes, lice, mites, ticks,
flies and lungworms in cattle and sheep.
– Bacterial causes of zactran® gamithromycin Depending on species indication (and country
respiratory disease and of registration), the product is for the treat-
interdigital dermatitis ment and metaphylaxis control of respiratory
(footrot) disease in cattle caused by key bacteria
(Mannheimia, Pasteurella, Histophilus and
Mycoplasma) and footrot disease in sheep
caused by key bacteria (Fusobacterium and
Dichelobacter).
– Reproductive infectious bovela® bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) Reduces hyperthermia and minimizes the
diseases in cattle types 1 and 2 reduction of leukocyte count caused by bovine
viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV-1 and BVDV-2);
reduces virus shedding and viremia caused by
BVDV-2 and prevents the birth of persistently
infected calves caused by transplacental infec-
tion.100
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
LIVESTOCK – CATTLE/RUMINANTS (CONTINUED)
Our vaccine pyramid®/presponse® is part of our expanding
portfolio of respiratory and reproductive vaccines to prevent dis-
eases that affect livestock.
metacam® is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID),
helping to minimize losses from inflammation and tissue dam-
age in animals suffering from disease, hence addressing the
need for maintained profitability and the concern for farm ani-
mal well-being.101
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
ANIMAL HEALTH
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Infectious respiratory pyramid® family of multivalent vaccine combina- The pyramid®/presponse® family of vaccines
diseases and reproductive presponse® tions including different modified live provides broad coverage for BVD types 1 and
disorders in cattle viruses: bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) 2, IBR, BRSV, PI3 and Mannheimia haemolyt-
types 1 and 2, infectious bovine rhino- ica with only a single dose. They contain the
tracheitis (IBR), parainfluenza 3 (PI3) MetaStim®* adjuvant system to enhance the
and bovine respiratory syncytial virus animal’s response for greater protection (US
(BRSV), and bacteria: Pasteurella and Canada only).
multocida, Mannheimia haemolytica,
* MetaStim® is a registered trademark of Zoetis Services LLC
L. canicola, L. grippotyphosa,
L. hardjo, L. icterohaemmorrhagiae
and L. pomona
– Pain and inflammatory metacam® meloxicam For the treatment of mastitis in lactating cows
disorders and for the control of pain associated with
dehorning or surgery. It is also indicated for use
in calves affected by diarrhoea and in cattle
suffering from respiratory disease.102
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
LIVESTOCK – POULTRY
Our poultry vaccine portfolio consists of a significant range of
live and inactivated vaccines for broilers, layers and breeder
hens, providing protection against the most critical viral and
bacterial diseases like avian influenza, infectious bronchitis,
Newcastle disease, infectious bursal disease, egg drop syn-
drome and avian coryza. This portfolio of preventive products
helps producers worldwide to provide safe, affordable, abun-
dant and sustainable high-quality poultry meat and eggs.103
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
ANIMAL HEALTH
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Various viral and bacterial gallimune® polyvalent attenuated live and inacti- For vaccination of healthy chickens against
diseases in poultry gallivac® vated vaccine containing antigens for diseases caused by the included antigens. For
volvac® vaccination against avian influenza, the prevention of the most common diseases
Newcastle disease, avian coryza, in broiler chickens and diseases responsible
egg drop syndrome, for losses in egg production in layers.
infectious bronchitis,
infectious bursal disease,
gallibacterium anatis
– Infectious bursal disease vaxxitek® hvt + ibd serotype 3, live Marek’s disease vector, The vaccination of 18- to 19-day-old embryos
(IBD), Marek’s disease (MD) vaxxitek® hvt + ibd + nd live vHVT013-69 recombinant virus or one-day-old chickens is effective against
and Newcastle disease (ND), vaxxitek® hvt + ibd + ilt which contains a gene of IBD virus standard and variant infectious bursal dis-
or infectious laryngotracheitis and, for the trivalent vaccines, a gene ease, Marek’s disease and for the trivalent
(ILT) of IBD virus and of ND or ILT viruses vaccines against Newcastle disease or infec-
(and diluent) tious laryngotracheitis.
– Newcastle disease (ND) avinew® live Newcastle disease virus, In broiler chickens from one day of age: active
VG/GA-AVINEW strain immunization against Newcastle disease to
reduce mortality and clinical signs associated
with the disease.
In future layer and future breeder pullets from
the age of four weeks: priming for active immu-
nization against egg drop caused by Newcastle
disease before vaccination with an inactivated
vaccine (strain Ulster 2C) prior to the beginning
of lay.
– Marek’s disease prevexxion® rn live herpes virus chimera, The vaccination of 18- to 19-day-old embryos
prevexxion® rn+hvt serotype 1, strain RN1250 and/or one-day-old chickens is recommended
prevexxion® (and diluent) to protect against the very virulent Marek’s
rn+hvt+ibd disease.
prevexxion® rn &
vaxxitek® hvt+ibd
– Newcastle and Marek’s newxxitek™ hvt + nd live Marek’s disease vectored The vaccination of 18- to 19-day-old embryos
diseases virus, serotype 3, that contains or one-day-old chickens is effective against
a gene insert from Newcastle Marek’s disease and Newcastle disease.
disease (and diluent)104
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
VETERINARY PUBLIC HEALTH (VPH)
We work with governments and private partners toward btvpur alsap® is a multi-strain vaccine used for active immu-
improving control and eradicating diseases such as foot-and- nization of sheep and cattle to prevent viremia and to reduce
mouth disease, bluetongue virus and rabies. clinical signs caused by bluetongue virus.
Our foot-and-mouth (FMD) vaccines portfolio including
aftopor®, aftovaxpur® and aftovax® provides active immu-
nization of cattle, sheep or pigs to reduce clinical signs and
mortality following exposure to FMD virus.
rabisin® is an inactivated vaccine against rabies, available as a
clear colorless suspension for injection. raboral v-rg® is an
oral recombinant vaccine that protects wildlife against rabies.105
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
ANIMAL HEALTH
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Foot-and-mouth disease aftopor® mix of inactivated FMD virus antigens aftopor® and aftovaxpur® are highly potent
(FMD) aftovaxpur® with the widest range of vaccine strains vaccines with purified antigens, recommended
aftovax® in endemic or emergency situations. Both
aftovaxpur® doe have potential marker properties that allow
differentiation between infected and vacci-
nated animals (DIVA).
aftovax® is a low-cost and effective vaccine
profile for cattle and sheep, suitable for mass
vaccination in endemic situations.
aftovaxpur® doe is suitable for emergency
situations only.
– Rabies rabisin® Rabisin: inactivated and adjuvanted rabisin® is used for the active immunization of
raboral v-rg® rabies virus; dogs and cats to reduce mortality and clinical
Raboral V-RG: vaccinia-vectored rabies signs due to rabies infection. Immunity has
vaccine been demonstrated one month after vaccina-
tion and has been shown to persist up to the
first booster dose, (1 year after primary vacci-
nation) and up to 3 years following booster
vaccination.
raboral v-rg® is an oral rabies recombinant
vaccine that protects wildlife (raccoons, foxes
and coyotes) against rabies, thereby reducing
the risk of exposure to rabies for humans and
domestic animals. It is only sold to government
agencies conducting rabies control programs.
– Bluetongue btvpur alsap® mix of inactivated bluetongue virus Active immunization of sheep to prevent
viremia and to reduce clinical signs caused by
bluetongue virus serotypes 1, 2, 4 and/or 8
(combination of maximum 2 serotypes).
Active immunization of cattle to prevent
viremia caused by bluetongue virus serotypes
1, 2, 4 and/or 8, and to reduce clinical signs
caused by bluetongue virus serotypes 1, 4 and/
or 8 (combination of maximum 2 serotypes).
Onset of immunity has been demonstrated
three weeks (or five weeks in sheep for BTV-2)
after the primary vaccination course for BTV-1,
BTV-2 (cattle), BTV-4 and BTV-8 serotypes.106
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
COMPANION ANIMALS – HORSE
Our equine portfolio is highly comprehensive, covering the key eqvalan®/zimecterin® contains ivermectin, a leading ingredi-
aspects of equine health, including parasite control, vaccina- ent that controls a wide variety of important internal parasites,
tion, and the management of chronic diseases. We have a range including bots and benzimidazole-resistant small strongyles, in
of flagship products for the treatment of colic, joint disease, and an easy-to-administer oral paste. eqvalan®/zimecterin® is
respiratory disease, the latter two categories being recently approved for adult horses and foals as young as six weeks of age.
enhanced with the addition of new innovative products. We
also have a line of nutraceuticals which can be bought without eqvalan® duo/gold, zimecterin® gold combines ivermectin
prescription. with praziquantel, an ingredient that specifically controls tape-
worms.
prascend® is indicated for the treatment of pituitary pars inter-
media dysfunction (PPID), which is also known as equine Cush- arti-cell® forte is the world’s first licensed veterinary stem cell
ing’s disease. Clinical signs of PPID are hypertrichiosis, lamini- product which is a ready-to-use intra-articular injection of
tis, change in body conformation and lack of performance. chondrogenic induced mesenchymal cells for the treatment of
Treatment with prascend® is life-long. lameness linked to non-infective joint inflammation in horses.
arti-cell® forte is one of the latest additions to the equine
vetera® vaccines are the first US vaccine portfolio to include portfolio and is available in a range of countries within the EU
multiple convenient combinations of disease protection for as of 2019. Further approvals are expected in due course.
horses from as young as four months of age. The vaccines pro-
tect against as many as nine infectious organisms including aservo® equihaler® is the first inhalation product for the
influenza, herpes, the West Nile virus, tetanus and others. This treatment of severe equine asthma. This product is a novel glu-
enables customized protection for each horse with limited nee- cocorticoid pro-drug (ciclesonide inhalation solution) deliv-
dle injections. ered in an inhaler specifically designed for use in horses, and
implementing the Soft Mist™ technology derived from the
gastrogard®/ulcergard® is indicated for the treatment and respimat® inhalers in human pharma. This exciting new intro-
prevention of equine gastric ulcers, which is one of the most duction gained final authorization and product availability in
common diseases in horses. gastrogard® is supplied in an the EU, US and Canada in 2020; further approvals in other
easy-to-use oral paste form and has been the first choice for countries are expected in due course.
treatment of gastric ulcers since its launch in 1999. ulcergard®
in the USA is the preventive of choice for horses with an
increased risk of developing gastric ulcers.107
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
ANIMAL HEALTH
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Pituitary pars intermedia prascend® pergolide mesylate Symptomatic treatment of clinical signs
dysfunction (PPID) associated with pituitary pars intermedia
dysfunction (PPID, also known as equine
Cushing’s disease).
– Combination vaccine against vetera® Eastern, Western and Venezuelan For vaccination of healthy horses as an aid
up to nine common diseases encephalomyelitis, tetanus, West Nile in the prevention of diseases caused by the
in horses virus, equine herpes virus, equine included antigens (US and Canada only).
influenza viruses
– Equine gastric ulcers gastrogard® omeprazole For treatment and prevention of gastric ulcers
ulcergard® and prevention of recurrence of gastric ulcers
in horses and foals four weeks of age and
older.
– Internal parasites eqvalan® ivermectin For treatment and prevention of parasitic
zimecterin® ivermectin, praziquantel infestations in horses and donkeys due to
eqvalan® gold large and small strongyles, ascarids.
eqvalan® duo
gold/duo includes treatment against tape-
zimecterin® gold
worms.
– R eduction of mild to moder- arti-cell® forte chondrogenic induced equine For treatment of mild to moderate lameness
ate recurrent lameness asso- allogeneic peripheral blood-derived linked to non-infective joint inflammation in
ciated with non-septic joint mesenchymal stem cells horses. It contains stem cells which are
inflammation in horses obtained from equine blood. Stem cells can
develop into other types of cells. The stem
cells in the active substance (mesenchymal
stem cells) are treated so that they develop
into cartilage cells.
– Severe equine asthma aservo® equihaler® ciclesonide inhalation solution For the alleviation of clinical symptoms
of severe equine asthma characterized by
coughing, nasal discharge, nasal flaring,
increased breathing effort at rest, or abnormal
lung sounds.108
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
COMPANION ANIMALS – PETS
Our pet portfolio offers diverse solutions for some of the most heartgard® plus contains the active ingredients ivermectin
important needs of canine and feline health including indus- and pyrantel in a soft beef chew. When given monthly, iver-
try-leading parasiticides, vaccines, and therapeutics to address mectin is effective in preventing deadly heartworm disease.
major chronic diseases: heart failure, kidney diseases, hyper- Pyrantel is effective in the treatment and control of round
tension, epilepsy, diabetes mellitus, and osteoarthritis. worms as well as hookworms. heartgard® was launched in
1987 as the first monthly heartworm preventative and is still
For 25 years, frontline® has been a leader in flea and tick con- the best-selling heartworm preventative in the world.4
trol on dogs and cats, and is one of the most trusted brands in
animal health.1 frontline® continues to bring innovation to broadline® offers cat owners all-in-one convenience provid-
the category, with the recent launch of frontline tri-act®, ing confidence that their cat has the broadest possible protec-
which features repellency and insecticidal efficacy on many tion. It protects cats against the broadest spectrum of internal
disease-carrying flying insects and which decreases the risk of and external parasites, including adult fleas, flea eggs, flea
transmission of vector-borne pathogen.2 larvae, ticks, heartworms, hookworms, roundworms, vesical
worms and tapeworms.
nexgard® contains the active ingredient afoxolaner and was
the first oral medication to treat both fleas and ticks in dogs. vetmedin® is an inodilator which has become the standard of
Because of its efficacy and palatable, beef-flavored soft chew care when treating dogs with congestive heart failure caused by
formulation, nexgard® is currently the best-selling pet medi- dilated cardiomyopathy or valvular insufficiency (mitral and/or
cation in the animal health industry.3 tricuspid regurgitation). It significantly improves clinical signs
and extends life expectancy in these patients. Recent studies
nexgard spectra® combines the flea and tick efficacy of afox- have also shown that when used in asymptomatic cases of
olaner in nexgard® with a broad-spectrum deworming ingre- either dilated cardiomyopathy in Doberman pinschers or val-
dient, milbemycin oxime, in the same beef-flavored chew. vular insufficiency vetmedin® significantly delays the onset of
nexgard spectra® is not only effective in treating flea, tick and clinical signs of congestive heart failure, a first in veterinary
mite infestations, as well as gastrointestinal parasites infections, cardiology.
it also protects dogs against deadly parasites such as heart-
worm and lungworm.
1) Data on file.
2) Babesia canis transmitted by Dermacentor reticulatus ticks, Ehrlichia canis
transmitted by Rhipicephalus sanguineus ticks, and Leishmania infantum,
transmitted by phlebotmine sandflies.
3) Data on file.
4) Data on file.109
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
ANIMAL HEALTH
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Antiparasitic: canine/feline frontline® fipronil frontline plus®/frontline combo® was
external parasites frontline combo® fipronil/s-methoprene launched as an innovative combination to
frontline plus® fipronil/permethrin continue the frontline® story. It is indicated
frontline tri-act® for the treatment and prevention of flea, tick,
frontect® and lice infestations. It also breaks the flea life
cycle by preventing the development of flea
immature stages.
frontline tri-act®/frontect® is indicated
for the treatment and prevention of flea and
tick infestations in dogs. It also provides repel-
lent activity against mosquitoes, sandflies, and
ticks, reducing the risk of transmission of
vector-borne pathogens.
– Antiparasitic: canine nexgard® afoxolaner nexgard® is delivered in a highly palatable
external parasites beef-flavored chew. It is indicated for the
treatment and prevention of flea and tick
infestations in dogs. It is also indicated for the
prevention of Borrelia burgdorferi infections
(USA), and the treatment of Demodex,
Sarcoptes, and Otodectes mite infestations
in non-US geographies.
– Antiparasitic: canine nexgard spectra® afoxolaner, nexgard spectra® is delivered in a highly
internal and external milbemycin oxime palatable beef-flavored chew. It is indicated for
parasites the treatment and/or prevention of flea, tick,
and mite infestations. It also prevents heart-
worm disease, angiostrongylosis, and thelazio-
sis. It treats hookworm, roundworm, and whip-
worm infestations in dogs.
– Antiparasitic: canine heartgard® plus ivermectin, For use in dogs to prevent canine heartworm
internal parasites pyrantel disease by eliminating the tissue stage of
heartworm larvae for a month (30 days) after
infection, and for the treatment and control of
roundworms and hookworms.
– Antiparasitic: feline broadline® fipronil, (s)-methoprene, Protects cats against the broadest spectrum of
internal and external eprinomectin, internal and external parasites including adult
parasites praziquantel fleas, flea eggs, flea larvae, ticks, heartworms,
lungworms, hookworms, roundworms, vesical
worms, and tapeworms.
– Congestive heart failure vetmedin® pimobendan Treatment of canine congestive heart failure
originating from dilated cardiomyopathy or
valvular insufficiency (mitral and/or tricuspid
regurgitation).
Treatment of dilated cardiomyopathy in the
preclinical stage (asymptomatic with an
increase in left ventricular end-systolic and
end-diastolic diameter) in Doberman Pin-
schers.
Treatment of dogs with myxomatous mitral
valve disease (MMVD) in the preclinical stage
(asymptomatic with a systolic mitral murmur
and evidence of increased heart size) to delay
the onset of clinical symptoms of heart failure.110
Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
COMPANION ANIMALS – PETS (CONTINUED)
Boehringer Ingelheim has the most complete, trusted, and semintra® is the first-ever licensed angiotensin receptor
proven range of products and services in pain management. blocker for veterinary use. Specifically designed for cats,
Choosing this portfolio gives veterinarians the freedom to semintra® is the scientifically advanced treatment in one sim-
tailor treatment to each patient and provides access to value- ple solution that safely and effectively harnesses the protective
added veterinary services. benefits of the cat’s renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system to
protect kidneys and other key organs. semintra® is available as
metacam® offers an extensive range of formulations and indi- 4mg/ml and 10mg/ml oral solution. semintra® (4mg/ml) was
cations, making it the complete non-steoridal anti-inflamma- first launched in 2013 for the reduction of proteinuria associ-
tory drug (NSAID) for dogs, cats, and guinea pigs. It enables ated with chronic kidney disease in cats. In 2018, semintra®
veterinarians to better achieve their goals in pain management (10mg/ml) was launched for the control (US)/treatment (EU) of
and gives each owner and pet exactly the product they need. feline systemic hypertension. It is the first vet-licensed product
Ample long-term studies support the product’s safety and effi- for feline hypertension in the US.
cacy and have led to multiple indications across diverse species.
Since its launch in 2009 prozinc® has become the proven
The liquid formulation of metacam® for dogs makes it easy to insulin choice for feline patients and their owners for conve-
titrate to the lowest effective dose while the liquid formulation nient management of feline diabetes. With the approval of
for cats is easy to administer. An improved dog administration prozinc® for canine patients, we have the opportunity to
syringe aimed to achieve better accuracy was introduced in 2020. become the first-choice solution for successful management
of diabetes in both dogs and cats. Large clinical studies in Europe,
previcox® was designed specifically for dogs and is the most the US, and Japan have confirmed that the majority of dogs can
selective veterinary COX-2 inhibitor. previcox® provides safe, be managed with one injection of prozinc® insulin per day –
sustained pain relief with a fast onset of action. Long-term a major breakthrough for dogs, owners, and veterinarians.
safety and efficacy have been established in large field studies
and previcox® has been shown to be more efficacious than Our pet vaccine product portfolio includes the purevax® feline
competition in acute models of osteoarthritis. vaccines formulated to provide effective protection without
the use of adjuvants, recombitek®, providing targeted protection
for dogs through recombinant technology, and decades of proven
efficacy and safety against rabies with rabisin® and imrab®.111
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
ANIMAL HEALTH
Indications Brand Names Active Ingredients
– Pain and inflammatory metacam® meloxicam metacam® is used to reduce specific types of
diseases post-operative pain and inflammation as well
as musculoskeletal disorders in dogs and cats.
– Pain and inflammatory previcox® firocoxib For the relief of pain and inflammation
diseases associated with osteoarthritis as well as
specific types of post-operative pain in dogs.
– Chronic kidney disease semintra® telmisartan Management of chronic kidney disease (CKD)
(CKD) in cats and feline systemic hypertension (US and EU)
in cats.
– Hypertension in cats
– Diabetes prozinc® protamine zinc For the treatment of diabetes mellitus in cats
and dogs to achieve reduction of hyperglycemia
and improvement of associated clinical signs.
– Feline vaccines portfolio purevax® feline herpes virus purevax® is the only fully adjuvant-free feline
feline calicivirus vaccine range and leverages its innovative
feline panleukopenia virus canarypox technology for FeLV and rabies. It
chlamydia felis also offers sustained protection on rabies for
recombinant vectored feline up to three years.
leukemia virus
recombinant vectored rabies virus
– Canine vaccines portfolio recombitek®* recombinant vectored canine recombitek® features a complete line of
distemper virus, canine vaccines including:
canine parvovirus,
recombitek® lyme: The only vaccine that
canine adenovirus type 2,
contains OspA in a non-adjuvant formulation.
canine parainfluenza virus,
canine coronavirus, recombitek® oral bordatella: Effective and
leptospira Canicola, safe protection made easy.
leptospira grippotyphosa,
leptospira icterohaemorrhagiae,
leptospira Pomona,
recombinant borrelia burgdorferi,
bordetella bronchiseptica
– Rabies vaccines portfolio rabisin® inactivated and adjuvanted Sustained rabies protection up to 3 years
imrab® rabies glycoproteins after first year booster. Consistently high
seroconversion rate.
* In the US and others.Boehringer Ingelheim Annual Report 2020
C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim am Rhein
COMPARISON OF BALANCE SHEET AND FINANCIAL DATA 2011 ― 2020
(in million EUR)
Assets (as of December 31) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Intangible assets 710 682 582 592 606 550 5,372 5,120 4,882 4,295
Tangible assets 3,442 3,103 2,887 3,070 3,264 3,045 3,867 4,280 4,754 5,050
Financial assets 3,953 4,222 4,737 5,312 5,933 6,092 5,830 6,058 9,162 8,553
Fixed assets 8,105 8,007 8,206 8,974 9,803 9,687 15,069 15,458 18,798 17,898
Inventories 1,998 2,095 2,083 2,237 2,483 2,610 3,087 3,312 3,563 3,863
Accounts receivable and other assets (incl. prepaid expenses,
deferred taxes and exceeding amount of plan assets) 4,652 4,814 5,131 5,546 6,463 6,837 7,159 7,815 8,924 9,021
Liquid funds 3,903 2,374 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005 3,071 4,303 2,195 6,105
Current and other assets 10,553 9,283 10,093 11,077 13,482 16,452 13,317 15,430 14,682 18,989
Total assets 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 33,480 36,887
Equity and Liabilities (as of December 31) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Shareholders’ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178
Group reserves (incl. balance sheet currency conversion difference) 5,812 4,763 5,619 6,884 7,844 9,296 10,703 10,080 11,781 14,066
Group profit 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,047 1,577 1,853 — 223 2,075 2,721 3,062
Equity attributable to the parent company 7,466 6,178 7,121 8,109 9,599 11,327 10,658 12,333 14,680 17,306
Non-controlling interests 0 0 1 2 4 0 — 1 1 1 1
Group equity 7,466 6,178 7,122 8,111 9,603 11,327 10,657 12,334 14,681 17,307
Difference from capital consolidation 157 134 104 91 71 52 1,729 1,511 1,471 1,283
Provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 7,402 7,749 7,817 8,840 10,543 12,233 13,482 14,438 15,172 16,000
Liabilities (incl. deferred income) 3,633 3,229 3,256 3,009 3,068 2,527 2,518 2,605 2,156 2,297
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred income) 11,035 10,978 11,073 11,849 13,611 14,760 16,000 17,043 17,328 18,297
Total equity and liabilities 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 33,480 36,887
Summary of selected financial data 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Net sales 13,171 14,691 14,065 13,317 14,798 15,850 18,056 17,498 18,997 19,566
Operating income 2,272 1,853 2,114 2,140 2,269 2,872 3,487 3,472 3,782 4,624
Operating income as % of net sales 17.3 12.6 15.0 16.1 15.3 18.1 19.3 19.8 19.9 23.6
Income after taxes 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,046 1,576 1,849 — 229 2,075 2,721 3,062
Income after taxes as % of net sales 11.2 8.4 9.4 7.9 10.7 11.7 — 1.3 11.9 14.3 15.6
Equity ratio (in %) 40.0 35.7 38.9 40.4 41.2 43.3 37.5 39.9 43.8 46.9
Cash flow from operating activities 2,570 2,170 1,819 2,015 2,232 2,888 2,624 2,988 3,344 3,963
Financial funds 3,903 2,374 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005 3,071 4,303 2,195 6,105
Personnel expenses 3,664 4,024 4,071 4,116 4,518 4,570 4,934 5,276 5,367 5,587
Personnel expenses as % of net sales 27.8 27.4 28.9 30.9 30.5 28.8 27.3 30.2 28.3 28.6
Average number of employees 44,094 46,228 47,492 47,743 47,501 45,692 49,610 50,333 51,015 51,944
Research and development expenses 2,516 2,795 2,743 2,654 3,004 3,112 3,078 3,164 3,462 3,696
R&D as % of net sales 19.1 19.0 19.5 19.9 20.3 19.6 17.0 18.1 18.2 18.9
Investments in tangible assets 458 562 558 548 591 645 872 950 1,073 1,046
Depreciation of tangible assets 535 793 640 449 475 516 521 552 585 602i m p r i n t
C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG
Assets (as of December 31) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Binger Straße 173
Intangible assets 710 682 582 592 606 550 5,372 5,120 4,882 4,295 55216 Ingelheim am Rhein
Germany
Tangible assets 3,442 3,103 2,887 3,070 3,264 3,045 3,867 4,280 4,754 5,050
Telephone + 49 6132 77-0
Financial assets 3,953 4,222 4,737 5,312 5,933 6,092 5,830 6,058 9,162 8,553 Fax + 49 6132 72-0
Fixed assets 8,105 8,007 8,206 8,974 9,803 9,687 15,069 15,458 18,798 17,898
CONTACT
Inventories 1,998 2,095 2,083 2,237 2,483 2,610 3,087 3,312 3,563 3,863
Corporate Division Communications and Public Affairs
Accounts receivable and other assets (incl. prepaid expenses, Matthias Reinig
deferred taxes and exceeding amount of plan assets) 4,652 4,814 5,131 5,546 6,463 6,837 7,159 7,815 8,924 9,021 E-mail press@boehringer-ingelheim.com
Liquid funds 3,903 2,374 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005 3,071 4,303 2,195 6,105 Internet www.boehringer-ingelheim.com
Current and other assets 10,553 9,283 10,093 11,077 13,482 16,452 13,317 15,430 14,682 18,989
ISSUED BY
Total assets 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 33,480 36,887 C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG
represented by the Board of Managing Directors:
Hubertus von Baumbach (Chair),
Equity and Liabilities (as of December 31) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Carinne Brouillon, Dr. Michel Pairet,
Shareholders’ capital 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 178 Jean Scheftsik de Szolnok, Michael Schmelmer
Group reserves (incl. balance sheet currency conversion difference) 5,812 4,763 5,619 6,884 7,844 9,296 10,703 10,080 11,781 14,066
CONCEPT, DESIGN AND LAYOUT
Group profit 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,047 1,577 1,853 — 223 2,075 2,721 3,062
MPM Corporate Communication Solutions, Mainz
Equity attributable to the parent company 7,466 6,178 7,121 8,109 9,599 11,327 10,658 12,333 14,680 17,306 www.mpm.de
Non-controlling interests 0 0 1 2 4 0 — 1 1 1 1
PHOTOS
Group equity 7,466 6,178 7,122 8,111 9,603 11,327 10,657 12,334 14,681 17,307
Andreas Reeg (page 2, 4, 5)
Difference from capital consolidation 157 134 104 91 71 52 1,729 1,511 1,471 1,283
Provisions (incl. deferred taxes) 7,402 7,749 7,817 8,840 10,543 12,233 13,482 14,438 15,172 16,000 PRINTED BY
EBERL PRINT GmbH, Immenstadt
Liabilities (incl. deferred income) 3,633 3,229 3,256 3,009 3,068 2,527 2,518 2,605 2,156 2,297
Total liabilities (incl. deferred taxes and deferred income) 11,035 10,978 11,073 11,849 13,611 14,760 16,000 17,043 17,328 18,297
COPYRIGHT
Total equity and liabilities 18,658 17,290 18,299 20,051 23,285 26,139 28,386 30,888 33,480 36,887 © C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, 2021
All rights reserved. No part of this Annual Report 2020 may
be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means,
Summary of selected financial data 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 electronic or photocopy, without permission in writing from
Net sales 13,171 14,691 14,065 13,317 14,798 15,850 18,056 17,498 18,997 19,566 C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG. Figures from third parties
used in the annual report are based on data available at the
Operating income 2,272 1,853 2,114 2,140 2,269 2,872 3,487 3,472 3,782 4,624
time the financial statements were drawn up.
Operating income as % of net sales 17.3 12.6 15.0 16.1 15.3 18.1 19.3 19.8 19.9 23.6
Income after taxes 1,476 1,237 1,324 1,046 1,576 1,849 — 229 2,075 2,721 3,062
Income after taxes as % of net sales 11.2 8.4 9.4 7.9 10.7 11.7 — 1.3 11.9 14.3 15.6
Equity ratio (in %) 40.0 35.7 38.9 40.4 41.2 43.3 37.5 39.9 43.8 46.9
Cash flow from operating activities 2,570 2,170 1,819 2,015 2,232 2,888 2,624 2,988 3,344 3,963
Financial funds 3,903 2,374 2,879 3,294 4,536 7,005 3,071 4,303 2,195 6,105
Personnel expenses 3,664 4,024 4,071 4,116 4,518 4,570 4,934 5,276 5,367 5,587
Personnel expenses as % of net sales 27.8 27.4 28.9 30.9 30.5 28.8 27.3 30.2 28.3 28.6 carbon neutral
Average number of employees 44,094 46,228 47,492 47,743 47,501 45,692 49,610 50,333 51,015 51,944 natureOffice.com | DE-141-22NKQ14
print production
Research and development expenses 2,516 2,795 2,743 2,654 3,004 3,112 3,078 3,164 3,462 3,696
R&D as % of net sales 19.1 19.0 19.5 19.9 20.3 19.6 17.0 18.1 18.2 18.9
Investments in tangible assets 458 562 558 548 591 645 872 950 1,073 1,046 With the CO2 emission certificates we support forest conservation and
forest modification in many regions in Germany.
Depreciation of tangible assets 535 793 640 449 475 516 521 552 585 602WWW.BOEHRINGER-INGELHEIM.COM
ANNUALREPORT.BOEHRINGER-INGELHEIM.COM