INTEGRATED
REPORT
2020
For the year ended December 31,2020
To further the responsible management of forest resources, this report is printed on paper
produced from FSC®-certified sources in accordance with the standards of the Forest Stewardship
Council, an international certification body dedicated to promoting responsible forest stewardship,
and other controlled sources, using non-VOC ink that is free from mineral oils.Corporate Philosophy Essence C O N T E N T S
of Management
Providing Value through Our Businesses 2
Otsuka-people creating new products
(Our Corporate Culture)
Otsuka’s Goal through its Development
as a Total Healthcare Company 4
for better health worldwide
Message from the President 6
Ryukan-godo Otsuka’s Story 10
In keeping with this corporate philosophy and the Otsuka values of Ryukan-godo (by sweat (by sweat we recognize the way) Otsuka’s Strengths 12
we recognize the way), Jissho (actualization) and Sozosei (creativity), we strive to do what only
Value Creation Model 14
Otsuka can do. The Otsuka group supports the lives of people worldwide through a wide range of The process of
innovative and creative products including pharmaceuticals, functional beverages, and functional discovering the core Value Creation Process That Generates
foods. We are dedicated to cultivating a dynamic corporate culture and workplaces that reflect our substance of something Originality 16
through hard work and
vision as a healthcare company, to finding ways to live in harmony with local communities and the The Otsuka Group’s Approach to Sustainability 18
practice
natural environment, and to contributing to richer and healthier lives.
Materiality (Material Issues) 20
Feature:
As a Unique Total Healthcare Company 22
Message from the CFO 26
How We Will Grow
Jissho Further Advancing as a Unique
(actualization) Total Healthcare Company 28
Pharmaceutical Business 30
Self-actualization
Nutraceutical Business 36
through achievement,
completion and the
How We Will Achieve Sustainability
discovery of truth
Health and People 42
Quality in All We Do 44
Environment 48
Measures against COVID-19 50
Otsuka’s Goal
Governance
Corporate Governance 52
To become an indispensable contributor
Sozosei Directors and Audit & Supervisory
(creativity) Board Members 58
to people’s health worldwide
Discussion on Corporate Governance 60
Pursuing that which only
Compliance 66
Otsuka is capable of
The Otsuka group aims to be an indispensable contributor to people’s health worldwide, fulfilling
delivering Tax Compliance and Risk Management 67
its corporate philosophy in every aspect of its operations. This commitment to improving people’s
health worldwide is part of the unchanging value we will continue to provide society. Our operations ESG Content Index 70
encompass two core businesses: the Pharmaceutical Business, which provides comprehensive health
Financial and Non-Financial Highlights 72
support from diagnosis to treatment of diseases, and the Nutraceutical Business,* which helps people
Main Data 74
maintain and improve day-to-day health.
Corporate Information and Global Network 76
* Nutraceuticals = nutrition + pharmaceuticals
Group Structure and Overview of
Main Operating Companies 77
Disclosure by the Otsuka Group 78
Stock Information 79
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 1Providing Value through Our Businesses
As a total healthcare company, the Otsuka group contributes to people's health
worldwide by creating innovative products in its two core businesses: the Pharmaceutical
Business, which aims to address unmet medical needs, and the Nutraceutical Business,
which seeks to fulfill the yet-to-be-imagined needs of consumers.
Providing value
What only Otsuka can do
Bringing health to people worldwide
Unmet medical needs
From diagnosis to treatment
Pharmaceutical Business
Yet-to-be-imagined needs
Maintaining and improving day-to-day health
Nutraceutical Business
2 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 3Otsuka’s Goal through its Development
as a Total Healthcare Company
How We Will Grow
Pages 28-41
The Otsuka group has continuously developed as a total healthcare company, by
providing products and services that lead to the resolution of social issues, with
the aim of bringing health to people worldwide. At present, we are pursuing
what only Otsuka can do based on the six Otsuka's strengths, with an emphasis
What only Otsuka can do
on the specified key material issues that require focused and prioritized efforts.
Our goal is to become an indispensable contributor to people’s health worldwide,
thereby contributing to the realization of a sustainable society.
A sustainable society
Pharmaceutical Business Social
well-being2
Providing value
To become an indispensable contributor
Bringing health to Total Healthcare Pages 22-25 Goal
to people’s health worldwide
people worldwide
Physical Mental
well-being2 well-being2
Nutraceutical Business
Pages 20-21 Otsuka’s
Strengths
Pages 12-13
What we can achieve
How We Will Achieve Sustainability
Pages 42-71
Founding Present Future
1. Cosmedics = cosmetics + medicine
2. The state of health, as defined in the constitution of the World Health Organization(WHO)
ylesolc
ot
sessenisub
gnipoleveD
seussi
laicos
sserdda
ytilairetaM
Pharma-
ceuticals
Nutra-
Chemicals
ceuticals
OTC VVaalluuee CCrreeaattiioonn Cosmedics1
MMooddeell
PPaaggeess 1144--1155
Consumer Clinical
Products nutrition
Medical
Diagnostics devices
4 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 5Message from the President
Q: In what direction is the Otsuka group headed over the medium to long term?
We seek to be a company that continues to contribute determined to “advance in the global market as a
to society. Otherwise, there is no purpose for a unique total healthcare company” under the Third
We continuously advance
company to exist. Medium-Term Management Plan. We will continuously
We have created new concepts and products pursue the creation of unique value in all healthcare
as a total healthcare
by marshalling our unique and diverse businesses fields, ranging from maintaining and improving day-to-
company that contributes and assets, and by effectively connecting the true day health to the diagnosis and treatment of diseases.
needs identified through customer insights with On a medium- to long-term basis, envisioning a
to a sustainable society. technology and science. We have also pioneered in society and economy 10 years, 20 years, and further
fields overlapped with or derived from our various ahead, we aim to become an indispensable contributor
businesses, as well as niche fields, thereby creating to people’s health worldwide by providing innovative
new value and responding to unmet or yet-to-be- products and services that only the Otsuka group can
imagined health needs. produce, leveraging our strengths as a total healthcare
Based on these experiences and strengths, we company.
Q: Otsuka will celebrate its 100th anniversary in September 2021.
What has changed and what has not changed in the Otsuka group across the decades?
Tatsuo Higuchi
In 1977, when I joined Otsuka, revenues of the group by carefully monitoring and flexibly adapting to changes
President and Representative Director, CEO companies were 96 billion yen (USD 870 million at over time, and I consider that this is the largest factor for
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
the 1977 exchange rate). Our revenues in fiscal 2020 our continuous business operations over the 100 years
exceeded 1,400 billion yen (USD 13.7 billion). Our since our foundation.
operating bases have substantially increased in Japan and On the other hand, our basic mindset has not
internationally, and our managerial systems have evolved. altered. The Otsuka group has inherited the three key
While people’s healthcare needs have considerably messages from its leadership across several generations
transformed based on factors such as declining as our unchanged corporate culture: Ryukan-godo (by
First, we wish to express empathy to people who have been afflicted by or affected
birthrates, aging populations, and lifestyle changes, we sweat we recognize the way), Jissho (actualization) and
have promoted businesses, capitalizing on our strengths Sozosei (creativity). Ryukan-godo signifies the process
in other ways by COVID-19. This includes our heartfelt gratitude to healthcare
and confronting our weaknesses. Strengths may decay of discovering the core substance of something through
professionals and others who support those who have fallen ill. into weaknesses if we become complacent. On the other hard work and practice. Jissho means self-actualization
hand, weaknesses can be converted to strengths from through achievement, completion and the discovery
the insights gained by understanding and addressing of truth. Sozosei is pursuing that which only Otsuka is
The world is entering an era of change. Trends that are transforming the economy and society are
them. The Otsuka group has accepted and practiced new capable of delivering.
progressing, such as geopolitical risks, advancement of AI and information and communications things, thereby creating new value free from stereotypes These are easier said than done. For example, Sozosei
and conventional ideas. We have continuously advanced signifies not only creating something from scratch,
technology, heightened awareness for environmental conservation, and declining birthrates and
aging populations in countries with mature economies. In addition, new lifestyles and work styles
based on remote operations are becoming common, driven by the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Otsuka group of companies creates products and services that address consumer and patient Ryukan-godo Jissho Sozosei
needs and contribute to the resolution of social issues. We carefully monitor these changes in the (by sweat we recognize the way) (actualization) (creativity)
The process of discovering the Self-actualization through Pursuing that which only
business environment and market needs in order to provide new value.
core substance of something achievement, completion and the Otsuka is capable of
through hard work discovery delivering
This unchanged mission focuses Otsuka on value creation that has guided us right up to our
and practice of truth
100th anniversary.
6 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 7Message from the President
but also the production of new things by leveraging Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE has become a
existing assets in innovative ways. Ryukan-godo, Jissho, blockbuster, but its development involved much trial
and Sozosei are interlinked. By rethinking creatively, and error to overcome various obstacles. The daily
hypothesizing, implementing, and carrying through, we pursuit of what we can achieve and what only Otsuka
can lead to Sozosei in combination with Ryukan-godo can do has taken root in the corporate culture of the
and Jissho. Otsuka group.
Q: What initiatives are you taking to lead innovation?
The first perspective is human resources. From our business to advance patient centricity through digital
foundation up to the present, our predecessors innovation. Otsuka has been an early adopter, enabling
produced products that cater to unmet market needs. optimized clinical trials at the location where patients
We have become a large group of companies, and want them, with real-time insights, and recruitment into
the mentality of employees has also changed. What the trials of larger and more diverse patient populations.
I always advise them is to think for themselves and Innovation for patient centricity extends to our end
identify opportunities and problems by themselves. products, with, for example, the approval in North America
We can innovative only with this mindset. during 2020 of group company Astex Pharmaceutical’s
The second perspective is a system that leads INQOVI, an orally administered hypomethylating agent Q: What is the basic policy of corporate governance in the Otsuka group?
new innovation. To this end, it is crucial to actively which enables more patients to receive treatment at home.
promote communication inside and outside the I hope that Otsuka is a company that excites
In our corporate governance, the key elements are We are taking measures on internal controls across
group, and to establish a network across disciplines people on the outside to look forward to seeing what
institutional design, internal control, and management all group companies, including the conservation of
and areas free from fixed ideas. The culture must also Otsuka introduces next. Organizations cannot survive
transparency. assets, information security, and business continuity
encourage employees to try new ideas derived from without individuals. This is why I believe that Otsuka
Institutional design refers to the formulation and planning. We consider legal compliance to be
the system above. Even if they fail, it is important to should be a company where individuals can pursue
operation of institutions such as the Board of Directors particularly crucial in order to operate diverse businesses
learn from those failures and apply the learnings. the challenges that they would like to, because it
and the Audit & Supervisory Board. The Board of around the world, and therefore ensure compliance
One illustration of how these two perspectives will fortify our organization to lead innovation.
Directors of Otsuka Holdings holds vigorous discussions through organizational structures and education.
operate in practice are initiatives in our pharmaceutical
that reflect different viewpoints, including those of To advance management transparency, we promote
four outside directors with diverse backgrounds. The proper governance systems and information disclosure
Q: What will the Otsuka group need in order to continue sustainable growth? operations and business activities performed by board in accordance with Japan's Corporate Governance
members are properly audited and monitored through Code. We will continue to have proactive dialogue with
close collaboration among Audit & Supervisory Board investors and other external stakeholders.
The Otsuka group is strongly committed to quality. This social issues through our business. In other words,
members, the Internal Audit Department, Internal
Corporate Governance Pages 52-57
commitment began with the words of Busaburo Otsuka, it is the Otsuka group’s mission to contribute to the
Control Department, other accounting auditors.
the founder of Otsuka, expressed in calligraphy upon maintenance and promotion of people’s health and
launching the intravenous solutions business in 1946: the treatment of diseases. Our attitude to pursue the
“Quality is vital in a factory and so is resolution of social issues through our Q: What is your message to stakeholders on the 100th anniversary?
packaging. We have to manufacture business matches the direction of the
and market, putting ourselves in UN Sustainable Development Goals.
The Otsuka group of companies will celebrate its review our businesses from a bird’s-eye view, and
the consumer’s position.” This In recent years, actions to address
100th anniversary in September 2021. The group has flexibly adapt to changes. It is necessary to search for
commitment has been passed down environmental issues have been
sustained its business operations for a century, and new possibilities while adapting to the “new normal.”
in our group ever since. “Quality” in regarded as one of a company’s most
has developed into a group of companies operating in Now is the time for us to demonstrate our true value
the Otsuka group signifies not only important obligations. We have set
32 countries and regions, with approximately 47,000 as a unique total healthcare company. To satisfy new
product quality, but quality in all goals for 2030 tied to materiality such as
employees. We are deeply grateful for the support of needs, we will further prepare ourselves under the
stages of the value chain, and our climate change, resource recycling and
stakeholders who have enabled these achievements. unchanged corporate philosophy “Otsuka-people
entire group should pursue quality conservation, and water conservation.
The global economy and society are in the midst of creating new products for better health worldwide.”
in management and multiple other We are endeavoring to achieve a
transformation. The COVID-19 pandemic has amplified We sincerely ask for continued support and guidance
dimensions. sustainable society by harmonizing
social issues and also uncovered new issues. We must from all stakeholders.
Based on our corporate business growth and environmental
philosophy, we aim to contribute conservation through group-wide
to people’s health by addressing collaboration.
8 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 9Otsuka’s Story
2014 (¥ billion)
Launched LONSURF and EQUELLE
2015
Launched JINARC and REXULTI
2013
Launched ABILIFY MAINTENA 1,500
2017
Launched BODYMAINTÉ
Since its founding in 1921 as a chemical raw material manufacturer, the Otsuka group has
steadily developed by providing products that lead to the resolution of social issues related to 2011
Established Otsuka Medical Devices
healthcare and are aligned with society’s expectations, while diversifying its businesses.
2009 1,200
Launched Samsca
2002
Launched ABILIFY
2005
Launched InnerSignal
Revenue performance
900
Nutraceutical, consumer products, and other businesses Pharmaceutical business
(¥ billion)
1921
Founded Otsuka Seiyaku Kogyobu
1974 1983 1988
Launched Futraful Launched Calorie Mate Launched Pletaal 1999
1946 Launched TS-1
600 Started the IV solutions business 600
1953
Launched Oronine Ointment 1980 1984 1990
Launched POCARI SWEAT Launched UFT Launched Mucosta
1965 Launched the first internally
Launched ORONAMIN C DRINK developed drugs
1968 Mikelan and Meptin
300 Launched the world's first 300
1976
commercial retort pouch food
Started the diagnostics
product Bon Curry
business
1971
Established a pharmaceutical
research institute
21 30 40 50 65 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14* 15 16 17 18 19 20
Diversification of business aimed at the resolution of social issues
Higher incidence of Shift toward
Social Issues in clinical nutrition and Medical needs that are not
heat disorder and nuclear families and Unmet medical needs Skin health
issues public health satisfied by pharmaceuticals only
unbalanced diet diversified lifestyles
What Stable supply of Development of Development of Development of Development of minimally
Evidence-based development of
we can high-quality IV sterilizers and functional beverages retort pouch food Providing total healthcare solutions, from diagnosis to treatment invasive medical devices
skincare products
achieve solutions disinfectants and food products products specialized for treatment
IV solutions Oronine H POCARI SWEAT Calorie Mate Bon Curry ABILIFY Samsca Quick Navi InnerSignal UL·OS BioMimics 3D
Ointment
Representative
products
Medical
Pharma- Cosmedics devices
Clinical cN eru tt icra a- ls C Po rn os du um cte sr Clinical ceuticals Consumer Pharma- Diagnostics Consumer Diagnostics C Po rn os du um cte sr Diagnostics Cosmedics
nutrition OTC nutrition Products ceuticals Products
Divers oifi fcation Chemicals nC ul tin rii tc ioa nl OTC nC ul tin rii tc ioa nl OTC
Clinical
cP eh ua tr im caa ls- OTC cP eh ua tr im caa ls- C Po rn os du um cte sr
business Chemicals Chemicals Clinical Nutra- OTC nutrition OTC
nutrition certicals Clinical
Chemicals cN eru tt icra a- ls Chemicals
Chemicals
cN eru tt icra a-
ls Chemicals
nC ul tin rii tc ioa nl
Nutra-
Chemicals nutrition OTC
Nutra-
certicals Chemicals
certicals
*Due to a change in fiscal year, results for fiscal 2014 are for the 9-month transitional period ended December 31, 2014.
10 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 11Otsuka’s Strengths
People are the source of our strengths. Since Otsuka’s establishment in 1921, employees
Pages 28-41
A global reach incorporating solutions to social issues
everywhere have pursued business guided by our enduring corporate philosophy in order to bring
through our core business processes
health to people worldwide. Through the determination of these employees, we have developed
many strengths. The six strengths described below are a representative sample, and more continue
We are extending our global reach by addressing social issues (e.g. heat disorders and infectious diseases) that differ in each
to evolve each day. Making the best possible use of these strengths, employees take on new country/region depending on culture, customs and the times. Going forward, we will provide products and services that lead to
challenges to fulfill our potential, all in order to contribute to better health worldwide. resolution of social issues in many more countries/regions.
153
Page 1 IV solutions business overseas companies:
An enduring corporate philosophy and essence of management,
passed down and practiced throughout the group Countries/Regions where 20
POCARI SWEAT is available: More than
32
We engage our employees to think and act creatively without preconceived
countries/regions Countries/Regions where the 110
notions. We also support their development, so that they can embody our tuberculosis drug DELTYBA is available: More than
unique capabilities and potential. We believe that this as well as engagement Our corporate philosophy is displayed
with our corporate philosophy and essence of management (reflected in our prominently in offices in every country
corporate culture), has brought us to where we are today, and will build the where we do business
Pages 28-41
Otsuka of tomorrow.
An ability to nurture enduring brands
Ryukan-godo Jissho Sozosei We have developed our brands through unceasing efforts to convey the health value of innovative products born from creative
The process of discovering the Self-actualization through Pursuing that which only research and development. Our ability to nurture brands has been developed through these activities, and leads to sustainable
core substance of something achievement, completion Otsuka is capable of
through hard work and the discovery delivering growth and enhanced corporate value, enabling us to take on the challenge of finding original approaches to new healthcare
and practice of truth
needs.
Top-share products by pharmaceutical category4:
8 3
Pages 4-5 in Japan, outside Japan
A business model centered on total healthcare
A sustainable society Share of consumers with
the experience 88.9
We provide a variety of science-based products and services weS lo l-c bi ea il n g of using POCARI SWEAT5: %
that meet the specific healthcare needs of the times in
each community. We conceive products and services that Physical Mental
well-being well-being
will contribute in 10 or 20 years’ time in the three areas of
Pages 26-27
physical, and social well-being. A solid financial foundation and strong earnings power
Providing value
that drive sustainable growth
Bringing health to
people worldwide
We are cultivating a solid financial foundation and strong earnings power whereby nutraceuticals and IV solutions generate
stable earnings and act as a base, while therapeutic agents, which are a driver of growth, fund ongoing investment in creative
new areas befitting Otsuka. This will form the basis for sustained investment in areas that create new value in the face of a
changing business environment.
Pages 28-41
An unwavering quest for originality
AA-6
Rating:
We pursue the creativity implicit in our corporate philosophy across our entire value chain, from research and development through
Business profit margin of 12.7 7
marketing. In the ongoing challenge to create innovative products and services, we are always thinking about how to generate the kind
Nutraceutical Business: %
of innovation that defines Otsuka, targeting unmet medical needs as well as the yet-to-be-imagined needs of consumers.
80
In-house drug discovery ratio: %1
1. Ratio of in-house drug discovery project among late-phase development projects
2. As of December 2020; unmet needs areas defined by Otsuka based on PatientsMap2020JP and PatientsMap2020US, M3 & SSRI
Development projects for unmet needs2:
3. Number of companies engaged in the IV solutions business; Many of these companies also export products to neighboring countries, thereby making a meaningful contribution to
medical care in those countries.
Psychiatry and Cardiovascular and 4. Copyright © 2021 IQVIA. Created based on annual category totals for the past 10 years, including IQVIA MIDAS 2010 to 2020 and Otsuka research. Categories defined by Otsuka.
Oncology Other
neurology renal system Reprinted with permission.
5. January 2021 survey in Japan conducted by Otsuka
10 projects 16 projects 1 project 6 projects 6. Rating and Investment Information, Inc.
7. Average for the previous three years (For reference: average operating profit margin of S&P Food & Beverage Select Industry Index constituents for the previous three years: 7.6%)
12 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 13Value Creation Model
Inputs Corporate Philosophy / Sustainability Mission / Value Creation Process Outputs Outcomes Page 17
Human Capital1
Human Capital
Employees Approx. 47,000
Enhance employee engagement
Japan Approx. 18,000
Enhance measures to respect human rights
Outside Japan Approx. 29,000 New technological and Revenue (fiscal 2020)
scientific developments
¥1,422.8
New concepts + billion
Hypotheses Wealth of technological and
Relationship and Social Capital1 scientific assets Relationship and Social Capital
194
Total group companies: Expand product access
Products & Services
Japan 48 Enhance system for realization of a
Outside Japan 146 Pharma- • Pharmaceutical Business healthful life
Business sites: 32 countries/regions ceuticals Nutra- Therapeutic drugs, clinical Provide support during COVID-19 pandemic
Chemicals ceuticals nutrition products, diagnostics,
and medical devices
Stakeholders for
Manufactured Capi 1ta 7l 91 Diversifying OTC Unique and Cosmedics Created value • Nutraceutical Business value provision Manufactured Capital
Manufacturing sites: needs diverse (products and Functional beverages, functional Consumers, patients, Achieve stable supply of high-quality
Japan 52 businesses services) foods, cosmedics, OTC drugs, healthcare professionals, products
Outside Japan 127 Consumer Clinical and quasi-drugs employees, business Further promote sustainable procurement
Products nutrition partners, investors,
• Consumer Products Business
shareholders,
Intellectual Capital1 Diagnostics M dee vd icic ea sl Beverages, foods, and alcoholic local communities, Intellectual Capital
43 beverages and society Contribute to solutions for unmet needs
Research sites:
through innovation
Japan 24 • Other Businesses
Promote research and development
Outside Japan 19 Functional chemicals, fine partnerships
Future health Creating new value by
chemicals, warehouse operations
issues pioneering fields that
and transportation, packaging,
overlap with or are derived
from other businesses, as and electronic equipment
Financial Capital
Financial Capital well as niche fields
Maintain a sound financial foundation
Total assets: ¥2,627.8 billion Deliver stable returns to shareholders
Total emissions2 (fiscal 2020)
706,000
Sustainability Mission Page 18
CO2: tons
Natural Capital2 Natural Capital
15,665,000
Water: m3
Energy consumption Increase utilization of renewable energy
353,600 kL Conduct water resource risk assessments
Water consumption Strengthen environmental management
17,732,000 m3 and compliance
Ryukan-
Jissho Sozosei
godo
(As of December 31, 2020)
1. Data for 194 companies including Otsuka Holdings and its subsidiaries and affiliated companies
2. All manufacturing sites of the consolidated Otsuka group
14 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 15Value Creation Process That Generates Originality
Taking on the challenge of doing what Impact of Value Creation on Capital
only Otsuka can do Capital Impact of Value Creation (FY 2020 Progress) Related SDGs
• Enhance employee engagement
· Diversity promotion:
The originality of Otsuka is generated from the combination of unique and diverse businesses.
Female manager ratio at Otsuka Holdings: 23.8%
The first step of the Otsuka group’s value creation process is an approach that envisions the Increased number of employees taking parental leave: 548 total, 280
Human Capital
(51%) male1
future in order to anticipate the various needs of healthcare aligned with society’s expectations.
• Enhance measures to respect human rights
We try to anticipate the needs that arise from the changing times, environment, and ways that
· Formulated and implemented Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy
people think about health. Then, by leveraging our group strengths consisting of unique and (March 2021)
wide-ranging businesses, combined with human resources who have extensive knowledge and
• Expand product access
experience, we formulate hypotheses and combine new technologies and scientific developments · Countries / Regions where tuberculosis drug DELTYBA is available:
More than 110
with accumulated ones to create new value (new products and services).
· Launched ADPKD drug JINARC/JYNARQUE in more than 30 countries/
We are also able to create new value by pioneering fields overlapped with or derived from Relationship and regions
various businesses. In this way, Otsuka takes on challenges to create new value that are only Social Capital • Enhanced system for realization of a healthful life
· Executed cooperation agreements with all 47 prefectures of Japan for
possible for a total healthcare company.
promotion of collaboration in health awareness activities
• Provide support during COVID-19 pandemic
· Donated relief goods and funds
• Achieve stable supply of high-quality products
· Established and began operation of Tokushima Mima Factory (Otsuka
New technological and
Pharmaceutical), and new manufacturing site of Daiya Foods
scientific developments
Manufactured
New concepts + • Further promote sustainable procurement
Wealth of technological and Capital · Revised Otsuka Group Procurement Policy (September 2020)
Hypotheses
Established Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines
scientific assets
(September 2020)
· Conducted supplier briefings for 73 suppliers
• Contribute to solutions for unmet needs through innovation
· New drugs launched: 82
Pharma- Intellectual · Development projects for unmet needs: 333
ceuticals · Research and Development expenses: ¥216.8 billion
Nutra- Capital · In-house drug discovery ratio: 80%4
Chemicals
ceuticals
• Promote research and development partnerships
· Signed joint research agreements with 4 new partners5
Unique and
OTC Cosmedics Created value
Diversifying diverse • Maintain a sound financial foundation
(products and
needs · Credit rating: AA−
services)
businesses Financial Capital · Business profit ¥216.9 billion (record high since listing)
Consumer Clinical • Deliver stable returns to shareholders
Products nutrition · Annual dividend per share: ¥100
Medical
Diagnostics
devices • Increase utilization of renewable energy
· Reduction in CO2 emissions through adoption of renewable energy:
84,000 tons
Natural Capital • Conduct water resource risk assessments
· Assessments conducted at 87 manufacturing sites of 51 companies
• Strengthen environmental management and compliance
Creating new value by · The Otsuka group acquired ISO 14001 integrated certification6
Future health issues
pioneering fields that
1. Scope: 11 companies (Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Foods, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
overlap with or are derived
Development & Commercialization, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Pharmavite, Otsuka Holdings, and Otsuka Medical Devices)
from other businesses, as 2. Cabpirin, Quick Navi-Adeno2, AILAMIDE, VISCOCLEAR, Entrest, INQOVI, Quick Navi-COVID19 Ag, and ENEFLUID Injection
3. Unmet needs areas defined by Otsuka based on PatientsMap2020JP and PatientsMap2020US, M3 & SSRI
well as niche fields 4. Ratio on in-house drug discovery project among late-phase development projects
5. Strategic partnership of Taiho Pharmaceutical and Astex Pharmaceuticals with MSD, joint research of Otsuka Pharmaceutical with Axcelead Drug Discovery Partners, strategic partnership
of Taiho Pharmaceutical with MD Anderson Cancer Center, and license agreement between Taiho Pharmaceutical and PeptiDream
6. Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical (including its subsidiary, Okayama Taiho Pharmaceutical), Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Foods, and Otsuka
Holdings as the controlling company
16 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 17Description of Materiality Description of MTM Plan
Long-term FY 2023 Goals
Contribute to unmet
needs solutions
Otsuka's business is fully synchronized with our efforts to address social issues
How
we
will
grow
How
we
will
achieve
sustainability
The Otsuka Group's Approach to Sustainability
Guided by its corporate philosophy, “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health We are promoting business toward our goals for fiscal 2023 in the same direction of the materiality,
worldwide,” the Otsuka group works to contribute to the creation of a healthy and sustainable under the medium-term management plan for fiscal 2019 to 2023.
society, while achieving growth. We pursue these objectives supported by a comprehensive
governance system. In 2019, we determined the material issues of the Otsuka group to be society
Relationship between Materiality and the Medium-Term Management Plan
(health, people, quality in all we do), environment (climate change, resource recycling and
conservation, water conservation), and governance, and announced goals for 2030 to be pursued
Corporate philosophy
by the entire group.
Sustainability mission
Sustainability Mission
Address social issues such as the evolution toward a healthier and more sustainable
society, while simultaneously achieving growth. These activities are all supported by Challenge New Frontiers: • Promotion of R&D for unmet needs
Address unmet needs in the psychiatry and neurology areas
a comprehensive governance system. Do what only Otsuka can do
Create first-in-class products in the oncology,
cardiovascular and renal area
Contribution to a More Sustainable Society
• Development projects
Generate innovation from creative
for unmet needs: more than 10
and diverse research platforms Late-phase development projects advancing to the
next phase: more than 30
• Provide DELTYBA (generic name: delamanid) for a
Eradication of tuberculosis cumulative total of 60,000 cases
• Supply DELTYBA for pediatric patients
Society (Healthier Society) Environment (Healthier Planet)
• Launch clinical trial for new treatment regimen
Health People Quality in All We Do Climate Change Resource Recycling Conservation Water Conservation
• Increase access to DELTYBA by collaborating with partners
Governance
Creation of a system
Challenge new categories Create new systems and reinforce existing
Corporate Governance Compliance Risk Management for the realization of a
and new areas systems for realizing healthy lifestyles
healthful life
Create new concepts and products keeping
Healthy life extension Maintain a high-profit structure
Process for Determining Materiality (Material Issues) an eye on changes in environments
Materiality is initiatives that Otsuka is focused on. To Issues were then discussed by the Sustainability Promotion
determine the Otsuka group's material issues, we first Committee* and approved at the Otsuka Holdings Board of
compiled a list of social issues, referencing a range of Directors meeting. As a result, the material issues of the
international guidelines and frameworks, including ISO Otsuka group were determined to be: society (health, People Quality in Climate Change Resource Recycling Water Conservation Governance
All We Do and Conservation
26000, GRI, and the U.N. SDGs. We narrowed down the people, quality in all we do), environment (climate change,
list of issues by evaluating them in terms of their resource recycling and conservation, water conservation),
importance, taking into account our ability to contribute to and governance.
Relationship between Materiality and Capitals
a solution, their impact on business, and our strengths.
Relationship
Capital Human Manufactured Intellectual Financial Natural
1 Identification of social issues with reference to respective international guidelines and Social
Materiality Capital Capital Capital Capital Capital
Capital
2 Assessment of social issues that our business activities can contribute to solving and their importance Health
Society People
Determination of material issues by the Sustainability Promotion Committee from the viewpoint of
3
their impact on society and on the Otsuka group Quality in All We Do
Climate Change
4 Approval at the Otsuka Holdings Board of Directors meeting
Environment Resource Recycling and Conservation
* The Sustainability Promotion Committee promotes sustainability throughout the Otsuka group. The committee's responsibilities include discussing and deciding on the direction and plans
for sustainability activities. The Otsuka Holdings director in charge of sustainability promotion serves as the committee chair. Committee members comprise group managers of Water Conservation
departments relating to sustainability and the sustainability officers of each company.
Governance
Visit the Otsuka Holdings website for a map of social issues
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/hd_activity/materiality.html
18 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 19Materiality (Material Issues) Fiscal Goals 2023 and Fiscal 2020 Progress
In 2019, the Otsuka group determined its material issues based on their importance to society and to Among the 12 social issues determined to be Otsuka group’s materiality, we selected nine issues that
the group’s businesses. They are: society (health, people, quality in all we do), environment (climate we regard as especially important at present, and set goals related to them for fiscal 2023.
change, resource recycling and conservation, and water conservation), and governance.
Social
Materiality Social Issues Our Goals Our Activities Related SDGs Our Goals FY 2023 Goals FY 2020 Progress
Issues
Unmet medical and • Contribution to unmet • Promotion of R&D for unmet • Contribute to unmet • Promotion of R&D for unmet needs • In areas with unmet needs1
health needs needs solutions needs needs solutions Address unmet needs in the psychiatry and neurology areas New development projects: 9 projects2
Create first-in-class products in the oncology area
Spread of infectious • Eradication of tuberculosis • R&D of antituberculosis drugs Late-phase development projects: 9 projects2
diseases • Creation of a system and improvement of drug Create first-in-class products in the cardiovascular and renal area
N utritional needs for the realization of a access • In areas with unmet needs1
New development projects: 10 or more
Health I ncreasing aging healthful life • Support and awareness
issues • Healthy life extension activities for people’s health Late-phase development projects advancing to the next phase:
30 or more
maintenance/improvement
mainly on exercise and • Eradication of • Provide DELTYBA (generic name: delamanid) for a • D ELTYBA
nutrition etc. tuberculosis cumulative total of 60,000 cases Provided DELTYBA for 40,000 a cumulative total of cases in more than 110
• Promotion of problem solving countries/regions
• Supply DELTYBA for pediatric patients
by strengthening partnerships Acquired the indication of DELTYBA for children in Europe in October 2020
• Launch a clinical trial for new treatment regimen
R-pharm acquired marketing approval for DELTYBA in Russia in May 2020
P resenteeism* • Creation of a corporate • Human resource development • Increase access to DELTYBA by collaborating with
Implemented supply through the Global Drug Facility (GDF) of the Stop TB
Society Unprepared for culture that stimulates • Diversity promotion partners Partnership and alliance partners
(Healthier diversification creativity • Healthful management • Participated in Pan-TB collaboration and accelerated the
Society) People • Enhance employee development of new TB treatment regimen
engagement • Continued participation in the Global Health Innovative
Technology (GHIT) Fund
• Creation of a system for • Challenge new categories and new areas • Further increased the supply of plant-based food products
by starting operations at a new manufacturing site
C onsumption • Gaining stakeholder trust • Sustainable procurement and the realization of a • Create new systems and reinforce existing systems for • Executed cooperation agreements with all 47 prefectures
and production • Pursuing sustainability at product design healthful life realizing healthy lifestyles and promoted collaboration in health and other fields
that impairs all levels of the value chain • Thorough quality control and • Create new concepts and products keeping an eye on • Continued to hold the Women’s Health Seminars
sustainability • Establishing a quality stable supply changes in environments • • C 30 ut mh u a lan tn iviv ee tr osa tary l Oo Af Tth He A O S3t s ru ek ga is tH rae na tlt sh : AC po pm roic x L imib ar ta er ly y 20,000
Quality in
assurance system for safety • Responsible promotional activities • Started the “Healthy President” service
All We Do and security and information provision
• Deepening communication with • Creation of a corporate • Further instill the corporate culture and philosophy • C reu sm ouu rl ca et iv de e vt eo lt oa pl mpa er nti tc i pp ra on gt rs a i mn st h oe f Oex te sucu kati v Ge l oh bu am l a An c ademy
stakeholders culture that stimulates • Build systems for ongoing human resource (OGA): 1714
• Promotion of “Customer-centric creativity development aligned with changes in society and in • Cumulative total participants in Health Seminars: approx.
management” • Enhanced employee the times 1,500
engagement • Further promote and instill diversity as a source of • Implemented health and safety measures for employees
during the COVID-19 pandemic
G lobal warming FY 2030 Goal • Reduce CO2 emissions innovation • Formulated the “Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy"
Climate • 30% reduction in CO2 throughout the value chain
emissions compared to FY • Pursuing sustainability at • Self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) survey conducted • Cumulative total of companies implementing SAQ: 80
Change 2017 all levels of the value on: 200 companies • Companies participating in supplier briefings: 73
• Stable supply of products during the COVID-19 pandemic
chain • S ustainable procurement • Held global production meetings and environmental
Conducted supplier briefings for 160 suppliers management information exchange meetings
Environmental load FY 2030 Goal • Reduce environmental
Original goal: Over 30 times/companies) by fiscal • Held global product quality meetings
increase • 50% reduction in simple impact by improving resource 2023) • Improved products based on customer feedback
Environment Resource incineration and landfill efficiency
Recycling compared to FY 2019 • Promotion of business activities
(Healthier and • 50% or higher content of aimed at a sustainable state of FY 2030 Goal • Introduce renewable energy and raise the usage rate • Acquired ISO14001 integrated certification
Planet) Conservation r me ac ty ecl re iad l sa in nd o p ul ra Pn Et- Tb ba ose ttd l es society and the earth • e 3 m0% is sr ie od nu s c ct oio mn p i an r eC dO t2 o of CO2-free electricity • • E Inx tp roa dn ud ce ed d t h coe -i gn etr no ed ru atc it oio nn s yo sf t eC mO 2 a-f nr dee s oel lae rc t pr oic wity e5 r generation facilities
• Switched supply to green power for office departments of five group
FY 2017
companies
Reducing in FY 2030 Goal • Understanding water resource FY 2030 Goal • Strengthen cooperation for reducing simple • Established the Otsuka Group Plastic Policy
Water freshwater • Improvement of water risks • 50% reduction in simple incineration incineration and landfill volume
availability due to use efficiency by 15% • Management and effective and landfill compared to FY 2019 • Build an internal group system for improving the
Conservation water resource risks compared to FY 2017 use of water resources • 50% or higher content of recycled usage rate of recycled and plant-based materials
and plant-based materials in our PET
bottles
F ragile governance • Long-term improvement • Strengthen corporate
system of corporate value governance FY 2030 Goal • Improve water use efficiency in accordance with • Carried out water resource risk assessments using Aqueduct6
Social change risk • Thorough compliance • Improvement of water use efficiency water resource risks that are unevenly distributed by • Formulated water resource risk analysis charts at each manufacturing
Governance
• Risk identification, evaluation by 15% compared to FY 201 country/region site, and identified watershed issues around the sites
and management
• Promotion of R&D for • Build a system to strengthen compliance within the group • I ntroduced enterprise risk management in July 2020
unmet needs • Strengthen corporate governance to further raise effectiveness • C arried out activities for directors to raise effectiveness
* The situation where productivity does not go up due to the poor condition of the mind and body despite coming to work • B uild a governance system capable of global business • B oard of Directors meeting attendance rate: 100%
development and response to various changes • I mplemented the “Otsuka Group Global Policy for Conflict of Interest”
1. Unmet needs areas defined by Otsuka based on PatientsMap2020JP and PatientsMap2020US, M3 & SSRI
2. Cumulative total since 2019
3. O tsuka Advanced Training for Healthy Aging Supporters: A program that supports pharmacies as health information hubs with strong connections to local communities
4. As of December 31, 2020
5. Including carbon-neutral electricity
6. Water resource risk assessment tool developed by the World Resources Institute
20 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 21A sustainable society
Feature:
Toward Realizing a Sustainable Society with
As a Unique Total Healthcare Company
Social
Physical, Mental and Social Well-being
well-being
Given the climate change is becoming a major social issue, the
Otsuka group has developing and marketed nutritional foods
with a long-term view of the earth’s health. Soybeans are a
part of Japan's traditional food culture, and have been referred
The Otsuka group operates diverse healthcare businesses centered on the Pharmaceutical Business Physical Mental
to as “the meat of the fields.” Having welcomed Daiya Foods of
and the Nutraceutical Business. The combination of diverse businesses enables us to produce well-being well-being
Canada to the Otsuka group in 2017, and we are accelerating
creative products and value. This is why we are able to contribute to people’s health worldwide
the marketing of plant-based food products on a global basis.
through total healthcare that only Otsuka can deliver. In this feature, we describe how the Otsuka By combining new technologies with know-how acquired
group creates value through the combination of diverse businesses, and how the process is through the group’s diverse businesses we are providing new
value that addresses various social needs.
supported by our revenue structure and governance.
Page 38 Daiya
Otsuka’s Soylution
Daiya Foods website, “Who We Are”
https://www.otsuka.co.jp/en/nutraceutical/about/
https://daiyafoods.com/who-we-are/
soylution/about/
In the Pharmaceutical Business, to provide comprehensive
Creative Product Marketing and Value Creation through solutions for healthcare issues we promote various innovative
initiatives that combine our expertise and experience in
the Combination of Diverse Businesses psychiatry and neurology with cutting-edge digital
technologies. ABILIFY MYCITE the world’s first “digital
medicine” facilitates the monitoring of drug adherence and
It is important for us to adapt to change and the needs of the times. This entails an ongoing focus on
behavior in patients. It expands the available options for more
issues relating to changes in the social environment, including lifestyle changes, the super-aging of
suitable therapies and can lead to improved communication
societies, unforeseen major disasters, the spread of infectious diseases, and the need for
among patients, caregivers, and healthcare professionals. In the
environmental conservation. The Otsuka group provides continuous support to address various health
psychiatry area, text information makes up 90% of medical
issues and social needs, leveraging its strengths as a total healthcare company.
records. Otsuka Pharmaceutical and IBM Japan jointly
developed MENTAT, an electronic medical record analysis
Delivering Innovative Products through Synergy and we continue to develop science-based products. At the Saga solution that analyzes text information using text mining
Effects Nutraceuticals Research Institute, we conduct research on the technology1 to support the identification of optimal approaches
relationship between soybean isoflavones and women’s health, in for patients. The Otsuka group continues to take on the
The technologies and expertise accumulated in the IV solutions and
addition to research on exercise and nutrition. We particularly challenge of developing new medical solutions, aiming to
clinical nutrition product businesses since 1946 are the basis for
focused on equol (an ingredient produced when daidzein is improve quality of life for patients, relieve the burden placed on
many of the innovative products that we have developed to date.
metabolized by intestinal bacteria), which we used to develop others, facilitate recovery, and enhance communication in the
For example, the development of POCARI SWEAT was inspired
EQUELLE, a dietary supplement that supports women’s health and psychiatry area, where drug adherence management and
by the idea of a drinkable IV solution that could easily replenish
beauty. At the Otsu Nutraceuticals Research Institute, we conduct repeated relapse and rehospitalization are among the many
fluids and electrolytes lost by the body. Similarly, the development
research under the theme “intestines and nutrition.” This has led issues faced.
of Calorie Mate was inspired by concentrated liquid food regimens
to the development of BODYMAINTÉ, which utilizes plant-derived Life expectancy is extending globally, and one in two people
and conceived as a nutritional food product that could be an
lactic acid bacteria B240 and has evidence-based efficacy in health born in 2007 in the developed world will live past age of 100.
alternative to IV solutions. Both these R&D projects leveraged the
management. This era of the 100-year life-span will call for, mental and social
knowledge and production expertise related to the group’s clinical
well-being, in addition to physical well-being. As social
nutrition products, which in turn has led to the development of Page 38, EQUELLE and BODYMAINTÉ
environments and lifestyles become increasingly diverse, the
unprecedented science-based products. The world’s first
Otsuka group address various issues to improve all three forms
commercial retort pouch food product Bon Curry was also
of well-being and to realize a sustainable society.
developed by applying sterilization-related technology and
1. Electronic medical records in psychiatry contain free descriptions of various
expertise accumulated through the production of IV solutions. information that is difficult to quantify (e.g. medical history and symptoms), and
more than 90% of information is in text from. MENTAT is an electronic medical
In the Nutraceutical Business, we established Japan’s first
record analysis solution that uses natural language processing technology to
private research institute for clinical exercise and nutrition in 1984, organize and analyze electronic medical records in psychiatry, which were previously
HINEX-R, concentrated
considered difficult to aggregate in a database, and presents that information in a
liquid food that was the form that is useful for medical settings and hospital management.
forerunner of Calorie Mate
22 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 23Feature: As a Unique Total Healthcare Company
Business Structure for Achieving the Sustainable Governance System and Global Portfolio human resources familiar with a variety of industries and markets
Management are appointed as outside directors, who bring a third-party
Enhancement of Corporate Value viewpoint to the operations of the Board of Directors. In 2018, the
The composition of the Board of Directors of Otsuka Holdings
Global Business Support Department was established to
includes multiple executive directors that serve concurrently on
strengthen the monitoring of operating companies under the
The Otsuka group's diverse business operations play an important role in its sustainable growth, the management teams of operating companies. The Board
Executive Director in charge of Business Portfolio Management.
including when it is necessary to respond to changes in the business environment. In this section we promotes optimal group-wide investment strategies, and
describe how we analyze risks and opportunities from the perspective of our business structure, and corporate strategies aimed at maximizing synergy, underpinned by Corporate Governance Pages 52-57
the rapid relay of information and close-knit cooperation. Diverse Discussion on Corporate Governance Pages 60-65
how we sustainable enhance our corporate value, as a total healthcare company.
History of Building a Revenue Foundation with Diverse Business Foundation that Enables Cooperation with Local Communities
Diverse Businesses Adaptation to Various Environmental Changes
Since its foundation, the Otsuka group has developed innovative The Pharmaceutical Business and the Nutraceutical Business have The Otsuka group is promoting community-based health maintenance and improvement initiatives, as
products ahead of the times that lead to the resolution of social substantially different business characteristics, and have achieved well as disaster prevention and relief activities. Here we describe activities for supporting people’s
issues relating to healthcare, and has continued to grow while sustainable growth by respectively diversifying various risks in the
health that are only possible for Otsuka as a total healthcare company.
diversifying its businesses. Business diversity has in turn supported business environment. For example, in the Pharmaceutical
this sustainable growth by making the group‘s revenue structure Business, medical expenses and drug prices have been reduced.
Getting Closer to Consumers by Delivering Business and the Nutraceutical Business in disaster prevention and
resilient to risks and ready to act on opportunities. In the 1990s, However, these can be regarded as opportunities that lead to the
New Value response have provided local support closely aligned to consumer
when the Otsuka group launched POCARI SWEAT, the main advancement of health awareness and the dissemination of
In the Nutraceutical Business, in applying the knowledge and needs as a total healthcare company.
revenue source was the Nutraceutical Business. In addition to self-medication. We have multi-faceted business platforms and
expertise we have accumulated through our products, including Healthcare needs vary substantially depending on an individual's
providing pharmaceutical information, medical representatives in ideas unique to a total healthcare company, which enables us to
on such topics as health promotion, prevention of lifestyle-related circumstances, as well as over time and by region. Furthermore,
those days cooperated in group cross-business activities, such as, adapt to rapid changes in the business environment and to take
diseases, dietary education, sports promotion and disaster the global COVID-19 pandemic has substantially transformed
by promoting the installation of vending machines in medical on various challenges envisioning the future.
countermeasures, we promote contribution to local communities. people's lifestyles. It is
institutions. The revenues earned through the Nutraceutical Opportunities and risks in the Pharmaceutical Business Page 32
We have concluded health cooperation agreements with all 47 expected that health issues
Business were invested into research and development in the Opportunities and risks in the Nutraceutical Business Page 39
prefectures in Japan. Through these agreements we implement and social issues will become
Pharmaceutical Business. Through tireless research and
development, we developed ABILIFY, an antipsychotic launched in Revenue performance awareness activities for health promotion, provide speakers for increasingly diverse and
lectures, and supply relief goods in the event of an emergency or complex. The Otsuka group
2002, and other products that have contributed to better health Nutraceutical, consumer products, and other businesses
worldwide. In this way, the Pharmaceutical Business has become (¥ billion) Pharmaceutical business disaster. In recent years, we have also provided new specialized will continue its
1,500 information concerning our Pharmaceutical Business, in addition development through
the main revenue driver of the Otsuka group. The Nutraceutical
to preventive health information focused on nutrition, exercise, future-oriented value
Business has also developed many other long-selling brands,
and recuperation. We provide support as only a total healthcare creation and its focus on
continuously achieving a business profit margin of 10% or higher.
1,000 company can, through disease awareness activities and by helping diverse businesses, thereby
Our IV solutions business, which we have been engaged in since
healthy people stay healthy in both body and mind. At present, enhancing its long-term
soon after our founding, maintains a leading share of more than
mental care needs are increasing, so we also plan to support the corporate value based on
50% in Japan2, and supports the sustainable growth of the group 500
mental health of people in local communities, leveraging our the provision of total
as a stable revenue base. Support for municipalities under the
strengths in the psychiatry and neurology area. healthcare and making a
2 Market defined by Otsuka. Copyright © 2021 IQVIA. Created based on MAT, COVID-19 pandemic (photo provided
December 2020 JPM. Reprinted with permission. 0 In addition, the combined initiatives of the Pharmaceutical social contribution. by Suginami-ku)
1921 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020
Inter-Business Communication and Governance
Working to Resolve the Diversifying Health Issues of Consumers
While diversity is a source for new ideas and innovations, maintaining consistency in the direction of
In the Nutraceutical Business, we have continuously carried out health awareness activities
overall business management across different market environments, cultures, viewpoints, and values is
by leveraging the assets that we acquire through R&D. We have been identifying health
a key issue. The Otsuka group has operates a global portfolio management structure with Otsuka
issues through dialog with local residents, and we continue to relationships support for
Holdings at its core, and a governance structure that disseminates the corporate philosophy and the resolving issues in cooperation with local communities. Based on the relationships of trust
essence of management while ensuring close inter-business communication, with the view to creating that we have established, we have concluded cooperation agreements with all 47
synergistic value from its diverse businesses. prefectures in Japan. Through new initiatives to complement these partnerships with
Naoshi Sato expert strengths from the Pharmaceutical Business, we will help resolve increasingly
Dissemination of the Corporate Philosophy and Senior Vice President diverse consumer health issues. Now we are in the era of the 100-year life span, I sense
philosophy in the business practice of each employee across the Associate General Manager,
the Essence of Management being able to identify social issues and health issues, including what information to
world. At the same time, our executive management sends out Nutraceuticals Division
Director of Societal Health provide, when and how to provide it, will be important in adapting to the continually
The Otsuka group pursues the corporate philosophy "Otsuka- proactive messages concerning the corporate philosophy and Relations Department changing healthcare environment and providing optimal solutions.
people creating new products for better health worldwide." We the essence of management that have been handed down by Director of Promotion and
Advertisement Department
continuously implement various educational activities in order to historical management executives.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical
promote the understanding and dissemination of this corporate Message from the President Pages 6-9
24 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 25Message from the CFO
• Framework of Financial Strategies market), which will complement cash earned from the 4 Global
We will practice business management with an Products. This cash is to be invested in sustainable R&D aimed
awareness of capital cost, and pursue sustainable Returns in excess of cost of capital at strengthening products and our pipeline in the psychiatry and
neurology, oncology, and cardiovascular and renal areas. These
growth and enhanced corporate value by ROIC WACC investments are targeted at creating new value in answer to unmet
maximizing business value and making growth medical needs, including diseases with no existing therapeutic
Cash flow generation Cash allocation drugs; in new concepts that integrate drugs with digital
investments.
technologies, such as ABILIFY MYCITE; and in medical devices
Business Growth that apply new approaches such as ultrasound renal denervation
profit Operating investments
Reinvestment treatment.
cash flows
Yuko Makino Improvement Capital By refining manufacturing technologies, enhancing product
Executive Director, CFO of CCC* expenditure quality and implementing rationalization measures, the IV solutions
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Reduction in business has achieved stable cash creation in the Japanese market.
non-operating assets Dividends
Shareholder To link this to development in overseas growth markets, we are
returns
Debt financing Share buybacks reinvesting and reallocating funds among business areas as well as
regional markets.
In the Nutraceutical Business, we will earn stable cash from the
Progress of the Third Medium-Term Overview of attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, increased
Debt Capacity
3 Major Brands, whose markets are mature, and reallocate funds to
the Plan revenue from the 4 Global Products (ABILIFY MAINTENA, REXULTI,
Optimal capital structure creating new categories and developing new regions. We will build
Overview of the Plan Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE, and LONSURF) has driven business
brands and strengthen manufacturing and marketing structures
performance, leading to progress ahead of the Plan.
The Third Medium-Term Management Plan is positioned as * Cash Conversion Cycle for the 3 Nurture Brands by making proactive investments and
We will continue working to achieve the plan’s targets through
“Advance in the Global Market as a Unique Total Healthcare promoting the value of our products.
various measures adapted to the “new normal.”
Company: Five-Year Growth Phase”. As a provider of total healthcare solutions, from daily health
We are pursuing challenging targets for the 3 Major Brands
In the Pharmaceutical Business and the Nutraceutical Business, maintenance and promotion to the diagnosis and treatment
(POCARI SWEAT, Nutrition & Sante brand, and Nature Made) and Maximizing Existing Business Value through ROIC
we will maximize existing business value and create new value, of diseases, the Otsuka group emphasizes social contribution
for the 3 Nurture Brands (BODYMAINTÉ, EQUELLE, and Daiya) in Management
as well as conduct business management with a corporate- through innovation. We are always ready to take on challenges
the Nutraceutical Business. In fiscal 2020, in line with heightened
wide awareness of capital cost, and thereby maintain sustainable During the Second Medium-Term Management Plan, we in investments that are aligned with our corporate philosophy,
health awareness, mainly with regard to disease prevention, our
growth while making growth investments and ensuring returns to advanced the diversification of our revenue structure in order and that will help us to enhance our corporate value and social
brands in the Nutraceutical Business were favorably received, with
shareholders. to counteract the patent expiration of ABILIFY. Doing so led to contribution.
many consumers selecting Nature Made and Daiya products. In
business profit in fiscal 2020 that set a record high since our In principle, these growth investments are funded through
particular, revenue from Daiya plant-based food products has been
Business Progress listing on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and the reinvestment of cash returns from businesses, and from
increasing faster than market growth.
Performance targets for the Pharmaceutical Business under the five- Our Nutraceutical Business involves diverse products and business performance recovered to the level before the patent the stable cash supply structure established within the Otsuka
year period of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan are set at business fields, which makes it adaptable to rapid changes in the expiration. Since then, however, factors relating to the COVID-19 group, centering on Europe, North America and Japan. We make
increasing revenue by 200 billion yen from the 4 Global Products external environment and contributes to stable business operations pandemic, including people staying at home, have had a certain decisions based on achieving the optimal capital structure without
and by 90 billion yen from New Products that are scheduled for in the medium to long term. impact on our performance. From the viewpoint of business overreliance on any particular source of funding, taking into
launch. The plan calls for revenue of 1,080 billion yen in 2023, its continuity, this situation has renewed our appreciation of the consideration business risks, credit ratings, expected rate of return
final fiscal year. Plan for the Middle Year (Fiscal 2021) of the Third importance of diversity in our business portfolio, which combines among investors, and other factors. We have secured diverse
In fiscal 2020, IV solutions and certain therapeutic drugs were Medium-Term Management Plan the Pharmaceutical Business and the Nutraceutical Business, in funding means in case the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is
affected by reduced visits to medical institutions, fewer surgical mitigating business risks in emergency situations and in being able prolonged, including the issuance of corporate bonds, commercial
operations, lower hospital bed occupancy, and other factors Fiscal 2021 is the middle year of the Third Medium-Term to make investments for sustainable growth. paper, and funding from financial institutions through commitment
Management Plan. We plan to achieve revenue for the year of We have set a standard for group-wide ROIC of at least 1% lines.
1,423 billion yen, revised downward by 5.1% from the initial above the cost of capital (5.5%). In addition to measures for The corporate department supports cost efficiency and
• Third Medium-Term Management Plan target of 1,500 billion yen. maximizing business returns, we are reviewing and improving smooth business operations by establishing a group-wide business
We plan to achieve business profit of 190 billion yen, revised business asset efficiency, and have set KPIs according to business foundation. Specific activities include promoting business and
FY 2023 upward by 18.8% from the initial target, based on the growth of characteristics. Furthermore, by introducing incentives linked cost efficiency by expanding shared services and establishing IT
•• BR uev sie nn eu sse profi ¥ t1 ¥,7 20 00 0 b bi il ll li io on n (average annual growth rate 10.0% or more) t fh are b4 e eG nlo mba al k P inro gd su tec ats d a y n pd r ot gh re e N ssu .traceutical Business, and have so t to h rb ou us gin he os us t p ther ef o gr rm oua pn ,c e th, ew ree b a yr e m i an xs it mill ii zn ig n gR O exIC ist m ina gn ba ug se inm ee sn s t v alue. i cn ef nra test rr inu gct ou nre J f ao pr a n no , n a- nm d a sn tau nfa dc at ru dr ii zn ing g o pp uer ra chti ao sn ins go f a t th ne o g nr -oup
• ROE 8.0 % or higher Measures for Enhancing Corporate Value Framework of Financial Strategies to Support New m pra on mu ofa tec stu ar sin seg t d ee ffp ica ir et nm ce yn bt ys. rT eh vie e wco inrp go cr ra ote ss d -se hp aa rr et hm oe ldn it n a gl ss ,o w hich
1,700
(¥ billion) To achieve our goals under the Third Medium-Term Management Value Creation are held in accordance with Japan’s Corporate Governance Code,
1,500
1,396 1,422 Plan of maximizing existing business value and creating new value, During the Third Medium-Term Management Plan, we aim to and by utilizing or selling idle assets.
1,292
we consider it important to strike a balance between organic maximize returns on a cash basis and optimize the allocation of Our basic policy for shareholder returns is to maintain stable
216 200 growth of existing businesses and sustainable investment in new investment with a focus on our balance sheet. We will do so by dividends. While emphasizing the continuity and stability of
120
77..33187 88..22
1 0 %
or
hig 88h ..00er
oorr hhiigghheerr
v wa il du ee ac wre aa rt eio nn e.
s
sIn os ft il cli an pg
it
b alu cs oin se
t
s ts
h
m roa un ga hg oe um
t
e thn et w Oi tt sh
u
ka
a
c go rr op uo pra te- s mtr ae nn ag gt eh men ei nn tg
,
p enro ad bu lic nt
g
l i ufe sc ty oc l le
in
m
k
a an da ig vee rm sie fin et
d
a pn rd
o
fb itu ss tin rue cs ts
u
p reo r tt ofo lio d di ev pid ee nn dd ins,
g
w oe
n
w pril ol fc ito n gs roid wer
t
ha ,d ad pit pio lyn ina gl s ah a cr oe mho pl rd ee hr
e
r ne st iu vern as
p proach
66..00 will enable us to maximize cash returns from existing businesses, new growth investments. by securing sufficient cash returns to pursue growth investments, a
44..77 allocate funds to growth investments, and strengthen our financial In the Pharmaceutical Business, to further our key strategies solid financial standing and the optimal capital structure.
foundation, thereby allowing stable and ongoing shareholder with regard to cash allocation we will first generate additional In coming years, we will continue to pursue business return and
returns. cash through cost optimization (controlling the ratio of selling, capital efficiency by promoting measures for business management
2018A 2019A 2020A 2021E* 2023E
general and administrative expenses for products already on the with a corporate-wide awareness of capital cost.
Revenue Business profit Average annual growth rate ROE
* Announced May 2019
26 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 27How We Will Grow
For more details about our health-related initiatives, visit:
Further Advancing as a Unique Total https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/society/health/
Healthcare Company
Among the Otsuka group’s materialities, we set specific goals on the three health-related social
The Otsuka group's operations encompass two core businesses: the Pharmaceutical Business,
issues (unmet medical and health needs, spread of infectious diseases, and nutritional needs)
which provides comprehensive health support from diagnosis to treatment of diseases, and the
under the Third Medium-Term Management Plan (ending in fiscal 2023), and measures are being
Nutraceutical Business, which contributes to maintaining and improving the health of healthy
taken toward their resolution.
people. Going beyond the boundaries of a conventional pharmaceutical company, we aim to be
an indispensable contributor to people’s health worldwide, leveraging our strengths as a unique
Social Issue 1: Unmet Medical and Health Needs
total healthcare company.
Our Goal: Contribute to the resolution of unmet needs
Business Strategy: Existing Business Value Maximization and New Value Creation FY 2023 Goals FY 2020 Progress
• Strengthen strategic initiatives for growth drivers four Global Products in the Pharmaceutical Business;
• Promotion of R&D for unmet needs • In areas with unmet needs1
three Major Brands and three Nurture Brands in the Nutraceutical Business Address unmet needs in the psychiatry and neurology areas New development projects: 9 projects2
Create first-in-class products in the oncology area Late-phase development projects: 9 projects2
• Launch and nurture new drivers for sustainable growth in Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Businesses
Create first-in-class products in the cardiovascular and renal area
• In areas with unmet needs
Performance Target: Business Profit CAGR of 10% or More New development projects: 10 or more
Late-phase development projects advancing to the next phase:
• Organic growth of mainstay products and brands in Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Businesses 30 or more
• Actively invest in R&D to continue creating new drugs that will drive revenue during and beyond the next
1. Unmet needs areas defined by Otsuka based on PatientsMap2020JP and PatientsMap2020US, M3 & SSRI
medium-term management plan 2. Cumulative total since 2019
Revenue: ¥1,700 billion
Third Medium-Term Social Issue 2: Spread of infectious Diseases
Management Plan Targets Business profit: ¥200 billion (CAGR of 10% or more)
(FY 2023) Our Goal: Eradication of Tuberculosis
ROE: 8.0% or higher
FY 2023 Goals FY 2020 Progress
• P rovide DELTYBA (generic name: delamanid) for more than 60,000 • DELTYBA
Progress of the Third Medium-Term Revenue by Business Segment cases Provided DELTYBA for 40,000 cases in more than 110 countries/
Management Plan (FY 2020) • S upply DELTYBA for pediatric patients regions
• Launch a clinical trial for new treatment regimen Acquired the indication of DELTYBA for children in Europe in
2.2%
Overview of Fiscal 2020 • Increase access to DELTYBA by collaborating with partners October 2020
7.2%
R-pharm acquired marketing approval for DELTYBA in Russia in
In fiscal 2020, the second year of the Third Medium-Term Management
May 2020
Plan, though the COVID-19 pandemic had a certain impact, we took Implemented supply through the Global Drug Facility (GDF) of
Pharmaceutical business
23.5% 2020 the Stop TB Partnership and alliance partners
heightened health awareness as a growth opportunity. By leveraging 1,422.8 Nutraceutical business • Participated in Pan-TB collaboration and accelerated the
Consumer business
our true value as a unique total healthcare company, we achieved billion yen 67.1% development of new TB treatment regimen
Other businesses • Continued participation in the Global Health Innovative Technology
revenue of 1,422.8 billion yen, an increase of 1.9% from the previous
Fund (GHIT Fund)
year, maintaining solid growth. Furthermore, business profit was 216.9
billion yen, an increase of 15.9% from the previous year, setting a
record high since our stock listing. Social Issue 3: Nutritional needs
Our Goal: Creation of a System for the Realization of a Healthful Life
Third Medium-Term Management Plan:
Progress to date
announcement as of May 2019
FY 2023 Goals FY 2020 Progress
CAGR
(¥ billion) 2019A 2020A 2021E 2023E 2018-2023 • Challenge new categories and new areas • Further increased the supply of plant-based food products by
• Create new systems and reinforce existing systems for realizing starting operations at a new manufacturing site
Revenue 1,396.2 1,422.8 1,500.0 1,700.0 5.6% healthy lifestyles • Executed cooperation agreements with all 47 prefectures in Japan
• Create new concepts and products keeping an eye on changes in promoted collaboration in health and other fields
Business profit before R&D
403.0 433.7 390.0 460.0 7.9% environments • Continued to hold the Women’s Health Seminars
expenses
• 30th anniversary of the Otsuka Health Comic Library
R&D expenses 215.8 216.8 230.0 260.0 6.1% • Cumulative total OATHAS registrants: Approximately 20,000
• Launched the Kenko Shacho (“Healthy President”) service
Business profit 187.2 216.9 160.0 200.0 10.6%
ROE 7.3% 8.2% 6.0% or higher 8.0% or higher —
28 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 29contributed to the resolving of unmet needs following approval LONSURF
Pharmaceutical Business
for the additional of indicational for the syndrome of inappropriate
trifluridine/tipiracil | Anticancer agent
antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) in June 2020.
Backed by strengthened information provision as a treatment
The Third Medium-Term Management Plan calls on us to Progress of four Global Products In May 2018, JYNARQUE was launched in the U.S. as a
option for unresectable advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer,
maximize existing business value and create new value, to For the four Global Products, we expanded regions and added treatment for ADPKD. Efforts to raise disease awareness and
and approval for the additional indication of unresectable
challenge new frontiers by doing what only Otsuka can do, indications overseas, and worked to increase awareness of make clinical trial data available have helped spread recognition
advanced or recurrent gastric cancer in Japan, the U.S. and Europe,
and to generate innovation from creative and diverse research convenient dosage formulations of our drugs. Revenue in fiscal of both the disease and the drug, leading to a steady increase in
prescriptions for LONSURF have been increasing. In the U.S. in
platforms. We will take advantage of this strategic framework to 2020 rose 14.5% from the previous year, making a considerable prescriptions. In Europe also, JINARC is sold in approximately. 20
particular, where home treatment and the use of oral anticancer
position our four Global Products—ABILIFY MAINTENA, REXULTI, contribution to growth in consolidated performance. countries and the number of patients receiving treatment through agent are recommended given the COVID-19 pandemic, and
Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE and LONSURF—as growth drivers. We the drug is on the increase.
LONSURF is being selected as one such oral therapy. To further
will further accelerate growth, targeting an increase in revenue by Revenue Plan for the four Global Products and New Products
maximize its value, we are currently pursuing promotion to lines of
fiscal 2023 of 200 billion yen from Global Products, as well as 90 (¥ billion) four Global Products New Products therapy and clinical studies for treatment combinations.
billion yen from New Products scheduled to be launched during 1,000
2018A 2023E
the current Medium-Term Management Plan. 800 +¥290 billion
The Otsuka group focuses on unmet medical and health needs
as a social issue To this end, in fiscal 2020, we began eight new 600 b¥ il5 li7 o0 n Growing the North American Oncology Business
development projects to the next phase in the unmet needs areas 400 Approx. In 2020, Taiho Oncology had a strong year despite the COVID-19 pandemic. LONSURF sales grew
¥280
(nine projects since fiscal 2019), and advanced three late-phase billion significantly in metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) and metastatic gastric cancer, and the pandemic
200
development projects to the next phase (nine projects since fiscal helped reveal the value of oral therapies as treatment options for cancer patients. Also, Taiho
2019), in unmet needs areas.* 0 Oncology launched INQOVI into the market for myelodysplastic syndromes and is now a multi-
2018A2019A2020A 2021E 2022E 2023E 2024E 2025E 2026E 2027E 2028E product commercial organization focused on both solid and liquid tumors.
* Unmet needs areas defined by Otsuka based on PatientsMap2020JP and
PatientsMap2020US, M3 & SSRI 3rd MTM Plan 4th MTM Plan For the remainder of the medium-term plan, we are planning for continued growth in North
Timothy Whitten America based on the following: potential LONSURF growth through a clinical trial life-cycle
management plan studying LONSURF in treatment combinations and earlier in the course of mCRC;
FY 2021 Taiho Oncology, Inc.
(¥ billion) FY 2020 revenue Year-on-year revenue plan Growth rate President and CEO completing initial INQOVI launch; potentially commercializing new compounds originating from
in-house discovery programs; and aggressively looking for external near-to-market in-licensing
ABILIFY MAINTENA 116.0 +14.0% 128.0 +10.3%
opportunities.
REXULTI 104.6 +16.5% 110.5 +5.6% Additionally, our development organization continues to plan and implement clinical trials
focused on exciting compounds originating from the Tsukuba Research Center.
Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE 168.3 +12.9% 170.5 +1.3%
LONSURF 40.7 +18.1% 43.5 +6.8%
Total 429.7 +14.5% 452.5 +5.3%
DELTYBA
ABILIFY MAINTENA Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE The Otsuka group considers the spread of infectious diseases as a social issue, and targets the eradication of tuberculosis (TB),
aripiprazole | Antipsychotic long-acting injectable tolvaptan | V2-receptor antagonist one of the infectious diseases with the largest death toll in the present day. More than ten million people develop TB and approx.
1.5 million die of TB annually. As the culmination of more than 30 years of R&D, the Otsuka group developed DELTYBA, one of
As a global treatment for schizophrenia, there is increased Samsca is highly evaluated in various guidelines in Japan, and
the world’s first new TB drugs in about half a century. As of December 2020, it is available in more than 110 countries/regions as
awareness of this drug’s efficacy claims and convenient dosage prescriptions are increasing for the treatment of cardiac edema
an important option for patients with multidrug-resistant TB. In October 2020, it was approved for an additional pediatric
formulation. Following U.S. approval in 2017 and Japanese and hepatic edema. Prescriptions for the treatment of autosomal
indication in Europe. Eradicating tuberculosis is still a major challenge worldwide. In support of that effort, Otsuka has been
approval in 2020 for an additional indication for the treatment of dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), an intractable renal
working to expand access to DELTYBA, and since 2016 has shipped enough doses to treat more than 40,000 cases.
bipolar disorder, prescriptions are increasing. disease, are increasing owing to the promotion of proper use
guidelines and disease awareness activities. The drug has also
REXULTI Supply from Stop TB Partnership‘s GDF (since February 2016)
brexpiprazole | Atypical antipsychotic Global operation as an ADPKD drug Participation in access programs implemented by countries and public international organizations
• endTB program conducted by United (a global health agency)
Marketed as an adjuvant treatment for major depressive disorder
and as a treatment for schizophrenia in the U.S., this drug is highly • Access programs implemented by the governments of South Africa and India
evaluated for its efficacy and safety as a new treatment option for Access through alliance partners
both diseases. In Japan, where the drug is marketed as a treatment • Alliance with R-Pharm JSC (Russia, CIS, etc.)
for schizophrenia, prescriptions have grown significantly. In Europe,
Launched in approx. Contributed to approx. • Alliance with Mylan N.V. (now Viatris Inc.) (India, South Africa, and other high-burden countries)
sales began from April 2019. 20 countries 6,900 patients
Access through the compassionate use program1
At present, several clinical trials are under way with the aim of
• Supplied to more than 200 patients in 19 countries2
further contributing to treating unmet needs in the psychiatry and Contributed to approx.
neurology area. 6,300 patients 1. Public programs that provides exceptional access to yet-to-be-approved drugs on an For more details about our TB initiatives, visit:
exceptional basis to patients with serious or life-threatening diseases
2. Ghosh S et al., Eur Respir J. 2020 Nov 26; 2002483. https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/society/health/
Estimated number of ADPKD patients pharmaceutical.html
U.S.: 140,000, Europe: 205,000, Japan: 31,000
(As of March 31, 2021, in-house survey)
30 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 31Future of Pharmaceutical Business
Opportunities and Risks implemented in response to medical cost inflation, which has Agitation Associated with Dementia of the Alzheimer’s Type
Risks that affect the environment surrounding the Pharmaceutical become a serious issue worldwide. Despite these risks, the Otsuka It is estimated that approximately 3.76 million people (estimated 2021)* in the U.S. have Alzheimer’s disease, and it is thought
Business operating include those relating to reduced visits o group is developing its multiple pipelines in multiple areas in order that a large number of those patients exhibit some form of behavioral disorder (agitation), such as excessive motor activity, and
medical institutions and delayed clinical development due to the to contribute to the resolution of social issues, through initiatives verbal or physical aggression. This kind of disorder places a burden on patients and caregivers, impacting quality of life. The
global the COVID-19 pandemic, intensifying competition, paradigm targeting with diseases with high unmet needs. Otsuka group aims to market the world’s first treatment for agitation associated with dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. Clinical
shifts in treatment due to technological innovation, and policies trials are under way on two drugs with different mechanisms of action, brexpiprazole (REXULTI) and AVP-786.
We hope that these therapeutic development projects will contribute not only to the physical well-being of patients, but
Strengths Weaknesses also to the mental well-being and social well-being including caregivers, and will become a solution for the realization of a
• Providing total healthcare solutions, from diagnosis to treatment • Management personnel with advanced skills for diversifying sustainable society.
• Global R&D and marketing assets in the psychiatry and neurology businesses
* ©2021 DR/Decision Resources, LLC. All rights reserved. Reproduction, distribution, transmission or publication is prohibited.
area, and the cardiovascular and renal area • Strengthening portfolio management related to patent expiration
• Presence in the oncology area for mainstay products
S W
• Stable profit in the IV solutions business trength eakness
• Originality free from fixed ideas
Opportunities Threats
• Advances in science and technology, and the progress of basic • Global drug price control policies and promotion of generic drug
research related to diseases use due to medical cost inflation
Status of Psychiatry and Neurology Pipelines
• Creation of synergies in therapeutic drugs through advances in • Intensifying competition in core areas (As of March 31, 2021)
digital technologies • Restrictions on sales promotion activities due to stricter regulations
Country/ Development
• Promotion of precision mediciOnes to penha pnce o eff rica tcy unity • Pandemic related to the spread of infectious diseT aseshreat Pipeline Features Indication Region status
brexpiprazole Dopamine partial Major depressive disorder Japan/Europe Phase III
agonist
Schizophrenia China Phase III
Agitation associated with Japan/U.S./
Future initiatives With a focus on the psychiatry and neurology, oncology, and Phase III
dementia of the Alzheimer’s type Europe
In the Pharmaceutical Business, we are promoting various measures cardiovascular and renal areas –, where satisfaction with current
Post-traumatic stress disorder U.S. Phase III
toward the resolution of issues. We are taking on challenges in treatment methods for many diseases remains with low –, we aim
new areas that only Otsuka can do, resolving unmet needs, and to create innovative new drugs through unique approaches that Borderline personality disorder U.S. Phase II
generating innovations based on creative and diverse research leverage the synergy of our diverse businesses. Schizophrenia; long-acting
U.S. Phase I
injectable
platforms.
aripiprazole Dopamine partial Bipolar disorder Japan Approved*
(long-acting injectable) agonist
Schizophrenia China Filed
OPC-64005 Serotonin, Major depressive disorder
Psychiatry and Neurology norepinephrine and
Japan Phase II
dopamine reuptake
Aiming to become a top-class global player in the psychiatry and neurology area, with a inhibitor
high-potential pipeline and product portfolio
AVP-786 NMDA receptor Agitation associated with
U.S./Europe Phase III
antagonist; serotonin dementia of the Alzheimer’s type
Psychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and treatments have yet to be established. This is because their and norepinephrine
reuptake inhibitor; Negative symptoms of
U.S. Phase II/III
major depressive disorder can develop at any age and affect causes and mechanisms are not fully understood, which makes sigma-1 receptor schizophrenia
a person’s social life, career, and studies. Moreover, there are the discovery of new drugs extremely difficult. The Otsuka group agonist
Traumatic brain injury U.S. Phase II
concerns about the increase in Alzheimer's disease as the world entered the psychiatry and neurology area in the 1970s and has
Intermittent explosive disorder U.S. Phase II
population ages. These diseases affect not just the patient’s continued to take on the challenge of new drug discovery with
quality of life; they also place a strain on family members and the goal of contributing to medical needs. centanafadine Norepinephrine, Attention deficit hyperactivity
dopamine and disorder
caregivers, as well as on the healthcare economy. There are still We have a high-potential pipeline and product lineup, and U.S. Phase III
serotonin reuptake
many psychiatric and neurological diseases for which satisfactory aim to become a top-class global player in this area. inhibitor
pizuglanstat PGD synthase inhibitor Duchenne muscular dystrophy Japan Phase III
fremanezumab Anti-CGRP antibody Migraine Japan Filed
OPC-214870 — Epilepsy U.S. Phase I
Development projects in unmet needs areas as defined by Otsuka based on PatientsMap2020JP and PatientsMap2020US, M3 & SSRI
Project that has advanced in or after fiscal 2020
* Approved September 2020, brand name ABILIFY prolonged release aqueous suspension for IM injection
32 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 33Oncology Status of Oncology Pipelines
(As of March 31, 2021)
Maximizing business value through proprietary drug discovery platforms and initiatives for new
Development
Pipeline Features Indication Country/Region
drug discovery technologies and methodologies status
U.S. Approved*
Taiho Pharmaceutical has a broad portfolio supported by its Meanwhile, centering on external collaborations, Otsuka
Myelodysplastic syndromes
proprietary drug discovery platform technologies, including Pharmaceutical is taking on the challenge of establishing new Japan Phase I
ASTX727 DNA methyltransferase inhibitor
proprietary biochemical modulation technology uniquely developed therapies with a focus on the future. This includes creating synergies
Europe Phase III
its history, as well as the Cysteinomix drug discovery technology 1 with new modalities, in areas such as gene-modified T cell therapies. Acute myeloid leukemia
U.S. Phase I
enabling specific covalent modification of therapeutic targets, and Individual group companies are combining their accumulated
fragment-based drug discovery technology2 established by Astex assets in their fields of their strengths to bolster global operations Solid tumors, lymphomas U.S. Phase II
tolinapant IAP inhibitor
Pharmaceuticals. The company is also accelerating development of and enhance business value. T-cell lymphoma Japan Phase I
drugs to resolve unmet needs, working with pharmaceutical 1. Platform for discovering compounds that cause specifically from a covalent bonding
tolinapant + IAP inhibitior+ DNA
collaborators. Furthermore, it looks for opportunities for with reactive amino acid residues (mainly cysteine residues) of protein as potential Acute myeloid leukemia U.S. Phase I
ASTX727 methyltransferase inhibitor
drug target proteins
collaboration with promising startups through corporate venture
2. Technology to create new compounds through molecular design. It clarifies
ASTX029 ERK1/2 inhibitor Solid tumors U.S. Phase I/II
capitals, thereby expanding its development pipelines in cancer interactions between small-molecular fragments showing pharmacological activity
immunotherapy and other areas, and acquiring innovative drug that cannot be measured in high-throughput screening and large molecule proteins ASTX295 MDM2 inhibitor Solid tumors U.S. Phase I/II
with complicated 3D structures that have been implicated in diseases and are
discovery platform technologies. potential drug targets. ASTX030 DNA methyltransferase inhibitor Myelodysplastic syndromes Japan/U.S. Phase I
Cardiovascular and Renal System Chronic myeloid leukemia,
ponatinib BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitor China Phase II
acute lymphoblastic leukemia
Creating first-in-class products through new drug discovery technologies and medical devices
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma Japan Phase I
In the cardiovascular and renal area, in addition to strengthening unique medical devices, drawing on our innovative technology OPB-111077 —
Hematological cancers U.S. Phase I
our proprietary drug discovery platforms, we also plan to actively and our strengths in drugs and clinical research. Ultrasound renal
make growth investments, examples of which have included our denervation treatment is a new therapy expected to decrease OPB-171775 — Solid tumors Japan Phase I
business alliances with Akebia Therapeutics for vadadustat and high blood pressure in cases that cannot be effectively treated Japan/U.S./
TAS-114 dUTPase inhibitor Non-small cell lung cancer Phase II
with Aurinia Pharmaceuticals for voclosporin, and the acquisition with existing drugs, and our ultrasound renal denervation system Europe
of Visterra, a company with a renal disease-related pipeline. has Breakthrough Device Designation from the U.S. FDA. We Osteosarcoma Japan Phase III
Otsuka group also strive to find solutions to unmet needs which will aiming to create first-in-class products through new drug pamufetinib Multi-kinase inhibitor
Prostate cancer Japan Phase II
are not resolved by drugs. We are advancing development of discovery technologies and medical devices.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumor Japan Phase III
pimitespib HSP90 inhibitor
Solid tumors U.S./Europe Phase I
Strengths in Drug Discovery at Otsuka Pharmaceutical TAS-117 — Solid tumors Japan Phase I
Otsuka Pharmaceutical has a global satellite research structure with sites in Japan, the U.K., the Japan/U.S./
Cholangiocarcinoma Phase III
Europe
U.S., and China, thereby pursuing drug discovery through diverse modalities including small-
molecular drugs, antibodies, and cell & gene therapies. The company's small-molecular drug Breast cancer U.S./Europe Phase II
futibatinib FGFR inhibitor
discovery platforms have created first-in-class drugs in the central nervous system, cardiovascular Japan/U.S./
FGFR aberrations cancers Phase II
system, and renal areas. In addition, Astex in the U.K. has acquired approval for several new Europe
oncology drugs through fragment-based drug discovery based on the protein structural analysis Urothelial cancer U.S./Europe Phase II
Toshiki Sudo and computational chemistry. Visterra in the U.S. is engaged in antibody drug discovery based on
TAS0313 Peptide vaccine Urothelial cancer Japan Phase II
Executive Director its proprietary antibody preparation technology. Otsuka Pharmaceutical aims to contribute to
(Research and Intellectual global healthcare by creating innovative drugs through open innovations with the academia and TAS3681 — Prostate cancer U.S./Europe Phase I
Property)
biotech in and outside Japan. TAS0728 — Solid tumors U.S./Europe Phase I/II
Otsuka Pharmaceutical
TAS0612 — Solid tumors U.S./Europe Phase I
Status of Cardiovascular and Renal Pipelines TAS1440 LSD1 inhibitor Acute myeloid leukemia U.S. Phase I
(As of March 31, 2021)
TAS0953 — Solid tumors Japan Phase I/II
Development
Pipeline Features Indication Country/Region status TAS1553 — Acute myeloid leukemia U.S. Phase I
Syndrome of inappropriate trabectedin
tolvaptan V2-receptor antagonist
antidiuretic hormone secretion
Japan Approved*
(YONDELIS)
— Ovarian cancer Japan Phase I
OPC-61815 V2-receptor antagonist Cardiac edema Japan Filed canerpaturev Oncolytic virus Pancreatic cancer Japan Phase I
U.S. Filed TBI-1301 NY-ESO-1 siTCR™ gene therapies Synovial sarcoma Japan Phase I/II
vadadustat HIF-prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor Renal anemia
Europe Phase III TBI-1501 CD19 CAR gene therapies Acute lymphoblastic leukemia Japan Phase I/II
VIS649 Anti-APRIL monoclonal IgA nephropathy Japan/U.S./Europe Phase II Chemotherapy-induced nausea
Ultrasound renal Cauterization of renal sympathetic
fosnetupitant NK1 receptor antagonist
and vomiting
Japan Filed
High blood pressure Japan/U.S./Europe —
denervation system nerves (medical device)
Development projects in unmet needs areas as defined by Otsuka based on PatientsMap2020JP and PatientsMap2020US, M3 & SSRI
Development projects in unmet needs areas as defined by Otsuka based on PatientsMap2020JP and PatientsMap2020US, M3 & SSRI Project that has advanced in or after fiscal 2020
Project that has advanced in or after fiscal 2020 * Approved July 2020, brand name INQOVI
* Approved June 2020, brand name Samsca
34 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 35Nature Made
Nutraceutical Business
Pharmavite is a leading company in the U.S. supplement U.S. retail
11
Multi-
12
Leading
13
sales share vitamin sales choice
industry. Under the Nature Made supplement brand, Pharmavite in Japan of U.S.
The Third Medium-Term Management Plan calls for revenue Revenue Plan for three Major Brands and three Nurture Brands pharmacists
develops and markets products free from flavorings, colorings No. No. No.
growth of 40 billion yen in the three Major Brands—POCARI
(¥ billion) three Major Brands three Nurture Brands and preservatives. With a lineup of high-quality supplements,
SWEAT, Nature Made, and N&S—and 40 billion yen in the three 500 key items of which have been verified as meeting the strict
2018A 2023E
Nurture Brands—BODYMAINTÉ, EQUELLE and Daiya . +¥80 billion quality criteria set by the United States Pharmacopeia (USP), 1. B ased on total U.S. retail sales aggregate data reported through the
400
Furthermore, we are working to maintain a high-profit ¥310 Nature Made is a leading choice of U.S. pharmacists. Scantrack service in the supplement vitamin category for the 52-week
period ended December 27, 2020. ©2020 Information Resources Inc.
structure capable of a sustained business profit margin of 10% 300 Ap ¥2p 3ro 0x. billion Self-medication is increasingly prevalent in the U.S., and in 2. I NTAGE SRI Health Food Multivitamin Market, cumulative market share
or higher by creating new product concepts in anticipation of billion recent years related demand has continued to increase, driven by by brand for January–December 2020
200
changes in business and other landscapes and by expanding into factors that include medical cost inflation. The U.S. supplement 3. US News & World Report and Pharmacy Times 2020 Survey: Product
categories: Letter Vitamins (A–E), Coenzyme Q10, Omega-3/Fish Oil,
new categories and new regions. 100 market continues to grow at a CAGR of
Flax Seed Oil, Herbal Supplements, Mood Health Supplements, Diabetic
5.1%*. Our sales substantially increased in Multivitamins, Cholesterol Management—Natural, Garlic Supplements
0
2020 due to heightened health awareness,
2018A2019A2020A 2021E 2022E 2023E 2024E 2025E 2026E 2027E 2028E
3rd MTM Plan 4th MTM Plan mainly with regard to disease prevention, YoY Change in Nature Made Revenue
under the COVID-19 pandemic. We aim
20% 18%
to turn Nature Made into a 100-billion-
3rd MTM Plan
65 yen brand by developing products that
(¥ billion) Business profit (left)
10% 8%
New Products Global New Businesses 60 Business profit margin incorporate cutting-edge science and by
Operations
taking on challenges in new categories. 1%
0%
50 * Euromonitor International of the U.K. -4%
Business profit margin 40 43 42 42 Nutrition & Santé (N&S) -10%
2019 2019 2020 2020
Maintain at 10% or higher 14.4% The organic food market in Europe has grown in recent first half second half first half second half
12.7% 12.8% 12.6% 12.7%
years as more health-conscious consumers demand safer and
more trustworthy foods. Trends such as “free-from” foods1 and
Build a resilient business foundation health foods and other products in more than 40 countries
20 3 Nurture Brands alternative products are attracting the attention of the millennial around the world, centered on Europe. At each of its
generation and others. In fiscal 2020, the European meat-free
manufacturing sites, N&S has obtained ISO 14000 and ISO
food market was worth approximately 1.8 billion U.S. dollars,
2nd MTM Plan 3 Major Brands having grown rapidly over the past five years at a CAGR of 12000, as well as IFS certification, an international standard
Review management assets that for auditing food manufactures, and conducts production
12.3%, while the gluten-free food market was worth around 2.1
0
underpin the value chain with concern for the environment and a high level of quality
billion U.S. dollars after
2018A 2019A 2020A 2021E 2023E
management. In 2017, N&S built a new factory for gluten-free
expanding at a CAGR of
products in France and strengthened the development of free-
12.3%2.
from products to meet evolving consumer needs.
N&S, a health
Progress of three Major Brands Sports Beverage Market (Asia-Pacific*)
and nutritional food 1. Food products free from specific ingredients; foods that do not contain gluten are
POCARI SWEAT (US$ million) referred to as gluten-free products
company, provides 2. Euromonitor International of the U.K. (Retail Value RSP)
Overseas, mainly in Asia, sales volume for POCARI SWEAT, a 4,000
beverage for replenishing fluids and electrolytes, is increasing 3,000
due to awareness activities tailored to the characteristics
2,000
and needs of each region. The CAGR* of the Asia-Pacific
sports beverage market (excluding Japan) was 2.1% for the 1,000
Pharmavite Transformation Continues in 50th Anniversary Year
period 2016 to 2020. We intend to outpace recent market
0
growth, forecasting a CAGR of 9.4% in overseas revenue for 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 At Pharmavite, we’re continuing to build for the future and we’re ahead of our Medium-Term
POCARI SWEAT during the period of the Third Medium-Term China Indonesia Thailand Philippines Vietnam Management Plan as our transformation accelerates. We are shifting toward new ways in
Management Plan. Hong Kong Myanmar Others business model and mindset, while staying true to our foundational values rooted in science and
Furthermore, given higher levels of health consciousness, Euromonitor International of the U.K. * Excluding Japan quality. That means our business model is transitioning from a historically retail-focused company
we are strengthening our global sales structure to expand into to further leveraging science. This is a unique moment where consumers are focused on
new regions where we expect growth in demand for health proactive maintenance of their health and wellness. Pharmavite is seeking to meet that need by
beverages. POCARI SWEAT Jeff Boutelle leveraging science, technology and innovation as a leader in preventative solutions. On the
In the future, we aim to grow POCARI SWEAT into a overseas revenue plan CEO, Pharmavite LLC occasion of Pharmavite’s 50th anniversary, we reflect back on our founders’ philosophy of
100-billion-yen brand by further enhancing brand strength nutrition as the basis for proactive maintenance of health and wellness, while focusing on our
CAGR
through original marketing that thoroughly communicates the future of bringing the gift of health to life with our Nature Made, MegaFood, EQUELLE and
(2018–2023)
product concept. Nurish by Nature Made brands.
9.4
*Euromonitor International of the U.K. %
36 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 37Progress of three Nurture Brands Future of Nutraceutical Business
BODYMAINTÉ
Opportunities and Risks issues. Utilizing expertise honed in its Pharmaceutical Business,
BODYMAINTÉ was commercialized based on research conducted
The Nutraceutical Business involves risks such as stagnation in the Otsuka group will develop original science-based products
by Otsuka Pharmaceutical on the themes of “intestines and
the global economy due to the COVID-19 pandemic, intensifying that support each person’s aspirations to live a healthy life. We
nutrition” and “exercise and nutrition,” and contains B240, a
competition, a diminishing market in Japan due to population will continue to identify underlying health needs by examining
proprietary lactic acid bacteria. Focusing on health management
decline, and sluggish markets due to unseasonable weather. social issues, and develop our business with a focus on functional
for athletes exposed to risks related to intense training, we
Despite these risks, we pursue the solutions to emerging health beverages and functional food products that resolve those needs.
developed BODYMAINTÉ Jelly, a conditioning food that has
won the support of many athletes and sports trainers. We
Plant-Derived Lactic Acid Bacteria B240
also developed BODYMAINTÉ Drink, a conditioning beverage
Lactobacillus pentosus ONRICb0240 is a plant-derived lactic
Strengths Weaknesses
containing B240, to help replenish fluids and electrolytes that acid bacteria isolated through the fermentation of a type of
support proper hydration. BODYMAINTÉ Drink expands the value tea leaf, traditionally consumed in northern Thailand. It was • Creative products and marketing based on scientific evidence • Management personnel with advanced skills for diversifying
isolated by Sanae Okada, Professor Emeritus of Tokyo University • POCARI SWEAT and other products with long-term popularity businesses
of this product line by supporting the health management of more
of Agriculture* and its efficacy was confirmed by Otsuka • Overseas businesses that incorporate solutions to social issues with • Brand development in this field takes time
consumers. Pharmaceutical.
their core business processes
*J Gen. Appl. Microbiol. 1986;32:57-65 S W
• Steady earnings power trength eakness
EQUELLE
EQUELLE originated from research conducted at Otsuka
Opportunities Threats
Pharmaceuticals’ Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute, where
• Rising consumer awareness of self-medication, prevention and daily • Sluggish overall beverage market due to unseasonal weather
women’s health is a research theme. EQUELLE, which contains
Female hormone health in tandem with medical cost inflation • Intensification of competition in core areas due to entry of new
equol, is sold in Japan and the U.S. as a food product that (estrogen) • Diversification of diet competitors
supports women’s health and beauty at a time when aging • Pandemic related to the spread of infectious diseases
brings physical and mental changes. In Japan, we have deployed O T
pportunity hreat
Equol
dedicated staff with expert knowledge of women’s health
nationwide. With the cooperation of physicians, pharmacists
Equol
and other healthcare professionals we convey the importance
Equol is an ingredient produced when daidzein, a soybean
of personal care to women who are experiencing physical and isoflavone, is metabolized by intestinal bacteria. One aspect of
mental changes, among other activities aimed at maintaining and Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s many years of soybean research was Future Initiatives goal is to develop and provide the world with creative products
improving the health of women and enhancing quality of life. a focus on the properties of equol. The Saga Nutraceuticals At our R&D site in Nutraceutical Business, we investigate themes that maintain and improve people’s health, backed by scientific
Research Institute succeeded in isolating the Lactococcus 20-92
Otsuka Pharmaceutical provides a broad range of information strain, a lactic acid bacteria that produces equol. We publicize such as nutrition and exercise from unique viewpoints that evidence.
concerning nutrition for women’s health on its website and the progress results of a variety of research and continue to be a utilize expertise honed in our Pharmaceutical Business. Our
leader in global research in this field.
through other media.
Daiya
Daiya Foods develops, manufactures, and sells high-quality, Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute
creative plant-based food products such as cheese alternatives,
Since its establishment in 1984 as Japan’s first private research
dressings, and desserts. Its brand, Daiya, is enjoyed not only by
institute for clinical exercise and nutrition, the Saga Nutraceuticals
vegetarians and people with food allergies, but also by the health-
Research Institute has conducted R&D in various fields related to
conscious millennial generation.
The U.S. plant-based alternatives market continues to grow. exercise and nutrition, women’s health, and other health issues. In
Daiya Foods is expanding its sales channels and product lineup, 2014, one of the largest controlled-environment rooms in Japan
mainly in the area of cheese alternatives, which are their core was completed at the institute, enabling the recreation of hypoxic
product. Under the Third Medium-Term Management Plan, we environments equivalent to those found at up to an altitude of
plan to achieve a revenue CAGR of 25%. 5,000 meters, which were previously difficult to recreate, as
well as high-temperature/high-humidity and low-temperature/
low-humidity conditions. This facility helps advance research
Percentage of People Who Bought Plant-Based Foods
into sports nutrition, such as by verifying the effects of fluid and
because of Environmental Concerns*
nutritional intake in such environments.
60%
48%
40%
31%
* h ttps://www.foodnavigator-usa.com/
20% 7
pts Article/2020/07/14/SHIFT20-How-are-
1 consumers-thinking-about-plant-based-
eating-Mattson-unveils-new-survey-data#
0%
2018 2020
38 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 39Otsu Nutraceuticals Research Institute Creation of a System for the Realization of a Healthful Life
The Otsu Nutraceuticals Research Institute was established in
The Otsuka group focuses on nutritional needs as a social issue, and pursues the creation of a system
2000 to advance research on intestinal immunity, with a particular
for the realization of a healthful life.
focus on the intestines, which play a key role in overall health.
One example of the institute’s research is related to enhancing
the body’s biological barrier by increasing the secretion of Support for Health & Productivity Management Raising Awareness of Proper Hydration
immunoglobulin A (IgA), an antibody that plays a crucial role in Otsuka Pharmaceutical launched Kenko Shacho (“Healthy Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s website includes an information section
mucosal immunity. Exploratory R&D demonstrated that lactic acid President,”) a community website through which management titled Protect Yourself From Heat Disorders and a section presenting
bacteria B240 heightens the function of mucosal immunity and executives across Japan can network and access information and content based on the Japan Sport Association’s A Guidebook
lowers the probability of catching the common cold. services that support health and productivity management. To for the Prevention of Heat Disorder During Sports Activities (First
further enhance services and membership, we have launched Edition). Another initiative is the Heat Disorders Prevention website,
comprehensive measures for health promotion among people of which was created in collaboration with weather forecasters.
working age in collaboration with local governments, associations, Through these and other activities, we are further raising
companies and other organizations. awareness of the topic. In addition, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory,
which sells OS-1, an oral rehydration solution, provides operational
Women’s Health support for Oshiete! “Kakure Dassui” Iinkai, an organization that
Our experts in women’s health carry out activities across Japan raises awareness of ways to prevent and treat dehydration before it
to spread accurate understanding of the mental and physical becomes critical.
changes experienced by women and related health issues, as well
as solution to those issues. We also provide broad information
concerning nutrition for enhancing women’s health on the Otsuka
Pharmaceutical website. The OATHAS program for developing
Otsu Skin Care Research Institute healthy aging supporters is targeted at pharmacists who provide
health support to local communities, enabling participants to
Otsu Skin Care Research Institute performs R&D of cosmedics. We
acquire not only knowledge but also practical skills required for
wanted to improve people’s health not only from within, but also
health support.
from without, by ensuring the skin, the body’s protective covering,
was cared for. Focusing on the ingredient AMP1, a substance
Otsuka Health Comic Library
found naturally in the body, we developed Energy Signal AMP2.
We began publishing the Otsuka Health Comic Library in 1989 to
It active ingredient supports skin turnover and encourages
promote sound growth and development of health habits among
melanin excretion from the body, and is contained in the main
children of the next generation. Produced with editorial supervision
products of the InnerSignal series. UL∙OS contains moisturizing
from the Japan Medical Association and the Japan Society of
ingredient AMP3, which is based on Otsuka’s proprietary formula.
School Health, and endorsed by the Japan Pediatric Society, the
The product line has steadily expanded to include moisturizer,
library seeks to convey basic health knowledge to children, covering
sunblock, skin wash, refresh sheets, shampoo, and whitening
topics such as the makeup of the human body and nutrition, in a
care,4 and has grown into a brand that offers total skin care for
broad, easy-to-understand manner through the medium of comics.
the body from head to toe.
Every year we choose a different theme and publish a new volume.
1. Adenosine monophosphate The comics are donated to elementary schools, special needs Maintaining and Improving People’s
2. Disodium Adenosine monophosphate OT
3. Adenosine monophosphate (moisturizing ingredient) schools, Japanese schools overseas, and public libraries. Day-to-Day Health
4. Suppresses production of melanin and prevents skin blemishes and freckles
Our goal in the Nutraceutical Business is to support the
maintenance and improvement of people’s health worldwide,
thereby contributing to longer healthy life expectancy. To this end,
we address yet-to-emerge needs and social issues through unique
concepts. With an eye on changes in the global landscape, we
take on the challenge of creating new value and expanding into
new categories and regions by combining cutting-edge scientific
and technological developments with our unique business model.
Going forward, we will respond to various health-related social
issues by continuing to implement health awareness activities that
bring those issues to the forefront and offering solutions from each
brand, while strengthening collaboration with external institutions.
40 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 41How we will achieve sustainability
For more details about our health-related initiatives, visit:
Health and People https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/society/health/
For more details about our people-related initiatives, visit:
As a total healthcare company, the Otsuka group aims to contribute to people’s health as it conducts its https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/society/people/
business operations. In the pursuit of corporate philosophy, we consider it essential that all employees are
able to work freely and vigorously in good health. Therefore, we are promoting proactive measures to
enhance employees’ health, while working to resolve health issues through our business operations.
Initiatives to Resolve Health Issues Measures to Enhance Employees’ Health
Proactively Providing Information and Supporting Various Establishing a workplace where people under treatment can continue
Activities - Case of Taiho Pharmaceutical working - Case of Taiho Pharmaceutical
Seeking to resolve the unmet medical needs of cancer patients Proactively Providing information Recognizing its employee as precious human resources, Taiho cancer. However, due to the sensitivity of individual experiences,
worldwide, Taiho Pharmaceutical promotes the discovery and Pharmaceutical has aimed to establish workplaces where we only have limited occasions to come across its detailed
Taiho Pharmaceutical performs proactive activities to communicate
development of anticancer agents. It also undertakes diverse other employees under treatment for cancer or other diseases can information. This portal site provides information concerning
product information and proper use information to healthcare
diverse activities, including support for projects aim to address continue working, by organizing in-house systems, providing systems and consultation services available to employees and their
professionals in a scientific and impartial manner. As a manufacturer
challenges in the oncology area, and proactive information of anticancer agents, we have published a "Handbook of Anticancer consultation service, and promoting awareness raising activities. In families who have developed cancer or other diseases, as well as
provision. Agents" for patients since 1999, summarizing the mechanism of 2016, volunteers at the Human Resources Department, including the importance of cancer prevention and examination. The site also
action and effect of each drug, symptoms and timing of frequently occupational nurses and public health nurses, established a has pages for sharing actual treatment experiences by employees
Supports Various Activities experienced adverse reactions, when to seek medical advice, and “Cancer Patients’ Work Support Team” (present “Work-Treatment and their families, so that they can deepen their understanding,
• Participation in "READYFOR SDGs" in2019, an SDGs medication record sheet. We have also been the first Japanese Support” project). This has led to systems for harmonizing work identify requirements in the experience, and recognize the
matching platform provided for corporations by pharmaceutical company to publish a "Guide to Proper Use" of with treatment, by extending leaves for cancer patients, eliminating significance of working as members of Taiho Pharmaceutical, a
anticancer drugs for healthcare professionals. At present, we
READYFOR, Inc. ceiling on the number of leaves, considerations for transfers,1 and provider of anti-cancer agents.
continue to proactively provide proper information through the
a path for return to the job.2 We have also formulated a “"Guide In recognition of these initiatives, we received the gold prize for
Supporting diverse projects that address challenges in the field of following activities.
oncology through crowdfunding. to Work Support for Employees with Cancer" also have been two consecutive years (2019 and 2020) at the Ally Declaration and
formulated by summarizing information regarding work support Award for Cancer Survivorship sponsored by the Ally Community
• Distribution of a booklet 20 - TWENTY - (since 2016)
for employees with cancer, and have broadly disseminated the at Workplace for Cancer Survivorship, a private project committed
Supervised by the Appearance Support Center, National Cancer information through the intranet and human resource seminars. to cancer and employment.
Center Hospital, the booklet is targeted at patients who receive
In 2019, a cancer-related information portal site "C-Guide 1. R elevant employees may change from a position with the possibility of transfer with
cancer treatments in the AYA generation (Adolescents and Young
Portal" was launched for employees. Cancer is a disease close to moving across Japan to a position with the possibility of transfer only in a limited region.
Adults in their teens or 20s), their families, friends and other persons 2. This system enables employees to return to the job within three years after leaving the
living together with them, and shares information regarding problems our living, with one in every two Japanese is considered to develop company due to special reasons, including cancer or other refractory diseases
designated by the national government.
that may occur during treatments and some solutions to them.
• Distribution of a booklet "Fertility Preservation Handbook
Fertility Preservation Handbook
"20 - TWENTY -" for Cancer Patients: Thinking for Cancer Patients - Thinking about Having a Child" Providing consultation Service and Other Truly Needed Support Systems
about Have a Child (since 2017)
As a manufacturer that has been engaged in the oncology area for about half a century, Taiho
Supervised by Fertility Preservation Support, Survivorship Support
Pharmaceutical has had a culture to warmly support employees with cancer or other diseases.
Department, Cancer Institute Hospital of JFCR
Since 2013, we have further strengthened employment support by revising the employment rules
• A documentary film "Things To Know Before You Become a
and other systems, while enhancing consultation services. The types and symptoms of diseases
Cancer Patient" was screened for free at the Kitajima Plant
and the style of coping vary among individuals. We endeavor to make our best possible efforts
in 2019.
by sincerely pursuing support that is truly needed by each employee.
Akira Mita
Deputy Director, Human Resources
Department, Taiho Pharmaceutical
Communicating the Value of Health Broadly and Continuously Maintaining and Improving the Health of Employees and Their Families
Otsuka Holdings has published “Otsuka Health Comic Library” for disorders had yet to become common, we have been raising Otsuka Holdings undertakes activities to promote employees’ such as “Women’s Health” and “Conditioning and Immunity,”
more than 30 years to communicate the mechanism of body, awareness of proper hydration. We have also promoted dietary health, in cooperation with the Otsuka Pharmaceutical health with approximately 1,500 participants in total.3 In 2020, the
diseases and health in an easy-to-understand manner, and has education to communicate the importance of nutritional balance. insurance association, healthcare professionals, seminars were held online due to the COVID-19
donated it to elementary schools and public libraries across Japan. To maintain and promote women’s health, we are also providing and health management personnel at each pandemic.
In the Nutraceutical Business, we have developed science-based information to disseminate correct knowledge concerning physical group company. These activities include health Otsuka Pharmaceutical has also opened
products and provided information leveraging know-how from the and mental changes in women’s health and solutions to them, seminars for group employees and their families in-house seminars for education and support
Pharmaceutical Business. Since 1990s, when the idea of heat based on know-how and expertise acquired through the R&D of based on knowledge in group business, started concerning alcohol-related issues, leveraging its
soybean products. in 2015. The seminars have been held annually knowledge in the Pharmaceutical Business.
in major cities across Japan, under the themes 3. As of December 31, 2020
Health Seminar
ssenisuB
lacituecamrahP
ssenisuB
lacituecartuN
42 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 43For more details about our quality in all we do-related initiatives, visit:
Quality in All We Do https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/society/quality/
To help build a sustainable society, the Otsuka group guided by an enduring philosophy of “Customers
First” and “Quality First,” pursues quality at all stages of the value chain, and promotes initiatives
taking into account the environment, society and human rights.
Production, Quality
Research and
Procurement Control and Patient/ Logistics Sales and Marketing Customer Service
Development
Customer Safety
Ethical Considerations in Sustainable Procurement in Group-wide Cooperation for Control and Maintenance of Appropriate Promotion and Sincere Response to Inquiries
Accordance with Laws and Corporation with Business “Customer-First” and “Quality-First” Product Quality, and Business Enhanced Information Access and Reflection in Company
Guidelines Collaborators The Otsuka group complies with laws and Continuity Planning as a To deliver high-value products and services Activities
In R&D, it is at times necessary to apply Across the entire value chain, the Otsuka regulations, administrative instructions and Health-Related Company to customers, each group company The Otsuka group establishes dedicated
various methodologies for verifying efficacy group engages in business activities in industrial standards, and also has been We ensure rigorous control and maintenance formulates and observes its own code of customer contact points (staffed by
and safety. The Otsuka group complies compliance with laws and regulations, and working to get ISO 9001, ISO 22000 and FSSC of product quality throughout distribution for practice, which expands on the JPMA specially trained personnel) to response to
22000 certified. In addition, we observe laws
with all related laws, ordinances and with respecting the environment and pharmaceuticals, food products and Promotion Code for Prescription Drugs. We inquiries that match the characteristics of
and regulations in other countries, perform
guidelines while striving to uphold human rights. For a new suppliers, beverages. Furthermore, for the transport of have also established an expert panel, drugs, quasi-drugs, food products, and
quality control and quality assurance based on
bioethics and scientifically valid transactions are determined only after we GxP,1 and implement post-marketing safety pharmaceuticals, we have registered vehicles comprising people from several other respective products. Opinions and
methodologies from the viewpoints of have carried out due diligence. Together control, by establishing a global safety for authorized access to restricted areas in an departments, to perform reviews of requests regarding products and services
preservation of the environment and safety with business collaborators, the entire surveillance system to collect and monitor emergency. We have also exchanged MOUs marketing plans and sales promotion are shared within the group for the
management. Otsuka group will promote sustainable safety information concerning adverse events. with shippers, warehouse owners and other materials. purpose of product development and
collaborators, for transport during a disaster,
procurement with the aim of realizing a 1. GxP (Good x Practice): A general term for “Good Practice” improvement.
as part of our system for business continuity
standards ministerial (ordinances, regulations and guidelines)
sustainable society.
established by governments and other public institutions for planning.
ensuring safety and reliability
Promoting Sustainable Procurement throughout the Group Drug and Healthcare Information Provision Activities Expected
To promote sustainable procurement activities throughout the Otsuka group, we have established of Employees
the Otsuka Sustainable Procurement Task Force made up of Otsuka Holdings, Otsuka
In fiscal 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic made collecting information in person difficult. However,
Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka
Otsuka Pharmaceutical conducted timely information provision activities online, thereby ensuring
Foods, Otsuka Packaging Industries, Otsuka Techno, and EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical. The task force
access to drug and healthcare information whenever needed, while ensuring thorough infection
has formulated the Otsuka Group Procurement Policy and the Otsuka Group Sustainable
prevention.
Procurement Guidelines, and conducts surveys of sustainable procurement activities at business
As a partner for drug therapy, we expect employees at Otsuka Pharmaceutical to continue
Yasunobu Harada collaborators using a self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ), as well as in-house training. Given the Kazumi Goto
appropriate information provision activities while ensuring compliance, and to come up with
Project Office task force was launched during the COVID-19 pandemic, its meeting sessions have been held St. Luke’s International University/ ideas for information provision using online tools other channels.
(Procurement), exclusively online, nevertheless discussion have been vigorous. Director, Pharmacy Department, St.
Otsuka Holdings Luke’s International Hospital
Various kinds of wild birds come and visit the biotope2
in Tokushima Itano Factory every season; a biotope Promotion of Customer-centric Management
inhabited by insects including dragonflies and
In October 2018, the Otsuka group announced its Declaration of Customer-centric Commitment, as a way of putting the corporate
butterflies. Clean cooling water that was used in the
philosophy into practice. Promotion of customer-centric management has been toward the group’s materialities under the medium-term
Water scorpion Dragonfly Beetle factory is recycled by pouring it back into the pond
management plan. In conducting business, we recognize that respecting consumer rights is an important human rights issue. Our
where frogs, water scorpions and many other animals
Declaration of Customer-centric Commitment establishes basic policies stating our commitment to our social responsibilities as a
live. The ground of the biotope area is covered with
corporation, which we fulfill by pursuing customer-centric management and making appropriate decisions that are based on dialogue
leaf mold to raise beetles from larva.
with all stakeholders.
2. “ Biotope” is a compound formed from German words “Bio (life)”
Hare Daurian Butterfly and “Top (place),” signifying a place where indigenous wildlife can
redstart
flourish in nature.
44 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 45Below we present examples of measures taken in the value chain in 2020.
Measures with Business Collaborators Aimed at Sustainable Procurement Global Initiatives by the Production Department and The Product Quality Department
Across the entire value chain, the Otsuka group engages in business efforts, in 2020 we updated the Otsuka Group Procurement Policy, Production departments at the Otsuka group employ a traceability In Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s product quality operations, the
activities that are safe, reliable, socially acceptable, and in compliance which takes into account factors such as human rights, labor issues, system covering all stages of the value chain, from raw material Pharmaceutical Business and Nutraceutical Business jointly hold an
with laws and regulations. When commencing transactions with a the environment and anti-corruption measures, and formulated the procurement to production, distribution, and sales, thereby enabling annual global product quality meeting. The 2021 meeting was
supplier, we perform screening and checks to ensure the quality of Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines, which provide thorough management throughout the entire supply chain. attended by approximately 120 managers and quality supervisors
raw materials and to guarantee stable procurement. In Japan, we more specific descriptions of the provisions of the above vision and Moreover, for over 30 years, the “Global Production Meeting” for pharmaceuticals and nutraceuticals from 11 countries/regions,
also conclude a basic transaction agreement. In the case of a new policy. Both are shared with all business collaborators. has been held by aiming enhancement of production technologies including Japan. Participants shared their companies’ measures for
supplier, transactions are determined only after we have carried out In order to ensure a stable supply of products, we perform and sharing information group-wide. In 2020, the "Plant Manager future business expansion and their approaches to product
due diligence. advance risk assessments on key raw materials to clarify the nature Meeting" was held virtually and discussed the challenges and the inspection amid the COVID-19 pandemic.
We aim for mutually sustainable development through fair, of potential risks so that we can take countermeasures. We also measures around stable supply and occupational health and safety In addition, a Quality Performance Award was established to
equitable and transparent procurement and the establishment of make sure to source raw materials from multiple companies, in under the COVID-19 pandemic. The meeting had approximately recognize quality control initiatives, and efforts are being made to
healthy relationships with business collaborators. To further these principle. 100 participants including management executives from 14 train people for quality control and to raise awareness.
countries/regions.
Otsuka Group Procurement Policy Reflecting Customer Feedback
The Otsuka group of companies, in accordance with our corporate vision, “Otsuka-people creating new products for
Each group company establishes dedicated customer contact feedback, we redesigned the container to be easier to open. Our
better health worldwide”, and international norms, conducts procurement activities in a responsible way. Otsuka
points for patients, healthcare professionals and general efforts to develop improved, easier-to-use products were
delivers innovative, safe, secure, and high-quality products in order to contribute to the construction and maintenance consumers, and provides appropriate training for employees in recognized with a Good Design Award in 2020.
of a sustainable society, as well as to the health of people around the world. related departments. This approach helps us deepen Furthermore, for our ENORAS Liquid for Eternal Use, we
communication with customers, provide appropriate information adopted a package design that takes into consideration variation in
1. Relationships with suppliers
and reflect customer feedback and suggestions in product color vision among users. The product line has received CUD
As a collaborator with many suppliers, the Otsuka group aims to build good relationships for mutual sustainable
improvements. certification.1 Making it easier to tell product variations apart can
development through shared understanding, based on a fair exchange of appropriate information and opinions.
One such product improvement was for OS-1 and OS-1 Jelly, be expected to help improve patient adherence,2 and reduce the
2.Supplier selection produced by Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory. These products are risk of medication errors by healthcare professionals.
The Otsuka group selects suppliers in a fair, and transparent manner based on comprehensive assessments of supplier foods for persons with medical conditions. We received feedback 1. Third-party certification ensuring that a product has a color scheme that is easy for
from elderly individuals, customers receiving treatment, those in most people to understand.
quality, costs, quantity, delivery terms, compliance with laws and regulations, promotion of environment preservation, etc..
2. A dherence refers to patients actively understanding the meaning and significance of
need of nursing care and others who said that they had difficulty
treatment and taking their medicine correctly rather than discontinuing medication
3.Responsibilities toward society opening the cap because of muscular strength issues. Based on this of their own accord.
For the realization of sustainable society, the Otsuka group strives to maintain procurement activities that reflect
consideration for human rights, labor, the environment, and non-tolerance of corruption.
4.Compliance
The Otsuka group of companies observes all applicable laws and rules, and all Otsuka employees and supplier employees
must act at all times with the highest level of ethics, consistent with social norms.
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
September, 2020
As part of the Otsuka group’s efforts to promote sustainable We began presentations to business collaborators to share the
procurement, the Otsuka Sustainable Procurement Task Force, details of the Procurement Policy in 2020, and 73 companies
made up of Otsuka Holdings and five group companies,* was participated in the first year. We also conduct the common SAQ
formed in 2019. The task force members are taking steps to prepared by Global Compact Network Japan, and provide feedback
promote the group’s overall sustainable procurement, including to relevant companies. As of the end of 2020, we have received
revision of the Procurement Policy, formulation of Sustainable questionnaire responses from 80 companies.
Procurement Guidelines, and conducting an SAQ and presentations * Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka
for business collaborators. Chemical, and Otsuka Foods (Otsuka Packaging Industries, Otsuka Techno, and EN
Otsuka Pharmaceutical were added in March 2021.)
46 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 47For more details about our environment-related initiatives, visit:
Environment https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/environment/
As a global group that contributes to the health of people worldwide, the Otsuka group works Introduced CO -Free Electricity1 and Green Introduced solar Power Generation System
2
sincerely to reduce the impact its businesses have on the global environment, and seeks to Power Certificates for In-House Consumption
contribute to the creation of a sustainable society that can protect nature and the future of the Since 2019, the Otsuka group has introduced CO2-free and As a countermeasure against climate change, the Otsuka group
earth. To support the solution of social issues related to the global environment, the Otsuka electricity from other renewable energy sources , extending their has set a goal of reducing CO2 emissions by 30% by 2030.1
group has formulated an environmental policy and activity guidelines, and has determined
use to manufacturing sites. In fiscal 2020, we reduced CO2 Toward this goal, we are promoting the further utilization of
emissions by approximately 84,000 tons (equivalent to the annual renewable energy and improving energy use efficiency through
the materialities of its environmental initiatives to be climate change, resource recycling and
emissions of approximately 29,000 households2) through the the introduction of co-generation systems and, including solar
conservation, and water conservation. We have set goals for 2030, and are carrying out activities introduction of renewable energy. power CO2-free electricity generation systems.
aimed at achieving them. In addition, five domestic group companies3 purchased In 2020, we introduced solar power generation systems for
Green Power Certificates for switching to green power at all in-house consumption at the Kushiro Factory of Otsuka
sales sites and headquarters of the five group companies in Pharmaceutical Factory and Otsuka Pharmaceutical India. We
Goals • Goal for FY 2030: 30% reduction in CO2 emissions compared to FY 2017
Japan, and other offices, thereby reducing CO2 emissions by estimate that this will result in annual CO2 emission reductions of
approximately 6,000 tons/year. approximately 10% at Kushiro Factory, and by 6% at Otsuka
Going forward, the group will work together toward the Pharmaceutical India.
Climate
Change FY 2020 iC nO tr2 o e dm ucis ts ii oo nn s o fr e rd eu nect wio an b lt eh r eo nu eg rgh y CO2 emissions Scopes 1 and 21 CO2 emissions Scope 31,2 realization of a decarbonized society, and ultimately of a 1. Otsuka group, compared to FY 2017 (CO2 emissions in Japan and overseas)
Results 84,000t-CO 706,000t-CO 957,000t-CO sustainable society, by optimizing and maximizing energy use
2 2 2
through the introduction of renewable energy and fuel conversion,
while exercising synergistic effects among group companies.
• Goal for FY 2030: 50% reduction in simple incineration and landfill compared to FY 2019
1. Including carbon-neutral electricity utilizing certificates equal to renewable energy
Goals • Goal for FY 2030: 50% or higher content of recycled and plant-based materials in our that does not emit CO2
PET bottles 2. Calculated from CO2 emissions of the residential sector, fiscal 2018
3. Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Kushiro Factory, Otsuka Otsuka Pharmaceutical India
Resource Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods Pharmaceutical Factory
Recycling and Total waste volume Simple incineration and landfill
FY 2020
Conservation
Results 88,900t 14,500t Evaluating Water Risk at Manufacturing Sites
water-related risk on the group’s business activities. We also
Considering environmental risk in each region is also important formulate analysis records for each site and implement
for sustainable growth in the diverse business models of the comprehensive risk assessment by utilizing more detailed water
Goals • Goal for FY 2030: Improvement of water use efficiency by 15% compared to FY 2017 Otsuka group operating around the world. Since 2017, the data and collaborating among group companies. We will pursue
Otsuka group has conducted primary water risk assessments at the water resource conservation improve and use efficiency by
Water all consolidated manufacturing sites using the water risk identifying regional risks and promoting more specific research
Conservation FY 2020 Water usage Water use efficiency Water resource risk assessment assessment tool “Aqueduct,” developed by the World Resources and collaboration among group companies, and by taking
Results 17,732,000 m3 12.5 m3/¥ million 87 manufacturing sites at 51 companies Institute (WRI), so as to understand and minimize the impact of measures for region-based management and effective utilization.
(Based on the performance of all manufacturing sites of the consolidated Otsuka group)
Aqueduct Water Stress Map and Breakdown by Region of Water Consumption by Region in the Otsuka Group
1. Scope 1: Direct emissions, Scope 2: Indirect emissions from energy sources, Scope 3: other indirect emissions
2. Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods
Acquisition of Integrated ISO 14001 Certification for the Otsuka Group
The Otsuka group’s first ISO14001 certification was acquired in group’s five of major companies in Japan3 and Otsuka Holdings as
1999.1 Since then, we have worked to acquire certification for the the supervising organization acquired ISO 14001 integrated Europe
2%
manufacturing sites of each group certification in August 2020. Under the integrated environmental
company, and promoted activities goals and management systems outlined in the certification, we
to achieve the environmental goals will further strengthen our environmental initiatives and make
Japan
set by each company.2 With the group-wide efforts to achieve the goals.
65%
North
increasing severity of environmental 1. Acquired at Tokushima Factory of Otsuka Chemical (present Tokushima Factory of America Water stress
issues in recent years, companies Otsuka Chemical and Tokushima Factory of Otsuka Foods) East Asia 3% Very high
2. A cquired certification at 9 companies in Japan and 11 overseas (as of December 31, 9% (>80%)
are being called upon to contribute 2019) High
(40-80%)
3. Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical South Asia
to the resolution of such issues. and North Africa Moderate to high
(including its subsidiary, Okayama Taiho Pharmaceutical), Otsuka Chemical, and 5% (20-40%)
To strengthen group-wide efforts Otsuka Foods Low to moderate
Southeast South (10-20%)
toward more efficient and effective Asia America Low
3% <1% (<10%)
environmental activities, the Otsuka Use of dry low water
No data
Source: WRI Aqueduct
48 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 49Measures against COVID-19 As the entire world is forced to mobilize against this novel viral threat, the Otsuka group is
implementing measures to prevent its spread, placing top priority on the safety and health
We express our deepest condolences to the loved ones of people who have lost their lives
of all stakeholders.
due to COVID-19, and extend our sincere sympathies to all persons who have been infected
by the virus, their families, and other affected persons.
Thorough Implementation of Infection Sales and Marketing Ongoing Initiatives toward Maintaining and Support Activities
Prevention Measures At major group companies in the Pharmaceutical Business, to Improving Health In Japan, we provided POCARI SWEAT, BODYMAINTÉ, Calorie
So that employees can continue to work safely during the enable the continuous provision of information to healthcare Under the “new normal” environment, the Otsuka group is Mate, OS-1 and other Otsuka group products, as well as medical
COVID-19 pandemic, the Otsuka group introduced new work professionals while there are restrictions on visits to medical continuing initiatives to support the resolution of local health masks and protective suits, through local governments and
style systems including telework, implemented appropriate institutions, we pursued hybrid approaches that combine real- issues and activities to communicate the importance of health related organizations.
infection prevention measures and urged employees to make world and digital (e.g. enhancing digital promotion, maintenance and promotion. While many events have been Overseas, in addition to providing our beverages, food
wide-ranging lifestyle changes. strengthening online access for healthcare professionals, and suspended or postponed during the pandemic, Otsuka products and pharmaceuticals, we made donations to local
introducing smartphone apps). Pharmaceutical has provided innovative support through medical facilities, the Red Cross and others. For example, our
Measures for Business Continuity
information provision. For example, during the inter-high school U.S.-based Sozosei Foundation4 donated a total of 939,000 U.S.
At every stage of the value chain, the Otsuka group has been Customer Service competition season, we provided POCARI SWEAT along with dollars (approximately 100 million yen) to four organizations
working to increase operational efficiency, including by promoting pharmaceutical DI operations1 telephone inquiries can now be updated information concerning measures against heat disorders related to mental health and kidney diseases and five charitable
diverse and flexible work styles as well as digital transformation. taken by staff working from home, thereby ensuring business and physical condition management during exercise, in order to organizations.
We are further accelerating these initiatives under the “new continuity and supporting the medical settings in this time of support high school students and enable safe, substitute 4. A public interest foundation established by Otsuka in the U.S. in 2019 that carries out
normal” thereby contributing to people’s health worldwide. restrictions on visits to medical institutions. In the Contact Center competitions in each prefecture. activities in accordance with Otsuka’s Sustainability Mission, including awareness
activities for mental health and kidney diseases, disaster relief, and contribution to
Awards 2020,2 initiatives at Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory’s In Dubai, Singapore and Indonesia, Otsuka Pharmaceutical local communities
Clinical Development Intravenous Drug Information Center received the BCP Award, co-hosted the POCARI SWEAT Virtual Run, a running event
Each group company is striving to minimize any delay the which recognizes the sustainability and stability of call centers. utilizing a smartphone app, in collaboration with national
pandemic might cause to clinical studies. For example, measures 1. DI (Drug Information) operations: Pharmaceutical information management operations governments. In addition to online seminars for communicating
at Otsuka Pharmaceutical include the launch of fully remote 2. A n award program for initiatives at contact centers, determined through assessment the importance of hydration and exercise, Otsuka personnel
by review panel and participating firms; organized by Call Center Japan Editorial
clinical studies. Department, RIC TELECOM Co., Ltd.,; co-organized by e.Partners, Inc. working in the nutraceuticals and pharmaceuticals fields provided
information to help address issues related to a lack of exercise
Production, Quality Control and Patient/ and mental health.
Customer Safety
We formulated the COVID-19 Infection Prevention and Control
Manual and implemented thorough infection control measures such
as regular checking of body temperature, staggered lunchtimes, and
Otsuka Pharmaceutical regards responsiveness
avoidance of the “Three Cs” (closed spaces, crowded places and
to the COVID-19 pandemic as one of its social
close-contact settings). We are also enhancing business continuity
responsibilities, and since September 2020 has
planning and developing for labor-saving technologies, among other co-marketed Quick Navi-COVID19 Ag,3 a rapid-
measures to maintain a stable supply system. As additional measures diagnostic test kit that confirms test results in
to ensure stable supply, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has been placing only 15 minutes.
advance orders for raw materials, evaluates second vendors, and
3. Manufactured and co-marketed by Denka Company Limited
increasing stocks of raw materials.
The product quality departments of the Otsuka group promote
thorough measures to maintain or improve quality maintenance A project combining the blue color of POCARI SWEAT and the virtual run
with #SeeItBlue, part of the global campaign on mental health
and ensure safety management, in accordance with the business
#MakeItBlue, aimed at increasing awareness of the mental health crisis
characteristics of each company. For example, Otsuka amidst COVID-19 pandemic (Singapore).
Pharmaceutical has replaced direct visits with remote auditing at
Support for municipalities under the COVID-19 pandemic (photo provided
the manufacturing sites of contractors. Using video footage of by Suginami-ku)
the site, Otsuka personnel in a range of roles from multiple
locations across Japan are able to participate in the verification
process. This is contributing to energized communication and
further quality improvement.
50 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 51For more details about our governance-related initiatives, visit:
Governance https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/governance/
Shareholders’ Meeting
Corporate Governance
Elects/Dismisses Elects/Dismisses Elects/Dismisses
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (“the Company”) is committed to promoting sustainable increase of its corporate value over the medium
to long term by realizing its corporate philosophy, “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide.” To meet Corporate Consults Board of Directors O Ap cce ora ut nio tin na gl aa uu dd ii tt ss Audit & Supervisory Board
this commitment, it adopts a basic policy of making transparent, fair and timely decisions, and fulfilling its corporate social Governance Recommends (13 directors; 4 of whom are outside directors) (4 m A eu mdi bt e& r sS ; u 3p oe fr v wis ho ory m B ao ra er d
Committee
Appoints/Dismisses outside members)
responsibility by living up to the expectations of all stakeholders, including customers, business partners, employees, local
communities, and shareholders, through ongoing dialogue. President and
Representative Director, CEO (Cooperates with) (Cooperates with)
Accounting audits
Instructs Reports Accounting Auditor
The Company discloses its basic approach to corporate governance in its Corporate Governance Guidelines, available on the corporate website. Internal Audit Department
(Cooperates with)
Corporate Governance Guidelines Corporate Governance Report (April 5, 2021)
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/governance/pdf/ https://www.otsuka.com/jp/csr/governance/pdf/ Approval of Meetings of the Prior
governance_guideline.pdf governance_report2021.pdf (available only in Japanese) material matters/ Group’s boards consultation/
Management of corporate Ex post
guidance auditors facto reports
Overview of Corporate Governance Structure Governance Structure (As of March 30, 2021) Subsidiaries (Shareholders’ Meeting, Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, etc.)
With the aim of promoting the sustainable growth of the Company
Company with an Audit &
Form of organization
and increasing corporate value over the medium to long term, the Supervisory Board
Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board and Its Members
Board of Directors, which also includes outside directors, advances
Directors [Outside directors] 13 [4 (independent directors)] The Board of Directors convenes regularly once a month and holds Audit & Supervisory Board members attend and express opinions at
the execution of management plans and supervises the Company's
management in order to enhance profitability and capital Term of directors 1 year extraordinary meetings as necessary to make important business meetings of the Board of Directors, and monitor the performance
decisions and supervise the execution of operations.To clarify of duties of directors in terms of legal compliance and soundness
investment efficiency. The Company secures its soundness and Audit & Supervisory Board
executive responsibility for each fiscal year, the term of directors is of management through audits. In striving to improve the
has established a solid corporate governance structure that lives members [Outside Audit & 4 [3 (independent directors)]
up to social expectations by ensuring that the Audit & Supervisory Supervisory Board members] set at one year. effectiveness of audits, Audit & Supervisory Board members also
share information and exchange opinions as appropriate with
Board and its members, which are independent from the Accounting auditor KPMG AZSA LLC
Corporate Governance Committee relevant departments, including the Internal Audit Department,
directors, can audit the directors' performance of their duties in
Note: D eloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC’s term of office as the Company’s accounting In February 2017, the Company established the Corporate Internal Control Department, Administration Department, and
collaboration with the accounting auditor, as well as the Internal
auditor expired with the conclusion of the annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on
Governance Committee with the aim of increasing transparency Finance and Accounting Department, as well as the accounting
Audit Department. March 30, 2021. At the same meeting, KPMG AZSA LLC was elected as the new
accounting auditor. and objectivity in management. As an advisory body to the Board auditor.
Initiatives to Strengthen Corporate Governance of Directors, the committee discusses matters relating to corporate
governance, including the nomination of directors and Audit & Internal Audit Department
2008 • Establishment of Otsuka Holdings 2016 • Three outside directors; three outside Audit & Supervisory Board
• Term of directors set at one year members Supervisory Board members, and the remuneration system and The Company’s Internal Audit Department reports directly to the
• Decision not to adopt a directors’ retirement benefits system • Effectiveness of Board of Directors evaluated remuneration standards for directors, and reports the results of its president. The department regularly conducts audits based on the
• Corporate officer system adopted • System for granting stock options conditional on progress with
• Two outside Audit & Supervisory Board members the medium-term management plan introduced deliberations to the Board of Directors. The committee consists of Internal Audit Rules to verify that operations are being executed
2010 • Three outside Audit & Supervisory Board members 2017 • Corporate Governance Guidelines revised the president, the director in charge of administration, and all appropriately and efficiently with regard to the assets and business
• Stock options as performance-linked remuneration introduced • Corporate Governance Committee established outside directors (four as of March 30, 2021). The president serves of the Company and its affiliated companies. The department
• Stock publicly listed in December • Started to evaluate the effectiveness of the Board of Directors
based on questionnaires completed by all directors and Audit & as the chair of the committee. submits audit reports to the president, directors, and Audit &
2011 • First Medium-Term Management Plan announced
Supervisory Board members Supervisory Board members. Where there is need for improvement,
2013 • Two outside directors; three outside Audit & Supervisory Board • Started to hold reporting meetings for outside directors and
members outside Audit & Supervisory Board members to improve their Content of Deliberations the department recommends remedial actions and later confirms
understanding of the group’s management and business (1) Nomination their implementation, thereby contributing to the optimization of
2014 • Second Medium-Term Management Plan announced
• Three outside directors; two outside Audit & Supervisory Board 2018 • Two female directors The Corporate Governance Committee discusses the validity business execution. The department also shares information and
members • Corporate Governance Guidelines revised
and fairness of matters related to the appointment and cooperates in audits by Audit & Supervisory Board members and
• Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics established
2019 • Third Medium-Term Management Plan announced
• Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy established • Restricted stock-based compensation plan introduced dismissal of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, the accounting auditor.
2015 • Corporate Governance Guidelines established 2020 • Four outside directors; three female directors and reports to the Board of Directors. Regarding candidates for
• Internal whistleblowing system (for Otsuka Holdings and major • Otsuka Group Global Policy for Conflict of Interest established Audit & Supervisory Board members, the committee obtains Internal Control Department
group companies) established, with reporting to an independent
body outside the Company approval from the Audit & Supervisory Board prior to reporting The Company views internal controls as an integral component of
to the Board of Directors. corporate governance that functions together with compliance and
Composition of the Board of Directors and Committees Candidates are those put forward by the representative risk management, and has established the Internal Control
Board of Directors: Audit & Supervisory Board: Corporate Governance Committee: director(s). Department as the department in charge of compliance and risk
Ratio of independent outside directors Ratio of independent outside Audit & Ratio of independent outside directors (2) Remuneration management to improve the internal control system.
Supervisory Board members
The Corporate Governance Committee discusses matters The Internal Control Department promotes the Otsuka Group
related to the remuneration system and remuneration standards Global Code of Business Ethics and other Otsuka group global rules
30.8% 75% 66.7% for directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, and at Otsuka Holdings and its affiliated companies. It also works to
(4 out of (3 out of (4 out of reports to the Board of Directors. establish and promote compliance programs and risk management
13 directors) 4 directors) 6 directors) (3) In addition, the Committee deliberates on matters related to programs at each company. The status of the establishment and
the enhancement of the corporate governance structure, and operation of those programs is regularly reported to the Board of
reports to the Board of Directors as necessary. Directors, the Audit & Supervisory Board and the accounting auditor.
52 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 53Remuneration for Directors and Audit &
Skill Matrix for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members The Internal Control Department handles internal controls
Supervisory Board Members
regarding financial reporting by the Company and its affiliated
In order to establish an effective corporate governance structure that supports sustainable growth, the Company appoints individuals with
wide-ranging business experience, advanced expertise in broad fields, and extensive knowledge, as directors and Audit & Supervisory Board companies. The department formulates rules and manuals The Company’s remuneration plan for directors and Audit &
members. The table below summarizes areas of experience and expertise of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members. pertaining to internal controls, provides training, and ensures that Supervisory Board members is designed to achieve sustainable
employees thoroughly understand operational rules. The growth and enhanced corporate value over the medium to long
Global Technology, Strategic Finance, Legal, Company Healthcare Major department also works in cooperation with the Internal Audit term for the group based on the corporate philosophy, while also
R&D, planning, compliance, risk administration, qualifications,
business production marketing, sales accounting management analysis public health etc. Department to continuously monitor the status of operations. This ensuring that functions such as business execution and
is the basis of an internal control system under which management management supervision are exercised appropriately, maintaining
Ichiro Otsuka
personnel can be reliably evaluated. transparency and fairness.
Tatsuo Higuchi
Evaluation of Effectiveness of Board of Directors Remuneration Levels
Yoshiro Matsuo
From January through February every year, the Company conducts Considering the need to acquire and motivate outstanding
Yuko Makino
a questionnaire survey of all directors and Audit & Supervisory personnel who will take responsibility for the Company’s global
Shuichi Takagi Board members. Results of the survey are reviewed by a company business activities, the Company sets remuneration levels fully
Sadanobu Tobe attorney, and then reviewed and evaluated at the Board of commensurate with the roles and responsibilities expected of such
Directors meeting in March. personnel, while also considering levels at companies that the
Directors Masayuki Kobayashi
Questionnaire items are as follows. Company considers benchmarks based on the scale, industry and
Noriko Tojo
(1) Composition of the Board of Directors business model.
Makoto Inoue (2) Each director’s understanding and knowledge of business
fields and specific management strategies and plans Remuneration System
Yukio Matsutani MD
(3) Cooperation with outside directors With regard to remuneration for directors responsible for business
Ko Sekiguchi
(4) Cooperation with the Audit & Supervisory Board execution, the Company has formulated a remuneration system
Yoshihisa Aoki (5) Operation of Board of Directors meetings that is closely linked to performance in individual fiscal years, as
Mayo Mita (6) Governance-related matters well as over the medium to long term, while emphasizing
i Function of the Board of Directors in determining the sustainable enhancement of corporate value. Remuneration
Yozo Toba
direction of management strategy consists of fixed remuneration as basic remuneration, performance-
Audit &
Supervisory Hiroshi Sugawara CPA ii Monitoring of each business with respect to the execution of linked bonuses, and share-based payments emphasizing the link to
Board Yoko Wachi Attorney management strategy shareholder value. Remuneration for outside directors and Audit &
members
iii Understanding of the perspectives of major investors and Supervisory Board members comprises only fixed remuneration as
Kazuo Takahashi
stakeholders basic remuneration in light of their duties.
iv Risk management
Rationale for Selection of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members v Cooperation and information sharing with each operating Method of Determining the Content of
company Remuneration of Individual Directors
Attendance rate
(7) Support system for outside directors The Board of Directors receives recommendations on the
Audit &
Rationale for selection* Board of (8) Overall functioning of the Board of Directors from the appropriateness of the remuneration system and remuneration
Supervisory
Directors
Board perspective of effectiveness levels, and the performance evaluation for performance-linked
meeting
meeting bonuses and share-based payments from the Corporate
Yukio Matsutani Mr. Yukio Matsutani has abundant experience and extensive knowledge in the healthcare and Governance Committee, which consists of the president, the
welfare field, as well as a high level of expertise in overall health care. He also has provided 100%
appropriate and valuable suggestions and advice to the Company’s management from an (14 of 14) — Summary of Evaluation in Fiscal 2020 director in charge of administration, and all outside directors.
independent standpoint as an outside director, and from an objective and expert viewpoint. The overall opinion was that improvements have been made Based on these recommendations, the Board determines the
Ko Sekiguchi Mr. Ko Sekiguchi has abundant experience, a track record, and extensive knowledge as a corporate from the previous year, and we believe that the Board of individual remuneration for directors as follows.
manager and a high level of expertise and network in pharmaceutical business. He also has 100%
—
provided appropriate and valuable suggestions and advice to the Company’s management from an (14 of 14) Directors is functioning appropriately from the standpoint of
Outside independent standpoint as an outside director, and from an objective and expert viewpoint. effectiveness. Nonetheless, the results confirmed the need • The president is delegated with deciding the specific payment
directors Yoshihisa Aoki Mr. Yoshihisa Aoki has abundant experience, a track record, and extensive knowledge as a for further improvement in areas such as the role of the amounts of individual fixed remuneration as basic remuneration
corporate manager and abundant experience, expertise and a network in the food industry. He also 100%
has provided appropriate and valuable suggestions and advice to the Company’s management from (14 of 14) — Company as a holding company, methodologies used for to directors and individual performance-linked bonuses for each
an independent standpoint as an outside director, and from an objective and expert viewpoint. monitoring subsidiaries, and approaches to cooperation with director (excluding outside directors) pursuant to resolution of
Mayo Mita Ms. Mayo Mita, as a securities analyst, has abundant experience in corporate analysis and based on group companies. the Board of Directors. In accordance with this delegation, the
that, a high level of insight in objectively observing and analyzing companies. She has been 100%
providing appropriate and valuable suggestions and advice to the Company’s management from an (11 of 11) — president makes the final decision on remuneration amounts
independent standpoint as an outside director, and from an objective and expert viewpoint. based on deliberation and reports by the Corporate Governance
Hiroshi Sugawara Mr. Hiroshi Sugawara has specialized knowledge as a certified public accountant, and has abundant 100% 100% Committee regarding remuneration levels.
Outside experience in and knowledge of many businesses and other areas. (14 of 14) (15 of 15)
Audit & Yoko Wachi Ms. Yoko Wachi is well-versed in corporate legal affairs, and has specialized knowledge and insights 100% 100%
• Individual share-based payments for each director (excluding
Supervisory based on abundant experience as an attorney. (14 of 14) (15 of 15)
Board outside directors) are determined by resolution of the Board of
Kazuo Takahashi Mr. Kazuo Takahashi has held major positions in IT and internal control departments for many years,
Members and has abundant experience and knowledge in corporate management. 100% 100% Directors based on reports on performance evaluation, etc. by
(14 of 14) (15 of 15)
the Corporate Governance Committee.
* For all outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members, given no risk of conflict of interest with general shareholders, the Company believes each outside
officer qualifies as an independent director/auditor.
54 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 55Content of Remuneration to Directors (Excluding Outside Directors) Total Remuneration to Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members
The Content of remuneration to directors (excluding outside directors) is as listed below.
Total amount of Total amount by type of remuneration (¥ Million)
Number of
Remu tyn pe eration Pa Fy ixm ee dn /vt a m riae bth leod (including policy for deteR re mm inu in ne gr a tit mio inn gc o on r t ce on nt ditions of remuneration) Classification (Mre im lliu on ne s r oa ft i yo en n ) remuF nix ee rd a tion Sh pa ar ye m-b ea ns ted Bonus eligible officers
• Fixed remuneration for directors of the holding company is determined based on their duties and responsibilities including Directors 895 329 421 144 14
formulation of group strategies, monitoring group operations, and strengthening corporate governance.
(of which Outside Directors) [27] [27] [—] [—] [4]
Fixed Cash • Remuneration for directors who serve concurrently as directors of subsidiaries that are operating companies is determined
based on their duties and responsibilities including execution of business based on group strategies formulated by Otsuka
remuneration Fixed Holdings, formulation of strategies for the operating company, and strengthening corporate governance. (Remuneration Audit & Supervisory Board members 56 56 4
shall not exceed the upper limit of remuneration resolved at the Shareholders Meeting.) (of which Outside Audit & Supervisory — —
[32] [32] [3]
*3 Fixed remuneration is paid out equally every month. Board Members)
• Remuneration is paid in a lump sum at a certain timing every fiscal year, with the amount or calculation method determined Total 951 385 421 144 18
Performance- Cash based on (1) rate of achievement of the fiscal year’s targets for consolidated revenue, consolidated operating profit, and (of which Outside Directors and Audit [59] [59] [—] [—] [7]
consolidated business profit before R&D expenses; (2) progress with respect to medium-to-long-term consolidated & Supervisory Board Members)
linked bonus Variable
performance targets; and (3) appropriate business management in compliance with corporate governance, along with the
individual’s personal performance. * There are no Directors of the Company who concurrently serve as employees..
During the current fiscal year, Outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members received total remuneration of ¥2 million from the Company’s subsidiaries for their services
• The Company has introduced a share-based payment plan that reflects progress in achieving the targets in the Third as Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members.
Medium-Term Management Plan covering the period from fiscal 2019 to fiscal 2023.
• Under the plan, restricted stock allocation agreements stipulating conditions including transfer restrictions for a set period
Non-cash* are concluded with the grantees. The plan is designed to function as an effective remuneration system by combining
Share-based multiple release conditions for the transfer restrictions, including a set performance evaluation period and performance
(restricted stock)
payment achievement, and by, in principle, granting restricted stock requiring evaluation of performance over several fiscal years at Sustainability Management Structure at Otsuka Holdings
Variable the same time in the first fiscal year.
• The specific timing for granting restricted stock is each fiscal year for items requiring evaluation of performance in a single
fiscal year, and at the same time in the first fiscal year of the evaluation period for items requiring evaluation of performance The Otsuka Group Sustainability Promotion Committee was develop systems in each area of sustainability promotion,
over several fiscal years. established in 2018 and is chaired by the director in charge and update promotion plans, as necessary. Committee
* Overview of non-cash remuneration (restricted stock): To determine the number of shares to be allocated to grantees of restricted stock, a standard number of shares is set for each of sustainability promotion at Otsuka Holdings. The members comprise group officers in charge of areas relating
fiscal year for each individual, giving consideration to his or her performance of duties, responsibilities, and the weighting versus fixed remuneration as basic remuneration. Based on
this standard number of shares, shares are allotted for each series each fiscal year or at the same time in the first fiscal year of an evaluation period of several fiscal years, according to committee promotes sustainability for the entire Otsuka to sustainability, such as supply chain, environment, human
the release conditions in the table below.
The restricted stock allocation agreements concluded with the grantees stipulate that the transfer restrictions on the restricted stock shall not be removed and the Company shall Group, acting as an engine for discussions and decision- resources, corporate governance, compliance risk
acquire all of the shares without paying compensation if certain events occur.
making regarding the direction of sustainability-related management, and public relations, with the Sustainability
Composition of Remuneration to Directors Remuneration for Directors of Subsidiaries activities, plans, and other measures. Committee meetings Promotion, IR and Corporate Planning Departments of
(Excluding Outside Directors) (Operating Companies of the Otsuka Group) are held regularly to discuss direction and evaluate activities, Otsuka Holdings functioning as the secretariat.
The remuneration plan emphasizes medium-to-long-term Remuneration for directors of subsidiaries that are operating
enhancement of corporate value, and is designed so that performance- companies is determined based on their duties and responsibilities
Apply for deliberation
linked remuneration as a percentage of total remuneration varies (including execution of business of operating companies based on Otsuka Holdings Otsuka Group Sustainability Promotion Leader
according to the Company’s single-year and medium-to-long-term group strategies formulated by the Company, formulation of
Board of Directors (Otsuka Holdings Director)
consolidated performance. strategies for operating companies, and strengthening corporate Approval
As a rough guide to the ratio of remuneration by remuneration governance), and shall not exceed the upper limit of remuneration
type, performance-linked bonuses are designed to be variable over the resolved at the Shareholders’ Meeting. Proposal Approval Promotion
range of 0%–100% of fixed remuneration, and share-based payments It should be noted that the restricted stock-based
over the range of 0%–100% of fixed remuneration. Performance- compensation system newly implemented in fiscal 2019 will also
Group Companies’
linked bonuses and share-based payments combined are roughly a apply to about 40 directors (excluding outside directors) of certain Otsuka Group Sustainability Promotion Committee Secretariat
Executives in charge
maximum of 66% of total remuneration (200% of 300% total). major subsidiaries of the group.
Examine and promote direction (strategy) in each field of Sustainability
Fiscal year for evaluation and
Allotment ratio (%) Summary of release conditions
allocation timing
Promotion Promotion Promotion
On condition of incumbency in the subject fiscal year
40% of the
Series A Allocated each year, taking a single fiscal (single fiscal year)
standard number (However, the shares will not be released if the combined
(Incumbency condition) year as the evaluation period
of shares consolidated revenue and operating profit target achievement Group companies
rate is less than 80%)
Share information and promote activities within each field
Evaluation period 1 is the three fiscal years
In each evaluation period, the value of (2) below may not
from fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021, with through each field’ s promotion committee members Promote throughout
Series B fall below the value of (1)
(Achievement of 30% of the t th he e s sh amar ee s t if mor e t ah te t t hh er e ste a y re t a or fs ta hl elo pc ea rt ie od d a .t (1) The cumulative amount of the planned value of “consolidated Share information and promote activities within each of the seven main the group
standard number business profit before R&D expenses” of the Third Medium- operating companies through sustainability and public relations departments
medium-term of shares Evaluation period 2 is the two fiscal years Term Management Plan
performance targets) from fiscal 2022 through fiscal 2023, with (2) T he cumulative amount of the actual value of “consolidated
the shares for the two years allocated at the Otsuka Otsuka
same time at the start of the period. business profit before R&D expenses” for the evaluation period Otsuka Pharmaceutical Taiho Otsuka Otsuka Otsuka Medical
Pharmaceutical Pharmaceutical Warehouse Chemical Foods
Evaluation period 1 is the three fiscal years Factory Devices
In each evaluation period, the value of (2) below may not
from fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021, with
Series C fall below the value of (1)
30% of the the shares for the three years allocated at
(Satisfaction of the the same time at the start of the period. (1) T he cumulative amount of the “consolidated cost of capital”
standard number calculated in accordance with the consolidated capital cost
medium-term cost of of shares Evaluation period 2 is the two fiscal years ratio for the evaluation period
capital condition) from fiscal 2022 through fiscal 2023, with (2) The cumulative amount of the actual value of “consolidated
the shares for the two years allocated at the
net operating profit after tax” for the evaluation period
same time at the start of the period.
56 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 57Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members
(As of March 30, 2021)
Directors Outside Directors
I Och tsir uo ka T Ha igts uu co hi Y Mo as th si uro o Y Mu ak ti so u tani K Seo kiguchi Y Ao os kh iihisa
C R Dh e irpa ei r cr e tm s oea rnn t aa tn ivd e P R Dr e ie rp es ri ced ts oe en rn ,t Ct a a En t Oid v e S De irn eio ctr o M ranaging Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director
Profile Profile Profile Profile Profile Profile
Apr. 1987 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Mar. 1977 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1985 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1975 Intern, Pediatric Department, St. Luke’s International Hospital Apr. 1973 Joined Mitsubishi Corporation Apr. 1974 Joined Itochu Corporation
Jun. 1997 Executive Director, Director of Consumer Products Development Jun. 1998 Senior Managing Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Jan. 2003 Vice President, Associate General Manager of the General Affairs Oct. 1981 Joined Ministry of Health and Welfare (present Ministry of Health, May 1990 Joined the Boston Consulting Group Jun. 2003 Executive Officer, Itochu Corporation
Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Pharmavite) Department, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Labour and Welfare) Jan. 1996 General Manager of Sterrad Business Division, Johnson & Johnson Apr. 2009 Managing Executive Officer, President, Food Company, Itochu
Jun. 1998 Managing Director, responsible for Consumer Products, Publicity, Nov. 1998 Executive Deputy President and Executive Director, Otsuka Jun. 2006 Vice President, General Manager of the General Affairs Aug. 2005 Director-General, Health Policy Bureau, Ministry of Health, Labour Medical K. K. (present Johnson & Johnson K. K. Medical Company) Corporation
Promotion and Development Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Department, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Welfare Nov. 1998 President and Representative Director, Janssen Kyowa Co., Ltd. Apr. 2010 Member of the Board, Senior Managing Executive Officer,
Dec. 2001 Executive Director, Research and Development, Otsuka Jun. 1999 Executive Director, responsible for U.S. Business, Otsuka Nov. 2007 Senior Vice President, General Manager of the General Affairs Aug. 2007 Director, National Sanatorium Tama Zenshoen (present Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K.) President, Food Company, Itochu Corporation
M Dea cy . 2 20 00 02 3 P R E Ph x he ea p acr rr um mes ta aie vc cn ee et u ua Dtt teii ivc cpea au l l D tF Fyia a r Pc ce rt tc eo ot sor riy ydr, ,, e I IOn nnc ct ts . .au nk da P Rh ea pr rm esa ec ne tu att ii vc ea l DF ia rc et co tory r, , I Onc ts. uka J Ju un n. . 2 20 00 00 8 P P C Eh xr oe ea .s c,r i um d L te ta id vnc . ete u a Dnt ii rdc ea cRl t e oC p ro ,r . Oe, s tL e st n ud t k. a at i Pv he aD rmire ac ct eo ur, t iO cat ls u Ck oa ., P Lh tdar .maceutical Jul. 2008 D E M Cxe oatp .e n ,a r a Lnr g tt a dm il n . Re gn e Dlt a iw t ri eoi ct nh tos ,a r ,d O Cd t osit u rio pkn oaa rP al h tr ee a s r Amp do a mn cs e ii nub iti sl i ti ct ray a l t f iCo or o n .L ,, e OLg t ta d sl u. A kaff a Hi ors l da in nd g s A D Mp e acr r. . . 2 2 20 0 01 1 12 5 6 P V Or i ue c tes si d iP de r een st Di, d iN re ena ct t ti , oo I rn n , a t Oel r tI snn uas kt ti i at ou n Ht ae ol l o dUf in nP i gvu seb r Cl sic i ot y .H , oe La f t dl Ht .h e (ca ult rh r ea nn td ) Welfare J O Ju ac nl. t .. 2 2 20 0 00 0 19 9 1 C S Ru eh p pa r ri e erm m sea e nn tA aa d tn ivvd eis oD Dri , ir r e J eac ct n to osr s r, ,e J Dna In K As y s Joe awn p aaK n y C o (o pw . r, ea L s C t ed no . t. , S L Htd D. IA Japan) M J Mua n ar r.. . 2 2 20 0 01 1 17 7 9 A O Od u um t ts si ii d dn e eis t D Dra i ir rt e eiv c ce t to o O r r, ,f A Ofic r tae sutr, a k I at Co o Hc rh opu lo d C r inao gtir sop n Co r o(a c .t u , io r Lr tn e d n .( c t ()u curr re rn ent) t)
Dec. 2004 P Fare cs ti od re y,n It n a cn .d Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Jul. 2008 P Cr oe .s ,i d Le tdn .t (a cn ud rr eR ne tp )resentative Director, CEO, Otsuka Holdings Mar. 2016 S He on ldio inr gM s a Cn oa .g , i Ln tg d .Director, Corporate Administration, Otsuka Jun. 2019 President, Japan Public Health Association (current) A Mp ar r. . 2 20 01 12 4 O Ou ut ts si id de e D Di ir re ec ct to or r, , N Ke.I n.C e. d C ixo , r Inp co .ration (present Solasto Corporation)
Jul. 2008 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Dec. 2011 Executive Director, Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. Jan. 2017 Executive Director, Otsuka Medical Devices Co., Ltd. (current) Mar. 2018 Outside Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current)
Jun. 2010 Executive Deputy President and Executive Director, Otsuka Feb. 2015 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Mar. 2019 Senior Managing Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current)
Holdings Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd.
Jun. 2014 Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Mar. 2020 Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Vice Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current)
Co., Ltd.
Mar. 2015 Executive Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (current)
Chairman, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. (current)
Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
(current)
Outside Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Members
Y Mu ak ko
ino
S Tah ku aic gh ii S Toa bd eanobu
E Cx Fe Ocutive Director, E B Mx u ae s nic nu aet gi s ev se mP D o er nir t te f oct lio or , Executive Director Mayo Y Too bz ao H Suir go as whi a ra
Mita
Standing Audit & Outside Audit &
Outside Director Supervisory Board Supervisory Board
Member Member
Profile Profile Profile
Apr. 1982 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1989 Joined Tobishima Corporation Apr. 1976 Senior Managing Director and Representative Director, Shinko
Apr. 1996 Joined Baxter Limited Sep. 1995 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Foods Co., Ltd. (present Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd.) Profile Profile Profile
A M Sep a pr r. .. 2 2 20 0 00 1 10 5 6 J D O V D V Po hi ii et c ci r s an pe e eu re c a mk P Ptd ro a tr r a e em O r cH s so eet i io d ds uf nu l e e td ttk n n i,h ci a n t tOe a, , g lP t C D Ds Csh uo i iCa r r oke err .op am c c , .o t t L, Ho oa r tLac r r dot e t .d o ole du . f f it F nt Ai ic h gn ca e sa cl n oCCC c uooo e n.r. ,, p t& iLL no tt A gr dd a c .. t Dc eo e F pu i an n rt a ti nn mcg ee nD & te , p A Oa c tr c st o um u ke ann tt in, g A J M Muu l a a.g r y.. 22 2 20 0 0 00 0 1 13 5 52 F C C P V P Ci h hio Eon ca a Or.a e, p r rn m m ,PL o c Ct rr a ae d ea lc c as. tD e eie rdu u ie seFp t t ni ii Oc ca n ta a tr a st rl ln m ueC Fc s kae e o p acn . o t& , Pt o n L ro rA s it y vif d ,bc a .O c Il tneo eI cA u f L.onA imrt iD In in tgi edv dii D as i (eo B ppn u ra e, s r siO t n emt e ns s teu s n O,k ta O t, s O tP ush kt usa akur a Pm k haa a c re mu at cic ea ul tical J N M Ju uol a l. .v y . 1 2 2 29 0 0 09 0 0 03 4 6 8 E F E C P C Eox x r xh oee e eo e .sc c c,d im u u ud Lst t te tii i icC dnv v va .e e eo tl . aD D DH, nLe e io rdtp p eld d cu u R. i tnt t e oy y g p r ,P P s r er r OCe e s tes s o si i n.d d u, t e e kaLn n at t d it t v H .a a e o(n n p D ld d dr i e ir nR R es ge e e cp p stn o r r t Ce e r ,O os s Oe e .t ,n n s t u Lst ta a u tk dt t kai i .v v a Ce e C hD D hei i emr re e mic c c it t a co o al r r, , lC HO O o o.t t ,s s l du u L itk k nda a g. ) s A J D Dap e en c cr .. . . 1 1 2 29 9 0 08 8 0 13 9 0 3 J M E S M So q e ei i ac nun t ns u iie ou t ard y i rb gt iRi AM ies neh s dgo s i vC e r U iDg a so oF ira . rcJ , ren , h cM L I S tt nD odt o va i r.r ev ,n g i sMsl a te i mony on erJ S ga n(t H ap a t nna e B n l a ae Sl ny ttS ah ke S nc ic e na lu ec grr yu e i Bt )r J,i i a ue t Mi ps se ias nC o n erCo g sS. o sa, e . nL U, c t uL nSd t rt i. d i ta t ( . in (p ) e Hl sr e ee y C as e loJ tan h.,pt c La atn rd e . ), A J J Ma ap n n ar . . y. 1 1 2 29 9 0 07 9 0 09 5 6 9 J C D C O Co h i F hpi rn Oee eee cm mr, atd Toi it c cr iO r o na a, cl g lt I s n eC H u Of llo ook e f. la r n f d, m i c iC L G neath gd rmt ,ie s . o I) b m n Cn H f i ooc C .a r ,e ml n LH a tt do e ti .rl o ,d ( n pOin rStg es y ss u s e k tC neao tm . C O, h DL tset e ud m p k. a i a( c rp a t Cr mle hHs e ee o n mn l tdt , i ci OO n ag t lt ss s Cuu C okk .aoa , . L, tL dt .d ). O O F Juec c nbt t .. . . 1 2 2 29 0 0 09 0 0 17 0 6 0 J J T V O Co o o i ouci i hn n .e tm ,se e iP Ld d da tr et deC D s s .u Ah e id ( lu u co L e uo dLi nt C r it tA t re ,) e &u nWTd o tS )i iut l ul c C pCh eo ae rr p vp T iioo sta ohr la rm yMti ao Batn os nu aa r g( dp e r Mmes e ee n mn tt b C eD o re ,. l , Oo Li tt t st d ue . k T ( aco uu Hrc r oh e ldne it n) gs
Apr. 2017 V C V Oi io tc c s.e e u, kLP P atr rde e Ps s.i i hd d ae e rn n mt t, , a D D cei ir r ue e tc c ict to o alr r Co o of f .t t ,h h Le e t dT Fa .inx a D nce ep a &r t Am ce cn ot u, nO tt insu gk Da eH po al rd tmin eg ns t, J Man a. r. 2 20 01 19 9 I S En e xd eni ca io u P r t ir V viv eica Dete iP r eL rei cm s toidit ree , nd Fit) n, aP nre cs ei d ae nn dt ’ Bs uO sf infi ece ss, O Pots rtu fk oa li oH Mold ai nn ag gs e C mo e. n, tL ,t d. J Ju un n. . 2 20 00 19 1 V L Cti hdc ae . i rC mh aa nir m ana dn Ra en pd r eR se ep nr te as te ivn et a Dti iv ree c D toir re , c Oto tsr u, kO at s Cu hk ea m Fo ico ad l s C C o.o , . L, td. Mar. 2020 M Ouit ts su idb eis h Di i rU ecF tJ o M r, o Or tg sa un k aS t Ha on ll dey in S ge sc Cur oit .,ie Ls t dC .o (. c, u L rt rd e. nt) J Du en c. . 2 20 00 19 1 C D Exo e epr cp a uo r ttr im va et ee Dn O t ir,f ef O cic tte osur r, , k D Cai or He rpoct oldo rir an to g ef s A I CT d, o mC .,o i nLr tp isdo t. rr aa tt ie o nF ,in Aa cn cc oe u & n tA inc gc o au nn dt i In T,g J Ou cn t. . 2 20 01 12 3 O P Ohu uat trs smi id dae ec A Deuu irt ed i ccit ta o& l rC , S o Nu . ip , p e L ptr odv ni .s o Pr ay r kB io na gr d D eM vee lm opb mer e, nO tt s Cu ok .a , Ltd.
M Ma ar r. . 2 20 01 18 9 E Ex xe ec cu ut ti iv ve e D Di ir re ec ct to or r, , C Co FOrp , o Ora tst ue kF ain Han oc lde i, n O gst s Cu oka ., H Lto dl .d (in cug rs r eC no t. ), Ltd. O E Hx ot es lu c duk inta i gv P se h CDa or irm .e , ca Ltc to de r .u , (t B cic u ua s rl i r n eC e no s t. s ), PL otd rt. f ( oc lu ior r Men at n) a gement, Otsuka J Ju un n. . 2 20 01 12 3 V S Cti oac .e n , d LC i tnh dga . ir Am ua dn it, &O t Ss uu pk ea r vF io so od rys BC oo a. r, dL t Md. ember, Otsuka Holdings Mar. 2015 O E Cx ot es ru c puk ota riv aC e te h V e Sim c ee ri v c P ia crl ee C s Dio d e. e p, n aL tt r,d t C m. o er np to , r Oat te su F kin a a Hn oc le d i& n gA sc Cco ou .,n Lt tin dg . and Mar. 2016 A Ltu dd . i (t c u& r rS eu np te )rvisory Board Member, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co.,
Nov. 2013 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Mar. 2018 Standing Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Holdings
Jun. 2014 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Co., Ltd. (current)
Mar. 2018 Chairman, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Mar. 2019 A (cu ud rri et n& t )Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd.
Mar. 2019 Executive Director, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. (current)
Yoko Kazuo
Masayuki Noriko Makoto Wachi Takahashi
Kobayashi Tojo Inoue
Outside Audit & Outside Audit &
Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Supervisory Board Supervisory Board
Member Member
Profile Profile Profile Profile Profile
Apr. 1989 Joined The Daiwa Bank, Ltd. (present Resona Bank, Limited) Apr. 1987 Joined Goldman Sachs (Japan) Corporation Apr. 1983 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1989 Registered as an attorney at law (Dai-Ichi Tokyo Bar Association) Apr. 1975 Joined Ebara-Udylite Co., Ltd. (present JCU Corporation)
Oct. 1993 Joined Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Aug. 1991 Joined Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Jun. 2008 Vice President, General Manager of Diagnostic Division, Otsuka Joined Kajitani Law Offices (current) Mar. 1986 Executive Director, Strategic Planning, RA Institute Co., Ltd.
Aug. 2002 President, Taiho Pharma USA, Inc. (present Taiho Oncology, Inc.) Jul. 2002 Engagement Manager, McKinsey & Company, Japan Office Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Jun. 2015 Corporate Auditor, Nichias Corporation Nov. 1992 Executive Director, General Manager of the System Division,
S A A Ae p p pp r r r. . .. 2 2 2 20 0 0 00 1 1 13 0 2 4 E P P L E Ctx r r x hde ee e as s .c c i i iu u(d d rc mt te e ui in nv v are ert t ne a a ,D Dn n n Tti ir r a)d de e i hc cC Rt t oeo oE pO Or r, ,r , neT T a asO cei i oh ht n lso o otu a gkP Pt yah hi ,v a ae IA nr r mm mD c.i ea ar (erc cUie c uc tu Sa ro rA,t e ri ,Ic , nn a T I tc nal ) . ciC h .o o. , P L ht ad r. maceutical Co., J A F A Au eu p un bg r g. .. . . 2 2 2 2 20 0 0 0 00 0 1 1 11 26 8 5 D M C E P Ex r xi o er a e ee . sn c c,c i u uda Lt t tgo et i id nv vir n, . e et gI n aD D t nD i ie r rdi e el r e c cC Ct tca o oEtp o Or r, i r at ,, O a nOCl t d s toJ u sa Cr ukp p Ekaa o Oa n r M a ,, A t PeI e mn hd t D aeie c rrl e a micC v l ae aDo ,l v r o e I ip n tvp eo i cm c r . Lea e Lst n C i Co t,n o O ., t Ls tu dk .a Holdings J M A Mu pn a arr r. .. . 2 2 2 20 0 0 00 1 1 19 5 5 7 S B E N E M Pxe x hu u ae en as t nc ci ri rno u a u maer ct t g ai is eV v v is cnue e i egc D t uD i De ci D tv i a iP r iri ciles e rr s ai ee c c o B lt cs t n o oi Cu td o, r rs o ,e , rO i ,n .En P ,t Nx e t hs L, e s au u tscD drk t u mD re .a atp i i a cvvPu v eieh st i u i tay V o e t r iniG m cc L, aee L a O l Cn sPc te e r Bser u u ua st k sil i d c iaM nea ePnla shtCn s, a ,a o G rg Om., ee taL nr st c ueo d er kf . a u a lP t iMh caa a lr nm Ca oa g .c e ,e r Lu tot di fc . al M Jua nr .. 2 20 01 16 9 O C Oo uu . tt , ss ii L dd t ee d . DA ( iu c ru ed crit r te o& n r, t S ) Nu ip che ir av sis Cor oy r pB oo ra ar td io M n e (cm urb re er n, tO )tsuka Holdings O M Mc a at y y. 2 2 20 0 00 0 04 6 8 S E K E C & Exu x x u S ee e En su cc c nk t uu un o vu tt t ik m rs ii i vov vu e& ee e ns r m D D DCA & ii io es rr r es Fe e n.o , crc c t a tc L at t ono oi t la d rcr r M ,t , , . h e HH C ais s e, ne h e aaI ai en ded g fc R oe . o o e m ff f l a A et t th rh ni eoe e t an O I M sn F f rf Oa f ao in ncfr f em a cic , hg a e C ie st ,m e i io ra ,c e nn Cln ed S i t r Ky t cS hs l et St ere u a Km I nnt e Skt D g ue ury ni sv n kOi Cas ui lf o so f C .in C,c o , e L o n,C t . dt ,ti rhr . Loc te ll d e .
Mar. 2017 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Jan. 2017 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Medical Devices Sep. 2017 Executive Director, Daiya Foods Inc. May 2010 Executive Director, Head of Information Systems Division, Circle K
Co., Ltd. (current) Mar. 2018 Senior Managing Director, Nutraceuticals Business, Otsuka Sunkus Co., Ltd.
May 2017 Executive Director, Otsuka America, Inc. Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Mar. 2018 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Holdings
Aug. 2017 Chairman, Pharmavite LLC Oct. 2018 Chairman, Nardobel SAS Co., Ltd. (current)
Mar. 2018 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Mar. 2019 Executive Deputy President and Executive Director, Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Mar. 2020 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Co., Ltd. (current)
Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current)
58 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 59Discussion on Corporate Governance
Four outside directors and two inside directors discuss corporate governance at Otsuka Holdings. Corporate Governance System
How effective is corporate governance at Otsuka balance, and the fact that two of the female directors are
Holdings? inside directors is significant. On the other hand, with the
growing importance of overseas operations, the Company
Aoki should be more proactive in promoting human resources who
Otsuka Holdings’ current structure is that of a company with are familiar with overseas business. When conducting a variety
a Board of Directors that executes business and an Audit & of businesses, even though people may share a long-term
Supervisory Board. I feel that this structure is working well. vision as a group, ascertaining the changing conditions and
It results in an environment where both Audit & Supervisory status of each business in detail is not easy. I therefore feel that
Board members and outside directors can exchange candid it is important for the Company to create a system for setting
opinions without reserve, and I think our opinions are KPIs for each business, so that it can track business targets
respected in decision making. As things stand, this has helped and their level of achievement for reliable oversight. I believe
to maintain the effectiveness of corporate governance in this will make business monitoring and management more
practical terms, but society is increasingly calling for greater effective.
separation between supervision and execution. We must closely
monitor this trend and work toward improving our system. Sekiguchi
Moreover, I think that cultivating management personnel is When considering the significance of corporate governance,
the most important factor in properly maintaining governance. and the purpose and mission of a holding company, I think
In addition to training for management skills, I think Otsuka Otsuka Holdings must ask itself what it can do to raise the
should conduct training that places more emphasis on collective strength of the Otsuka group to the highest level.
management morality, or in other words, cultivating a sense of From that perspective, I think we should fully discuss and
ethics to maintain sound management. examine the optimal structure for the Otsuka group’s sales
Yukio Matsutani Ko Sekiguchi
composition and what it should aim to be going forward. The
Outside Director Outside Director
Mita business environment is changing at a tremendous speed,
Member of Corporate Governance Committee Member of Corporate Governance Committee
Three female directors out of 13 provides an adequate gender brought on by factors including the COVID-19 pandemic and
Yoshihisa Aoki Mayo Mita Yoshiro Matsuo Shuichi Takagi
Outside Director Outside Director Senior Managing Director Executive Director
Member of Corporate Governance Committee Member of Corporate Governance Committee In charge of Otsuka Group Sustainability Promotion Business Portfolio Management
Head of Otsuka Group Global Environmental Council
Member of Risk Management Committee
Member of Corporate Governance Committee
60 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 61expertise from the front lines enables expeditious discussions at Mita
Board meetings. On the other hand, I think we must consider There is a high degree of transparency. We receive reference
whether the current system is acceptable as it stands, or materials on the remuneration system, comparisons with other
whether functions of a different order should be adopted for companies and other information, all of which facilitates lively
the Company in the future. exchanges of opinions during deliberations. On the other
hand, I have the impression that there is a slight lack of speed
Matsuo in incorporating opinions from outside directors in structuring
In the 10 years since the Company’s stock listing, although the systems and businesses. The topic of “Diversity and Inclusion”
group’s collective strength and a corporate governance system is becoming more important in society, and my impression is
appropriate for a listed company have been enhanced and that women are very active in taking the lead in actual business
put on a firm footing, there are nevertheless issues remaining execution at Otsuka. Is it a coincidence that women have been
before Otsuka can be considered a truly global company. We able to play more active roles, or has this been supported
have had ongoing animated discussions among directors about by special mechanisms such as promoting women to higher
the ideal form of corporate governance, and we have received positions, improving motivation, role sharing between women
various insightful opinions from our four outside directors, or mutual support systems? I would like to discuss these points.
who have diverse backgrounds. To move to the next stage, the
Otsuka group must further strengthen its corporate functions. Matsuo
the adoption of digital technologies. Just keeping up is difficult, We have achieved some results in increasing corporate value The Corporate Governance Committee, which comprises all Audit & Supervisory Board members as well as on corporate
but that alone is no way to succeed. Going forward, it will to maximize group synergies. However, amid the dizzying outside directors, the president, and the director in charge of governance. The role of the committee changes according to
be increasingly important to establish a forum for suggesting changes in the operating environment, a company will not administration, was organized to hold wide-ranging discussions the business and social environment. I believe that the role of
and discussing what Otsuka must prioritize in taking action. grow by simply playing catch-up, so it is necessary to accelerate on the nomination and remuneration of directors and Otsuka Holdings should also evolve.
The forum should bring together everyone’s abilities, acting as our evolution. Looking ahead over the medium to long term,
a stage for people to openly talk about how to demonstrate a key function of Otsuka Holdings is to lead the entire group.
the collective strength of the group, how to stay ahead of the To do so, we understand the importance of cultivating human
Global Governance of Operating Companies
times, and how to bring Otsuka’s advantages to the fore. resources for management and opening the Company to
external human resources. We must aim to maximize corporate
Takagi value premised on being accepted by society and having a
The Otsuka group conducts its management with and operating companies, and between respective operating
The Board of Directors of the Company operates under social impact. I believe that this generation of management
respect for the diversity and originality of its operating companies themselves, into a new form with a mechanism
a system of executive directors, where multiple directors must establish a system that enables Otsuka to compete on a
companies as it promotes further global expansion to to “Trust, but verify.” The creation of a mechanism that
serve concurrently on the management teams of operating global level as a global company.
achieve medium-to-long-term growth. What are your can weather further group expansion should help maintain
companies. Bringing together critical external perspectives and
thoughts on the issues management faces in sustainably governance and enable sound group development. To that
maintaining a unified and consistent overall direction as end, I think the cultivation and diversification of management
it manages diversified businesses? personnel is essential.
Corporate Governance Committee
Matsutani Sekiguchi
Otsuka started expanding overseas from an early stage, and Decentralized management also requires a unifying force
The Company has established the Corporate Governance while it has solidified its business foundation over its long because it will fall apart if the centrifugal force is too strong. I
Committee as an advisory body to the Board of Directors history, its governance is still developing. Since the business think Otsuka has reached a stage where it should strengthen
to deliberate on the nomination of directors and Audit & environment is completely different for each region and governance, or in other words, controls. The Global Business
Supervisory Board members, the remuneration system and country, I think governance is very difficult to coordinate. Support Department has been established at Otsuka Holdings
standards for directors, and other corporate governance Fortunately, due to efforts on the front lines, each business and I feel it is making progress toward strengthening global
matters. Please describe the status and effectiveness of has stayed aligned with Otsuka’s philosophy, but it will be governance. Risk management is also very important in global
the committee. necessary to strengthen the mechanism by which that is governance. I would like to see that function further enhanced
achieved. going forward.
Matsutani
I think the committee is effective and there is no problem with Aoki Takagi
the current system at this stage. I also believe its processes are I have a sense that the global governance of Otsuka’s operating The management of each operating company has been allowed
appropriate and ensure transparency and objectivity. On the companies has been driven by the excellent management skills a certain degree of freedom to encourage independence and
other hand, overseas businesses account for more than half and leadership of successive management teams. However, the creation of innovative ideas. Also, as previously pointed
of sales in real terms, and the system may not be sufficient to now that the group has grown to its current scale, I feel there out, Otsuka has proactively promoted globalization from quite
control overseas operations that have grown to such an extent. is a need to reconfigure the system between Otsuka Holdings an early stage. At the start there were restrictions on foreign
62 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 63central nervous system. The IV solutions business is also making opportunities have now shifted to the digital realm. The
progress through cooperation between Otsuka Pharmaceutical crucial questions will be how Otsuka can best make use
and Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory. I am aware that we are of this shift and how it can develop products and services
at a stage where we should step up group governance for the that use digital technology, not just to improve efficiency
sustainable growth of the Otsuka group. We are strengthening in areas such as promotion and new product development,
the monitoring function and building a system in collaboration but to capture the needs of this new era.
with operating companies.
Matsuo
Matsuo Our digital technology strategy is not a passive one. We
No matter how much its businesses expand or diversify, view it as something we must do ahead of other companies
Otsuka must continue to uphold its approach to business and to proceed to our next stage. We must set forth our digital
its systems for the unwavering actualization of creativity, as technology strategy as one of the core strategies of the
passed down by successive management teams. Organization next medium-term management plan. Sustainability should
and reproducibility are important for the group’s future. be recognized as an intrinsic aspect of business activities.
Rather than sticking to what was successful in the past, it must This view led Otsuka to become a signatory to the United
build a structure that can reproduce its vision for itself as an Nations Global Compact in 2016. People will not rally
organization. to Otsuka unless it is an appealing company that fulfills
investment and circumstances made it difficult to import I also believe that the structure of the Board of Directors worldwide, such as POCARI SWEAT and Calorie Mate. I its corporate responsibilities for a sustainable society.
Japan-based management. Globalization has progressed in needs to evolve and change in line with the Otsuka group’s think there will be greater demand for products that take a However, we cannot take a long-term perspective without
various countries in recent years, and Otsuka’s governance stage and direction from the perspectives of management preventive approach to maintaining health in the future, so an earnings base, so we intend to invest in medium-to-
system is at last evolving. Group-wide asset-sharing is under supervision, maximization of group synergies, and global I would like Otsuka to focus on creating such products in long-term growth while staying committed to maintaining
way in various therapeutic areas, such as oncology and the governance. the Nutraceutical Business. our current business performance. Otsuka is capable of
identifying and overcoming issues, and looking to the
Mita future with ideas unlike those of other companies. We
Otsuka’s Social Role in the New Normal and Achieving Amid the growing social trend of health awareness, I will continue to strive to be a vibrant, active company.
believe that the Otsuka group’s wide-ranging portfolio Opinions may differ among diverse types of business
a Sustainable Society
and long-term product and brand development are its core and diverse management personnel, but the alternative,
strengths. It is one of the few companies in the unique one in which everyone has the same opinion, would be
position of being able to provide comprehensive healthcare senseless. Through a lively exchange of opinions, I would
The worldwide COVID-19 pandemic has had a major to change accordingly. solutions. Even if the Company’s strategy is aligned to a like to lay the groundwork for the next stage and create an
impact on society and people’s lifestyles. What are your One of the greatest changes is increased use of sustainable approach, keeping all products and businesses organization with reproducibility.
thoughts on opportunities and risks in the “new normal” information technology. There have been advances, going indefinitely will surely be difficult in this era of rapid
going forward, and Otsuka’s role and future issues as “a but I think the largest impact has been rapid uptake by change. What will Otsuka focus on in the short term, the
unique total healthcare company”? everyone from the elderly to children. This affects the entire medium term and the long term? While making decisive
In addition, in recent years there have been increasing corporate supply chain, making it essential for companies investments with a view to the future, it may be necessary
calls for contributions to sustainability, and greater to prepare for any situation. Although every company is to sort out what is no longer in demand due to the
demands for corporate social responsibility. Now as ever, already dealing with visible primary impacts, each will also changing times. This does not mean that Otsuka Holdings
Otsuka aims to achieve sustainable growth and contribute need to develop a flexible system to respond to secondary should have a short-term orientation, but rather a vision
to a healthy and sustainable society, based on its and tertiary impacts. and strategy that looks ahead.
corporate philosophy and through its business activities
that help resolve social issues. What are your thoughts Aoki Sekiguchi
on the direction Otsuka should take and its issues going I find the phrase “a unique total healthcare company” very Otsuka’s scope of business as a total healthcare company
forward? appealing. I think most people want to lead healthy, long, will be extremely important in this new era, and the
enjoyable and beautiful lives. Otsuka has been operating concepts of prevention and pre-symptomatic healthcare,
Matsutani in line with that perspective, and I think it should continue and measures for individual health management also apply
The COVID-19 pandemic has had a substantial impact on in that direction as it achieves sustainability. Otsuka’s in the control of infectious diseases.
companies, and there is still no end in sight. Even once the strength is in the solid business structure and profit of the In addition, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic,
pandemic subsides, individual lifestyles and social conditions Pharmaceutical Business, as well as its culture of tenaciously a considerable amount of both business operations and
will be completely different, and companies will be required engaging in the creation of products that benefit people
64 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 65Compliance Tax Compliance
We have established the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics and we openly convey information about our stance on The Otsuka group complies with the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics, the group’s tax policy, country-specific laws,
related initiatives on our website in the form of a message from the president of Otsuka Holdings. Furthermore, we have regulations and tax treaties, as well as international taxation rules, and does not engage in transactions designed to evade the
formulated the Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy, which expresses our stance against corruption at all sites worldwide; payment of taxes, but carries out the appropriate filing and payment of taxes in each country. We endeavor to appropriately
the Otsuka Group Global Policy for Conflict of Interest, aimed at maintaining objectivity in business; and the Otsuka Group Global disclose information and ensure a degree of transparency and trust when dealing with tax authorities in each country. The
Privacy Policy, which defines our stance and guiding principles on privacy protection. These policies form the basis for conducting complexity of tax oversight increases as our businesses become more global. By continuously updating information and engaging
our business with high ethical standards. in prior consultations with tax experts where necessary, we are appropriately responding in order to minimize tax risk.
Compliance Promotion System Correspondence with Tax Authorities
submissions to relevant authorities. Also, when necessary, we
Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption
To instill compliance at group companies, the Otsuka group The Otsuka group engages in constructive relationships with tax make use of advance pricing agreements (APAs) to obtain ahead-
Policy conducts universal training based on the content of the above authorities in the countries/regions in which it operates. We will of-time consensus with tax authorities.
The Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy embodies policies. Training materials, distributed to each operating company, continue to improve the reliability of tax data and establish
and reiterates our steadfast commitment to conducting and officers, employees, contract employees, and dispatched systems to provide it promptly. Governance
employees at each operating company attend related training at
business with integrity and in compliance with all relevant We work to maintain and improve tax-related governance,
anti-corruption laws. This Policy outlines how to prevent, least once annually and submit a signed declaration to observe the Transfer Pricing Policy recognizing that this contributes to the enhancement of
regulations. The levels of understanding of compliance and its
detect and deter violations of anti-corruption laws. It sets The Otsuka group calculates transfer prices based on the OECD corporate value. To this end, under the active involvement of the
penetration among employees are evaluated through a test during
forth our global minimum standards regarding the guidelines that were created for the prevention of double CFO, we are strengthening cooperation between departments
training, awareness surveys, and other measures, and the results
prevention of corruption and applies to all our worldwide of training and the status of submission of declaration forms are taxation and fair application of the transfer price tax system, as and operating companies as well as securing and training
business operations. regularly reported at meetings of the Board of Directors. Each well as each country’s transfer price tax system, and makes capable human resources, thereby maintaining an appropriate
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/ operating company has also established related regulations in efforts to ensure proper transactions between related parties. In system that enhances tax compliance and reduces tax risks.
governance/pdf/OtsukaGroupGlobalAnti- accordance with the laws of its country and conducts legal recent years, the OECD has issued an action plan on base erosion Furthermore, we have established reporting obligations to the
CorruptionPolicy_IR.pdf compliance. In addition, the operational status of the internal and profit shifting (BEPS), in which multinational corporations Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Committee
reporting systems and internal audits at major group companies is engage in international transactions that lead to double non- regarding the above-mentioned policies and processes, as well
regularly reported at meetings of the Board of Directors of Otsuka
Otsuka Group Global Policy for Conflict of taxation. We will properly execute our obligations to make as their ongoing implementation and maintenance.
Holdings.
Interest
The Otsuka group recognizes conflicts of interest between Monitoring
the group and individual employees as a matter that could As a holding company whose role is to maximize the Otsuka
impact the integrity of the organization, and one that has a group’s corporate value, Otsuka Holdings has established a system
Risk Management
great bearing on the group’s future. Based on this thinking, to ensure appropriate business operations from the perspective of
we formulated the Otsuka Group Global Policy for Conflict the group as a whole. We have established a system for facilitating
of Interest to prevent such conflicts and we are working to cooperation in the Otsuka group. Under this system, affiliated The Otsuka group carries out risk management under the supervision of top management based on the recognition that pursuing
companies report to Otsuka Holdings as necessary regarding items management efficiency and controlling the risks inherent in business activities is important to enhancing corporate value.
instill the policy at a global level.
specified in the Affiliated Company Management Regulations, and
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/
obtain approval on relevant important items.
governance/pdf/OtsukaGroupGlobalPolicyfo
Examples of overseas initiatives include the appointment of
rConflictofInterest_IR.pdf compliance officers at each group company in Asia and the Risk Management System Details of Risk Management Activities
holding of regular meetings for sharing the status of progress in To further enhance risk management at Otsuka Holdings and its In conducting risk assessments, risk awareness in management is
Otsuka Group Global Privacy Policy each country. The director in charge of compliance also visits
main operating companies, the Company introduced enterprise shared through management interviews at Otsuka Holdings and
In recent years, many countries have enacted privacy companies to gather information and offer suggestions on how risk management (ERM) in July 2020 for the purpose of its main operating companies (top-down approach), and
improvements may be made.
protection legislation, such as the European Union’s General recognizing and assessing group-wide risks, and prioritizing assessments and risk control are conducted by front-line
In addition, an Internal Audit Department under the direct
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) implemented in May allocation of resources to the control of principal risks. employees (bottom-up approach). This enables us to
authority of the president has been established. It conducts regular
2018. The Otsuka group is working to strengthen privacy As part of ERM activities, we have established a group-wide comprehensively identify the risks that exist in the group. Each
audits based on the Internal Audit Rules to verify that operations
protection. In addition to formulating the Otsuka Group risk management framework and a system for risk assessment, company formulates risk management policies and risk
are being executed appropriately and efficiently with regard to the
Global Privacy Policy to define our stance and guiding assets and business in general of Otsuka Holdings and its affiliated and are identifying principal risks through risk assessments at the management action plans for risks that are judged to be its
principles on privacy protection, we establish related rules companies. The department submits its audit reports to the main operating companies, and formulating countermeasures principal risks, and regularly reviews the risk situation and the
and review management systems in accordance with the president, directors, and Audit & Supervisory Board members. In against those risks. progress of action plans.
laws and regulations related to privacy protection in each cases where it finds the need for improvements, the department These risk management activities are reported to the Risk In addition, Otsuka Holdings aggregates and visualizes the
country. issues improvement advisories. It then follows up to check the Management Committee, which is chaired by the President and results of each group company's assessments to gain a
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/ implementation status of measures and ascertain that the execution Representative Director of the Company. The Risk Management comprehensive understanding of the risks that exist and the
of duties has been suitably improved. In addition, the department
governance/pdf/ Committee monitors principal risks, examines past risk control situation in the group. Based on these results, Otsuka
OtsukaGroupGlobalPrivacyPolicy_IR.pdf shares information with Audit & Supervisory Board members and management activities and considers proposals for their Holdings has identified the group's principal risks.
the accounting auditor and coordinates a unified stance.
improvement, and regularly reviews the risk management system.
66 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 67Risk Management System
Item Response
Risk Management Committee • Decision-making at the Board of Directors
(Chair: President and Representative Director) Risk related to uncertainty of • Review of research and development directions as appropriate
new drug development • Enhancing pipelines
• Decisions on status of risk management • Implementation of monitoring and risk reduction measures
• Reporting on status of
• Monitoring of status of risk management • Forming appropriate strategic alliances and making acquisitions
risk management
• Review of risk management system
Risk related to business alliances • Detailed due diligence and valuation of target companies or
assets, extensive discussion by the Board of Directors, and business
Risks related to and acquisitions operation monitoring after investment
Visualization each company’s risk management business strategy • Developing in-house talent
PDCA initiatives and group risks
• Adopting state-of-the-art technologies and conducting proof-of-
Identification of the Risk related to digitalization concept, demonstrations and practical application
Otsuka Holdings
group’s principal risks • Holding seminars to improve IT literacy
• Providing products at appropriate prices and demonstrating the
Risk related to healthcare cost value of new drugs
containment measures • Contributing to the control of soaring healthcare costs as a total
healthcare company
• Establishing a global safety management structure
Risk related to side effects • Centralized management of safety information
• Establishing a system for implementing safety measures
Plan Do Check, Action
• Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and
governmental and industry standards
Awareness of
Review of risk Risk related to food safety • Acquisition of certifications and specification of monitoring
management Risk
Otsuka Holdings and risks Formulation management management status indicators
Main Operating Identification of risk activities • Monitoring and evaluation • Encouraging acquisition of international standard certification
Companies o rif s kh si g ah t e es at c h m poa ln ica ieg se am ne dn t b ma as ne ad g o en m r eis nk t io nf d r ii cs ak t om ra snagement • Formulating business continuity plans
Awareness company action plans policies and • Review and reporting on • Conducting regular drills
of action plans progress of actions Risk related to natural disasters • Conducting simulated desktop simulation drills jointly among
workplace • Risk reassessment group companies
and pandemics
risks • Promotion of measures against COVID-19
• Establishing and enhancing work-from-home system and web
conferencing systems
Risks related to • Fair, equitable and transparent procurement, and building good
relationships with suppliers
production and
Risk related to supply chain • Ensuring the stable procurement and supply of raw materials
Principal Risks marketing of products
disruption • Conducting risk assessments
Through group-wide risk assessments, the Otsuka group recognizes Business Risks • Establishing systems to ensure business continuity in the event of
the following principal risks in Otsuka Holdings and key operating https://www.otsuka.com/en/ir/management/risk.html the COVID-19 pandemic
companies, and is taking steps to mitigate them. • Purchasing raw materials from multiple companies
• Gathering information such as market trends and securing
Risk related to raw material price
alternative raw materials
Item Response increases • Maintaining appropriate inventories
• Reducing costs by improving productivity
• Establishing the Otsuka Global Academy
Talent recruitment and
• Declaring diversity promotion in the Otsuka Group Global Code of • Focusing on research and development of new products that will
Risks related to development risk Risk related to expiration of
Business Ethics, and providing relevant systems and mechanisms drive sustainable growth
management based on patent protection
• Initiatives to extend the lifecycle of products
• Determining materiality and resolving social issues through business
corporate philosophy Risk related to corporate social
activities
responsibility Risk related to patent • Establishing a management system for intellectual property rights
• Establishing the Otsuka Group Sustainability Promotion Committee
infringement • Conducting investigations and gathering information
• Strategic allocation of managerial resources to measures in each
• Establishing an internal reporting system
business Risk related to litigation
• Cooperation with outside counsels, etc.
• Establishing the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics and
Risk as a holding company related global policies • Establishing the Otsuka Group Global Information Security Policy
Risks related to • Upgrading the internal monitoring framework and establishing a Risk related to information • Education and training for executives and employees
group-wide internal reporting system management
business strategy • Establishing the Group Information Security Committee
• Ensuring financial soundness
Other risks related to
Risk related to corporate brand • Establishing the CI Management Committee business management R oi ps ek r r ae tl ia ot ne sd to global business • A bap sp er do p or ni a tt he e m loa cn aa l g oe pm ere an tt in a gn ed n s vu ip rop no mrt e f no tr business operations
• In-house training
management and reputation
• Formulating the Otsuka Group PR Guidelines Risk related to foreign exchange • Use of forward exchange contracts
and stock prices • Diversified and periodic review of portfolio
68 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 69ESG Content Index
For more details about our sustainability initiatives, visit:
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/
In addition to information included in this integrated report, the Otsuka group discloses the following
ESG-related information on its website. Please visit the website for more details.
Item Policies, commitments and systems Initiatives Item Policies, commitments and systems Initiatives
Overall • Signatory to the United Nations Global Compact Sales and • Basic policy Pages 44-45 • Conducting appropriate marketing and promotion activities in compliance with laws
• Sustainability Mission Page 18 Marketing • Establishing internal code of practice that expand on the and regulations
• Materialities Pages 20-21 JPMA Promotion Code for Prescription Drugs, for activities • Gathering and disseminating information about products, related knowledge, latest
• Goals and progress Pages 20-21 targeted at healthcare professionals academic information, etc.
• Stakeholder engagement • Structural measures such as establishing the Scientific • Employee training
• Sustainability management structure Pages 57 Affairs Department for gathering and disseminating • Reducing food loss (extending shelf life, switching to month-based expiration dates,
• External recognition information about products, related knowledge, and the etc.)
• Data(people, the environment, and governance) latest academic information, and dedicated review unit to
ensure appropriate marketing and promotion activities
Society Health Basic policy
Customer Service • Basic policy Pages 44-45 • Promoting customer-centric management
Pharmaceutical • Basic policy • Contribution to unmet medical needs Pages 30-35 • Declaration of Customer-centric Commitment • Ensuring appropriate communication with customers
Business • Goals and progress Pages 20-21 • Initiatives for access to medicine Page 45 • Improved products based on customer feedback Page 47
“FY 2023 Goals (Quantification)” and “FY 2020 Progress” • Initiatives for infectious diseases including tuberculosis Page 31 • Group-wide Customer Service Liaison Meeting, cross- • Establishing dedicated contact points for patients, healthcare professionals and
department “Listen to Customer Feedback Meeting,” customers respectively
Nutraceutical • Basic policy • Catering to yet-to-be-imagined needs and other promotion structures for consumer-centric
Business • Goals and progress Pages 20-21 • Initiatives for Access to Nutrition Pages 36-41 management
Environment Environmental • Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics (“Environmental Protection”)
People • Basic policy management • Otsuka Group Environmental Policy
• Otsuka Group Environmental Activity Guidelines
Human resource • Basic policy • Human resource development programs (including management human resource • Group promotional structures centering on the Otsuka Group Global Environmental Council
development development programs) • Disclosure of ISO 14001 certification status
• Internship programs
• Systems for leveraging abilities (open recruiting system, self-assessment system, etc.) Climate Change • Basic policy • Initiatives for efficient energy use and CO2 reduction (expanded use of renewable
• Goals and progress Pages 20-21 energy sources, such as by introduction of CO2-free electricity, including solar power
Diversity & • “Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics” (“Diversity • Diversity generation for in-house consumption, and purchase of Green Power Certificates,
Inclusion and Inclusion”) • Systems for diversity promotion (including mindset and establishing structure to help etc.) Pages 48–49
• Basic policy diverse human resources play active roles regardless of nationality, race, age, gender, • Validation of goals under the Science Based Targets (SBT) initiative
• Signatory to the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) disability, sexual orientation, etc.) • Disclosure of CO2 emissions and other data Page 48 and 73
• Iku Boss (managers supportive of work-life balance) • Examples of external recognition
declaration by group companies Resource • Basic policy • Initiatives to achieve zero waste
Recycling and • Goals and progress Pages 20-21 • Initiatives for plastic resource and marine plastic pollution
Health and • Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics • Initiatives for employee health maintenance and promotion Page 43 • Disclosure of waste volume (effective use volume and final disposal volume) and
Safety (“Human Rights and Labor Standards” and “Employee • Initiatives for workplace health and safety Conservation other data Page 73
Health”) • Initiatives for reduction overtime and encouraging employees to take paid leave
• Basic policy • Examples of external recognition Water • Basic policy • Water risk evaluation at manufacturing sites Pages 48-49
• Declaration on health by group companies Conservation • Goals and progress Pages 20-21 • Disclosure of water usage, water use efficiency and other data. Page 48 and 73
• “Health and Safety Committee” and other promotion
structures
Governance Corporate • Basic policy
Fair employment •Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics • Internal training on bullying, harassment and other issues Governance • Corporate Governance Guidelines
and working ( H“ aH ru asm sman e nR tig ,”h t as n a dn “d R L ea pb oo rr t iS nt ga n Cd oa nr cd es r, n” s “ ”D )iscrimination and • Employee survey, and improvement activities based on survey results Governance • Basic policy Page 52 • Disclosure of Corporate Governance Report
condition • Basic policy Structure • Overview of governance structure Page 52 • Initiatives to Strengthen Corporate Governance Page 52
• Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board and Corporate Governance Committee
Human rights •Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics • Implementing human right risk assessment to identify salient human right risks Page 53
initiatives ( H“ aH ru asm sman e nR tig ,”h t as n a dn “d R L ea pb oo rr t iS nt ga n Cd oa nr cd es r, n” s “ ”D )iscrimination and • • I Wde hn ist tif ley bin log w sa inli ge n ht o h tlu inm ean right issues and implementing corrective measures •• SR ka it li lo mna al te ri xfo fr o s r e dle irc et cio ton r so f a nd dir e Ac uto dr its &an Sd u e pv ea rvlu isa oti ro yn B o of a rb do mar ed m e bff ee rc st ive Pn ae gs es 54Page 55
• Basic policy • Employee training on Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy • Succession plan
• Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy • External collaboration
• Promotional structure Remuneration • Basic policy Page 54 • Disclosure of Corporate Governance Report
for Directors • Remuneration standards, system and method of determination Page 55
Quality in • Basic policy and Audit &
All We Do • Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics (“Business Integrity,” “Maintaining Books and Records,” etc.) Supervisory
• Certification status of ISO 9001 (quality), ISO 22000, FSSC 22000 (food safety), etc.
Board Members
Research and • Commitments in R&D (compliance with laws and • Ethical considerations in research involving animals
development guidelines, ethical considerations, etc.) Pages 44-45 • Ethical considerations in research Involving human-derived specimens Compliance Overall • Basic policy
• Ethical considerations in research involving pathogenic microorganisms (pathogens) • Compliance promotion structure Page 66
and genetically modified organisms
• Ethics in clinical trials Tax Compliance • Basic policy Page 67 • Correspondence with tax authorities
• Compliance in R&D by Otsuka group companies • Tax policy Page 67
• Management of public research funds • Transfer pricing policy Page 67
Procurement • Basic policy Pages 44-45 • Promotion of sustainable procurement with consideration for the environment, Anti-Corruption • Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics (“Bribery and • Due diligence
• Otsuka Group Procurement Policy Page 46 human rights other matters. Corruption,” etc.) • Training for employees Page 66
• Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines (including due diligence investigation on new suppliers, and the common SAQ and • Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy Page 66 • Monitoring Page 66
• Sustainable procurement Promotional structure briefing sessions for business collaborators) Pages 44-46
(establishment of the Otsuka Sustainable Procurement Task • Joint business collaborator audit by pharmaceutical companies Conflicts of • Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics (“Conflicts of • Training for employees Page 66
Force) Pages 44-46 • Global initiatives for streamlining production and supply of products Interest Interest,” etc.) • Monitoring Page 66
• Goals and progress Pages 20-21 • Otsuka Group Global Policy for Conflict of Interest Page 66
Production, • Basic policy Pages 44-45 • Production, quality control and patient/customer safety in compliance with and Protecting • Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics (“Privacy and • Training for employees Page 66
quality control • Measures including global product quality policies for the regulatory requirements, and governmental and industry standards Privacy Confidentiality,” etc.) • Monitoring Page 66
pharmaceutical products of Otsuka Pharmaceutical • Acquisition of ISO 9001 (quality), ISO 22000, FSSC 22000 (food safety), etc. • Otsuka Group Global Privacy Policy Page 66
and patient/
• Promotion structure including Global Production Meeting • Quality control based on GQP and GVP, and post-marketing safety management
customer safety and Global Product Quality Meetings. Page 47 • Global implementation of pharmacovigilance activities Whistleblowing • Provision of internal and external whistleblowing hotlines
• Measures against falsified medicines Hotline
• Employee training
Risk Overall • Basic policy Page 68 • Identifying principal risks via risk assessments and mitigating risks Pages 68–69
Logistics •• EB sa ts aic b lp iso hl micy e nt P oa fg te hs e 4 G4 D-4 P5 Promotion Office and other • wIn ii tt hia t ti hv ee s G f oo or dq u Da il si tt ry i bc uo tn iotr no l P a ran cd t im cea (in Gt Den P)a n gc ue id ( ep lr ino em so , t ei mon p lo of y l eo eg tis rt ai ic ns i nin g ,c eo tm c.p )liance Management • • R Enis tk e rM pra in sea g rie sm k men at n P ao gl eic my ent Page 68 • • B Ru iss ki n me ass n aco gn emtin eu ni tt y t rp al ia nn inn ging and management
promotion structures for control and maintenance of • Initiatives for streamlined cooperation among shippers and distributors • Risk management system operated through the Risk • Initiatives to mitigate information security risk
product quality and stable supply in logistics (standardization of IT-based data systems, digitization of forms, etc.) Management Committee Page 68
• Initiatives for stable supply (distribution strage of inventory, registration of vehicles
for authorized access to restricted areas, etc.) Contribution to Communities • Policy • Activities to Contribute to communities
• Environmentally friendly measures (the promotion of modal shift to reduce CO2
emissions)
70 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 71Financial and Non-Financial Highlights
Visit the Otsuka Holdings website for key sustainability data at:
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/data/pdf/MajorCSRData_en.pdf
Revenue, Overseas Revenue Ratio Business Profit, Business Profit Margin (Ratio to Revenue) Number of Employees Number of Female Managers, Female Manager Ratio
Revenue, Overseas Revenue Ratio Business Profit, Business Profit Margin Number of Employees Number of Female Managers, Female Manager Ratio
(¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (%) (%)
1155..22
2,000 60 250 15 35,000 400 15
3333,,115511
5533..66 53.7 13.4 336688
221166..99 30,000
200
1,500 190.0 300
11,,442222..881,423.0 25,000 1100..44
40 10 10
59.8%
150
20,000
1,000 200
15,000
100
20 5 5
10,000
5000 100
50
5,000 40.2%
0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2017 2018 2019 2020 2017 2018 2019 2020
(Plan) (Plan)
Revenue (left) Overseas revenue ratio (right) Business profit (left) Business profit margin (right) Outside Japan Japan Number of female managers (left) Female manager ratio (right)
Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group Scope: (Fiscal 2017–2018) Six companies: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho
Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods
(Fiscal 2019) Nine companies: six companies above plus Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development &
Commercialization, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, and Pharmavite
(Fiscal 2020) Eleven companies: nine companies above plus Otsuka Holdings and Otsuka Medical Devices
Profit Attributable to Owners of the Company, Return Pharmaceutical Business
on Equity Attributable to Owners of the Company (ROE) R&D Expenses*, R&D Ratio (Ratio to Revenue) Number of Employees Taking Parental Leave CO2 emissions, CO2 emissions per sales
Profit Attributable to Owners of the Company, Return on Equity Attributable to Owners of the Company (ROE) R&D Expenses (in Pharmaceutical Business) Employees taking parental leave Total CO2 emissions
(¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (%) (Thousand tons-CO2) (Tons/¥ million)
200 9 250 30 600 900 1.00
88..22 554488
7.7
212.0 Japan 29.4%
220055..88
200 770066
150 114488..11 146.0 Indonesia 22.3%
6 23.0 20 400 268 600
150 2211..55 India 18.7%
100 North America 9.1% 0.50
100 00..5500 South Korea 8.1%
3 10 200 300
China 6.3%
50
50 280 Europe 2.3%
Others 3.7%
0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2017 2018 2019 2020 2017 2018 2019 2020
(Plan) (Plan)
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (left) R&D expenses (left) Female Male Total CO2 emissions (left) CO2 emissions per sales (right)
Return on equity attributable to owners of the Company (ROE) (right) R&D ratio (right) Scope: (Fiscal 2017–2018) Six companies: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho
Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group
* Excluding impairment losses Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods
(Fiscal 2019) Nine companies: six companies above plus Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development &
Commercialization, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, and Pharmavite
(Fiscal 2020) Eleven companies: nine companies above plus Otsuka Holdings and Otsuka Medical Devices
Total Assets, Ratio of Equity Attributable to Simple Incineration and Landfill Volume,
Owners of the Company to Total Assets Annual Dividend per Share, Dividend Payout Ratio Water Usage, Water Use Efficiency Total Waste Volume
Total assets Annual dividend per share Water Usage, Water Use Efficiency Total waste volume
(¥ billion) (%) (¥) (%) (Thousand m3) (m3/¥ million) (tons) (tons)
3,500 80 100 110000 100 80 20,000 20 20,000 200,000
3,000 68.4 7700..55 1177,,773322
1166,,110000
2,500 2,581.3 22,,662277..88 60 75 60 15,000 Japan 65.4% 15 15,000 1144,,550000 150,000
Southeast Asia 16.3%
2,000
1122..55 East Asia 8.5%
40 50 40 10,000 10 10,000 100,000
1,500 South Asia and North Africa 5.3%
9977,,440000
3366..66 37.1 8888,,990000
1,000 North America 2.9%
20 25 20 5,000 5 5,000 50,000
South America 0.04%
500
Europe 1.5%
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2017 2018 2019 2020 2019 2020
(Plan)
Total assets (left) Annual dividend per share (left) Water usage (left) Water use efficiency (right) Simple incineration and landfill (left) Total waste volume (right)
Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the Company to total assets (right) Dividend payout ratio (right)
Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group
72 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 73Main Data
With effect from fiscal 2016 (ended December 31, 2016), Otsuka adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).Information for fiscal 2015 (ended
December 31, 2015) is also presented in line with IFRS.
J-GAAP IFRS IFRS
Item1 (Unit) 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2014.125 2015.12 2016.12 2017.12 2018.126 2019.12 2020.12 (Unit) 2020.127
Results of
Operations
Revenue (¥ billion) ¥1,154.6 ¥1,218.1 ¥1,452.8 ¥1,224.3 ¥1,427.4 ¥1,195.5 ¥1,240.0 ¥1,292.0 ¥1,396.2 ¥1,422.8 (US$ million) $13,744
Selling, general and administrative
(¥ billion) 457.4 462.2 563.4 508.6 617.5 519.5 531.4 552.8 557.6 562.4 (US$ million) 5,433
expenses2,3
Business profit before R&D expenses (¥ billion) 369.8 285.7 305.4 313.8 403.0 433.7 (US$ million) 4,190
Ratio of business profit before R&D expenses
(%) 25.9 23.9 24.6 24.3 28.9 30.5 (%) 30.5
to revenue
R&D expenses3 (¥ billion) 159.2 192.4 249.0 172.9 199.6 152.6 174.0 192.9 215.8 216.8 (US$ million) 2,095
R&D ratio (%) 13.8 15.8 17.1 14.1 14.0 12.8 14.0 14.9 15.5 15.2 (%) 15.2
Business profit4 (¥ billion) 170.2 133.1 131.4 120.9 187.2 216.9 (US$ million) 2,095
Business profit margin (%) 11.9 11.1 10.6 9.4 13.4 15.2 (%) 15.2
Operating profit (¥ billion) 148.7 169.7 198.7 196.5 148.9 101.1 104.2 108.3 176.6 198.6 (US$ million) 1,918
Operating profit margin (%) 12.9 13.9 13.7 16.1 10.4 8.5 8.4 8.4 12.6 14.0 (%) 14.0
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (¥ billion) 92.2 122.4 151.0 143.1 102.0 92.6 112.5 82.5 127.2 148.1 (US$ million) 1,431
Financial
Position
Total assets (¥ billion) ¥1,666.8 ¥1,779.2 ¥2,028.4 ¥2,178.2 ¥2,575.3 ¥2,478.3 ¥2,480.3 ¥2,477.4 ¥2,581.3 ¥2,627.8 (US$ million) $25,385
Total equity (¥ billion) 1,222.8 1,325.1 1,510.8 1,658.6 1,727.4 1,738.4 1,822.0 1,732.3 1,795.4 1,883.4 (US$ million) 18,194
Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the
(%) 72.5 73.7 73.2 74.7 66.0 69.0 72.3 68.8 68.4 70.5 (%) 70.5
Company to total assets
ROE (%) 7.8 9.7 10.8 9.2 6.1 5.4 6.4 4.7 7.3 8.2 (%) 8.2
Cash Flows
Net cash flows from operating activities (¥ billion) ¥ 147.6 ¥ 119.3 ¥ 226.5 ¥ 88.5 ¥ 257.9 ¥ 142.0 ¥ 102.8 ¥ 135.8 ¥ 192.6 ¥ 232.8 (US$ million) $ 2,249
Net cash flows from (used in) investing
(¥ billion) (107.6) (91.2) (108.5) (28.7) (422.6) (135.1) (40.1) (93.3) (52.3) (99.9) (US$ million) (965)
activities
Free cash flows (¥ billion) 40.0 28.1 117.9 59.9 (164.7) 6.9 62.8 42.5 140.4 133.0 (US$ million) 1,285
Dividends
Annual dividend per share (Yen) ¥ 45 ¥ 58 ¥ 65 ¥ 75 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 (US$) $ 0.97
Dividend payout ratio (%) 27.2 26.1 23.4 28.4 53.1 58.5 48.2 65.7 42.6 36.6 (%) 36.6
Common
Stock,
Stock Price
(Thousand (Thousand
Number of shares outstanding at year-end 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836
shares) shares)
Stock price at year-end (Yen) ¥ 2,450 ¥ 3,300 ¥ 3,087 ¥ 3,617 ¥ 4,317 ¥ 5,093 ¥ 4,948 ¥ 4,493 ¥ 4,883 ¥ 4,418 (US$) $ 42.68
Number of
Employees8
Total (Persons) 24,595 25,330 28,288 29,482 31,940 31,787 32,817 32,935 32,992 33,151 (Persons) 33,151
Japan (Persons) 13,808 13,732 14,116 14,285 14,082 13,909 13,880 13,757 13,356 13,319 (Persons) 13,319
Outside Japan (Persons) 10,787 11,598 14,172 15,197 17,858 17,878 18,937 19,178 19,636 19,832 (Persons) 19,832
1. Line items are based on IFRS.
2. SG&A expenses under J-GAAP are presented as total expenses less R&D expenses. The Company believes that this information is useful to investors in comparing the Company’s financial
results under J-GAAP with those under IFRS.
3. Excluding impairment losses
4. Business profit = Revenue − Cost of sales − Selling, general and administrative expenses + Share of profit of associates − R&D expenses
5. Due to a change in the consolidated fiscal year, fiscal 2014 (ended December 31, 2014) was a transitional period covering the nine months from April 1 to December 31, 2014.
6. As of December 31, 2019, the Company finalized provisional accounting treatments for business combinations. This is reflected in the presentation of figures for the year ended
December 31, 2018.
7. Calculated at ¥103.52 = US$1.
8. Number of employees including Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries
7744 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 75Corporate Information and Global Network Group Structure and Overview of Main Operating Companies
Corporate Profile Company Organization
(As of December 31, 2020) (As of April 1, 2021)
Otsuka Group Corporate Philosophy
Company
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Name
Established July 8, 2008
Capital ¥81.69 billion Overview
The Otsuka group of companies, whose origins date back to 1921, aims to contribute to the health of people around the world. It aims to do
so through two main pillars: the pharmaceutical business for the diagnosis and treatment of diseases and the nutraceutical*1 business to
Head Office 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo support the maintenance and promotion of everyday health.
101-0048, Japan
The company’s culture, summarized in a few words as, “Ryukan-godo” (by sweat we recognize the way), “Jissho” (actualization) and
“Sozosei” (creativity), have been fostered by successive Otsuka leaders. These are emphasized by our 47,000*2 employees across 194 group
companies in 32 countries and regions who strive to create and market unique products and services. Tokyo Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Konan,
Headquarters Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan *1. Nutraceuticals: nutrition+pharmaceuticals *2. As of end of December, 2020. Otsuka Holdings and subsidiaries and affiliates.
Telephone +81-3-6717-1410
Organizational Structure
Otsuka Holdings
Number of
111 (Consolidated: 33,151)
Employees
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Otsuka Pharmaceutical Taiho Pharmaceutical Otsuka Warehouse Otsuka Chemical Otsuka Foods Otsuka Medical
Factory Devices Business Control, management and related activities with
Description respect to the Company’s subsidiaries and affiliates
operating in pharmaceutical, nutraceutical, consumer
product, and other businesses
Europe
40
companies
North Japan
America
48
Otsuka operates in 34
32 Asia, companies Middle East companies
67
countries/regions
South and
companies Central America
Oceania 2
3
companies
companies
gniteeM
’sredloherahS
srotceriD
fo
draoB
namriahC tnediserP
Internal Control Department
Internal Audit Department
Nutraceutical Business Global Strategy
and Planning Headquarters
Corporate Planning Department
Global Business Support Department
Finance and Accounting Department
Project Office
Tax Department
Corporate Service Department
Business Development Department
Investor Relations Department
Administration Department
President Office
Public Relations Department
Sustainability Promotion Department
Human Resources Department
Human Resource Planning Department
IT Planning Department
Legal Affairs Department Statutory Auditors/
Board of Statutory Statutory Auditor’s Office
Auditors
Otsuka Pharmaceutical A total healthcare company supporting well-being for the whole body,
Co., Ltd. from the treatment of diseases to the promotion of everyday health
Under the corporate philosophy “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide,” the Otsuka Pharmaceutical operates with two core
businesses: the Pharmaceutical Business, which supports from diagnosis to treatment of diseases, and the Nutraceutical Business, which helps people
maintain and improve day-to-day health.
Global Network
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Original company of the Otsuka group, and a leader in IV solutions
(As of December 31, 2020)
Factory, Inc. in Japan with more than 70 years of experience in the field
Based on its management vision of being “The Best Partner in Clinical Nutrition,” Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory creates innovative products that
meet a variety of needs, including pharmaceuticals, medical devices, oral rehydration solutions and other medical foods, and OTC pharmaceuticals.
The company operates globally, with a focus on Japan and the rest of Asia.
Taiho Pharmaceutical A pioneer of oral anticancer agents in Japan for half a century
Co., Ltd. Taiho Pharmaceutical is an R&D-driven specialty pharma focusing on the fields of oncology, allergy and immunology, and urology. Its corporate philosophy
is “We strive to improve human health and contribute to a society enriched by smiles.” In the oncology field in particular, Taiho Pharmaceutical is known
as one of the leading companies in Japan, actively promoting globalization as well. In its consumer healthcare business, Taiho Pharmaceutical strives to
research and develop novel and unique products by continuing to identify people's real needs and meeting them precisely.
Otsuka Warehouse Contributing to people’s health worldwide in the field of logistics
Co., Ltd. Since its founding, Otsuka Warehouse has developed businesses with an emphasis on pharmaceutical and food product logistics. This includes
constructing a common distribution platform for the Otsuka group’s three core categories: pharmaceuticals, foods and beverages, and daily necessities.
In recent years, Otsuka Warehouse has been working to extend its logistics solutions to outside the group.
Otsuka Chemical Otsuka Chemical creatively gives shape to the power of materials together with its customers.
Co., Ltd. With materials at the core of its operations, Otsuka Chemical aims for continuous technological innovation that leads to the creation of products that
enable higher standards of living. Otsuka Chemical provides products to global markets in automotive, electrical and electronic equipment, housing, and
healthcare areas through its main segments of the hydrazine business, the Advanced Polymer Materials business, the inorganic and composite materials
business, and the pharmaceutical intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) business.
Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Creating high-value-added products that offer new dietary lifestyles since 1955
At Otsuka Foods, our motto is “the company begins with people and food begins with spirit.” With this in mind, all of our employees bring a spirit of
food focused on deliciousness, safety, peace of mind and better health to our businesses. Today, the social landscape is changing dramatically, with super-
aging societies; health, environmental, and population issues; and many other issues. Leveraging its brand, Otsuka Foods will continue to pursue solutions
that address this kind of social change by creating and providing products that customers need, seeking to contribute to the people of the world.
Otsuka Medical Devices Developing innovative treatment methods and creating new value
Co., Ltd. Since its establishment in February 2011, Otsuka Medical Devices Co., Ltd. has focused on developing unique solutions that improve the health and well-
being of patients whose medical needs and conditions cannot yet be fulfilled by existing treatment methods. To achieve our aspiration of becoming a
pioneer in the medical device industry, we combine global R&D efforts with the technology and drug discovery know-how inherent within the Otsuka
group's heritage.
76 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 77Disclosure by the Otsuka Group Stock Information
(As of December 31, 2020)
The Otsuka group provides an overview of financial and non-financial information through this Number of shares authorized 1,600,000,000 shares Principal Shareholders (Top 10)
integrated report. Visit the Otsuka Holdings website for additional information, including consolidated Number of shares issued 557,835,617 shares Number of
Shareholding
financial statements, financial results presentations and supplementary documents, and information Number of shareholders 72,774 Name of Shareholders shares held ratio (%)
(thousand)
about research and development.
The Nomura Trust and Banking Co., Ltd.
57,827 10.66
Otsuka Founders Shareholding Fund Trust Account
The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 49,826 9.18
Website Investor Relations
https://www.otsuka.com/en/ https://www.otsuka.com/en/ir/ Stock Distribution Custody Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 23,823 4.39
Treasury shares Securities
Otsuka Estate Co., Ltd. 23,296 4.29
2.78% companies
4.10% Otsuka Group Employee Shareholding Fund 13,116 2.41
Other companies The Awa Bank, Ltd. 10,970 2.02
Financial
16.98%
institutions
JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385632 7,850 1.44
36.66%
Otsuka Asset Co., Ltd. 7,380 1.36
JPMorgan Securities Japan Co., Ltd. 6,965 1.28
Custody Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account 5) 6,595 1.21
Individuals and others Foreign (Notes) 1. Number of shares held is rounded down to the nearest thousand.
20.13% corporations 2. Although the Company holds 15,499,157 of its own shares, treasury shares are
The Otsuka group’s Sustainability 19.35% excluded from the above list.
3. Shareholding ratio is calculated after treasury shares are deducted.
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/ 4. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. merged with Trust & Custody Services Bank,
Ltd. and JTC Holdings, Ltd. on July 27, 2020 and changed its trade name to
Custody Bank of Japan, Ltd.
Maximum/Minimum Stock Price and Volatility by Year Total Shareholders’ Return
Maximum Minimum Volatility (%)
Fiscal Fiscal 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
stock price (¥) stock price (¥) (standard deviation)
2020 5,158 3,224 32.51
Otsuka Holdings 120.3% 119.2% 111.0% 122.4% 113.9%
2019 5,072 3,434 27.61
2018 5,832 4,331 29.07 Comparison: 100.3 122.6 103.0 121.7 130.7
TOPIX Total Return Index
2017 5,895 4,290 14.20
2016 5,139 3,467 17.69
2015 4,774 3,433 20.22
■ About the Integrated Report ■ Precautions Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 2014 4,019 2,773 19.24
Beginning with the fiscal 2017 edition, Otsuka Holdings has combined its This integrated report summarizes the operating and financial results of
2013 3,630 2,454 27.09
Annual Report and CSR Report into a single integrated report that brings the Otsuka group (Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries) for fiscal
2012 2,512 2,100 9.89
together financial information and non-financial information. We hope it 2020 (January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020). The report contains
deepens stakeholders’ understanding of the group in its aim to become forward-looking statements and forecast pertaining to plans, projections, 2011 2,252 1,737 13.77
an indispensable contributor to people’s health worldwide. strategies, and performance for the Otsuka group of companies. These
statements are based upon current analysis and beliefs in light of the
■ Reporting Period information available on the issuing date of the report. Actual results may
Stock Performance
Fiscal 2020 (January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020); therefore differ due to the risks and uncertainties that may affect Otsuka
Note that certain information from January 2021 onward is also included. group operations.
(¥) Stock price (left) Trading volume (right) (Thousand shares)
6,000 150,000
■ Scope of Reporting ■ Medical information
In principle, this report covers Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. and its In this integrated report, for the sake of readability a unified brand name
subsidiaries. Where the scope of activities or data is narrower, details are is used when a product has different brand names in different countries
120,000
noted. or regions. Therefore, these products may not be available in all countries,
or may be available under different brand names, for different indications, 4,000
■ Guidelines Referenced in different dosages and strengths. 90,000
• International Integrated Reporting Framework, International Integrated Please note that the information regarding pharmaceutical products
Reporting Council (IIRC) (including products under development) is not intended for advertising or
• GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, Global promotional purposes, or as medical advice. 60,000
Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2,000
• ISO 26000
• Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2018, 30,000
Ministry of the Environment
• Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation,
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, 0 0
• Other guidelines 2011/12 2012/12 2013/12 2014/12 2015/12 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 2020/12
78 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 79INTEGRATED
REPORT
2020
For the year ended December 31,2020
To further the responsible management of forest resources, this report is printed on paper
produced from FSC®-certified sources in accordance with the standards of the Forest Stewardship
Council, an international certification body dedicated to promoting responsible forest stewardship,
and other controlled sources, using non-VOC ink that is free from mineral oils.