INTEGRATED
REPORT
2018
For the year ended December 31, 2018
N O
H
Significance of the Corporate Symbol
A symbolic representation of Otsuka group’s corporate philosophy, the
corporate symbol adopts the initial ‘O’ of the corporate name as its
motif. Representing the sky above, the large ‘O’ is rendered in grada-
tions of Otsuka BLUE and the small ‘O’ in Otsuka RED represents the
focused energy of Otsuka, the wellspring of these tenets. Offsetting the
two forms poised in balance, the Otsuka name is spelled out in an open
and friendly typeface. The corporate symbol conveys Otsuka group’s
energetic commitment to human happiness through good health.The Challenging Spirit, Innovative and Creative
Handed Down Manufacturing
It all began about 100 years ago. The original Otsuka company was established as a manufac- The Otsuka group of companies has created a whole range of products that only Otsuka
turer of raw chemical materials using bittern from the famous salt pans of Naruto, Tokushima can provide. We have pioneered the market with new products such as POCARI SWEAT, a
Prefecture in Japan, where the founder, Busaburo Otsuka was born. Although it is said that health drink that provides unprecedented value, oral anticancer agents, antipsychotics
Busaburo had far more land than the average farmer at that time, he wanted to start a busi- with unique action mechanisms, and the equol-containing food EQUELLE to promote
ness with the aim of making great strides by turning his thoughts to industry. That spirit has women’s health and beauty.
been handed down to this day. Against a backdrop of steady business diversification, includ- We will continue to provide new products and solutions that contribute to the health
ing entry into the IV solutions business, nationwide and then global expansion, and many of people around the world through innovative and creative manufacturing.
decisions, there has always been a challenging spirit at Otsuka that has boldly sought after
the unknown. To be satisfied with the status quo, can only mean that creative products and
services won’t be produced.
We will continue to seek challenges, free from preconceptions.
Second-Generation President Founder
Masahito Otsuka Busaburo Otsuka
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 1Challenging Ourselves to See
Otsuka’s
Things Through to the End
The anti-tuberculosis drug DELTYBA and the aquaretic and
ADPKD treatment drug Samsca/JINARC*/JYNARQUE**,
which are now widely used around the world, have been
Grit and brought to market after many years of difficult research and
development. EQUELLE also, which supports women’s
health and beauty, was developed after years of research on
soybeans with the aim of creating new markets. It took a
long time for the value of the now long-popular ORO-
NAMIN C DRINK and Calorie Mate to be recognized. Otsuka
Determination
has always persistently challenged itself even in unknown
fields, starting something and resolving to get results
through to the very end. This corporate culture nurtured
over many years has been handed down to each and
every one of the approximately 47,000 employees working
in 30 countries and regions around the world.
* Brand name for ADPKD treatment in multiple
regions outside Japan
**Brand name for ADPKD treatment in the U.S.
2 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 3Ot suka
Originality
Contributing to Health as a
Total Healthcare Company
Based on our enduring mission to contribute to the
health of people worldwide, Otsuka is advancing in both
the pharmaceutical business, from diagnosis to treat-
ment of diseases, and the nutraceutical business, which
helps people maintain and improve day-to-day health.
We strive to establish altogether new markets first by
developing products grounded in science—not only
pharmaceuticals but also nutraceuticals including func-
tional foods and drinks. We then persistently and infor-
matively communicate the novel value of these products.
4 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 5About the Integrated Report
Beginning with the fiscal 2017 edition, Otsuka Holdings has combined its Annual Report and CSR Report into a single integrated report
Corporate Philosophy
that brings together financial information and non-financial information. We hope it will deepen our stakeholders’ understanding of the
group’s aim to become an indispensable contributor to people’s health worldwide. In producing this report, we referred to the Interna-
tional Integrated Reporting Framework advocated by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and the Guidance for Collabo-
rative Value Creation developed by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry.
Reporting period Precautions Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Fiscal 2018 (January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018), This integrated report summarizes the operating and financial results of Otsuka Holdings
with some information after January 2019 included. Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries for fiscal 2018 (January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018). It also
In keeping with this corporate philosophy and the Otsuka mottos of Jissho (actualization) and Sozosei (creativity), the includes information regarding selected material events which occurred between January 1,
Scope of Reporting 2019 and the date of publication. The report contains forward-looking statements pertaining
Otsuka group strives to pursue what only we can achieve. The Otsuka group supports the lives of people worldwide In principle, this report covers Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries. Activities and to plans, projections, strategies, and prospects for the Otsuka group of companies. These
through a wide range of innovative and creative products including pharmaceuticals, functional beverages, and func- data of more restricted scope are noted in the report. statements are based upon current analysis and belief in light of the information available on
the issuing date of the report. Actual results may therefore differ due to the risks and
tional foods. We are dedicated to cultivating a culture and a dynamic corporate climate reflecting our vision as a health- Reference guidelines 英文ロゴ uncertainties that may affect Otsuka group operations.
care company, finding ways to live in harmony with local communities and natural environment from a global • • I Gn Rte I r Sn ta at nio dn aa rdl sIntegrated Reporting Framework, IIRC Medical information
perspective, and contributing to more affluent and healthier lives of people. • ISO26000 In this integrated report, a unified brand name is used when a product has different brand
• Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018 edition), MOE names in different countries or regions for the sake of readability. Therefore, these products
• Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation, METI, etc. may not be available in all countries, or may be available under different brand names, for
different indications, in different dosages and strengths.
Please note that the information regarding pharmaceutical products (including products
under development) is not intended as any kind of advertising, promotion or medical advice.
Otsuka’s Goal
To become an indispensable contributor
C O N T E N T S
to people’s health worldwide
背景色がある場合（白マドをとる）
The Otsuka group operates business with the goal of becoming an indispensable contributor to people’s health world- 8 20 25
wide, fulfilling on our corporate philosophy in every activity. Our operations encompass two core businesses: the pharma-
ceutical business, which provides comprehensive health support from diagnosis to treatment of diseases, and the
nutraceutical business*, which helps people maintain and improve day-to-day health. We endeavor to create the
Message from the Feature Value Creation
unchanging value of improving people’s health worldwide and continue to provide the value to society.
President Section
*Nutraceuticals=nutrition + pharmaceuticals
8 Message from the President Access to Medicine 26 Growth Trajectory
16 Review of the Second Medium-Term Fight against Tuberculosis 28 Seeking to provide value through
Management Plan —An Old Disease with a New Face business
Essence of Management 18 Outline of the Third Medium-Term 30 Value Creation Model
Management Plan 32 Financial Highlights
34 Non-Financial Highlights
Sozosei Resisting the urge to copy and
pursuing that which only 37 57 80
(creativity) Otsuka is capable of delivering
Business Strategy Foundation of Data Section
Jissho Seif-actualization through Section Value Creation
achievement, completion and
(actualization) the discovery of truth
38 Research and Development 58 The Otsuka group CSR 80 Main Data
44 Pharmaceutical Business 60 Society 82 Management Discussion and Analysis of
50 Nutraceutical Business 70 Environment Consolidated Financial Results for Fiscal
2018
Ryukan godo The process of discovering the 55 Consumer Products Business 72 Governance
core substance of something 56 Other Businesses 78 Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board 84 Consolidated Financial Statements
(by sweat we recognize through hard work and Members 89 Group Structure & Overview of Main
the way) practice Operating Companies
90 Global Network
91 C orporate Information/Shareholder
Information
6 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 7Message from the President
Message from the President
Our Business Model and Goals
New innovations through our
unique business model
Tatsuo Higuchi
President and Representative Director, CEO
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Business model
The healthcare environment is characterized by expanding medical costs due to aging societies,
including medication costs for chronic illnesses, dementia, and cancer; a public-health need to
address both treatment-resistant and emerging infectious diseases; and the emergence of new,
life-changing health technologies. Partly in response to these developments, penetration of
generic drugs and reforms to drug pricing systems have proceeded with increasing speed. Mean-
while, people are growing more interested in daily disease prevention measures based on lifestyle
modifications in areas such as nutrition, exercise and rest.
Based on our mission to contribute to the health of people worldwide, the Otsuka group’s
activities are based on two pillars: the pharmaceutical business, which extends from diagnosis to
treatment of diseases; and the nutraceutical business, which helps people maintain and improve
day-to-day health. This business model is based on our belief that healthcare is a whole-body
phenomenon that can be fully actualized only if we continue to provide innovative products and
services that meet the demands of the times, including the lifestyles evolutions noted above.
Therefore, we seek out synergies from collaborations across the multiple group companies to drive
innovation and the creation of new markets. We believe this distinctive approach can position us
to make tangible contributions to the resolution of health-related social challenges as well.
Creating New Value as a
Pharmaceutical Nutraceutical
Global, Total Healthcare
business business
From diagnosis to Maintaining and
treatment of diseases improving day-to-day
Company health
— Embracing Challenges based on Our Enduring Mission
Innovation derived from synergies
The core brands of our nutraceutical business—POCARI SWEAT and Calorie Mate—were born
from perspectives, technologies, and know-how gained in our clinical nutrition business, which we
Based on our motto and mission, “Otsuka - people creating new products for better health world- have engaged in since 1946. Simultaneously, in our expanding medical device business, we lever-
wide”, the Otsuka group works hard to create innovative products in order to meet the universal age Otsuka’s strengths in pharmaceuticals to exploit new paths in total healthcare. Our diverse
business portfolio from foods and beverage to pharmaceuticals addresses whole-body health.
aspiration of people around the world to stay healthy. To this end, we constantly ask ourselves
In the pharmaceutical business, various group companies foster flexible, group-wide strate-
what we can put into practice that only Otsuka can achieve. Contributing to society is also a core
gies and decision making. In the nutraceutical business, group companies share information on
tenet of our management and this will help to realize a sustainable one. We will continue to The Global Committee for the global health issues and consumer expectations. Both businesses generate first-and-only innova-
Nutraceutical Business
embrace these challenges based on our mission, without being swept by currents of the moment. tions through our unique approaches that seek to leverage Otsuka’s soft and hard assets across
the group companies. Soft assets include corporate culture and philosophy as well as deep and
ingrained knowledge based on a nearly 100-year history and a committed workforce that is pas-
sionate about our aims. Hard assets include advanced technologies and an infrastructure span-
ning the globe.
8 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 9Message from the President
self-actualization and the discovery of truth through achievement and completion. In the case of
Indispensable contributor to people’s health worldwide pharmaceuticals, Jissho (actualization) only occurs when a drug is approved and reaches the
Our business environment is undergoing significant changes that will impact all that we do. These patient. Sozosei, a term used by Akihiko Otsuka, the third-generation leader of the group of
changes include advances in basic science that influence disease-treatment systems, a profusion companies, is based on a determination to pursue only what Otsuka can achieve, without imita-
of information and data, and other broad societal evolutions such as in people’s expectations, tion. It underscores our policy of creating innovative products that defy existing preconceptions.
Ryukan Godo: A calligraphic work by Otsuka
lifestyles and social circumstances.
founder, Busaburo Otsuka
In this shifting context, there are many things that only Otsuka can achieve. For example,
digital technology, data and information open the opportunity for deeper insights in areas such as
how diseases and treatments affect individual patients, and on how consumers balance consider- Realizing Ryukan Godo, Jissho, and Sozosei
ations of product flavor and healthiness. However, that obligates us to use the insights responsi- Our policy is to use our own hands and sweat to find the essence of solutions, without imita-
bly on behalf of society as well as the company, and also protect individual privacy. tion—to develop, launch, and secure our products in the market.
Deploying Otsuka’s uncommon management style and principles, we will continue to deliver For example, Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE, a revolutionary aquaretic agent that took 26 years
sustainable growth to help to address healthcare challenges, in our quest to become an indis- to develop, resulted from research that began with a physician’s request: “I want a diuretic that
pensable contributor to people’s health worldwide. excretes only water.” After many years of hard work, Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE was made avail-
able to patients as the world’s first treatment of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease
(ADPKD), an inherited disease that did not have any therapeutic treatments.
Monument engraved with our corporate In the nutraceuticals area, POCARI SWEAT was developed as a beverage to easily replenish
philosophy (Tokushima Prefecture, Japan)
water and electrolytes (ions) lost through sweating. When launched in Japan, it was one of the
Otsuka Values few beverages that broke through established market preconceptions. Sold in an unusual
blue-colored can, it had a relatively light taste for that time, so it took a while to gain the accep-
Distinctive corporate culture cul-
tance of consumers. To emphasize the value of the new drink, all employees conducted sampling
sessions to help consumers experience the effect. As a result of these meticulous efforts, we
tivated over many years, and its
firmly established our brand and created the completely new ion drink market in Japan.
outcomes
Medium-Term Management Plan
Nucleus of our corporate culture
The foundation of the Otsuka group’s business is its corporate culture. The three important princi- Overview of Overview of Second Medium-Term
Second Medium-Term
ples of this culture are Ryukan Godo (commitment), Jissho (actualization), and Sozosei (creativity).
Management Plan
Management Plan
Ryukan Godo is a term coined by Busaburo Otsuka, the founder of the Otsuka group. It
p.16~
means that one can discover the core substance and truth of matters only through hard work and
practice. Jissho, the main principle conveyed by Masahito Otsuka, a second-generation leader, is
Diversify revenue structure to achieve sustainable growth
During our First Medium-Term Management Plan (fiscal 2009-2013), we maximized the value of
the antipsychotic agent ABILIFY. In our Second Medium-Term Management Plan (fiscal 2014–
2018), during which the ABILIFY patent expired, we determined that our most important priority
had to be diversification of our revenue structure. Therefore, during the plan period we strength-
ened and broadened each of our businesses as revenue pillars, and built a foundation that will
support the group’s sustainable growth.
Second Medium-Term Management Plan: Outcomes and issues
In the pharmaceutical business, where we sought to reinforce our therapeutic franchises, we
enjoyed steady growth of newer global products, including ABILIFY MAINTENA, REXULTI, and
Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE. As a result, we rebuilt a robust revenue foundation and made signifi-
cant progress toward maximization and investment of cash flows in these growing core
10 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 11Message from the President
businesses. In the nutraceutical business, we made reforms that have consistently delivered oper- Human resources sought by Otsuka
ating profit margin of ten percent or higher. Thanks to these efforts, we achieved the objective to
People who embrace challenges
rejuvenate the product portfolio, moving that business toward more sustainable growth.
On the other hand, we have also encountered a number of hurdles. Our business environ-
with determination
ment in Japan has become more challenging due to dramatic reforms of the drug pricing system
and stepped-up measures to promote the use of generic drugs. In addition, we are creating many
entirely new drug offerings in areas with no therapeutic precedent or market, such as JYNARQUE,
and ABILIFY MYCITE, the first-ever digital medicine. Development and commercialization pro-
cesses can be just as unprecedented as the products themselves. In light of these challenges, we Respecting diversity
believe a key priority will be to maximize corporate value by anticipating major changes taking The Otsuka group consists of 189 companies with around 47,000 employees worldwide, more than
place in our business environment. half of whom are overseas employees. We aim to be a company in which all of our diverse employ-
ees can excel, regardless of nationality and other differences. This requires a corporate culture in
which employees can feel fulfillment in finding new values through mutual acknowledgment and
active acceptance of different backgrounds, mindsets, and traditions, as well as the occasional clash
Outline of Outline of Third Medium-Term Management Plan of differing perspectives. Otsuka has embraced diversity since the 1980s, before the concept had
Third Medium-Term
The Third Medium-Term Management Plan (2019–2023) is a period in which to advance and taken hold in Japan and elsewhere, and actively utilized a diversity of human resources.
Management Plan
grow in the global market as a total healthcare company.
p.18
We will focus on maximization of existing business value from expansion of the global prod-
ucts ABILIFY MAINTENA, REXULTI, Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE and LONSURF, which formed a
strong basis on the Second Medium-Term Management Plan. Encouraging challenges
In addition, we will create new value by challenging ourselves in new modalities, categories, In Otsuka, we have an embedded culture based on taking on challenges—doing what other com-
and geographies. Contingent on regulatory approvals, late-stage candidates in new therapeutic panies choose not to do. The fact that nobody else has tried something is just the type of chal-
areas will become revenue drivers: Avanir Pharmaceutical’s AVP-786, in development for several lenge that we need and use to invigorate our organization. Starting from scratch, we need to
mental health disorders; and vadadustat, in development for anemia secondary to chronic kidney consider how to proceed and form a hypothesis, Then, we move into action and once started,
disease, in collaboration with Akebia Therapeutics. In the nutraceutical business, the aim is to work with sticky resolve until the end. We believe this approach leads us to subsequent challenges,
grow the Nature Made line by leading the supplements sector with vitamin products tailored to and also to growth.
the needs of individual consumers. Daiya Foods, with a portfolio of delicious, plant-based foods, For those willing to embrace such challenges, Otsuka provides a culture of active support. First
will further expand its product line and distribution channels that appeal to millennial consumers. of all, responsibility. People who have been given responsibility will feel much more committed and
These investments in future growth will be balanced by a disciplined focus on profit margins, and responsible than those who have not. Accumulation of such experiences results in personal
threfore shareholder returns. development.
The Third Medium-Term Management Plan period will be a time of sustainable growth as the
seeds planted during the Second Medium-Term Management Plan period sprout and become
large trees.
Develop executives to lead the company
As CEO, one of my personal areas of focus is the development of executive human resources to
lead the company in the future. Business management equates to people, and will not work out if
Aspiration
people don’t grow. Otsuka will celebrate its 100th anniversary in 2021. In order to grow creatively
To become an indispensable contributor
and sustainably over the next 100 years, I believe that cultivation of human resources, especially
to people’s health worldwide
next-generation leadership, is extremely important—on a par with making medium- and long-term
capital investment.
For this reason, in 2016 Otsuka Holdings opened the Otsuka Global Academy, which con-
Nth ducts executive human resource development programs based on swiftly identifying and then
Medium-Term
Third Management fostering future leaders who in turn support the development of other employees.
Medium-Term Plan
Specifically, it has three programs for Otsuka group employees—the Senior Leadership Pro-
Second Management
gram, the Middle Leadership Program, and from now, a Global Leadership Program for upper-mid-
Medium-Term Plan
First
Medium-Term Management (2019–2023) dle level managers in Otsuka group companies around the world. More than 100 employees have
Mana Pg lae nment Plan participated to date. The programs convey not only the latest managerial knowledge and skills, but
(2009–2013) (2014–2018) also emphasize the continuity and relevance of business approaches practiced successfully since
our founding. This includes the managerial and leadership styles of successive generations of
Otsuka leaders, how they perceived the business, and case studies of their successes and failures.
12 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 13Message from the President
We define CSR in a broad sense as being an integrated part of our business. We don’t pro-
mote sustainability along with our businesses, but through it. Our pharmaceutical and nutraceuti-
cal products themselves, are created and produced to help people maintain and improve their
health, and to realize a better life. We aim to simultaneously achieve our own sustainable growth
and a healthy, sustainable society.
Enabling access to products such as DELTYBA, mentioned above, we constantly pursue activi-
ties aimed at contributing in ways that only Otsuka can.
In November 2016, Otsuka Holdings became a signatory to the United Nations Global Com-
pact. As a signatory, we express our support for the Global Compact’s ideals while at the same
time helping achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted at a United Nations
summit. In this way, we reaffirm the Otsuka group’s commitment to working with society in order
to achieve sustainable development.
Executive Human Resource Development Program
Risk preparedness
Discussions also center on the type and qualifications of human resources required for leadership, Preparing for risk is also important for sustainable corporate growth. As a healthcare company
and effective decision-making methods. involved with people’s lives, product quality is essential to our business, and we work continuously
The Academy should be a place where participants feel and learn directly from those discus- to maintain and improve quality throughout the value chain. With this in mind, Otsuka Pharma-
sions. I hope that each participant completes their program with an understanding of Otsuka’s true ceutical made its quality assurance department independent from its production department,
nature and a sense of ownership that is then reflected in their work. I also want participants to headed by an executive director-level leader.
convey what they felt and learned at the Academy to their fellow employees. We also hold global product quality meetings, where around 100 participants, including man-
From the time I was a young employee at Otsuka, I have often asked myself “What is the agers and heads of quality control, meet to discuss quality issues and future-oriented initiatives. In
value of this company?” As a result of learning many things from my predecessors, I have come to addition to conducting internal audits at each plant regularly, we strive to ensure the reliability of
find my own answers. Now, as a teacher in the training programs, I pass on my findings to our data. Specifically, we have introduced a computer system to prevent important documents and
employees who are now the age I was when I was struggling to answer the question. data related to quality and production from being falsified.
In 2018, I spent more than a month on human resource development, including preparation To maintain and improve the compliance-related awareness of all employees around the
time and traveling. There are many things that I too can still learn by thinking and engaging with world, we have produced universal training materials that conform to the Otsuka group’s Global
my younger colleagues in serious discussions on each business based on multiple perspectives. I Code of Business Ethics and its Global Anti-Corruption Policy. All employees attend the training
want to continue to teach and learn hand in hand with those who will lead the company. annually. Compliance violations can have a profound impact on the survival of a company. For this
reason, we promote continuous, global measures to ensure that each and every employee engages
in work based on high ethical standards.
What I consider Otsuka’s biggest risk would be to forget our roots. Without deep and stead-
fast roots, trees cannot grow large. That is why we must go about our daily activities without
CSR activities integrated with our businesses forgetting what we learn from three important principles of our corporate culture: Ryukan Godo
(commitment: by sweat we recognize the way), Jissho (actualization), and Sozosei (creativity).
Pursuing the contributions only
Our CSR
p.58~
Otsuka can make to help realize a
sustainable society
Adhering to our corporate philosophy to help realize a sustainable
society
DELTYBA, one of the world’s first new anti-tuberculosis drugs in 50 years, is used in over 80 coun-
tries worldwide today, addressing drug-resistant tuberculosis, a serious public health problem,
especially in areas with inadequate health systems.
14 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 15Message from the President
Review of the
Active R&D Investment in Core Therapeutic Areas
Second Medium-Term Management Plan
Strengthened Product Franchises in Core Therapeutic Areas for Sustainable Growth
Under the Plan, we continued active investments in R&D, working to strengthen our drug discovery capabilities and maximize the value of
our new product lineup that drives growth, with a focus on core therapeutic areas. At the same time, we have invested in outside projects
Establishing diversified revenue structure to achieve sus- which would bring synergies with our existing know-how and intellectual assets and enhanced our development pipeline. Combining
these efforts we have moved our R&D activities forward for ensuring our future sustainable growth and contributing to social issues.
tainable growth
Psychiatry and Neurology Oncology Cardiovascular and Renal
The second medium-term management plan (hereinafter referred to as the “Plan”) with fiscal 2018 as its final
— Full-scale entry into the neurologic area — Established a group-wide drug discovery — Developed as the next-generation core
year sets the highest priority to diversifying the Group’s revenue structure to achieve sustainable growth. In the and strengthening of the psychiatric area platform and introduced new therapeu- area
tic technologies
pharmaceutical business, we have pursued strengthening our core therapeutic franchises. In the nutraceutical Full-scale entry into the area of neurol- Licensed vadadustat, a drug under
ogy through the acquisition of Avanir Strengthened in-house drug discov- development for renal anemia, from
business (hereinafter referred to as the “NC business”) we have pursued business transformation and structural Pharmaceuticals. ery capabilities Akebia Therapeutics
reform to achieve growth. The final year of the First The final year of the Second • A h afac fvq ee cu ti c s (ri Peti Bao t An e ) do f a c nl i un nic ta al p d pe ev de l mop am rke en t t f oca r p pa sb euili dti oe bs uth lba at r S c P Pot h hr l a ae la r rn m mbg o a at rh c cae e etn u uioe t tn i id c c a a si l lyn ss at te ner dm-g A r co se tu n ep t x e d rr eu dg o d ni s Tc ao ihve or y A a thnc rdq o u uki gir de hnd ae a cyn q dt ui ib s iseo itad is oy e n -p r oela flat f Vto e isr dm t ep rt i rpe ac eh linn eo logy
Establishing a Diversified
Medium-Term Management Plan Medium-Term Management Plan • A agc iq tau ti ir oe nd aa s p soro cd iau tect d u wn id the r A d lze hve el io mp em r’sent AVP-786 for A rigcq hu tsi r ie nd
A
d se iav e fl oo rp am ne an dt ea nn od
s
im nea r rk ee ct ei pn tg
o r
E bx up sia nn ed ssed global investment in medical device
2013 2018 • Expansion of CNS business through merger with antagonist from Arcus Biosciences Acquired an ultrasound renal denerva-
Revenue Structure FY FY Otsuka’s assets in the psychiatric area Business entry in genetically modified T cell therapy tion treatment device and its technology
Licensed fremanezumab (Japan), a platform through acquisition of ReCor
prophylactic migraine drug candidate, Signed a joint development and exclu- Medical
Facing the end of the exclusive sales period for from Teva Pharmaceutical Industries s thiv ee gsa el ne es tc ho en rt ar pac yt d w ruit gh s ,T a Nk Ya -r Ea S OBi -o 1 for Acquired arterial stent business founda-
Consumer products World’s first digital medicine system, siTCR® and CD19 CAR (Japan) tion and cutting-edge products through
ABILIFY, the Group’s main product, we have business and other Abilify MyCite® approved (U.S.) acquisition of Veryan Medical
businesses Central neurological Obtained exclusive development,
pursued diversifying our revenue structure to (excluding ABILIFY) A Ac Dq Hu Dir e td h eN rae pu ero uv tia cn dc ee v a en lod p o mb et nai tn de rd u g, m woan rlu df wa ic dt eu r fi on rg Man Md G m 4a 9r k Ce Ati Rn -g T r cig elh l ts
achieve sustainable growth. Through investing ABILIFY centanafadine therapy from Osaka University
Nutraceutical
aggressively for growth and making strategic business Oncology
alliances, each business area has grown steadily
Cardiovascular and
led by new product lines, and as a result we have renal NC Business
achieved our top priority of diversifying sales and Other
pharmaceuticals
earnings structure.
Improved Profitability
1,452.8 1,292.0
Revenue ¥ bn Revenue ¥ bn
In the NC business, we have pursued the fundamental reforms Operating profit in nutraceutical business
(J-GAAP) (IFRS)
of our business practices through reviewing our business assets
Revenue: Revenue from external customers Second Medium-Term
and the implementation of the two strategies; accelerating Management Plan
(¥ billion) Operating profit
Pharmaceutical Business global expansion and developing new products. 60.0 Operating profit margin
We have reviewed our business practice based on various
12.0%
value chains and focused on the development of ingenious new 10.9% 12.7%
Maximizing Product Value products contributing to the extension of healthy life expec- 40.0
8.7% 8.8%
10.4%
tancy, the improvement of product value utilizing scientific 7.1%
9.2%
8.5%
Achieved 99.6% of Target Sales Revenue for New Product Lines evidences and our experience cultivated in pharmaceuticals, and
20.0
the promotional activities helping our customers to recognize
Building Foundation to Continue to Drive the Group’s Regrowth
health benefits of our products. We have also accelerated the
0.9%
global expansion of our core brands including POCARI SWEAT
Under the Plan, we categorized the antipsychotic agent Revenue of new products and global expansion results 0
and ORONAMIN C DRINK; and entered into the plant-based
(long-acting injectable) ABILIFY MAINTENA, antipsychotic 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014* 2015 2016 2017 2018
428.1 business through the acquisition of Daiya Foods. Through these
agent REXULTI, and V2-receptor antagonist Samsca/JINARC/ ¥ bn (J-GAAP) (IFRS)
JYNARQUE into “the global 3 products,” the anti-cancer (¥ 5 b 0i 0lli .o 0n) ( A c h i e 9 ve 9m . 6e %n t r a te : ) e 1f 0f %ort s a hth ee a dG oro f u scp h h ea ds u a lec h ai ne dv e ed s ta an b lo isp he er da t ain bg u m sina erg ssin s to rf u co tv ue rr e * D trau ne s t ito io a n c ah l a pn eg rie o din c t oh ve e rc ino gn s to hl eid nat ine ed mfis oc na tl hy se a frr, o f mis c Aa pl r2 il0 11 4 to ( e Dn ed ce ed m D be ec re 3m 1b , e 2r 0 3 11 4, . 2014) was a
agent LONSURF into “the next-generation product,” and new
necessary to constantly maintain this level of operating margin.
drugs launched after 2009 in Japan into “Domestic new prod- 400.0
ucts,” all of which are considered growth drivers. During the
300.0 Accelerating Global Expansion
plan period we have actively invested our management
resources into their approvals, addition of new indications, 200.0
and expansion of sales areas for the early maximization of 100.0 Asia North America Europe
their product values. • POCARI SWEAT •Plant-based foods •Nutrition & Santé
As a result, the total revenue of these new product lines 0 Established subsidiaries in Thailand Entered the plant-based food sector by acquiring Daiya Foods Strengthened
in fiscal 2018 increased to 428.1 billion yen, 99.6% of the 2013 2014* 2015 2016 2017 2018 •a On Rd O P Nhi Alip Mpi In Ne s C t o D s Rtr Ie Nn Kg then sales •Nutritional supplements p foro r d ‘fu rec eti -o frn o s mys ’ tem
initial target (430 billion yen), and we have successfully estab- 3 Global Products Next-generation products New drugs in Japan Started local production and sales in Entered the natural foods channel through the acquisition of FoodState products
Indonesia
lished the foundation that will strongly drive the Group’s * Due to a change in the consolidated fiscal year, fiscal 2014 (ended December 31, 2014) was a • SOYJOY •EQUELLE
transitional period covering the nine months from April 1 to December 31, 2014. Started local production in Indonesia Started roll out in the U.S. market
re-growth after the Plan.
16 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 17Message from the President
Outline of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan [ Business Strategy ]
Maximizing Existing Business Value and New Value Creation
Otsuka will enhance strategic initiatives upon designating the following products and brands as growth drivers, namely; four global prod-
ucts in pharmaceuticals (ABILIFY MAINTENA, REXULTI, Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE, and LONSURF), three major brands (POCARI SWEAT,
Advance in the Global Market as a Unique Nature Made, and Nutrition & Santé), and three nurture brands in NC business (Daiya Foods, EQUELLE, and BODYMAINTÉ). Additionally,
Otsuka will launch and nurture new product lines that will drive sustainable growth in the pharmaceutical and NC businesses.
Total Healthcare Company
Growth Drivers’ Revenue Forecast
Pharma - New Product Lines
(¥ bn)
—Five-Year Growth Phase— Product lines scheduled to be launched after
1,000
2019
¥880bn
Our corporate philosophy is “Otsuka—people creating new products for better health worldwide,” and we
Pharma - 4 Global Products
practice our management spirits of “Ryukan-godo” (Commitment), “Jissho” (Actualization), and “Sozosei” (Cre-
•ABILIFY MAINTENA •Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE
ativity). Following these philosophy and spirits, Otsuka has been creating new values by engaging in various
•REXULTI •LONSURF
Approx.
unique business, identifying true insight needs around the world, creating new concepts and products by effec-
500
¥510bn 2018A 2023E
tively combining science and technology, mixing various existing businesses and their spin-outs, and pioneering + ¥290 bn NC - 3 Nurture Brands
in untouched niche areas. We define the Third Medium-Term Management Plan as a five-year period of growth •Daiya Foods •BODYMAINTÉ
and establishing ourselves as a unique total healthcare company in the global market. Focusing on our core •EQUELLE
businesses of pharmaceutical and nutraceutical we are going to maximize values of existing business and create 2018A 2023E
new values while practicing the business management with a corporate wide awareness of capital costs. + ¥80 bn NC - 3 Major Brands
0 •POCARI SWEAT •Nutrition & Santé
•Nature Made
2018A 2019E 2020E 2021E 2022E 2023E 2024E 2025E 2026E 2027E 2028E
[ Performance Targets ]
3rd MTM Plan 4th MTM Plan
Business Profit CAGR of 10% or More
Growth Strategy
Helped by organic growth of existing businesses in the pharma-  Key Performance Targets (¥ billion)
• Maximize Values of Existing Businesses
ceutical and NC businesses, in the plan our sales revenue will 2018A 2021E 2023E CAGR Pharmaceutical • Challenge New Frontiers that “Only Otsuka Can Do”
reach 1,700 billion yen in fiscal 2023 (the final year of the plan), 2018A-2023E Business • Generate Innovation From Creative and Diverse Research Platforms
Revenue 1,292.0 1,500.0 1,700.0 5.6 %
an increase of 408 billion yen from 2018, and our business prof-
its before R&D expenses will reach 460 billion yen, both of which B Ru &s Din ee xs ps ep nro sefi st before 313.8 390.0 460.0 7.9 % Nutraceutical •Create New Concepts Keeping an Eye on Changes in the Environments
•Challenge to New Categories and New Areas
are our record highs. Our target business profit for fiscal 2023 is Ratio/Revenue 24.3% 26.0% 27.1% Business •Continuous High Profit Structure
set for 200 billion yen with CAGR 10% or more. In addition, we R&D expenses 192.9 230.0 260.0 6.1 %
will continue to actively invest in research and development for Business profit 120.9 160.0 200.0 10.6 %
sustainable growth. Ratio/Revenue 9.4% 10.7% 11.8% [ Financial Policy ]
ROE 4.7% 6.0% 8.0 %
Note: Exchange rate assumptions ¥110/$, ¥130/euro Business Management with a Corporatewide Awareness of
Not including performance growth by strategic investments (M&A etc)
Business profit = Revenue – COGS – SG&A + Share of profit of associates – R&D expenses
Capital Costs
Revenue Plan by Organic Growth
2023E Otsuka is going to implement the business management with a
• Awareness of capital costs reflecting business
+ 408.0 bn ¥1,700.0 bn corporatewide awareness of capital costs during this mid-term risks
¥ period and promote it throughout the Group. • Performance assessments taking into account
2018A capital costs
In business and strategic investing, Otsuka will work to
1,292.0
¥ bn
improve its return on invested capital (ROIC) for a medium- to ROIC improvement on
Optimal financing
mid-long term basis
long-term time horizon by monitoring its ROIC while actively (return from business ) (capital cost )
¥1,080.0bn investing for new value creation. Maximize
Pharmaceutical Business and investment Financial policy
¥817.1bn
business for
gI rn
o
wfin tha n inc vin eg
st
a mc eti nv tit si e ws,
h
O ilet s cu ok na
s
iw deill
r
is ne gc u thre
e
n oe pc te imss aa lr y
c
af pu in tad ls strat Re Ogi Ie Cs
management
O stp ruti cm tua rl
e
capital co vrp ao lur eate
(Maximize existing business value)
structure.
Active investment to
Through these efforts, we aim to maximize our corporate create new value
NC business ¥450.0bn value.
¥338.6bn
Consumer and Other businesses Presentation materials for the Third Medium-Term Management Plan are available on the Otsuka Holdings website.
https://www.otsuka.com/en/ir/library/presentation.html
2018A 2019E 2020E 2021E 2022E 2023E
* Revenue from external customers
18 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 19Feature: Access to Medicine
Access to Medicine SDGs target 3.3
By 2030, end the epidemics of
HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria,
Feature and neglected tropical diseases
and combat
hepatitis, water-
borne infections,
and other commu-
nicable diseases
Fight against Tuberculosis— Number of individuals infected Annual deaths from
with mycobacterium tuberculosis tuberculosis
An Old Disease with a New Face
1.7 1.3
Global public health improved thanks to
DELTYBA, a tuberculosis drug
Approx. billion Approx. million
The United Nations (UN) Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)
were adopted in 2000. Among the MDGs, the goal to combat HIV/
AIDS has made great progress. Then, in 2015, the UN announced its
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which inherit the ideals of the
Tuberculosis still spreading Limitations of conventional medici-
MDGs, and embarked on new initiatives to achieve these goals.
worldwide nal treatment.
Deploying its tuberculosis drug, DELTYBA, the Otsuka group is seek-
ing to eliminate tuberculosis, which is listed as target 3.3 in the SDGs,
Tuberculosis is still spreading worldwide. Tuberculosis is one of Currently, multiple drugs are used to treat tuberculosis. If only
and also contribute to improvement of global public health.
the world’s top three infectious diseases, along with malaria and one drug is administered, the bacteria become resistant to it, so
HIV/AIDS. Approximately 10 million people develop tuberculosis treatment usually involves administering three to four drugs. In
each year, of whom around 1.3 million die*, making it the lead- most cases, drug-sensitive tuberculosis can be successfully
ing cause of death among infectious diseases. Moreover, tuber- treated with first-line drugs and proper case management. In
culosis is highly contagious. About 1.7 billion people are said to recent years, however, the emergence of resistance to tubercu-
be infected with mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.TB) bacteria losis drugs has become widespread. Discontinuation of medica-
out of a global population of 7 billion. tion for some reason, such as irregular doses or side effects,
M.TB, which may develop into active tuberculosis disease, is gives rise to bacteria that are resistant to the drugs that have
a very “stubborn bacterium,” and patients who have contracted been taken. Among these are multidrug-resistant tuberculosis
the disease must continue taking multiple medications in combi- (MDR-TB) bacteria that have become resistant to rifampicin and
nation, sometimes for six months or more due to drug-resistant isoniazid, the two most potent first-line therapeutic agents.
strains. TB is prevalent in many low- and middle-income coun- Extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB) is resistant to an
tries and low-resource settings. Because tuberculosis requires even greater number of drugs, representing a major global
long-term treatment, it represents a major economic challenge challenge in the campaign to control the disease.
in high-burden countries.
* WHO Global Tuberculosis Report 2018
 Global Distribution of
Tuberculosis Patients
What is tuberculosis?
It is an airborne infectious disease where
0~24 ≥300
tuberculosis mycobacteria enter the body and 25 – 99 No data
multiply, mainly in the lungs, resulting in
symptoms such as coughing and production of 100 – 199 Not applicable
sputum. In serious cases, the infection can cause
breathing difficulties and affect other organs, 200 – 299
potentially resulting in death. While highly contagious, the
disease takes hold in 5–10% of cases, and may develop several years Reference: WHO Global Tuberculosis Report 2018
after infection due to a weakening immune system.
20 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 21Feature: Access to Medicine
DELTYBA is improving global health
One of the first new External
アバニア
アバニア ビステラ
ビステラ
drugs in 50 years Collaborations
大塚製薬
大塚 工場製薬
アステックス
工場 アステックス
Birth of DELTYBA 大塚製薬 大鵬薬品 Expanding access to tuberculosis drugs  DELTYBA: Supply route via St大 o塚 p製 T薬 B/GDF大鵬薬品
in low-income countries in collabora-
“If nobody does it, Otsuka must do it.” Wholly owned
tion with the Stop TB Partnership’s subsidiary of Otsuka
Pharmaceutical
DELTYBA received approval for the treatment of MDR-TB in drugs. According to a 2017 report published by the Treatment
Global Drug Facility (StopTB/GDF)*
2014. It has a completely different mechanism of action com- Action Group (TAG), a patient advocacy group for combating
Otsuka Order from
pared with previous therapeutic agents, and is also effective HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis, Otsuka Pharmaceutical was the larg- DELTYBA is one of the first new tuberculosis drugs approved in Novel programs
GDF
against tuberculosis bacteria that have become resistant to exist- est private funder of TB research and development. the last 50 years, but this is meaningless if the drug is not acces- Products
ing drugs. Therefore, it is expected to play a role as a therapeutic sible to patients. That said, there are many tuberculosis patients GmbH
drug for MDR-TB which is becoming more and more serious. In in developing countries of Africa, Asia, and other regions where Delivery
2015, DELTYBA was included in the WHO Model List of Essential  Top Ten Funders of TB Research in 2017 the Otsuka Group does not have a business base. For this reason,
M edi Dci En Le Ts Y ( Bli Ast io s f o p nr eio ori ft y th d er u ng es w i en s a t n tuy bc eo ru cn ut lory s) i. s drugs approved OrF gu an nd izi an tg ion Sector Total (USD) Perc Fe un nt d o inf gTotal w Fae c ib lite yg (a Sn to w po TBrk /Gin Dg Fw ), it ah n t oh re g aS nto izp a tT iB o nP a dr et dn ie cr as th ei dp ’s t oG elo xb pa al n D dir nu gg PharO mt asu cek ua t ical GDF’s supply agency Order from
programs
in the world in the last 50 years. Although MDR-TB is currently 1 U.S. NIH Public 245,461,895 32% access to quality-assured tuberculosis drugs and diagnostic
Delivery
gaining prominent attention, tuberculosis research was regarded Bill & Melinda Gates agents and ensuring the sustainable procurement of those drugs
2 Philanthropic 127,953,459 17%
Foundation
as “out of fashion” in the pharmaceutical industry until recently. in developing countries. StopTB/GDF now supplies DELTYBA to Government agencies and relevant
NGOs in countries earmarked for
3 USAID Public 33,989,472 4%
That is because after rifampicin was discovered in 1964 it was more than 80 countries, and more than 70% of patients cur- support from global funds
4 Unitaid Multilateral 28,556,016 4%
thought that tuberculosis had become a treatable disease. In the rently taking this drug receive their medicines procured by
Delivery
1970s, when many researchers and research institutes around 5 Otsuka Private 22,773,887 3% StopTB/GDF, highlighting the organization’s excellent contribu-
Pharmaceuticals
the world stopped development, Otsuka was the only company tion to expanding access. Medical institution/patient
6 U.K. DFID Public 20,642,634 3%
to continue research, based on the belief that “Tuberculosis is a * Founded in 2001, the Stop TB Partnership has a mission to serve every person who is vulnera-
7 Company X Private 20,550,920 3% ble to tuberculosis and to ensure that high-quality diagnosis, treatment and care are available
serious global health problem, and we must continue our to all who need it. StopTB/GDF is the largest global provider of quality-assured anti-tuberculo-
8 European Commission Public 19,275,723 3%
research if nobody else does it.” DELTYBA was created after sis medicines, diagnostics, and laboratory supplies to the public sector while also providing
9 U.S. CDC Public 18,256,200 2% technical assistance to TB programs and supporting wide use of innovative tools.
more than 30 years of such research activities. Otsuka Pharma-
ceutical remains actively engaged in R&D on new tuberculosis 10 EDCTP Public 17,708,217 2% Topics
Cooperation with Japa-
 DELTYBA Research History
nese government on
1964 rifampicin was discovered as standard treatment for tuberculosis
DELTYBA
We also cooperate with and receive
1971 Otsuka Pharmaceutical commenced drug discovery research to work on infectious disease as one its key the themes
support from the Japanese govern-
1982 Full-scale research into tuberculosis drugs was started
ment in various ways. These include
2004 Clinical trials were started for OPC-67683 (later DELTYBA) for the treatment of tuberculosis
support with access initiatives over-
2014 DELTYBA was approved and launched in Europe and Japan as a therapeutic drug for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB)
seas to sharing educational infor-
2015 DELTYBA was added to WHO Model List of Essential Medicines mation at international conferences One of the eight items in the economic cooperation plan At a United Nations General Assembly High-Level Meeting
agreed to by Japanese and Russian leaders is improving on Tuberculosis held in New York City on September 26,
2016 Agreement was concluded with the Stop TB Partnership’s Global Drug Facility (GDF). and events. medical care and promoting healthy life spans. At the 2018, Katsunobu Kato, Minister of Health, Labour and
Eastern Economic Forum held in Vladivostok on September Welfare, gave a speech on developing treatments for
2017 Licensing agreement was executed with R-Pharm of Russia for the manufacture and commercialization of DELTYBA in the Russian Federation 7, 2017, Japan’s Prime Minister, Shinzo Abe, made a speech multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in Japan and contributing
and 12 surrounding countries about mutual cooperation aimed at getting swift approval to eradication of the disease worldwide, and at the same
for DELTYBA in Russia. In that speech, he said, “In the fight time adopted the political declaration toward eliminating
2017 Licensing agreement was executed with Mylan of India to expand DELTYBA approval and commercialization activities in high-burden against tuberculosis, Japan and Russia have joined hands.” tuberculosis.
countries
22 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 23DELTYBA is improving global health
Value
EEssttaabblliisshhiinngg aa ssuuppppllyy nneettwwoorrkk wwhhiicchh
アバニア Creation
ビステラ
wwiillll ssaavvee ppaattiieennttss aarroouunndd tthhee wwoorrlldd
Section
大塚製薬
工場 アステックス
Expanding access to patients 大 I塚 n製薬 terv大鵬i薬品ew
worldwide
26 Growth Trajectory
Numerous collaborations have been formed to combat tubercu- An indispensable company in global health
losis and other diseases that threaten global health, such as with 28 S eeking to provide value
At our R&D institutes, we conduct unique research that
the WHO, United Nations, and various national governments through business
does not imitate other companies and pursue what
who provide active support. In addition to its aforementioned
only Otsuka can do. DELTYBA is the embodiment of 30 V alue Creation Model
cooperation with GDF, Otsuka Pharmaceutical contributes to the
such efforts. Tuberculosis is a serious global health
health of people around the world through various collaborative 32 Financial Highlights
problem, and our approach to the problem—the belief
initiatives with its many stakeholders. These include our partici-
that somebody must keep confronting the disease— 34 Non-Financial Highlights
pation in the Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (GHIT), a
has remained unchanged even now after more than 40
Japanese public–private partnership established to address infec-
years since Otsuka initiated its research. Based on our
tious diseases worldwide, as well as cooperation with programs
corporate philosophy “Otsuka-people creating new
spearheaded by Médecins Sans Frontières/Doctors Without Bor-
products for better health worldwide,” we will con-
ders (MSF). We have also obtained support from the Bill &
tinue working with external stakeholders to benefit
Melinda Gates Foundation for the development of new tubercu-
global health with a sense of speed and commitment.
losis treatment methods, and we have formed alliances with
Through these activities, we will continue to address
various global companies with strengths in public health and
issues that have not been solved globally. In the pro-
operations in the areas where we do not have business opera-
cess, we believe, we will fulfill our aim of becoming an
tions (Mylan in India/South Africa and R-Pharm in Russia).
indispensable contributor to people’s health worldwide.
In March 2017, we launched a new delamanid clinical
access program (DCAP) in cooperation with the South African
government. The aim of the national program is to give patients
with MDR-TB swift access to DELTYBA before regulatory
approval. In other initiatives, Otsuka Pharmaceutical is working
to establish sustainable drug delivery systems at affordable Keiso Yamasaki
prices, so that patients around the world who need DELTYBA can Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Co., Ltd.
be treated regardless of socioeconomic status or income level. As
Global Project Leader of
of June 2019, more than 80 countries are expanding use of TB Project
DELTYBA based on this multifaceted approach.
Column
Next-generation tuberculosis drug candidate, OPC-167832
Hi-z Tower
Otsuka Pharmaceutical is conducting research into tuberculosis drugs that will follow DELTYBA. The latest development is a compound
The building pictured is part of the
called OPC-167832, which as of 2019 is undergoing initial trials in South Africa to confirm its safety and efficacy.
Tokushima Research Institute and named
OPC-167832 kills tuberculosis bacteria through a mechanism that inhibits the activity of enzymes that are essen- after the drug that laid the foundation of
the Otsuka group’s pharmaceutical business.
tial for synthesizing mycobacterium tuberculosis cell walls. Because its mechanism of action differs completely
The ceramic mural on the wall was designed
from those of existing anti-tuberculosis drugs, including DELTYBA, it is expected to be effective as a treatment by Taro Okamoto and called Inochi Odoru,
for various strains of TB. In developing the drug, we are also receiving support from the Bill & Melinda Gates or “dancing life”, named by a notable
Tokushima writer and activist Jakucho
Foundation, which has cited elimination of tuberculosis worldwide as one of its top priorities. We will continue Setouchi. Other research centers of Otsuka
engaging in TB R&D with the aim of establishing innovative treatment methods. Pharmaceutical are situated nearby.
24 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 25Value Creation Section
Growth Trajectory
— From chemical raw materials to pharmaceuticals, beverages, and foods
Since the Otsuka group’s founding in 1921 as a chemical raw material manufacturer, we have built on the IV
solutions business that spurred the group’s growth and continued to diversify our operations and achieve steady
growth by bringing to market a series of original products such as Oronine H Ointment, ORONAMIN C drink, Bon
Curry, POCARI SWEAT, and Calorie Mate, as well as pharmaceuticals such as the antipsychotic agent ABILIFY, a
drug with a novel mechanism of action, and Samsca, the world’s first oral aquaretic drug.
Foundation phase Growth phase Expansion phase
Started business in Naruto, Numerous unique products opened up new markets and diversified our Seeking further global growth as a total healthcare company
Tokushima Prefecture in Japan business In the pharmaceutical business, the antipsychotic agent ABILIFY—which first went on sale in the US
The Otsuka group started out in 1921 as During this period the group leveraged the technologies and know-how cultivated from the in 2002—is now available through prescription in roughly 60 countries and regions and has greatly
a manufacturer of chemical raw materi- expansion of its IV solutions and clinical nutrition products businesses to successively spawn its accelerated the Otsuka group’s global expansion. Even today, the therapeutic drugs we have pro-
als for the production of magnesium unique core brands—the ion supply drink POCARI SWEAT, the balanced nutritional food Calorie duced under our in-house drug discovery program are helping to treat diseases worldwide. These
carbonate derived from bittern, the Mate, and the world’s first commercial retort pouch food product Bon Curry. In 1971 we started pharmaceuticals include the long-acting antipsychotic agent ABILIFY MAINTENA, the new antipsy-
residue that remains in salt pans after in-house pharmaceutical R&D and established the group’s business foundation to deliver total chotic agent REXULTI, the V2-receptor antagonist Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE, and the anti-cancer
salt production. This business made healthcare solutions via the twin business segments of pharmaceuticals and nutraceuticals. agent LONSURF. In the nutraceuticals business, our group companies are addressing health issues
steady progress to supply a broader and needs in different corners of the world. For example, Pharmavite, which operates a nutritional
range of pharmacopeia raw materials supplements business mainly in the US, Nutrition & Santé, a nutritional food company in Europe, and
and then in 1946 we entered the IV Daiya Foods, which develops plant-based foods in North America.
solutions business and expanded nation-
wide with the launch of our own intra-
venous drip solution.
World’s first commercially available food Balanced nutritional food,
product in a retort pouch, Bon Curry Calorie Mate 2014
Launched LONSURF
Launched EQUELLE
International business development phase
2015
2013 Launched JINARC and REXULTI
((BBiilllliioonnss ooff yyeenn))
Launched ABILIFY MAINTENA
11,,550000 Started aggressive global expansion
“Quality is vital in a factory and so is packaging. Drawing on the advanced technological know-how cultivated in Japan, we started
We have to manufacture and market, putting to expand the IV solutions business to overseas markets in the 1970s. We cur- 2009
ourselves in the consumer’s position.”
The Otsuka group’s guiding precept in the rently have 15 business companies worldwide manufacturing and selling our Launched Samsca
founder’s handwriting. It expresses a commitment products. We are committed to local manufacturing with the aim of maintaining
to quality and still serves as the basis for Otsuka’s and improving quality, which we think contributes to local communities mainly in
11,,220000 manufacturing today. the form of fair product pricing and employment creation. We also began to
market POCARI SWEAT overseas in 1982, a product that is now sold in more than
20 countries and regions.
990000
Original IV solution. With over 70 years of 2002
experience in the intravenous solutions business,
Launched ABILIFY
we are a leading company at the forefront of
Japan’s IV solutions industry. China Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. In 1981 Indonesian high school students enjoy-
1999
Otsuka became the first Japanese pharmaceutical ing POCARI SWEAT
660000 1921 company to establish a joint venture in China. 1988 Launched TS-1
Established Otsuka Seiyaku Kogyo-bu Launched Pletaal
1971 1983
1946 Established pharmaceutical research Launched Calorie Mate
Started IV solutions business institute 1990
1953 1 •L9 a8 u0 n ched POCARI SWEAT 1984 La Mu un cc oh se td a
Launched • Launched first in-house devel- Launched UFT
Oronine H Ointment oped pharmaceuticals,
330000 Mikelan and Meptin
1965
Launched ORONAMIN
C DRINK
1968
Launched
Bon Curry
00
2211 3300 4400 5500 6655 6699 7700 7711 7722 7733 7744 7755 7766 7777 7788 7799 8800 8811 8822 8833 8844 8855 8866 8877 8888 8899 9900 9911 9922 9933 9944 9955 9966 9977 9988 9999 0000 0011 0022 0033 0044 0055 0066 0077 0088 0099 1100 1111 1122 1133 1144** 1155 1166 1177 1188
Revenue Trend Nutraceuticals, consumer products, others Pharmaceuticals * Due to a change in the consolidated fiscal year, fiscal 2014 (ended December 31, 2014) was a transitional period covering the nine months from April 1 to December 31, 2014.
26 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 27Value Creation Section
Seeking to provide value through business
<The value we aim to provide>
Total
The Otsuka group contributes to people’s health worldwide by creating innovative products in two
core businesses: the pharmaceutical business aims to addresses unmet medical needs, while the Healthcare
nutraceutical business seeks to fulfill yet-to-be imagined consumer needs.
Doing what only Otsuka can do
Innovative products
<Social challenges>
Unmet
medical needs
From diagnosis to treatment
Pharmaceutical
<Social challenges>
Business
Yet-to-be
imagined needs
Maintenance and
improvement of day-to-day health
Nutraceutical
Business
28 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 29Value Creation Section
Value Creation Model
Under our corporate philosophy of “Otsuka–people creating new products
for better health worldwide,” the Otsuka group creates new value to address
universal social challenges through various businesses and innovative prod-
ucts. In doing so, we aim to provide total healthcare solutions based on the
Diverse three quintessential management principles of ryukan godo (by sweat we
recognize the way), jissho (actualization), and sozosei (creativity). By repeat-
business
Underlying capital ing this value creation process, we aim to realize sustained development in
activities
society and sustained growth of the group with total healthcare solutions.
Human capital
• Number of employees:
47,000*
• Diversity and inclusion
Innovative
Diversity p.63
products
Financial capital
• Total assets:
Sozosei
2,476.6
¥ billion
(creativity)
Creation of social value
Manufacturing capital
Jissho —Solving social challenges—
• Manufacturing bases:
(actualization) Total Healthcare
171*
Underlying
INPUT
Ryukan godo
capital
Intellectual capital Unmet medical needs
(by sweat we recognize
the way) • Solutions that aim to rehabilitate patients suffering from
• R&D expenses
psychiatric or neurological diseases
(pharmaceutical business):
• Comprehensive patient-oriented cancer treatment
205.7
¥ billion • World’s only therapeutic drugs developed from the voice
in the real-world clinical settings
• Late-phase development
• Initiatives to eradicate tuberculosis
projects:
41
projects
Projects in Phase II and later stages p.42 Yet-to-be imagined needs
• Brands • Helping people maintain and improve their health
through science-based product discovery
• Raising people’s health awareness through educational
Social and relationship capital*
activities
189 Creation of
• companies OUTCOME
30 social value • Physical and mental health of employees; development of
• countries and regions
human resources
• Establishment of value chains aimed at realizing a sustain-
able society
Natural capital *Scope: Otsuka Holdings and its 162 subsidiaries and 26
• Environmentally friendly manufacturing
affiliated companies (as of December 31, 2018).
30 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 31Value Creation Section
Financial Highlights
*Due to a change in the consolidated fiscal year, fiscal 2014 (ended December 31, 2014) was a transitional period covering the nine months
Revenue R&D expenses in pharmaceutical business
(¥ billion) (%) Revenue Overseas sales (¥ billion) (%) R&D expenses in pharmaceutical business R&D expenses ratio in
Up ratio Down pharmaceutical business
2,000 60 1,292 4.2 300 30 205.7 24.3
% 50.0 % 25.2
YoY YoY
50.0 ¥ billion % 25.2 ¥ billion %
51.3 24.1
1,500
1,390 Revenue grew 4.2% from the previous year, mainly due to 205.7 215.0 R&D expenses in pharmaceutical business increased by 24.3%
1,292 40 200 20
growth in sales of our growth drivers in the pharmaceutical from the previous year, as a result of active R&D investments to
1,000 business, which are three global products (ABILIFY MAINTENA, maximize the value of our in-house developed products in the
Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE, and REXULTI) and new products in core therapeutic areas of psychiatry and neurology, oncology,
20 Japan. Growing sales volume of POCARI SWEAT in the nutraceu- 100 10 and cardiovascular and renal system.
500
tical business also contributed to our revenue growth.
Revenue R&D expenses in pharmaceutical business
0 0 Overseas sales ratio 0 0 R&D expenses ratio in pharmaceutical business
2014* 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014* 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
(J-GAAP) (IFRS) (Plan) (J-GAAP) (IFRS) (Plan)
Operating profit Total assets
(¥ billion) (%) Operating profit Operating profit (¥ billion) (%) Total assets Ratio of equity attributable to
Up margin owners of the Company to
200 20 108.3 4.0 3,000 90 2,476.6 total assets
% 8.4 68.8
YoY
¥ billion % ¥ billion %
2,476.6
150 150.0 15
Operating profit increased by 4.0% from the previous year. In 68.8 Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the Company to total
2,000 60
spite of increased R&D expenses and one-time expenses includ- assets has been maintained at a high level. We are promoting
108.3
100 10.8 10 ing an impairment loss, increased revenue in the pharmaceutical active investment to enhance competitiveness and business
and nutraceutical businesses absorbed them. growth as well as pursuing operational efficiency.
8.4
1,000 30
50 5
Operating profit Total assets
0 0 Operating profit margin 0 0 Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the Company to total assets
2014* 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014* 2015 2016 2017 2018
(J-GAAP) (IFRS) (Plan) (J-GAAP) (IFRS)
Profit attributable to owners of the Company Dividend per share
(¥ billion) (%) Profit attributable to owners of the Company Ratio of profit attributable (¥) (%) Dividend per share Dividend pay-out
Down to owners of the Company ratio
200 12 82.5 26.7 100 100 100 80 100
% 6.4 65.7
YoY
¥ billion % ¥ %
65.7
150 9 75 60
Profit attributable to owners of the Company decreased by The Otsuka group considers profit distribution to shareholders is
7.9
6.4 110.0 26.7% from the previous year since the US tax reform resulted in 49.3 an important management issue. Our basic policy is that we
100 6 a large reduction of deferred tax liability in the previous year. 50 40 maintain stable and continuous profit distribution while securing
82.5 Excluding the impact of the tax reform, this year’s results were at enough cash to invest for our business growth and prepare for
almost the same level as the previous year. changes in the business environment.
50 3 25 20
Profit attributable to owners of the Company Dividend per share
0 0 Ratio of profit attributable to owners of the Company 0 0 Dividend pay-out ratio
2014* 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014* 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
(J-GAAP) (IFRS) (Plan) (J-GAAP) (IFRS) (Plan)
32 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 33Value Creation Section
Non-Financial Highlights
Number of employees Total CO emissions
2
(number) Number of employees Ratio of employees outside (thousand tons-CO2) (ton/¥ million) Total CO2 emissions
Japan 2030 Target:
35,000
32,935
32,935
58.2
1,000 0.70 842 Reduce CO2 emissions by
0.65 30% compared to 2017
30,000
%
842
thousand tons-CO2
750
25,000 The Otsuka group strives to utilize diverse human resources in Japan 38.5% The Otsuka group is working to reduce our total CO2 emissions
58.2% order to adapt to the acceleration of the global business expan- Indonesia 20.8% by making more efficient use of energy through the use of
20,000
sion and the varied social needs. Our employee ratio outside cogeneration systems and renewable energy. In fiscal 2018, total
500 India 15.2% 0.35
15,000 Japan increased from 52% in 2014 to approximately 58% in North America 7.5% CO2 emissions increased from the previous year, due to an
2018. increase in production resulting from the acceleration of our
South Korea 7.1%
10,000
250 China 5.9% global expansion.
41.8%
5,000 Europe 2.2%
Total CO2 emissions CO2 emissions per sales
Outside Japan Japan Other 2.9% *Scope: Calculated for the consolidated subsidiaries of the Otsuka group, and the compa-
0 *Scope: Otsuka Holdings and its 162 subsidiaries 0 0 nies that constitute the top 95% or more of CO2 emissions originating from energy.
2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018
Female manager ratio
Energy composition (calorie conversion)
(%)
0 20 40 60 80 100
(number) (%) Female manager ratio
400 8.1 8 8.1
% 2016
280
200 4 The Otsuka group believes that the active involvement of diverse
human resources in a free and open workplace environment
2017
invokes creativity, which in turn leads to sustainable corporate
0 0 Purchased electric power
growth. Accordingly, we actively promote diversity, including the
2016 2017 2018 1.0 Natural gas
(%) active participation of female employees.
51.2 30.2 3.1 14.5 Heavy oil, etc.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 9.0 9.3 9.5
2018 Other (purchased steam, coal, etc.)
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 4.6 4.7 5.1
Factory Renewable energy
Taiho Pharmaceutical 6.2 6.3 6.6
*Scope: Calculated for the consolidated subsidiaries of the Otsuka group, and the compa-
Otsuka Chemical 8.6 9.2 9.4 Number of female managers Female manager ratio nies that constitute the top 95% or more of CO2 emissions originating from energy.
Otsuka Warehouse 10.4 7.1 8.1 Scope: 6 companies: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharma-
Otsuka Foods 7.0 7.3 7.4 ceutical, Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Warehouse, and Otsuka Foods
Number of employees acquiring childcare leave GHG emissions throughout the value chain in fiscal 2018
(number) Number of employees acquiring childcare leave GHG emissions
400 287 Emissions from other Scope 1 1,399
categories 7.0%
21.1%
thousand tons-CO2
287
The Otsuka group supports employees in achieving a balance Scope 2 The Otsuka group assesses environmental impacts throughout
Category 11
200 151 b oe pt ew ne ine gn oc fh til hd rc ea er e w a on rd kp w lao cr ek , n t uh rr so eu ryg fh a cm ile ita ies su ,r te hs e i n hc olu ldd ii nn gg oth f e E o pm f r ooi ds us urio c s tn o ss l df rom use 1,399
12.8%
t eh ne v iv roa nlu me ec nh ta ai ln i mfo pr ait cs t sf .i v Ine m ada djo itr io c no m top ea mni ie ss s ioin n J sa dp ua en tw o it ch o rl par og re a te
seminars on achieving a balance between childcare and work,
5.6%
thousand tons-CO2 Scope 3 activities (Scopes 1, 2), we calculate the emissions stemming
and the enhancement of various related systems. 80.2% from the activities of suppliers, customers, and other parties
136
(Scope 3). We will continue our efforts to calculate greenhouse
Category 1
0
Emissions from purchased gas (GHG) emissions, with the aim of further reducing our CO2
2016 2017 2018 goods and services
(number) 53.5% emissions throughout the value chain.
Female Male
Female 202 177 151
Scope: 6 companies: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharma- 5 companies: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical,
Male 63 101 136 ceutical, Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Warehouse, and Otsuka Foods Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods
34 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 35Non-Financial Highlights
Water usage and water use efficiency
(thousand m3) (thousand m3/¥ 100million) Water usage Business
2030 Target:
20,000 19,463 1.60 19,463 Improve water use efficiency
thousand m3 by 15% compared to 2017 Strategy
6,452 1.58
15,000
We assess the state of water risk and the amount of water used
Section
at our manufacturing sites around the world, as we work to
1.56
achieve community-based management and the effective use of
10,000
water resources in order to achieve a sustainable society.
1.54
13,010
5,000 38 R esearch and Development
1.52
Outside Japan In Japan
1.51 38 R&D Activities
*Scope: Calculated for the consolidated subsidiaries of the Otsuka group, and the compa-
0 1.50 —Pharmaceutical Business
nies that constitute the top 95% or more of CO2 emissions originating from energy.
2016 2017 2018 40 C ore Product Development
42 P rojects in Phase II and later
Resource recycling rate and final disposal amount stages
44 Pharmaceutical Business
(tons) (%) Resource recycling rate
1,000 100.0 99.5 44 Social Challenges/Strengths/
Overview
99.5 %
800 99.0 46 O verview of therapeutic
The 14 Otsuka group companies in Japan have been promoting areas
the recycling and reuse of resources and achieved a 99.5% recy-
600 98.0 49 T aking up the challenge of
cling rate and zero emissions (based on our internal standard of
addressing unmet medical
a recycling rate of 99% or higher) in fiscal 2018. needs
400 97.0
We will continue striving for zero emissions and undertaking
50 Nutraceutical Business
the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle).
200 166 96.0
50 Social Challenges/Strengths/
Final disposal amount Resource recycling rate Overview
0 95.0 *Scope: 14 major consolidated subsidiaries in Japan
52 Global Expansion
2016 2017 2018
54 R&D Framework
55 C onsumer Products Business
56 Other Businesses
10th Research Center
(Tokushima Research Institute)
Pictured is the Otsuka group’s drug discovery
center building, which houses pharmacology
and synthesis departments. It also provides a
space where researchers from different
disciplines can freely exchange information
with each other and engage in discussion.
36 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 37Business Strategy Section
Research and Development
R&D Activities—Pharmaceutical Business
Powered by aggressive R&D investments, we aim to contribute to unmet medical needs by creating inno- アバニア ビステラ Proprietary drug discovery business model PharmAv aa cen uir ticals
Visterra, Inc.
vative products.
—Generating new strengths and innovation
大塚製薬
工場 アステックス through group cooperation—
R&D policy PharO mt asu cek ua tical
Factory Astex
大塚製薬 大鵬薬品 Pharmaceuticals
Driven by our corporate philosophy of “Otsuka—people creating
n toe w ac hp ir eo vd eu hct igs hfo lyr ib ne nt ote var th ive ea l dth ru w g o dr il sd cw ovid ee ry,” t oth fe in O d t ss ou lk ua t iog nro su fp o ra ims R&D expenses In-house drug dアiバsニcアovery ビ* ステ1 ラ アバニア ビステラ PharO mt asu cek ua tical PharmTa ai ch eo utical
unmet medical needs. With this goal in mind, we engage in multi- 205.7 85 アバニア ビステラ
¥ billion %
lateral R&D activities. 大塚製薬 大塚製薬
工場 アステックス 工場 アステックス
In addition to collaboration between group companies boast- 大塚製薬
工場 アステックス
ing expertise in numerous fields, we are working to bolster our The Otsuka group has built a solid foundation that continues
大塚製薬 大鵬薬品 大塚製薬 大鵬薬品
in-house drug discovery platform, including human resources devel- to drive innovation ahead of its time through our own drug
opment, through access to innovative technologies and ideas 大塚製薬 大鵬薬品 discovery research centering on Otsuka Pharmaceutical, which
involving research support and network-building with universities, has R&D strengths in the areas of psychiatry and neurology,
R&D expenses Late-phase development
research institutes, and bio-ventures that possess leading-edge ratio*2 projects*3 Taiho Pharmaceutical, which possesses its own drug discovery
research technology and drug discovery seeds. 25 41 technology platform with a focus on oncology, and Otsuka
*1: Ratio of in-house drug discovery projects in late-phase development projects % Pharmaceutical Factory, a leading company in intravenous
*2: R&D expenses in pharmaceutical business solutions. We have also welcomed into the group Astex Phar-
*3: Phase II or later stage of development as of December 31, 2018
maceuticals, a pioneer in fragment-based drug discovery,
Avanir Pharmaceuticals, which boasts strengths in develop-
ment in the field of neurological diseases, and Visterra, Inc. a
R&D bases
company possessing unique antibody platform technology. By
CHINA O tsuka Pharmaceutical Development & mutually sharing cutting-edge proprietary technology, inherent
O tsuka Shanghai Research Institute Commercialization, Inc.
Basic research O tsuka Beijing Research Institute Astex Pharmaceuticals viewpoints, and the strong desire to challenge difficult-to-treat
Clinical development T aiho Pharmaceutical of Beijing Co., Ltd. (clinical development) diseases, we are continuing to take our R&D to the next level
A vanir Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
SOUTH KOREA
T aiho Oncology, Inc. to generate new strengths and innovation.
K orea Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Visterra, Inc.
Singapore
T aiho Pharma Singapore Pte. Ltd.
TOPIC
EUROPE
Hierotope® platform —Visterra’s proprietary antibody platform technology—
JAPAN
U.S.
Visterra possesses proprietary antibody platform technology—
the Hierotope® platform. It enables the design of antibody drugs
ASIA Tokushima
Otsuka Pharmaceutical by targeting identified epitopes thought to be essential to pro-
D epartment of Drug Discovery Strategy
tein function and simulating on a computer the binding of epi-
D epartment of Medical Innovations
Shiga
D epartment of CNS Research topes to the substructure of countless antibodies. Hierotope®
D epartment of Renal and Cardiovascular Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Research Fujii Memorial Research Institute refers to the region comprised of a robust three-dimensional
M edicinal Chemistry Research Laboratories Hyogo structure of amino acids that is believed to play a critical role in
D epartment of Lead Discovery Research
Otsuka Pharmaceutical
T okushima Research Institute Ako Research Institute the structure, function, and activity of protein. Using a combina-
UK Astex Pharmaceuticals F D o iarm gnu ola st ti io c n D R ive iss ie oa nr ,c Rh & In Ds t Dit eu pte artment Ibaraki tion of computational and experimental methods, this technol-
(drug discovery and preclinical Taiho Pharmaceutical Taiho Pharmaceutical ogy designs and engineers antibodies that strongly bind to
development) Discovery and Preclinical Research Division (Tsukuba area)
O tsuka Europe Development & D (Ti os kco uv sher imy a an ad re P ar )eclinical Research Division Tokyo Hierotope®. Unlike traditional approaches, this completely novel
Commercialization, Ltd.
Taiho Pharma Europe, Ltd. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory Otsuka Pharmaceutical technology enables the design and development of antibodies
N aruto Research Institute, Research and Diagnostic Division, R&D Department for disease and drug discovery targets hitherto considered diffi-
GERMANY Development Center Headquarters of Clinical Development
Otsuka Novel Products GmbH Technical Center Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory cult. We thus aim to provide new therapeutic drugs for diseases
Research and Development Center Clinical Development
where unmet medical needs still remain.
Department
Taiho Pharmaceutical
Clinical Development Division
Osaka
Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Headquarters of Clinical Development
38 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 39Business Strategy Section
Research and Development
Core Product Development
[ TAS-116 ] trial is ongoing for this drug as a candidate for treating gastroin-
Psychiatry & Neurology
TAS-116 has the potential to exhibit anti-tumor effects by inhibit- testinal stromal tumor (GIST), one of the rarer forms of cancer in
ing heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) and destabilizing and reducing Japan. GIST is a malignant type of tumor that occurs in the wall
[ brexpiprazole ] track designation by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). multiple proteins involved in cancer growth and survival. HSP90 of the gastrointestinal tract and many patients often experience
Brexpiprazole is a new antipsychotic agent with a novel mecha- Clinical trials of AVP-786 are also ongoing for other psychiatric is known to be particularly important in the survival and mainte- a recurrence or metastasis. The incidence rate in Japan is around
nism of action known as serotonin-dopamine activity modulator and neurological disorders where many unmet medical needs nance of cancer cells because it is expressed highly in cancer cells 1–2 per 100,000 people.
(SDAM)*1. It is sold under the brand name REXULTI as an adjunc- exist, such as patients with negative symptoms of schizophrenia, and tumor tissue and exists in a highly activated state. A Phase III
tive therapy for major depressive disorders and as a schizophre- traumatic brain injury, and intermittent explosive disorder.
Cardiovascular & Renal
nia treatment in the US. In Japan and Europe it is only used for [ centanafadine ]
schizophrenia treatment. Clinical trials are currently underway to Centanafadine has a triple reuptake inhibitor action mechanism
utilize the properties of this agent in order to provide effective that modulates norepinephrine, serotonin, and dopamine [ vadadustat ] [ Ultrasound renal denervation treatment device ]
methods of treatment in other unmet fields, such as for agitation reuptake. It is currently undergoing Phase III trials in the US as a Vadadustat is an oral therapeutic drug currently subject to Phase Renal denervation system is a new treatment method that has
associated with dementia of the Alzheimer’s type or post-trau- candidate for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in III trials as a candidate for the treatment of anemia associated the potential to effectively lower blood pressure in patients with
matic stress disorder (PTSD). adults. ADHD is a developmental disorder characterized by diffi- with chronic kidney disease in non-dialysis and dialysis patients. hypertension for whom existing hypotensive drugs are unable to
It is estimated that approximately 10 million*2 people in the culty paying attention (easily distracted, forgetful), excessive It works to stabilize and modulate the hypoxia-inducible factor do so. This technology downregulates hyperactivity of the renal
G7 countries suffer from Alzheimer’s and many of those patients activity, and impulsiveness (fidgeting, unable to sit still). It is (HIF), the transcription factor that activates erythropoietin, by sympathetic nerves by using a catheter-based system to percuta-
are said to exhibit some form of behavioral disorder such as estimated that in the US there are 12 million potential ADHD inhibiting HIF prolyl hydroxylase (HIF-PH), the enzyme that breaks neously deliver ablations to the sympathetic nerves surrounding
excessive motor activity, verbal aggression, or physical aggression. patients among adults and 8.2 million among children*4. With down HIF. HIF responds to changes in oxygen concentration and the renal arteries with heat generated from radio or ultrasound
These symptoms have an impact on not just the patient—they no fundamental treatment method, stimulant drugs are usually controls gene expression involved in the production of red blood waves. The renal denervation device being developed by
place a strain on family members and caregivers and significantly prescribed, but they pose other problems, such as their effect on cells. HIF also acts to improve iron mobilization and by coordinat- US-based Otsuka group company ReCor Medical utilizes a mini-
affect quality of life. PTSD is a mental disorder that develops as a the central nervous system, mental dependency, and drug resis- ing interdependent processes, it boosts red blood cell production mally invasive procedure on blood vessel walls to efficiently
result of exposure to a traumatic event or experiencing severe tance, while abuse of stimulants is also seen as a problem. and, ultimately, oxygen delivery. Under an agreement with achieve nerve ablation effects. The system is characterized by
mental stress, including earthquakes and other natural disasters, Accordingly, a safer drug with a lower risk of abuse that can Akebia Therapeutics, the Otsuka group has acquired the rights to delivering ablations concentrically to the renal sympathetic nerves
fires, accidents, violence, or criminal damage. A person suffering achieve comparable efficacy to stimulant drugs is needed. joint development and marketing of vadadustat in the US, joint using ultrasound energy while the artery wall is kept cool by
from PTSD may be afflicted with trauma-driven fear and anxiety development and exclusive marketing in Europe, and exclusive circulating water within the artery. Trials are currently underway
*4 © 2019 Attention-Deficit-Hyperactivity Disorder - Epidemiology - Mature Markets Data,
even after a long time has elapsed. The number of PTSD patients Total pediatric and adult ADHD prevalent cases - DSM-IV - Full Detail, DR/Decision development and marketing in Canada, Australia, China, and in the US to investigate the treatment of hypertension, and in
Resources, LLC. All rights reserved. Reproduction, distribution, transmission or publica-
in the G7 countries is estimated to be around 20 million*3. tion is prohibited. other countries*, but excluding Central and South America. Japan and South Korea to examine the potential for treating
[ fremanezumab ] refractory hypertension.
*1 Provides a combination of partial agonist activity at serotonin 5-HT1A and dopamine D2 * Countries outside of Japan and Asia (Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia,
receptors, and antagonist activity at serotonin 5-HT2A receptors. Fremanezumab is an anti-calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) etc.), where Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma has acquired a license for the drug.
*2 © 2019 Alzheimer’s Disease - Epidemiology - Mature Markets Data, Total prevalent cases
of AD, DR/Decision Resources, LLC. All rights reserved. Reproduction, distribution, monoclonal antibody for the prevention of migraines. It is admin-
transmission or publication is prohibited. istered monthly as a subcutaneous injection. It is expected to
*3 © 2019 Post Traumatic Stress Disorder - Epidemiology – Mature Markets Data, Total Expected completion of Phase III trials for key drug developments (as of the end of June 2019)
12-month prevalent cases - Full Detail, © DR/ Decision Resources, LLC. All rights reserved. prevent migraines by selectively binding to CGRP, thought to be
Reproduction, distribution, transmission or publication is prohibited.
a key factor in the cause of migraines, thus inhibiting CGRP
Psychiatry & neurology
[ AVP-786 ] binding to its receptor. The Otsuka group has concluded an
AVP-786 is a new compound of deuterium-modified dextro- exclusive license agreement with Teva Pharmaceutical Industries fremanezumab fremanezumab centanafadine AVP-786
Episodic migraines Chronic migraines ADHD in adults Agitation in Alzheimer’s Dementia (2)
methorphan and quinidine. The drug is currently being studied in for the development and commercialization in Japan. The drug is PII/III-Japan, Sep 2019 PII/III-Japan, Oct 2019 PIII-US, May 2020 PIII-US/Europe, Jun 2021
Phase III trials as a candidate for moderate-to-severe agitation in currently undergoing Phase III trials in Japan as a candidate for
AVP-786 brexpiprazole
patients with Alzheimer’s dementia and has been granted a fast the prevention of episodic and chronic migraines.
Agitation in Alzheimer’s Dementia (1) Agitation in Alzheimer’s Dementia
PIII-US/Europe, Oct 2019 PIII-US/Europe, Dec 2020
Oncology & Cancer Supportive Care
2019 2020
[ guadecitabine ] [ ASTX727 ]
Guadecitabine is a next-generation, low-molecular-weight DNA ASTX727 is the world’s first oral DNA methylation inhibitor com-
methylation inhibitor that is designed to allow the active metab- bination drug containing the DNA methylation inhibitor decit-
vadadustat vadadustat
olite decitabine to work longer in the body and thereby effi- abine and metabolic enzyme (cytidine deaminase) inhibitor guadecitabine Renal anemia (dialysis) Renal anemia (non-dialysis)
Relapsed/refractory AML
PIII-US/Europe, Mar 2020 PIII-US/Europe, Aug 2020
ciently reach tissues such as the bone marrow. It is currently in cedazuridine. The administration of currently approved methyla- PIII-global, Sep 2019
Phase III trials for two indications: Relapsed/refractory acute tion inhibitors requires patients to visit hospital for an intrave- tolvaptan OPC-61815
guadecitabine SIADH Cardiac edema
myeloid leukemia (AML) in adults and Relapsed/refractory myelo- nous injection, but the orally administered ASTX727 has the Relapsed/refractory MDS PIII-Japan, Mar 2020 PIII-Japan, Jul 2020
PIII-global, Jun 2020
dysplastic syndromes (MDS) in adults. potential to become a new treatment option that alleviates this
Cardiovascular & renal
burden on MDS patients. Having met primary endpoints in Phase
III trials for the treatment of MDS, we are aiming to submit an
Oncology & cancer supportive care
application for approval before the end of 2019.
40 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 41Business Strategy Section
Research and Development
Projects in Phase II and later stages
(as of March 31, 2019)
Psychiatry & Neurology Cardiovascular & Renal
Code (Generic name) <Brand name> Country/ Development status Code (Generic name) <Brand name> Country/ Development status
Origin Indication Origin Indication
Features Region Phase II Phase III Filed Approved Features Region Phase II Phase III Filed Approved
Major depressive disorder JP, EU, CN OPC-41061 (tolvaptan)
Otsuka Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone
<Samsca> JP
Agitation associated with dementia of the Pharmaceutical secretion
OPC-34712 (brexpiprazole) Otsuka Alzheimer’s type JP, US, EU V2 receptor antagonist
<REXULTI>
Pharmaceutical
Dopamine partial agonist Bipolar I disorder US, EU OPC-61815 Otsuka
Cardiac edema JP
Posttraumatic stress disorder US, EU
V2 receptor antagonist Pharmaceutical
SO eP roC to-6 ni4 n0 , n0 o5 repinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor O Phts au rmka a ceutical Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder US A HIK F-B pr- o6 ly5 l 4 h8 yd ( rv oxa yd laa sed u ins ht iba it to) r Akebia Anemia associated with chronic kidney disease US, EU
TAS-205 Taiho
Duchenne muscular dystrophy JP
PGD synthase inhibitor Pharmaceutical
Agitation associated with dementia of the
US, EU Other areas
Alzheimer’s type
AVP-786
( Nd Me Du Ate rr ei cu em pto-m r ao nd tai gfi oe nd is td /Se ex rotr too nm ine at nh do nr op rh epa in n, e pq hu rii nn ei dine) Avanir Negative symptoms of schizophrenia US *1 C Feo atd ue re s(Generic name) <Brand name> Origin Indication C Ro eu gn iotr ny/ Phase II D Pe hv ae sl eo p IIm I ent F is lt ea dtus Approved
reuptake inhibitor/Sigma-1 receptor agonist Traumatic brain injury US
OPC-67683 (delamanid)
Intermittent explosive disorder US <Deltyba> Otsuka Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis US
Pharmaceutical
EB-1020 (centanafadine) Mycolic acid biosynthesis inhibitor
Neurovance Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder US
Norepinephrine, dopamine and serotonin reuptake inhibitor
OPC-167832 Otsuka
Tuberculosis US *2
Lu AA36143 (nalmefene) DPrE1 inhibitor Pharmaceutical
<Selincro> Lundbeck Alcohol dependence JP
Opioid receptor antagonist OPA-15406 Otsuka
Atopic dermatitis JP
TEV-48125 (fremanezumab) PDE4 inhibitor Pharmaceutical
Teva Migraine JP *1
Anti-CGRP antibody
OPS-2071 Otsuka
Clostridium difficile infection, enteric infection JP
New quinolone based antibacterial agent Pharmaceutical
Oncology TAS-303 Taiho Stress urinary incontinence JP
Selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors Pharmaceutical
Code (Generic name) <Brand name> Country/ Development status
Origin Indication TAS-115 Taiho
Features Region Phase II Phase III Filed Approved Multi-kinase inhibitor Pharmaceutical Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis JP
Colorectal cancer CN
TAS-102 (trifluridine, tipiracil) Taiho TAS5315 Taiho Rheumatoid arthritis JP
<LONSURF> US BTK inhibitor Pharmaceutical
Pharmaceutical
Interference with the function of DNA Gastric cancer
JP, EU Otsuka
OPF-105
Pharmaceutical Peripheral parenteral nutrition solution JP
TAS-118 (tegafur, gimeracil, oteracil, folinate) Taiho Gastric cancer JP (Glucose, electrolyte, amino acid, fat and vitamin) Factory
Anti-metabolite Pharmaceutical
TAS-114 Taiho Non-small cell lung cancer JP, US, EU VIS410 Visterra Influenza A infection US
dUTPase inhibitor Pharmaceutical Anti-hemagglutinin monoclonal antibody
TAS-115 Taiho
Multi-kinase inhibitor Pharmaceutical Prostate cancer JP TAC-302 Meiji Detrusor underactivity with overactive bladder JP
TAS-116 Taiho
Gastrointestinal stromal tumor JP
HSP90 inhibitor Pharmaceutical
TAS-120 Taiho Diagnostics
Cholangiocarcinoma JP, US, EU
FGFR inhibitor Pharmaceutical
TAS0313 Taiho Code (Generic name) <Brand name> Country/ Development status
Urothelial cancer JP Origin Indication
Peptide vaccine Pharmaceutical Features Region Phase II Phase III Filed Approved
Taiho
TAS0728 Solid tumors US, EU *2 C13-CAC Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Measurement of gastric acidity JP
13C-calcium carbonate breath test Pharmaceutical
Ovarian cancer US, EU
SGI-110 (guadecitabine) ODK-1003-CN Otsuka
Astex Acute myeloid leukemia JP, US, EU Diagnosis for Myelodysplastic syndrome CN
DNA methyltransferase inhibitor WT1 mRNA RT-PCR assay kit Pharmaceutical
Myelodysplastic syndrome JP, US, EU
*1 Phase II/III
ASTX727
Astex Myelodysplastic syndrome US *2 Phase I/II
DNA methyltransferase inhibitor
*3 Application by Takara Bio Inc.
ASTX660
Astex Solid tumors, Lymphomas US
IAP inhibitor
TBI-1301
Takara Bio Synovial sarcoma JP *2
NY-ESO-1 siTCR® gene therapies
TBI-1401 (canerpaturev)
Takara Bio Melanom JP *3
Oncolytic Virus
TBI-1501
Takara Bio Acute lymphoblastic leukemia JP *2
CD19 CAR gene therapies
Pro-NETU (fosnetupitant) Helsinn
Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting JP
NK1 receptor antagonist Healthcare
42 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 43Business Strategy Section
Pharmaceutical Business
Social Challenges/Strengths/Overview
Providing total healthcare solutions, from disease diagnosis to treatment. Fiscal 2018 business overview and mainstay products
In fiscal 2018, both revenue and profit were boosted by higher sales revenue for new products in Japan and overseas, despite the
impact of drug price revisions in Japan, lower sales revenue from long-listed drugs owing to campaigns promoting the use of generics,
and higher R&D costs associated with progress made on late-phase development products. Sales revenue came to ¥817.1 billion
Revenue ratio* Business performance in fiscal 2018 (+5.5% YoY) and operating profit to ¥84.8 billion (+2.6%).
(%) (¥ billion)
49.9
Japan Revenue Operating profit
28.9 ABILIFY MAINTENA REXULTI
North America
Others 21.2 774.8 817.1 82.7 84.8
63.3
%
* Revenues to external customers 2017.12 2018.12 2017.12 2018.12 Antipsychotic Long-acting injectable Antipsychotic
Generic name: aripiprazole Origin: Otsuka Pharmaceutical Generic name: brexpiprazole Origin: Otsuka Pharmaceutical
ABILIFY MAINTENA is the once-monthly long-acting injectable of the Through our global alliance with Lundbeck, our novel atypical anti-
antipsychotic agent ABILIFY discovered by Otsuka Pharmaceutical psychotic agent REXULTI was approved in the US in 2015 as an
and commercialized under a global alliance with Lundbeck. The drug adjunctive therapy for major depressive disorder and as a therapeutic
treats schizophrenia in adult patients and first launched in the US drug for schizophrenia. In Japan and Europe it was approved in 2018
Social challenges Otsuka’s strengths and Europe in 2013 and in Japan in 2015. It is currently sold in more as a therapeutic drug for schizophrenia.
than 35 countries. Sales revenue in fiscal 2018 increased 24% year The drug’s high efficacy and safety based on its novel mecha-
on year to ¥88 billion, mainly reflecting a greater awareness of the nism of action has been rated favorably by physicians and patients
In line with the evolution of life sciences, a number of new 1 A corporate culture that
efficacy for this indication and convenient formulation, as well as an alike, which helped boost fiscal 2018 sales revenue by 46.9% year
drugs are discovered every year. However, there are still many
generates innovation
increase in prescriptions following the July 2017 addition of mainte- on year to ¥69.5 billion.
diseases that lack effective treatment methods or diseases for
Each and every Otsuka group employee has a high regard for nance treatment of bipolar I disorder in adults as an approved indica-
which existing treatment and drugs are unsatisfactory. Address-
tion in the US.
jissho (actualization) and sozosei (creativity)—the DNA of our
ing the desire of all people to remain healthy is a universal and
corporate culture—and pursues innovation on a daily basis by
pressing issue.
always questioning common practice, from R&D departments to
In the pharmaceutical business, we have consistently Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE
on-site operations.
embraced the challenge of solving issues from the standpoints of
patients and medical professionals alike for roughly 50 years
mainly in the fields of psychiatry and neurology, as well as oncol- 2 Providing total healthcare
ogy, where many unmet needs still exist. solutions, from diagnosis to
treatment of disease
We employ a holistic approach to people’s health and conduct
business in a wide array of fields, including pharmaceuticals,
clinical nutrition, diagnostic agents, and medical devices in order V2-receptor antagonist
to provide comprehensive healthcare solutions, from diagnosis to Generic name: tolvaptan Origin: Otsuka Pharmaceutical approved for use in more than 40 countries.
treatment of disease. Prescriptions for the drug as an oral aquaretic continued to
Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE has been sold globally since 2009 as an increase in fiscal 2018, mainly reflecting strong recommendations in
oral aquaretic drug (brand name: Samsca) with a novel mechanism of various guidelines in Japan as a treatment for hepatic edema and
3 Long-held knowledge in core
action that excretes only water from the body with no direct impact cardiac edema. Prescriptions as a treatment for ADPKD also continue
therapeutic areas on electrolyte excretion by inhibiting the antidiuretic hormone vaso- to grow on the back of more approved sales markets in Europe. Sales
pressin. In 2014 it was approved as the world’s first therapeutic drug also commenced in the US in May 2018. Sales revenue rose 26.7%
Since commencing R&D in the fields of psychiatry, neurology, and
for autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) under the year on year to ¥75.9 billion for Samsca and grew a sharp 234.2%
oncology in the 1970s, we continue to take steps to address
brand name Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE, and has now been year on year to ¥14.3 billion for JINARC/JYNARQUE.
unmet medical needs and spawn innovation in various forms.
44 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 45Business Strategy Section
Pharmaceutical Business
Overview of therapeutic areas
Psychiatry & Neurology Oncology & Cancer Supportive Care
The fields of psychiatry and neurology are key areas of focus for Otsuka given the many diseases the causes of We are expanding our business in the fields of oncology and cancer supportive care with the aim of providing
which are yet to be discovered and the difficulties involved in drug discovery R&D. We continue to embrace the patient-oriented total care. And through collaboration between group companies and access to cutting-edge
challenge of providing trailblazing solutions that aim to rehabilitate patients back into society after suffering knowledge and innovative technology, we seek to achieve an even higher level of drug discovery.
psychiatric or neurological disorders.
Aiming to provide systematic solutions to address challenges in psychiatric and Sparking new innovation by melding proprietary technologies
neurological healthcare
With the launch of the tegafur-based oral formulation Futraful in numerous compounds owing to its proprietary fragment-based
Japan in 1974, Taiho Pharmaceutical pioneered the market for drug discovery. In addition to the DNA methylation inhibitors
Psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar, and major been prescribed to patients in more than 60 countries and regions
oral anti-cancer agents at a time when their use was still very guadecitabine and ASTX727, successor drugs it developed by
depressive disorder cause problems for a person’s social life, career, worldwide. Harnessing our R&D experience with ABILIFY and draw-
uncommon. In its half century of anti-cancer drug research since leveraging its knowledge of Dacogen (generic name: decitabine),
or studies because they can develop at any time from childhood ing on feedback from professionals engaged in clinical practice, we
then, the company has generated a large body of evidence and a treatment for myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid
through to late middle age. Moreover, concerns are growing about developed REXULTI, a new drug with a completely novel mecha-
contributed to the establishment of cancer chemotherapy in leukemia, the company currently has other promising drugs
the increase in Alzheimer’s as populations worldwide continue to nism of action. With REXULTI , we are advancing our research to
Japan primarily with TS-1 (combination drug of tegafur, gimeracil, undergoing clinical trials.
age. These diseases affect not just the patient’s quality of life; they address yet unmet major therapeutic needs left untreated world-
place a strain on family and caregivers and create a burden for the wide—for example, schizophrenia, major depressive disorder, PTSD, and oteracil potassium), which has become the standard treat- Cancer therapy systems are currently changing rapidly as a
healthcare economy. There are still many illnesses for which satis- and agitation associated with Alzheimer’s disease. ment for unresectable advanced or recurrent gastric cancer and result of advancements in science and technology. We are devel-
factory treatments have yet to be established because their causes And by developing and bringing to market long-acting inject- the standard postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy for gastric oping and expanding our drug discovery platform technology by
and mechanisms are not fully understood, which makes the dis- ables like ABILIFY MAINTENA to address the issue of medication cancer. And with the development and commercialization of the harnessing the respective strengths of each group company and
covery of new drugs extremely difficult. adherence, trialing the use of Abilify MyCite, the world’s first anti-cancer agent LONSURF in 2014, the subsequent establish- also stepping up the pace of research and development through
ment of a sales framework in North America, and a development collaborations and alliances. Through tie-ups with corporations
The Otsuka group started conducting research and develop- digital medicine system for patients to record their tablet inges-
and sales alliance with France-based Servier, Taiho Pharmaceutical and academia, including open innovation initiatives, we seek to
ment in the fields of psychiatry and neurology in the 1970s and to tion, and developing digital therapeutic applications for treating
continues to take up the challenge of expanding its global pres- promote access to cutting-edge knowledge and innovative tech-
this day we continue to work tirelessly on new drug development major depressive disorder, we continue to focus on the unmet
ence and value creation. nology and achieve an even higher level of drug discovery.
with the goal of contributing to medical needs in these disciplines. needs of patients with the aim of providing systematic solutions
The results of our research over a quarter of a century came to that address challenges in psychiatric and neurological healthcare Astex Pharmaceuticals, which became part of the Otsuka Core product development p.40
a head with the development of ABILIFY, the world’s first dopamine with a unique approach of fusing together different technologies. group in 2014, is contributing to the commercialization of
partial agonist. It is evaluated highly in clinical settings for its effi-
Core product development p.40
cacy and safety based on its novel pharmacological action and has
Unmet medical needs in psychiatry and neurology Unmet needs in oncology
Schizophrenia Gastric cancer
Schizophrenia is a psychiatric disorder in which thoughts and emo- Gastric cancer is the fifth most common type of cancer in the world
tions continue to be disordered. Appearing between adolescence and it is the third most common cause of cancer death, following
and the age of maturity, it presents symptoms such as hallucina- lung and colorectal cancer. It is estimated that approximately
tions, delusions, thought disorders, emotional flattening, and lack of 723,000 people die of gastric cancer every year*1. In Japan it is the
motivation that can make employment and living in society difficult. most common form of cancer and responsible for roughly 45,000
Even today, with the advance of science, the causes of the disease deaths annually, surpassed only by lung and colon cancer*2.
have not been fully elucidated, and there is a need for long-term Remarkable progress has been made in recent years on success-
therapy and support aimed at a return to society, while ameliorating fully treating gastric cancer and the survival period has dramatically
symptoms. Another issue is that a lack of recognition of the disease, increased in the past 10 years. That said, intensive chemotherapy
and reduced medication adherence due to side effects, can lead to cannot be used for treatment once the cancer progresses because of
relapse in patients. the many complications that arise, while the drugs that can be used
There are estimated to be 1.8 million patients in the US, 0.8 are also limited. Extending the survival period and alleviating symp-
Misunderstandings and prejudices regarding psychiatric and neurological In collaboration with the Shizuoka Cancer Center, Taiho Pharmaceutical
million in Japan, and 1.9 million in the five major countries of disorders still exist in society because they are not fully understood. Otsuka toms during late-stage treatment of metastatic gastric cancer are provides information to help improve the lives of cancer patients. By doing
Europe. Pharmaceutical is confronting these issues head on by carrying out numer- challenges for which new treatment options are certainly needed. so, it offers support to people who have experienced cancer to overcome
ous activities aimed at educating people about these diseases. the challenges they face in their daily life together with family, healthcare
© 2019 Schizophrenia - Epidemiology - Mature Markets Data DR/Decision Resources, LLC. https://www.otsuka.co.jp/en/knowproject/ *1 Ferlay J, Soerjomataram I, Dikshit R, et al. Int J Cancer. 2015;136:E359-86. professionals, and other cancer survivors.
All rights reserved. Reproduction, distribution, transmission or publication is prohibited. *2 Latest Cancer Statistics,” a cancer information service of the National Cancer Center
Reprinted with permission Japan (in Japanese)
46 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 47Business Strategy Section
Pharmaceutical Business
ADPKD treatment — Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE
—Taking up the challenge of addressing unmet medical needs—
Cardiovascular & Renal
Guided by our motto of “doing what only Otsuka can do,” the Otsuka group has continued to develop
pharmaceuticals with novel mechanisms of action and efficacy for various diseases. Samsca/JINARC/
JYNARQUE offers a lot of hope as a new drug in the renal field for the treatment of autosomal domi-
One more core therapeutic area in addition to psychiatry & neurology, oncology
nant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), a condition for which there was hitherto no known treatment.
Since our first in-house developed pharmaceutical, the hypotensive aggressive growth investments, as illustrated by our vadadustat
ADPKD characteristics and number of patients countries and as a result, the drug was approved in Japan in
drug Mikelan, launched in 1980, we have continued to contribute business alliance with Akebia Therapeutics and the acquisition of
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is a 2014 and Europe in 2015. In the US, additional clinical trials
to the treatment of cardiovascular diseases thanks to our ground- Visterra, a company with a product pipeline in the renal domain.
rare hereditary disorder in which many fluid-filled sacs (cysts) were requested by the FDA, but it was eventually approved in
breaking novel drug discovery. Notably, the antiplatelet agent We also strive to find solutions to unmet needs in non-phar-
form in both kidneys, which gradually grow larger, thereby 2018 and made available to anxiously waiting patients in that
Pletaal and the world’s first oral aquaretic drug Samsca. We are maceutical areas too. We are propelling the development of causing symptoms such as pain and a swollen abdomen and country too. The development of this groundbreaking drug has
also establishing new assets overseas, for example, through our unique medical devices that fuse innovative technology with our eventually leading to a decline in renal function. Around half of been rated highly by patients and medical professionals alike
efforts to develop the world’s first therapeutic drug for ADPKD. In strengths in drugs and clinical research. Examples of this initiative ADPKD patients develop end-stage renal failure by the age of and in May 2019 Otsuka was selected to receive the Corporate
seeking to make sustained contributions to the unmet needs of include an ultrasound renal denervation treatment device and a 60 and require dialysis or a kidney transplant. The incidence Innovator Award from the US National Kidney Foundation.
rate of ADPKD is around one person for every 2,000–8,000 Taking an aquaretic drug and turning it into a treatment
patients in the cardiovascular and renal fields, we intend to peripheral artery stent.
people and there are estimated to be roughly 30,000 patients for ADPKD was an unprecedented challenge and an extremely
strengthen our in-house drug development and also make
Core product development p.41 in Japan and about 140,000 in the US. long road to take, but being the only single therapeutic drug
for an incurable disease, it is an extremely encouraging devel-
Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE opment for both patients and physicians. Samsca/JINARC/
— from development to approval JYNARQUE is truly a product that embodies our motto of
Research on this drug all started when a physician said, “I want “doing what only Otsuka can do.”
Other Areas
a diuretic that excretes only water.” Conventional diuretics
used to treat edema had the drawback of causing the excretion Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE and
of not just water, but also the electrolytes needed by the the Otsuka group’s future
Providing total healthcare human body. This was a troubling issue for physicians because Whereas previously patients only had the option of controlling
it hampered the treatment of illnesses. associated symptoms of ADPKD, like high blood pressure, there
We started our research with a focus on vasopressin in are high expectations for this first-ever treatment in countries
Clinical nutrition (intravenous solutions) Diagnostic agents
1983 and six years later in 1989 we discovered the lead com- where the product is sold. Up ahead, we intend to promote its
Fiscal 2018 sales revenue Fiscal 2018 sales revenue pound that led to the development of the aquaretic drug that proper use among patients and proceed to the next stage of
we now have today. Meanwhile, it was not until 2003, or 20 actually saving lives by mainly monitoring the effects of the
111.1 13.7
years after research first commenced, that the drug was shown treatment over longer periods. Moreover, the Otsuka group has
¥ billion ¥ billion to be effective on ADPKD in mice. Following clinical trials, it concluded a comprehensive partnership agreement with the
was finally approved after a roughly 30-year journey as the Japan Kidney Association for the purpose of raising awareness
With more than 70 years of experience in the clinical nutrition Companion diagnostics* play a key role in identifying the individ-
world’s first therapeutic drug for ADPKD. about ADPKD and improving the level of medical care. Under
business, the Otsuka group continues to contribute to a large ual differences in the effects of drugs and their side effects so The reason why this drug took such a long time to be this partnership, we aim to be of further assistance to patients
number of patients as a leading company in Japan in the area of that appropriate healthcare can be provided. The Otsuka group approved is because there were no existing drugs for treating and their families by leveraging the respective strengths and
intravenous solutions. We made our first foray into overseas provides diagnostic agents that meet international standards, ADPKD and therefore no full-scale clinical studies had ever accumulated experience of each party. Guided by our motto of
markets in the 1970s and our clinical nutrition business opera- including products that support companion diagnostics in a wide been conducted on the disease. That meant primary clinical “doing what only Otsuka can do,” we will continue to
indicators had to be established. Each condition was cleared in embrace new challenges in the future.
tions are now spread across 15 companies worldwide. This busi- range of fields such as for digestive organs, respiratory organs,
clinical trials conducted on more than 1,400 patients in 15
ness continues to grow, centering on our basic solution business. infectious diseases, cancer, and the cardiovascular system.
Going forward, we will continue to develop high value-added
* Companion diagnostics are diagnostic tests used to identify the patients most likely to
products to meet market needs around the world and contribute benefit from a particular therapeutic agent and to determine the optimal dose. Doing what only Otsuka can do
to global healthcare. —the path to a first-in-class treatment for ADPKD
I applaud the efforts of the clinical development team at Otsuka for the perseverance and
diligence in developing tolvaptan for patients with ADPKD. The launch of JYNARQUE in
Otsuka group’s market share the US means that the tolvaptan is now available to patients with ADPKD in Japan, the
EU, North America and in several other countries. This launch finally brings the journey to
of intravenous solutions in
completion for the researchers who started this the program in 2004. In addition, this is a
Japan (2018) testament to the many patients and healthcare providers who participated in the clinical
55 trials for ADPKD, for without them this dream could never have become reality; we hope
.8 that the launch of JYNARQUE brings new options to patients with ADPKD. Finally I want
% to congratulate the commercial team in the US for the success of the launch of Louis Allesandrine (Vice President of Nephrology
JYNARQUE and wish them continued success in bringing JYNARQUE to ADPKD patients. and MDD Sales & Marketing, Otsuka America
Pharmaceutical, Inc.) receiving an award from
Copyright©2019 IQVIA. Robert McQuade Kevin Longino (pictured right), Chief Executive
Calculated based on JPM Dec 2018 MAT. Executive Vice President & Chief Strategic Officer Officer of the US National Kidney Foundation.
Reprinted with permission. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development & Commercialization
48 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 49Business Strategy Section
Nutraceutical Business (NC Business)
Social Challenges/Strengths/Overview
Supporting the management and improvement of everyday health with Product categories
innovative products based on scientific evidence.
Functional beverages Functional foods
109.4 75.6
Revenue ratio* Business performance in fiscal 2018
(%) (¥ billion) Fiscal 2018 sales revenue ¥ billion Fiscal 2018 sales revenue ¥ billion
Japan 43.3 Revenue Operating profit In the functional beverages category, we mainly develop In functional foods, we sell nutrition products and health
North America 29.2 innovative products based on scientific evidence. Mainstay foods. Mainstay products include Calorie Mate, a balanced
339.0
27.5 326.2
Others 43.0 products include POCARI SWEAT, which we developed nutritional food containing five major nutrients that gave
39.2
based on the rehydration drink concept, thus paving the birth to a new genre of nourishment, SOYJOY, a soy bar
way for a new ion-supply drinks market, Tiovita Drink, an that is made from whole soy beans and gives you all the
energy drink containing taurine, vitamins, and carnitine nutrition of soy beans, and a lineup of organic and glu-
26.2
% chloride, ORONAMIN C DRINK, a carbonated energy drink ten-free products sold in more than 40 countries by
containing multiple vitamins, and the high-fiber drink Europe-based Nutrition & Santé.
Fibe-Mini, a Food for Specified Health Uses (FOSHU) to
regulate gastrointestinal condition.
* Revenue from sales to external 2017.12 2018.12 2017.12 2018.12
customers
Social challenges Otsuka’s strengths
To be healthy is a desire of all people worldwide. Even though 1 Innovative products based on
advancements in medical technology and improvements in
scientific evidence Nutritional Others,
public health have helped boost global average life expectan-
We draw on the know-how accumulated in the pharmaceutical supplements including new products
cies, aging populations and the increase in lifestyle diseases and
business to develop innovative products based on scientific
chronic-phase medical care have pushed up healthcare costs to
evidence. 96.1 58.0
threaten the sustainability of social security schemes. Given the
seriousness of this issue, the importance of managing and Fiscal 2018 sales revenue ¥ billion Fiscal 2018 sales revenue ¥ billion
2 Health awareness based on
improving one’s day-to-day health in accordance with cultural
In this product category, our main brands are Nature We have also developed many other unique products such
and lifestyle habits, as well as life stage, is expected to become product value
Made, nutritional supplements free of flavorings, colorings, as EQUELLE, which contains equol to support women’s
increasingly important in the years ahead. Our nutraceutical
We create innovative, new markets by persistently carrying out and preservatives that have passed a rigorous quality-stan- health and beauty, Kenja-no-shokutaku Double Support, a
business (hereinafter referred to as the “NC business”) helps the
product value awareness activities and campaigns in health fields dard process from the procurement of raw materials right food for specified health use that slows down the body’s
people of the world longevity, healthy, and independent lives by
related to our products. We continue to offer new value by part- through to quality testing, MegaFood, supplements absorption of sugar and lipids, thereby reducing the rise in
providing innovative products that aim to maintain and improve
nering with our in-house research institutes and external organi- derived from natural food sources such as fruits and vege- blood glucose levels and triglycerides after a meal, OTC
health, along with beneficial information about human health.
zations to conduct research even after product launch. tables, and INNATE, supplements marketed to medical products like Oronine H Ointment for treating skin ail-
institutions. ments and cuts, and our cosmedics* concept skincare
3 Global network brands InnerSignal and UL·OS.
*Portmanteau of “cosmetics” and “medicine”
We contribute to the health of people worldwide by mutually
exploiting our own global network and the product attributes,
strengths, and infrastructure of each group company to share
information about global health issues.
*Our product categories changed in fiscal 2019. Please see our earnings results material for more details.
50 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 51Business Strategy Section
Nutraceutical Business
Global Expansion
Guided by our philosophy of contributing to the health of people worldwide, we engage in business activities
in accordance with the culture and health issues of each region.
Japan North America
Average life expectancy in Japan for both men and women is among and associations, we are also developing new products to provide In the US where self-medication is prevalent, the self-medication product categories*.
the highest in the world, but a new challenge for society is now solutions for the next challenges and undertake initiatives to broaden demand continues to increase mainly because of skyrocketing medi- Daiya Foods develops, manufactures, and sells high-quality,
emerging. There is a gap between life expectancy and healthy life our interaction with society depending on the circumstances. cal costs in recent years. innovative plant-based food products such as cheese alternatives,
expectancy, or in other words, the period during which a person’s Pharmavite, a leading company in the US supplement industry, yogurt alternatives, dressings, and desserts. The company’s product
daily life is not hindered by health problems. The Otsuka group has produces supplements based on safety and efficacy by consulting range is enjoyed not only by vegetarians and people with food aller-
drawn on its extensive know-how accumulated in the pharmaceutical with experts to develop products that incorporate state-of-the-art gies, but also by health-conscious millennials.
business to develop innovative products based on scientific evidence. science. The company’s high quality supplements meet the strict * 2019 US News & World Report—Pharmacy Times Survey. Product categories: Letter
In recent years, we have continued to conduct research on the quality criteria set by the United States Pharmacopeia (USP) and its Vitamins (A–E), Coenzyme Q10, Omega-3/Fish Oil, Flax Seed Oil, Herbal Supplements,
Mood Health Supplements, Diabetic Multivitamins, Garlic Supplements, Cholesterol
key topic of extending healthy life expectancy. Furthermore, in carrying leading brand is recommended the most by pharmacists across nine
Management (Fish Oil)
out this R&D, we utilize our accumulated insights to coordinate activi-
ties that promote public awareness of the importance of hydration
and replenishment of electrolytes for prevention of heatstroke, activi-
ties that teach people about the importance of eating well-balanced
meals, and initiatives that support women’s health with the goal of
promoting health and productivity management and the empower-
ment of women. Not only do we aim to solve health issues in commu-
nities by teaming up with local governments, schools, corporations,
Providing information to support women’s health
Asia
In addition to the risks of heatstroke, tropical diseases, and infectious established new halal-certified manufacturing lines for ORONAMIN C
diseases in tropical regions, demand is rising in Asia for hydration DRINK and SOYJOY at our plant there and commenced production
and nutrition as a result of more people playing sport and a greater and sales of those products in Indonesia in 2018.
awareness of health issues. *Source: Euromonitor International (Retail Value RSP)
After launching POCARI SWEAT in Hong Kong and Taiwan in Europe
1982, we expanded our reach by setting up production sites in POCARI SWEAT overseas sales volume (10,000 cases)
China, South Korea, Taiwan, and Indonesia. As of the end of 2018, 2016 2,391
POCARI SWEAT is available in more than 20 countries and region The organic food market in Europe has grown in recent years as manufacturer BC Bio into the group and is catering to expanding
worldwide. 2017 2,383 more health-conscious consumers demand safer and more trust- consumer needs by strengthening its free-from product range.
In Indonesia, where we first launched in 1989, our market share 2018 2,631 worthy food. Accordingly, so-called free-from foods and alternative *Source: Euromonitor International (Retail Value RSP)
in the sports drink category has now increased to 68%* owing to products are attracting the attention of millennials—in fiscal 2018
community-based promotion activities and our efforts to educate 68 the meat-free food market was worth approximately $1.3 billion,
Share of sales in Indonesia
consumers about the importance of hydration and electrolyte replen- % having grown rapidly over the past five years at CAGR of 12.8%*,
(Sports drink category 2018)
ishment. And in order to comply with Indonesia’s cultural norms, we while the gluten-free food market was worth around $1.7 billion
after expanding at CAGR of 14.5%*.
Headquartered in the south of France, Nutrition & Santé
derives its name from the French words for “nutrition” and
“health.” The company manages a portfolio of 28 mostly health
food brands and sells its products in more than 40 countries around
the world but with a focus on European markets. At each of its
plants, the company has obtained IFS, the international food pro-
duction standard, to guarantee a high level of product quality
management. In 2017 it constructed a new plant in France for the
production of gluten-free food. In 2018 it welcomed organic food
52 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 53Business Strategy Section
Nutraceutical Business Consumer Products Business
R&D Framework
—product development based on scientific evidence—
Our NC business research institutes conduct research on topics such as nutrition and exercise from unique view- Our consumer products business delivers
points and utilize the know-how honed in our pharmaceutical business to develop and provide the world with
familiar foods and beverages that are deli-
innovative products based on scientific evidence that maintain and improve people’s health.
cious, safe, reassuring, and healthy.
Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute Otsu Nutraceuticals Research Institute
Since its establishment in 1984 as Japan’s first private research insti- The Otsu Nutraceuticals Research Institute was established in 2000 in
tute for clinical exercise and nutrition, this facility has conducted R&D order to further research on the topic of gut immunity, with a partic-
activities in various subject fields to address exercise and nutrition, ular focus on the intestines, which play a key role in life support.
women’s health, and other health issues. In 2014 one of the largest Research was conducted on the topic of enhancing the body’s bio- Sales Revenue Business performance in fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2018 business overview
artificial environment control rooms in Japan was built at the insti- logical barrier by increasing the secretion of immunoglobulin A (IgA), ratio* (¥ billion)
tute, enabling the re-creation of high temperature/high humidity and an antibody that plays a crucial role in mucosal immunity. Human (%) Sales revenue for the consolidated fiscal year came to
low temperature/low humidity environments that may be found in clinical trials demonstrated that lactic acid bacteria B240 heightens Sales Revenue Operating profit ¥33.8 billion (–5.0% YoY). The decrease mainly reflects the
hypoxic environments up to a maximum altitude of 5,000 meters. the function of mucosal immunity and lowers the probability of impact of a lower domestic sales volume for CRYSTAL
Such conditions had thus far proved difficult to replicate, but this catching the common cold. 35.6 GEYSER and other mineral water products, despite a
33.8 11.1
new chamber will help further research into sports nutrition, such as year-on-year sales volume increase for the carbonated
the effects of fluid and nutritional intake in harsh environments. 2.6 8.7 vitamin drink Match owing to higher OTC sales from an
%
aggressive marketing strategy and an improved recipe for
the mixed berries flavor Berry Match. Operating profit
decreased to ¥8.7 billion (–22.0% YoY) owing partly to a
decline in equity-method gains.
* Revenue from sales to external
customers 2017.12 2018.12 2017.12 2018.12
TOPIC
TOPIC World’s first retort curry born out of our sterilization technology
and know-how in the intravenous solutions business
Using science to support women's vital and energetic lives
In 1968, Otsuka Foods launched sales of Bon Curry, the world’s effective and Bon Curry gradually became a staple at Japanese
Institute discovered there to be a close relationship between wom-
first commercially available curry in a retort pouch. Drawing dinner tables.
an’s health and equol, an isoflavandiol estrogen metabolized from
inspiration from the vacuum-packed ready-to-eat sausages used In 2018, Bon Curry celebrated its 50th anniversary and to
Shigeto Uchiyama soy bean isoflavones by bacterial flora in the intestines. The insti-
by the military, we applied our sterilization techniques and date a total of three billion packs of the product have been sold.
Fellow, Saga Nutraceuticals tute successfully isolated lactococcus strain 20-92, a lactic acid
know-how from our group’s intravenous solutions business to Based on the same concept of reliability and safety, the product
Research Institute
bacterium that produces equol. Using this lactic acid bacteria to
Nutraceutical Business Division successfully develop, through a process of trial and error, a is still free from preservatives and artificial colorings and all
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. produce equol by fermenting soy germ, we finally created the
reliable and safe food product that can be easily consumed at vegetable ingredients in the series are Japan-grown*. Since
equol-containing supplement EQUELLE in 2014 after 18 years of
home. In developing this product, we insisted that it must not 2013 all Bon Curry products sold in Japan can now be heated in
R&D in collaboration with pharmaceutical divisions and our US
contain preservatives and can be stored for long periods at a microwave oven without the need to remove its cardboard
In light of issues such as expanding healthy life expectancy and affiliates. In 2018 we launched EQUELLE Gelée to further support
room temperature. Following the product’s launch, our uncon- packaging, thus making the preparation of a reliable and safe
the advancement of women’s empowerment, understanding the fundamentals of women’s beauty and health.
ventional marketing campaign using enamel signs proved meal for today’s busy families even faster.
the field of women’s health is growing increasingly important. Otsuka Pharmaceutical continues to
*Excluding the Ganso Bon Curry limited to sale in Okinawa
Otsuka Pharmaceutical started lending its assistance in 1985 investigate the various possible health
to global joint research studies on cardiovascular diseases and benefits of equol.
nutrition initiated by the WHO and others and has since explored We hope to offer support to wom-
the numerous possibilities of soy beans over many years by, for en’s health by providing information and
example, taking part in projects to elucidate the relationship developing products that address the
between diet and longevity. A study focused on isoflavones con- various issues at each stage of a woman’s
tained in soy beans conducted by the Saga Nutraceuticals Research life.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical conducts a broad range of studies on maintaining health in women, such as menopausal symptoms, bones and skin,
and the health of blood vessels. The following website provides some information on these various studies.
https://www.otsuka.co.jp/en/health-and-illness/living-well-with-menopause/equol-research/
Vintage enamel sign Removal of sprouts on the potatoes is performed totally by hand Original retort pressure cookers—pressure and heat sterilization at high
temperature enables long shelf life without the use of preservatives
54 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 55Other Businesses
Expanding our businesses multilater-
ally with a focus on chemical products,
Foundation
warehousing, and transportation.
of
Value
Sales Revenue Business performance in fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2018 business overview Creation
ratio* (¥ billion)
(%)
Revenue from functional chemical products increased year
Sales Revenue Operating profit on year mainly owing to sales volume growth for products
151.1 141.2 9.7 9.9 such as hydrazine hydrate and friction materials. Revenue
from fine chemicals declined year on year due chiefly to
58 The Otsuka group CSR
the impact of orders being pushed back. In transportation
7.9 and warehousing, revenue grew year on year thanks to an 60 Society
%
increase in the volume of group products handled, as well
as expansion of a shared platform for joint distribution 70 Environment
with external customers. As a result of the above, sales
revenue for the consolidated fiscal year came to ¥141.2 72 Governance
billion (–6.5% YoY) and operating profit to ¥9.9 billion
78 D irectors, Audit &
* Revenue from sales to external (+1.4%).
customers 2017.12 2018.12 2017.12 2018.12 Supervisory Board Members
TOPIC
Otsuka Warehouse accelerates workstyle reform initiative with
completion of Cross Dock Harumi Building
In October 2018, Otsuka Warehouse completed a full renova- contributes to Otsuka Warehouse’s efforts to develop human
tion of its 40-year-old distribution facility in the Harumi Building resources and promote workstyle reforms.
in Tokyo’s Chuo Ward, transforming it into a new leased office * In logistics, a cross-dock facility is one that unloads different cargo from multiple
space. origins and re-sorts each item ready to be shipped to different destinations.
As suggested by the name Cross Dock*, a logistics industry
term, the offices of Otsuka Warehouse were designed with the
idea of having employees share information and opinions and
broaden their reach in a space where they can interact with
different people from within and outside of the company. Not
only do all departments work on the same floor where the walls
have been removed, the same floor also has a kitchen and café
Human Resource Development
space where employees can openly communicate with each
Institute
other. Employee presentations are given every day from atop a
The institute pictured was established with
stage, while from time to time speakers from outside the com-
aim of nurturing human resources unshack-
pany also deliver lectures from this spot. The new office there- led from conventional ideas and successful
fore functions as a space that can enhance intellectual experiences so the Otsuka group can contin-
productivity and the exchange of knowledge it generates also uously generate innovation and change. The
building features some monuments symbolic
of this metaphorical paradigm shift, includ-
ing a giant tomato tree, a bent giant cedar,
and floating stones.
56 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 57Foundation of Value Creation
The Otsuka group CSR
— Toward Realizing a Sustainable Society —
The Otsuka group recognizes that CSR is integrated into our businesses and proactively promotes CSR based on Otsuka Group’s Materiality and Related SDGs
our corporate philosophy.
Materiality Social Issues Our Goals Our Activities Related SDGs
Society Health • Unmet medical • Contribution to unmet needs •Promotion of R&D for unmet needs
and health needs solution • R&D of antituberculosis drugs and
• Spread of inflec- •Eradication of tuberculosis improvement of drug access
tions diseases • Creation of a system for the • Support for people’s health maintenance /
• Nutritional needs realization of a healthful life improvement mainly on exercise and
• Increasing aging •Healthy life extension nutrition etc., enlightenment activities
issues • Promotion of problem solving by strength-
ening partnerships
Corporate Philosophy
People • Presentyism*1 • Creation of a corporate culture • Human resource development
• Unpaired to that stimulates creativity • Diversity promotion
diversification • Enhance employee engagement • Health management
Quality • Consumption and • Gaining stakeholder trust • Sustainable procurement and product
in all we production that • Pursuing sustainability at all design
do impairs levels of the value chain • Thorough quality control and stable supply
sustainability • Establishing a quality assurance • Responsible promotional activities and
system for safety and security information provision
Otsuka’s Goal • Deepening communication with
stakeholders
• Promotion of “Customer-oriented
To become an indispensable contributor management”
Environ- Climate • Global warming • FY 2030 Goal: 30% reduction • Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the
to people’s health worldwide ment change in CO2 emissions compared to value chain
FY 2017
Resource • Environmental • FY 2030 Goal: 50% reduction • Reduce environmental impact by improv-
circula- load increase in simple incineration and ing resource efficiency
tion landfill compared to FY 2019*2 • Promotion of business activities aimed at a
Otsuka’s CSR mission sustainable state in both society and the
earth
CSR is integrated into our businesses across the Otsuka group of companies, which aims Water • Reducing freshwa- • FY 2030 Goal: Improvement of • Understanding water resources risk
conserva- ter availability water use efficiency by 15% • Management and effective use of water
to grow while contributing to the creation of a healthy and sustainable society. We tion compared to FY 2017 resources
pursue these objectives supported by a comprehensive governance system.
Governance • Fragile governance • Long-term improvement of • Strengthen corporate governance
system corporate value • Thorough compliance
•Social change risk • Risk identification, evaluation and
management
*1 The situation where productivity does not go up from the badness of the mind and body condition despite coming to work
*2 Calculated using 2019 as base year
Support for the United Nations Global Compant
Otsuka Holdings became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2016. In this way, we are contributing to
the realization of a sustainable society through our business activities, taking into account not only the UNGC’s
10 principles, but also the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Healthier Planet
Healthier Society
Climate change/Resource circulation/
Health/People/Quality in all we do The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact
Water conservation
Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary
p.60 p.70
protection of internationally proclaimed approach to environmental challenges;
human rights; and
Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater
human rights abuses. environmental responsibility; and
Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of
Governance
association and the effective recognition of environmentally friendly technologies.
the right to collective bargaining;
Corporate governance/Compliance/Risk management
Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and Anti- Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in
p.72 compulsory labour; Corruption all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and
Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of
employment and occupation.
58 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 59Foundation of Value Creation
The Otsuka group CSR: Society
Society Infectious diseases
As one of the three major infectious diseases in the world—the considering the current situation in which new treatment options
other two being AIDS and malaria—tuberculosis is the single for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis are urgently needed, in 2016
(Healthier Society) most infectious disease, accounting for the highest number of we entered into a public-private sector agreement with the
fatalities. After more than 30 years of research and development, Global Drug Facility (GDF) of the Stop TB Partnership. We are
Seek to resolve global health issues from a total healthcare perspective. Otsuka Pharmaceutical successfully created DELTYBA, a new also pursuing drug approvals in multiple countries, and currently
anti-tuberculosis agent. Currently we are advancing research and through access programs deployed by government and public
Policy Do away with deep-seated preconceptions and promote the development of creative human resources.
development for expanding the application of this drug to chil- international institutions and expanded access by alliance part-
Pursue product quality and reliability from the viewpoint of consumers.
dren, which would be a world-first, as well as new pharmaceuti- ners, the use of DELTYBA is being promoted in over 80 countries.
cals for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. Furthermore,
Health Initiatives for supplying pharmaceuticals to even more patients
With the aim of contributing to improved access to pharmaceuti- without interruption—contributes to fair pricing in each country
Based on the recognition that CSR is an integrated part of our business operations, the Otsuka group implements CSR initiatives
cals, the Otsuka group is engaged in research and development and also creates employment. Even though there are not many
under its corporate philosophy of “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide”. Health is a universal desire
of therapeutic drugs and IV solutions to address unmet needs. Japanese pharmaceutical companies supplying locally manufac-
of all people around the world. The Otsuka group engages in activities on a daily basis to prevent and treat disease and to contrib-
We are also undertaking initiatives to provide pharmaceuticals at tured drugs because of the risks and differences in technological
ute to the maintenance and improvement of people’s health worldwide. The world we live in still faces a host of medical-related
fair prices and establish healthcare infrastructure. know-how, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory is committed to the
issues, such as the spread of infectious diseases, insufficient medical care facilities, and lack of effective therapeutic drugs. In
For example, the local manufacture of IV solutions*— local manufacture of IV solutions based on its ambition to supply
アバニア aiming to solve these problems, we constantly ask ourselves what it is that only we can do. Accordingly, we carry out activities to
ビステラ defined as a basic pharmaceutical with high clinical necessity pharmaceuticals at fair prices for each country or region so that
find solutions for unmet medical needs that most companies have yet to address.
whose manufacturing and sales will continue to be required any person, rich or poor, can have equal access to healthcare.
Moreover, owing to skyrocketing medical costs, maintaining and improving health is now an issue that society as a whole, not
* Vision for the Pharmaceutical Industry 2013 (Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare)
just individuals, must face head-on. Alongside initiatives that raise awareness of health among individuals, the Otsuka group also
大塚製薬
工場 contributes to initiatives for maintaining and improving health in society at large through collaboration with local communities.
アステックス Partnerships
The Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (GHIT Fund) is an of drugs and diagnostic drugs and so on to combat the spread of
大塚製薬 Pharmaceutical Business
大鵬薬品 international public-private partnership involving the Japanese the big three infectious diseases and neglected tropical diseases
government and private corporations, the Bill & Melinda Gates mainly in developing countries by leveraging Japan’s high level of
Challenge of addressing unmet medical needs Foundation, the Welcome Trust, and the United Nations Develop- technology and innovation. Since June 2016, Otsuka Pharmaceu-
ment Program specializing in funding research and development tical has contributed to the GHIT Fund as an associate partner.
Psychiatry & Neurology
The sharp rise in patients with central nervous system disorders is unsatisfied with how these disorders are treated and patients
now a global issue, highlighted by the decision of Japan’s Minis- and their families are eager to try new therapeutic drugs. As a
Nutraceutical Business
try of Health, Labour and Welfare to add psychiatric disorders to key focus area, the Otsuka group is making headway in the field
the big four diseases. However, even though there are many of psychiatric and neurological diseases, namely with the devel-
psychiatric and neurological diseases like schizophrenia, depres- opment of REXULTI, an antipsychotic drug, and Selincro, a drug Initiatives for Yet-To-Be-Imagined Needs
sion, bipolar disorder, and Alzheimer’s, they say research and for decreasing the amount of drinking for alcohol-dependent
development in this field is challenging because the reasons for patients. We are also embracing the challenge of developing Community-based health maintenance and promotion initiatives
their onset are still largely unknown. Furthermore, many are therapeutic drugs for diseases with no curative medicine so far. Given the surging costs of healthcare and Japan’s aging society, such as nutritional education, prevention of lifestyle diseases,
the Otsuka group is promoting community-based health mainte- measures for avoiding heat disorders, sports promotion, women’s
Oncology nance and promotion initiatives, disaster prevention and disaster health, and disaster preparedness. As of May 31, 2019, the
Owing to advancements in medical science, progress is being embracing the challenge of working in gene therapy, cellular relief activities. For example, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has carried company has concluded partnership agreements with 45 prefec-
made year by year on the diagnosis and treatment of cancer, but therapy, and other new areas of treatment by utilizing the diver- out various health awareness-raising and educational activities tures in Japan.
there are still many patients for which effective treatment meth- sity of modalities so we can respond to the shift from conven- throughout Japan, leveraging its insight and know-how in areas
ods have yet to be found. For this reason, cancer remains one of tional treatments based on characteristics common to many
the biggest causes of death today. The area of oncology with its patients, to treatment that is more personalized. Up ahead, we Preventing heat disorders
currently many unmet medical needs is one of the Otsuka will endeavor to engage in research and development in order to The Otsuka group conducts educational activities for people of was still relatively unknown, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has engaged
group’s focus areas based on our track record of developing provide innovative therapeutic drugs as early as possible. all ages, from children to seniors, to raise awareness about the in activities to prevent and treat heat disorders. Company
anti-cancer agents that can be administered orally, which at the importance of replenishing hydration and electrolytes. For more employees visit sites to give seminars on the importance of
time were not widely available anywhere in the world. We are than 25 years since the 1990s when the term “heat disorders” hydration and electrolyte replenishment based on our research
60 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 61Foundation of Value Creation
The Otsuka group CSR: Society
results at our own laboratory and so on, in the area of ion supply rehydration drinks, supports organizing the activities of the Com- People
drinks. These seminars mainly target athletes, coaches, construc- mittee for Awareness of Hidden Dehydration, which works to
tion workers, factory workers, people who work under hot con- raise awareness of ways to prevent and treat dehydration before
The Otsuka group believes that the creation of innovation and sustained company growth come from the activities of a diverse
ditions, the elderly, and other people at risk of heat disorders. In it becomes critical.
range of employees in a free and open-minded workplace environment. To this end, we aim to foster a corporate culture that
addition, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, which sells oral
rouses an appetite for creativity. We not only invest in the development of human resources, but we also actively promote diversity
in our workforce. As well as establishing a safe working environment, we also make efforts to realize fair hiring, evaluation, and
Women’s health
promotion of employees, respecting human rights.
As women continue to play more active roles in society, an envi-
ronment needs to be established in which women can remain
active but at the same time engage in child-raising, nursing care,
Development of Human Resources
and deal with their own health issues. However, their profes-
sional and personal lives are often disrupted by abnormal bodily
rhythms and anxieties about their physical condition. In particu- Basic Policy
lar, the care they receive during the midlife transitional period, a At any point in history, innovation is always generated by people. by attracting talented personnel and developing and flourishing
time of significant physical and mental change, has an impact on The Otsuka group would like to continuously create innovation the abilities of each individual continuously.
women’s healthy life expectancy. The Otsuka group implements
initiatives aimed at helping women to lead healthy and active Approach
lives, including seminars and the development of products, etc. A heath seminar Alongside medium- to long-term business investments, the develop and demonstrate their respective skills. We have also
development of next-generation executive human resources is established an open recruitment system*1 and self-assessment
essential if we are to constantly achieve creative, innovative, and system*2 for the purpose of enhancing the capabilities of each
sustained growth in the Middle and Longer- Term, as well as employee.
Group-wide Initiatives
significant growth in corporate value. In 2016 we launched At Otsuka Pharmaceutical, the Human Resources Depart-
Otsuka Global Academy, human resource development program, ment employs a system of following up on opinions voiced by
Otsuka Health Comic Library with the aim of early identifying and nurturing talented person- employees by holding individual meetings with every employee.
The Otsuka Health Comic Library which helps children to nel that will underpin the development of the next generation. We are also making efforts to maximize the development of
deepen their interest in and understanding of how their bodies Executive human resource development programs, Senior Lead- global human resources and our organizational capabilities with
work and their health, has been published every year since 1989 ership Program and Middle Leadership Program are produced the introduction of a new system to centrally manage HR infor-
and is celebrating its 30th anniversary in 2019. One volume is and run in-house across the Otsuka group, but also aims to mation on a global level so that all of our employees worldwide
published every year. Japan Medical Association and Japanese realize effective HR development through collaboration with can play a more active role. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory is
Society of School Health supervise it, Japan Pediatric Association external agencies. The program emphasizes the handing down working to enhance the management skills of its leaders with
recommends it, and is donated to approximately 23,000 ele- of corporate culture and seeks to identify the kind of candidates the implementation of a 360-degree feedback system for its
mentary schools and libraries nationwide. Furthermore, compar- required to lead the Otsuka group in the future. As of the end of department managers, who receive multi-faceted feedback from
ative table is made to compare to course of study, so it is used May 2019, over 100 employees from the group had participated multiple people with differing positions and relationships.
not only as reading material for children but also as a teaching in the program. And in the area of supporting self-directed learn- *1 Under this system, the Otsuka group discloses in advance the conditions of a certain
Otsuka Health Comic Library posting or job and then appoints the required number of people from among those who
aid for science and health classes. We have held health educa- ing, in 2017 we launched the OGA Self-Learning Syllabus, a applied. Employees that satisfy the requirements can apply directly to the company
tion workshops for elementary school nurses and other school platform that Otsuka group employees can utilize to find infor- offering the position and be transferred if expectations of both parties are in agreement.
The open recruitment system can be utilized by any person working at the Otsuka group
officials since 2015 to propose heath education using Otsuka mation about learning English or improving their business skills, companies in Japan and aims to boost employee skills and motivation and invigorate
interaction between the Otsuka group employees.
Health Comic Library. among other things. We are building an educational framework
*2 Under this system, employees can provide information to the Human Resources Depart-
https://www.otsuka.com/jp/comiclibrary/ (In Japanese only) that reflects the characteristics of each group company’s business ment about their current work duties, offer opinions and suggestions regarding their
workplace, and describe their career plan aspirations. The self-assessment system is
so that each member of our diverse workforce can continue to implemented once yearly with the goal of further developing employee skills, assigning
Disaster relief employees the right jobs, and improving the workplace environment.
In light of our obligation as a company that handles items
needed during emergencies, such as IV solutions, pharmaceuti-
Diversity
cals, foods and beverage, we actively engage in disaster relief
activities and disaster victim assistance.
Basic Policy
The Otsuka group actively promotes diversity based on the belief constantly in pursuit of innovation, we are endeavoring to estab-
that the activities of a wide range of employees further advances lish a workplace environment brimming with diversity.
innovation and globalization. Accordingly, as a company
62 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 63Foundation of Value Creation
The Otsuka group CSR: Society
Approach daycare centers located within our business premises to help Approach
Since the 1980s when the concept of diversity had still yet to employees balance child-rearing and work. The main Otsuka group companies have a health declaration reassuring workplace, Otsuka Chemical, for example, opened its
take off in Japan, the Otsuka group’s top management has con- Other initiatives include, the formation of Cancer Patient under which it strives to create a workplace environment condu- Anzen Dojo (Experience-based Safety Training Center) in 2012.
tinued to actively promote diversity, with for example the hosting Employment Support Team at Taiho Pharmaceutical, a company cive to maintaining and improving the health of all employees. This center runs training sessions for group employees, employ-
of the Women’s Forum in 1990, based on the thinking that the that develops and sells anti-cancer agents. This team, comprised As part of this initiative, Otsuka Holdings engages in activities ees of overseas affiliates, and third parties with the aim of
efforts of a diverse workforce made up of different nationalities, of the Human Resources Department and occupational nursing aimed at improving the health of employees by collaborating improving safety awareness. Through classroom instruction and
races, ages, gender, disabilities, or sexual orientation is needed if staff, aims to create a workplace where an employee suffering with the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Health Insurance Association, simulations of past accidents, the center reaffirms the experience
the group is to create innovative products and ideas that drive from cancer or other disease can continue to work while still medical professionals, and those in charge of health manage- of failure and safety awareness, heightens sensitivity to danger,
company growth. receiving treatment. After establishing this support framework, ment at each company. One such activity is the hosting of health and develops the ability to anticipate things one step ahead. In
The Otsuka group has proclaimed its promotion of diversity the company has been recognized in the “Excellence Award” seminars for group employees and their families. They are held in recognition of its activities to improve health and safety educa-
in the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics and in 2017 category as having outstanding initiatives that help cancer Japan’s major cities nationwide and provide information about tion and establish a safety culture, Otsuka Chemical received the
became a signatory to the Women’s Empowerment Principles patients balance treatment and work. the group’s initiatives on health, an introduction to the health 8th Responsible Care Excellence Award from the Japan Chemical
(WEPs*1), a set of corporate principles jointly developed by the Furthermore, Heartful Kawauchi was established in 2011 in insurance association, and information that can improve the Industry Association in 2014.
UNGC*2 and UN Women*3 to offer guidance on how to Tokushima as a special subsidiary of Otsuka Pharmaceutical. This health of employees and their families. Another activity is the
empower women in the workplace. subsidiary provides a place where disabled people can fully group-wide Tokushima Health Project, known as TOK-J, which
In order to lengthen the careers of our diverse workforce, demonstrate their capabilities. started in 2017. The theme of the project is “creating a lively and
we have enhanced the childcare and nursing care systems at *1 Women’s Empowerment Principles cheerful workplace by alleviating the risk of lifestyle diseases.”
*2 United Nations Global Compact
each of the Otsuka group companies and have opened three *3 United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women The project kicked off with two approaches: 1) improving the
health of employees susceptible to metabolic syndrome in the
Tokushima area (where the majority of the Otsuka group employ-
 External Recognition
ees live and work); and 2) raising awareness of health issues in
Platinum Kurumin & Kurumin • Platinum Kurumin: Otsuka Pharmaceutical the area overall. The project recommends walking and exercise
(Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, Tokyo Stock Exchange) Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical and offers guidance on healthy eating.
A system whereby the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare certifies • Kurumin: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, and
companies that meet certain standards by formulating and notifying others Furthermore, from the perspective of creating a safe and Tokushima Health Project (TOK-J)
action plans based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support
Raising Next-Generation Children.  External Recognition
Platinum Kurumin is a certification for Kurumin certified companies
that have carried out higher-level initiatives.
Excellent Corporation for Health Certified in 2019: Otsuka Holdings,
Management Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Phar-
(Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Nippon Kenko Kaigi)
Eruboshi Otsuka Chemical: Grade 3 (top rank) maceutical, Otsuka Electronics,
(Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) A system that recognizes corporations that practice JIMRO, Otsuka Wellness Vending
exceptionally good health management
A system that certifies companies that meet certain standards and recog-
nizes efforts to empower women in the workplace under the Act to
Promote the Active Participation of Women in the Workplace.
Semi-Nadeshiko Selected in 2019: Otsuka Holdings
(Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Tokyo Stock Exchange) *Limited to Otsuka Holdings and Otsuka Pharmaceutical Quality in all we do
A system for selecting companies that conform to the Nadeshiko Brand
of encouraging women’s success in the workplace
To build sustainable society, the Otsuka group is seeking for sustainability by addressing environmental, social issues and striving to
Diversity Management Selection 100 2014 Award: Otsuka Pharmaceutical
establish quality assurance structure for reassurance and safety at every stage of the value chain.
(Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry)
A system that recognizes companies that have improved corporate value
through diversity management
Production and
R&D Procurement Sales
quality control
Health and Safety
Basic Policy
Research and Development
The Otsuka group recognizes that the mental and physical well- committed to creating a safe workplace environment and are
being of each and every employee is indispensable to realizing continuously implementing initiatives that maintain and improve
our shared corporate philosophy of “Otsuka-people creating the health of our employees. Ethical considerations concerning appropriate R&D
new products for better health worldwide”. To this end, we are
The use of experimental animals to verify efficacy and safety in related laws, ordinances, and guidelines while striving to uphold
R&D is at times necessary. The Otsuka group complies with all scientifically valid methodologies and ethical considerations from
64 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 65Foundation of Value Creation
The Otsuka group CSR: Society
the viewpoints of animal protection and welfare, including the Experiment Committee evaluates whether each proposed animal our partners sent back their responses. We assess our business identify potential risks so we can take countermeasures. And in
lives of the animals; preservation of the environment; and the experiment plan is appropriate based on the 3Rs principles. partners with respect to not just legal compliance but their activi- principle, we purchase raw materials from multiple companies.
safety of experimenters. These are Replacement/avoidance or replacement of animal use, ties regarding human rights, labor, the environment, and We also take environmental considerations into account. For
As an in-house management system, we have developed Reduction/minimization in the number of animals used, and anti-corruption measures. And by providing feedback we are example, Otsuka Pharmaceutical collaborates with the e-Com-
and implemented rules on experiments that involve animals, Refinement/minimization of animal suffering. Based on these, we further encouraging CSR procurement. merce Department to make suggestions about environmentally
have established an Animal Experiment Committee, and properly conduct researcher education and internal inspections and evalu- Moreover, in order to ensure a stable supply of products, we friendly packaging.
carry out animal experiments and breeding. The Animal ations of the implementation of experiments involving animals. perform risk assessments on key raw materials in advance to *Questionnaires are sent to business partners that correspond to predefined criteria.
Ethical considerations in research using human-derived specimens
Otsuka Group Sourcing / Procurement Vision & Policy
When conducting research using information or specimen col- credibility of research. The committees do so by examining
Based on the corporate philosophy “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide” and global CSR standards, Otsuka Group will
lected from the human body, such as tissues and blood, the research plans, the significance and goals of research, personal conduct the sourcing / procurement activities to contribute to building a sustainable society and to the people’s health improvement and QOL. Otsuka will
strive to provide products with sufficient quality that are innovative, reliable and safe.
Otsuka group complies with all laws and guidelines and conducts information management system, research progress status, and
scientifically and medically appropriate research with consider- research outcomes from the standpoints of ethical and scientific 1. Relationship with Suppliers 3. Consideration for Society
ation of ethics. Each group company establishes committees that validity and of protection of personal information. We will build a relationship of trust with our suppliers within the value To achieve a sustainable society, we fulfill our social responsibility for
chain through open and fair communication to aim for mutual sustain- human rights, labor, environment and support for local communities.
include outside members to ensure the appropriateness and
able growth. 4. Compliance
2. Supplier Selection Criteria While abiding all the laws and regulations, we will thoroughly eliminate
We will select fair and transparent companies for our suppliers by compre- unfair transactions and behave with high ethical standards.
Considerations in research using pathogenic microorganisms/genetically modified
hensively evaluating quality (Q), cost (C), delivery (D), and business stability.
organisms
In experiments using genetically modified organisms, and in the accidents and toward consideration of the environment. We do
Production and Quality Control
use of pathogenic microorganisms or research samples that may so through the setting of internal rules and through examination
contain these, the Otsuka group complies with laws and ordi- by safety committees and screening committees.
nances, and works toward the prevention of experiment-related Basic Policy
The duty of a healthcare company is to always put its customers the characteristics of each of our business lines, namely, pharma-
Ethics in development first. In pursuing product quality and safety, the Otsuka group ceuticals, foods, beverage, chemicals and, cosmetics.
has established a production and quality control system suited to
In the development of pharmaceuticals, we confirm the safety human rights and personal information, the Otsuka group imple-
and effectiveness of candidate compounds by conducting clinical ments clinical trials in compliance with ethical principles and Approach
trials with the cooperation of healthy individuals and patients. standards, including ICH-GCP, an international standard for the The Otsuka group’s production, quality, and safety control sys- Business, we established global product quality policies for each
Recognizing the importance of ethical considerations toward implementation of clinical trials for pharmaceutical products. tems comply with legal requirements and governmental and area in 2017. In addition to product quality, we also aim to
industry standards (including Japan’s Pharmaceutical and Medical improve the quality of clinical practices and IT operations that
Devices Act (PMD Act) and Japan’s Food Sanitation Act). The handle clinical data and we are constantly making improvements
group is also working to acquire international certifications such by globally managing quality benchmarks. In the Nutraceutical
Procurement
as ISO9001 for quality, ISO13485 for medical devices, and Business, we utilize our global network to draw up guidelines
ISO22000 and FSSC22000 for food safety. Furthermore, in order and establish benchmarks for monitoring quality control activities
Basic Policy to ensure thorough quality control, we employ a traceability and strive to constantly improve quality through mutual knowl-
The Otsuka group, together with its business partners, aims to legal compliance, the environment, and the protection of system covering all stages of the product lifecycle, from raw edge and inspection. Owing to differences in systems and regula-
contribute to the building of a sustainable society by promoting human rights. material procurement to production, distribution, and sale. tions in each country and region, we encourage each of our
CSR procurement that takes into consideration factors such as Group-wide global production meetings are held regularly to plants to acquire international standards, such as ISO9001,
share various issues and case examples related to production at FSSC22000, and ISO14001 (environment). We also perform
Approach our plants in order to provide the latest information about pro- internal audits on our plants on a periodic basis.
The Otsuka group engages in business activities that are safe, healthy relationships, we have formulated and share with our duction control and prevent issues from occurring. In addition, As for inquiries about our products from customers, we
reliable, socially acceptable, and in compliance with laws and business partners our group-wide Otsuka Group Sourcing / Pro- we provide regular training to relevant employees from health have in place a framework that further improves the value of our
regulations across the entire value chain. When commencing curement Vision & Policy, which takes into account factors such as and safety to GMP*, environmental protection, food safety, products. More specifically, we confirm with our product quality
dealings with a business partner, we perform screening and human rights, labor issues, the environment, and anti-corruption compliance, ISO standards, and so on. departments about how the product lot was manufactured,
checks to ensure the quality of raw materials and to guarantee measures. We have also formulated our Sourcing / Procurement Our major group companies that operate on a global scale analyze the returned item, compare it with other products in
stable procurement. We also conclude a basic transaction agree- Guideline that embodies the provisions of our policy and plan to have also established and operate global quality assurance sys- storage at the plant, analyze the cause of the issue, and come up
ment in advance. In the case of a new supplier, transactions are hold information sessions in the future for our business partners. tems. For instance, Global Product Quality Meeting was held in with future countermeasures.
only determined after we have carried out due diligence before- We conduct surveys on business partners by using the CSR 2019 at Otsuka Pharmaceutical and attended by around 100 *Good Manufacturing Practice
hand. In seeking mutually sustainable development through fair, procurement self-assessment questionnaire* provided by UN people, including managers and quality supervisors, to discuss
equitable, and transparent procurement and the establishment of Global Compact Network Japan—in 2018 more than 95% of quality issues and future initiatives. In our Pharmaceutical
66 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 67Foundation of Value Creation
The Otsuka group CSR: Society
Sales
alike, we periodically share the details of inquiries, specific opin- focusing on related laws and regulations. The inquiries and
ions of users, and product safety information with our sales opinions of customers are also submitted to the relevant depart-
Basic Policy staff, safety control departments, and quality assurance depart- ments as feedback and reflected in future product developments
We believe the Otsuka group is obligated to provide high- suitable and legally compliant promotions and advertising and ments. We also analyze the inquiries we receive from customers and improvements. For example, Taiho Pharmaceutical adopted
er-value products and services to our customers by engaging in communicating with customers in an appropriate manner. and take steps to improve our products. To provide an example, new specifications to reduce the sharpness on the edges of
Otsuka Pharmaceutical received inquiries about its Meptin aero- individual cases and exterior cardboard packaging for its Tiovita
Approach in Pharmaceutical Business sol inhaler used to treat asthma attacks. It was discovered that series so that customers would not cut their fingers when open-
the product failed to spray or function properly mainly because ing the product.
The Otsuka group has expanded on the JPMA Promotion Code standards, report to the regulatory authorities, and develop and foreign substances were entering the inhaler through the As for inquiries about defective products, returned items are
for Prescription Drugs—a code of behavior for healthcare profes- revise various documents. And we have established a system that mouthpiece and the dose counter would not tick over when the analyzed by our quality control departments and compared with
sionals—to formulate its own Code of Practice at each of the allows us to constantly perform pharmacovigilance (PV*3) on a user failed to press down far enough. As a result, we made other products in storage. We then consider countermeasures in
group companies in an effort to engage in appropriate collabora- global level to collect and assess product safety information, changes to the product’s labelling and made improvements to light of the reason for the defect.
tion based on relationships of trust with all stakeholders, includ- including side effects. In this way, we continue to swiftly provide its internal structure. The Otsuka group makes every effort on a daily basis to
ing medical practitioners. Given that the clarification of the results of our monitoring to medical institutions etc. To make In the Nutraceutical Business, dedicated departments for conscientiously and swiftly respond to customer inquiries and
relationships between pharmaceutical companies and healthcare sure these activities continue without a hitch, we also implement each product line at each of our group companies handle feedback in a manner that is easy to understand. For instance,
organizations is a matter of social responsibility, we are striving to training every year for relevant personnel. For example, at Otsuka customer inquiries and hold periodic employee training sessions Otsuka Pharmaceutical is now leveraging the use of artificial
ensure adherence to standards in order to fulfill our responsibility Pharmaceutical, in addition to the aforementioned training, the intelligence (AI) to provide customers with an even better quality
as a pharmaceutical company and ensure the practice of proper company conducts annual training related to PV for all employees of service. Our AI system offers up common or high-priority
medical care based on ethics and a patient-oriented commitment. based on the thinking that every employee is accountable for responses based on the nature of a customer’s inquiry, which
The product sprays even when the dose
Furthermore, in addition to abiding by legislation in each country, ensuring the safety of our pharmaceutical products. counter fails to tick over as the user does enables our operators to respond more quickly and accurately.
for example in Japan, Japan’s Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices *1 Good Quality Practice not press all the way down on the inhaler.
*2 Good Vigilance Practice For this reason, we included easy-to-read
Act (PMD Act), we engage in quality control and post-manufac- *3 Pharmacovigilance instructions on the outside of the inhaler
asking users to press all the way down.
turing safety control in accordance with GQP*1 and GVP*2
Measures against counterfeit drugs
Counterfeit drugs* have become an issue for the international Collaborating with market surveillance agencies, industry bodies,
community. Not only do they fail to provide the expected thera- and governments, we are making an effort to ensure patient
peutic effect, but they put the patient’s health and life at risk. In safety and to make sure its pharmaceuticals reach the hands of its
combatting counterfeit drugs, the Otsuka has launched a global patients through the appropriate distribution channels that guar-
product security team (which also involves overseas group compa- antee product quality.
nies) to prepare for the structure to deal with countermeasures. * Any pharmaceutical product that deceptively represents its authenticity or origin, such as Declaration of Customer-centric Commitment
drugs that do not contain the ingredients shown on the label or those that contain active
ingredients other than those shown on the label.
Corporate Philosophy 3. Inculcate Values in Employees
Approach in Nutraceutical Business and Consumer Products Business
In the spirit of our corporate philosophy, “Otsuka-people creating new We have grown as a business by drawing upon the power of our highly
products for better health worldwide”, the Otsuka group of companies diverse workforce. We remain committed to fostering the social and
In similar fashion to the Pharmaceutical Business, we have estab- Moreover, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, which develops products provides innovative products and services that contribute to more reward- business mindfulness of employees so that we may stay abreast of
ing, healthier lives for people everywhere, aiming to maintain the trust of prevailing values and true customer needs in order to create new catego-
lished a dedicated unit comprising multiple departments to that deliver health value based on scientific grounds, has estab- our customers and society. ries of products and services.
review marketing plans and sales promotion materials for prod- lished an “Scientific Affairs Department” to gather and dissemi- 4. Interactive Communication with Customers
ucts in our Nutraceutical and Consumer Products businesses. This nate information about products, related knowledge, and the Policies Applying knowledge and know-how accumulated through years of
1. Commitment from our Leaders research and business, we conduct mutual communication activities
ensures that our marketing and sales promotion activities are latest academic information. This department also holds monthly We conduct our daily business with constant attentiveness to what including seminars, factory tours, and online communications to encour-
appropriate and comply with laws and regulations. information sessions for employees. patients and customers truly desire. We continue to uphold Otsuka’s age people to become more aware and informed about their health. We
culture of actualization and creativity as a company involved in all have also established points of contact for inquiries, consultations, and
aspects of health, from the treatment of illnesses to the maintenance feedback to enhance our products and services.
Communication with patients, medical professionals, and customers and promotion of healthy lifestyles. We are dedicated to becoming an 5. Coordination and Cooperation for Rapid Problem-Solving
indispensable company, contributing to better health and quality of life As a health-related company, we always put patients and consumers
for people around the globe. first, prioritizing the safety of our products. If any issues come to light,
The Otsuka group recognizes that enhancing mutual communi- Customer-centric Commitment” to clearly express our stance on
2. Corporate Governance we marshal all resources so that we may quickly and efficiently provide
cation with customers and responding to their opinions with undertaking such initiatives. Our basic policies dictate that we fulfill our social responsibilities through solutions and develop ever-better products and services.
sincerity further improves the value of our products and by In the Pharmaceutical Business, in order to minimize prob- honest and trustworthy dialogue with customers, business collaborators, October, 2018
employees, local communities, and shareholders; and that we do so
extension, contributes to people’s health, our society, and local lems and risks associated with product quality, safety, and
through transparent, fair, and timely decision-making.
communities. In 2018 we published our “Declaration of usability experienced by patients and healthcare professionals
68 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 69Foundation of Value Creation
The Otsuka group CSR: Environment
Environment Third-party verification of GHG emissions
In order to improve the transparency and reliability of its environ-  GHG emissions throughout the value chain in fiscal 2018*2
(Healthier Planet) mental data, the Otsuka group is subject to the verification of
Emissions from other Scope 1
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scopes 1 and 2, and categories categories 7.0%
21.1%
Aiming to be an indispensable company to contribute to the health of global people, the Otsuka group 1, 2 and 11 of Scope 3)*1 by third-party organization. We also
implement initiatives aimed at understanding and improving the Category 11 Scope 2
Policy engages in business activities voluntarily, positively and continuously with creativity considering global Emissions from use of 12.8%
trends in our emissions. We will continue to expand the scope of our sold products 1,399
environment through value chain. We are committed to shaping a sustainable society. 5.6%
verification and further enhance the reliability of our data. thousand tons-CO2 Scope 3
*1 Scope 1: Direct emissions
80.2%
Scope 2: Indirect emissions from energy sources Category 1
Otsuka Group Global Environmental Council Scope 3: Other indirect emissions Emissions from purchased
goods and services
*2 5 companies: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceu- 53.5%
tical, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods
As a group of global companies that contribute to the health of demands of a global society by deepening the understanding
people worldwide, the Otsuka group works sincerely to reduce and recognition of environmental problems through environmen-
Resource Circulation
the impact we have on the global environment through our busi- tal education for employees and by further enhancing collabora- FY 2030 Goal: 50% reduction in simple incineration and landfill compared to FY 2019
nesses, and hopes to contribute to the creation of a sustainable tion between our group companies.
society that can protect the nature and the future of the earth. In aiming to achieve a sounded material-cycle society, we are working to improve our resources usage efficiency, reduce the gener-
The Otsuka Group Global Environmental Council—compris- ation of waste, promote 3R (reduce, reuse, and recycle) initiatives, and achieve a final waste disposal volume of close to zero in an
ing a director of Otsuka Holdings, executive officers from each effort to realize zero emissions (our in-house definition of a recycling rate of at least 99%).
 Council Organization アバニア
group company, and a secretariat—formulated the Otsuka Group ビステラ
Environmental Policy and Guidelines and advances initiatives on Group-wide Coordinator Initiatives aimed at zero emissions  Resource recycling rate and final disposal amount*3
environmental management through collaboration between Otsuka Holdings, Director
(tons) (%)
Otsuka group companies. 大塚製薬 The Otsuka group companies carry out material recycling*1 and
1,000 100.0
工場
The Otsuka group has identified climate change, resource アステtッhクeスrmal recycling*2 of generated waste as required.
99.5
circulation, and water conservation as the CSR Materiality in its Secretariat In fiscal 2018 our 14 group companies in Japan achieved zero 800 99.0
environmental initiatives. We have kicked off deliberations on the emissions with a recycling rate of 99.5%. They have also reduced
Otsuka Holdings 大塚製薬 600 98.0
formulation of a long-term environmental vision that is consis- Otsuka Pharmaceutical 大鵬薬品 their total waste volume by around 7,400 tons, a year-on-year
tent with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, reduction of 16%. The group will continue to work on bringing 400 97.0
information disclosure under global standards, and the setting of waste down to minimize disposal volume through activities that
medium-term environmental targets with specific action plans Council members enhance the efficient use of resources across all our businesses. 200 166 96.0
slated for launch in 2019. Otsuka Otsuka Taiho Otsuka Otsuka Otsuka * *1 2 T Th he e p ur so ec oe fs s ti hn eg r man ad l er neu ers ge y o gf ew na es rt ae t ea ds fr ra ow m m ina ct ie nr eia rals t io or n i n og f r wed ai se tn et .s. 0 95.0
Looking ahead, we will strengthen and practice environmen- Pharmaceu- Pharmaceu- Pharmaceu- Chemical Warehouse Foods *3 14 major consolidated subsidiaries in Japan 2016 2017 2018
tical tical Factory tical
tal management that meets our social responsibilities and the
Water Conservation
FY 2030 Goal: Improvement of water use efficiency by 15% compared to FY 2017
Climate Change FY 2030 Goal: 30% reduction in CO2 emissions compared to FY 2017 The Otsuka group identifies water resources as a CSR Materiality for its environmental initiatives. Along with evaluating water-re-
lated issues and how much water is being used at its key production sites around the world, the Otsuka group also encourages
regionally appropriate management and efficient water usage with the goal of conserving and improving water resources.
We recognize that the Otsuka group, which conducts business on a global scale, faces significant risks from the impact of climate
change. Accordingly, we are formulating long-term reduction targets and action plans for achieving those targets. Moreover, in
aiming to realize a carbon-free society, we promote thorough energy-saving measures and endeavor to alleviate our impact on the Evaluating Water Risks at Production  Water usage and water use efficiency*
environment with the use of renewable energy. Sites (thousand m3) (thousand m3/¥ 100million)
20,000 19,463 1.60
The Otsuka group has been conducting water risk assessment
Initiatives for energy use optimization and CO reduction
2 and evaluation at its production sites using the water risk evalua- 15,000 6,452 1.58
In Tokushima Prefecture where the production sites of the group emissions across the group include the use of the Joint Crediting tion tool “Aqueduct,” developed by the World Resources Insti-
1.56
are concentrated, Otsuka Chemical and Otsuka Pharmaceutical Mechanism (JCM)* and the installation of highly efficient equip- tute (WRI) since 2017, to understand and reduce the impact on 10,000
Factory supply electricity and steam to neighboring group com- ment at P.T. Otsuka Indonesia. its water-related business activities. 1.54
13,010
panies with the use of cogeneration systems they installed. Initia- * A system to work with developing countries for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, in * Calculated for Otsuka group consolidated subsidiaries and companies included in the top 5,000
1.52
tives overseas to promote efficient energy use and reduce CO2
w Jah pi ac nh the result of reduction is assessed as contribution by both partner countries and 95% energy-derived CO2 emission producers
1.51
Outside Japan
0 1.50 In Japan
2016 2017 2018
70 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 71Foundation of Value Creation
The Otsuka group CSR: Governance
Governance  Initiatives to Strengthen Corporate Governance and levels of director remuneration, and other corporate gover-
2008 • Establishment of Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. nance issues, and then reports to the Board of Directors. The
• Term of directors set at one year
• Decision not to adopt a directors’ retirement benefits system Committee consists of the CEO, the director in charge of admin-
• Corporate officer system adopted
• Two outside Audit & Supervisory Board members istration, and all outside directors (currently three). The CEO
2010 • Three outside Audit & Supervisory Board members
• Stock options as performance-linked remuneration introduced serves as chair of the Committee.
In addition to improving management soundness, we work to improve our corporate ethics and work • Stock publicly listed in December
Policy 2011 • First Medium-Term Management Plan announced
on appropriate risk management. 2013 • Two outside directors; three outside Audit & Supervisory Board members e) Audit & Supervisory Board member and Audit &
2014 • Second Medium-Term Management Plan announced Supervisory Board
• Three outside directors; two outside Audit & Supervisory Board members
• Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics established
Audit & Supervisory Board members attend and express opinions
Corporate Governance 2015 • Corporate Governance Guidelines established
• Internal Whistleblowing System established externally (Otsuka Holdings and major at meetings of the Board of Directors and monitor the legality
group companies)
2016 • Three outside directors; three outside Audit & Supervisory Board members and soundness of management as shown in the performance of
• Effectiveness of Board of Directors evaluated
Basic Position on Corporate Governance • Stock options conditional on progress with the medium-term management plan duties by directors. Audits performed by Audit & Supervisory
introduced
Otsuka Holdings is committed to promoting sustainable increase business partners, employees, local communities, and sharehold- 2017 • Corporate Governance Guidelines revised Board are at the core of this process. In striving to improve the
• Corporate Governance Committee established
of its corporate value over the medium- to long-term by realizing ers, through ongoing dialogue. The Company articulates its basic • Effectiveness of Board of Directors evaluated based on questionnaire completed by all effectiveness of audits, Audit & Supervisory Board members also
directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members
its corporate philosophy: “Otsuka-people creating new products approach to corporate governance in its Corporate Governance • Reporting meetings held for outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board share information and exchange opinions as appropriate with
members to improve their understanding of the group’s management and business
for better health worldwide”. To meet this commitment, it Guidelines. 2018 • Two female directors relevant departments, such as Internal Audit Department, Internal
• Corporate Governance Guidelines revised
adopts a basic policy of making transparent, fair and timely Control Department, Administration Department, and Finance
2019 • Restricted stock compensation plan introduced
decisions, and fulfilling its corporate social responsibility by living Corporate Governance Guidelines and Accounting Department, as well as accounting auditor.
アバニア
up to the expectations of all stakeholders, including customers,
https://www.ビotsスuテkaラ.com/en/company/governance/pdf/guideline.pdf
a) Corporate organization
As a company that adopts the statutory auditor system, the f) Evaluation of effectiveness of Board of Directors
Overview of Corporate Governance Structure
Company has the Board of Directors, the Audit & Supervisory From January through February every year, the Company con-
大塚製薬
工場 Board, and also engages an accounting auditor. The Articles of ducts a questionnaire survey of all the directors and Audit &
アステックス
The Board of Directors, which also includes Outside Directors,  Governance System – Quick Reference (as of March 28, 2019) Incorporation stipulate that the number of directors shall not Supervisory Board members. Based on the outcomes of the
advances the execution of management plans, supervises the Form of organization Company with an Audit & exceed 18, and that the number of Audit & Supervisory Board survey, the Company performs an examination and evaluation at
Company’s management, and also assumes roles and responsibili- 大塚製薬 大鵬薬品 Supervisory Board members shall not exceed five. the Board of Directors meeting in March following a review by a
ties to enhance the profitability and capital investment efficiency Board of Directors 12 company attorney.
in order to promote the sustainable growth of the Company and of which outside directors 3 (independent directors) b) The Board of Directors [ Summary of evaluation in fiscal 2018 ]
the increase of corporate value over the medium- to long-term. The Board of Directors convenes once a month regularly and The results of the analysis and evaluation of the overall effective-
Term of directors One year
The Company secures its soundness and establishes the solid holds extraordinary meetings as necessary to make important ness of the Board of Directors in fiscal 2018 are summarized below.
Audit & Supervisory Board
4
corporate governance structure living up to social expectations by members business decisions and supervise the execution of operations. 1. While some Board members expressed the opinion that collab-
ensuring that the Audit & Supervisory Board and its members, oration with outside directors and the Audit & Supervisory
of which outside Audit & Supervi-
3 (independent directors)
which are independent from the Board of Directors, can audit the sory Board members c) Director selection criteria Board needs to be enhanced, it was confirmed that meetings
Directors’ performance of their duties in collaboration with the Accounting auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC The Company aims to become “an indispensable contributor to between the Audit & Supervisory Board and outside directors,
Accounting Auditor, as well as the Internal Audit Department. people’s health worldwide” by targeting sustained growth and as well as opportunities for exchanging opinions with man-
enhanced corporate value over the medium to long term. To help agement and outside directors are held regularly through
achieve this goal and also ensure diversity among directors over- which will serve to further improve communication up ahead.
Shareholders’ Meeting
all, the Company appoints adequate people as directors—people 2. As a result of revising how information is provided to board
Elects/Dismisses Elects/Dismisses Elects/Dismisses
with insight, advanced expertise, and extensive experience con- members, improvements regarding how meetings of the
Consults ducive to realizing and maintaining appropriate and effective Board of Directors are managed were assessed favorably. It
Corporate Board of Directors Operational audits Audit and
G Co ov me mrn ia ttn ec ee Recommends (12 directors including 3 outside directors) Accounting audits S (4u ap ue dr itv oi rs so inry cl uB do ina gr d 3 corporate governance. Particularly for internal directors, we was confirmed that deliberations at meetings will be further
Appoints/Dismisses outside members) comprehensively evaluate the experience, expertise, insights, and enhanced up ahead by taking into account the opinions of
other attributes of candidates to ensure that they have the quali- Board members.
President and Representative (Cooperates with)
Director, CEO (Cooperates with) ties required for implementing the group’s corporate philosophy, 3. It was confirmed that the system for monitoring the execution
Code of Business Ethics, and corporate strategies. of corporate strategies in each business needs to be further
Instructs Reports Accounting audits Accounting Auditor
enhanced, even though some improvements have been made.
Internal Audit Department d) Corporate Governance Committee While we believe these assessments indicate that the Board of
(Cooperates with) In seeking to increase management’s transparency and objectiv- Directors is functioning properly in terms of effectiveness, we
ity, the Company established Corporate Governance Committee will strive to make improvements regarding the issues high-
Approval of Meetings of the Prior
material matters Group’s boards consultation in February 2017. As an advisory body to the Board of Directors, lighted in the evaluation and examination, increase the Board’s
Management of corporate Ex post facto
guidance auditors reports the Committee discusses and deliberates the nomination of effectiveness, and make every effort to further deepen corpo-
directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, the structure rate governance at the Company.
Subsidiaries (Shareholders’ Meeting, Board of Directors, Audit and Supervisory Board members, etc.)
72 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 73Foundation of Value Creation
The Otsuka group CSR: Governance
g) Independent directors / auditors the Otsuka group of companies in the past, we have established h) Internal Audit Department assess internal controls. Our basic approach to our internal con-
When selecting outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory independence standards for outside directors in order to ensure The Company’s Internal Audit Department reports directly to the trol system and its establishment is described in the corporate
Board members, the Company looks for individuals with a great their independence. These standards are set out in our Corporate president. The department regularly conducts audits based on governance report submitted to the TSE.
deal of knowledge and extensive experience in various fields. The Governance Guidelines. They also apply to outside Audit & the Internal Audit Rules to verify that operations are being exe-
Company requires that candidates have the ability to adequately Supervisory Board members. Furthermore, given that all outside cuted appropriately and efficiently with regard to the assets and j) Accounting audit
exercise management oversight functions through fair and objec- directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members satisfy business in general of the Company and its affiliated companies. Otsuka Holdings has signed an auditing agreement with the
tive monitoring, supervision, and auditing of management from requirements of independent directors/auditors prescribed by the The department submits audit reports to the president, directors, auditing firm Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC as accounting auditor
a neutral and objective viewpoint. In addition to requiring that Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE), the Company has registered them and Audit & Supervisory Board members. When a need for to audit the Company’s accounts from a fair and impartial stance.
outside directors have not been involved in business execution at as such with the TSE. improvement is indicated, the department recommends actions The certified public accountants who audited the Company’s
to be taken and afterward confirms the status of their implemen- accounts were Tsutomu Hirose, Koichi Niki, and Ichiro Matsunaga.
 Rationale for selection of outside directors and auditors tation in order to optimize business execution. The department They were assisted by 10 other certified public accountants and
No. of times attended in FY2018 also shares information and cooperates with Audit & Supervisory three other people. All of the certified public accountants who
Name Rationale for selection DBo ira er cd to o rf s A vu id soit r y& B S ou ap re dr - Board members and accounting auditor. audited the Company’s accounts have done so continuously for
meeting meeting
less than seven years, therefore omitted that description.
Mr. Matsutani has been giving effective advice to the Company’s managers from a neutral and i) Internal Control Department
expert perspective as an outside director, with his abundant experience and extensive knowledge
Yukio in the medical welfare field, as well as his expertise in the healthcare industry. Since there is no risk 13/13 — The Company’s Internal Control Department handles internal k) Succession plan
Matsutani
of conflict of interest vis-à-vis general shareholders, moreover, the Company believes Mr. Mat-
controls regarding financial reporting by the Company and its In order to identify talented personnel early and systematically
sutani to be suitable as an independent director.
affiliated companies. The department formulates rules and man- develop next-generation executives equipped with qualities and
The Company anticipates that, given his abundant experience and extensive knowledge as a corpo-
rate manager, as well as his expertise in the pharmaceutical industry, Mr. Sekiguchi will be able to uals pertaining to internal controls, provides training, and skills required under our corporate philosophy, Otsuka Holdings
Outside Ko
directors Sekiguchi give effective advice as appropriate to the Company’s managers from a neutral and expert perspec- 10/10 — ensures that employees thoroughly understand operational rules. continuously builds and implements a next-generation executives
tive as an outside director. Since there is no risk of conflict of interest vis-à-vis general shareholders,
moreover, the Company believes Mr. Sekiguchi to be suitable as an independent director. The department works in cooperation with the Internal Audit development program and regularly reports on its progress to the
Department to continuously monitor the status of operations, Board of Directors.
The Company anticipates that, given his abundant experience, track record, and insight as a corpo-
rate manager, as well as his ample experience, expertise, and network in the food industry, Mr. Aoki thus establishing a system under which executives can reliably
Yoshihisa Human Resource Development p.63
will be able to provide beneficial and shrewd advice to the Company’s management from an objec- — —
Aoki*
tive and expert perspective as an outside director. As there is no risk of conflicts of interest with
general shareholders, the Company believes Mr. Aoki to be suitable as an independent director.
Remuneration for Directors / Auditors
Mr. Sugawara has specialized knowledge as a certified public accountant, as well as abundant
business experience, and the Company has determined that he will be able to use such experience
Hiroshi
and expertise in audits of the Company. Since there is no risk of conflict of interest vis-à-vis general 13/13 16/16
Sugawara
shareholders, moreover, the Company has designated Mr. Sugawara as an independent audit & Remuneration system for directors and auditors is designed so Management Plan, combining multiple conditions of earnings
supervisory board member.
that the Company attracts and retains talented personnel and achievement based on the earnings indicators in our 3rd Medi-
Outside
As an attorney, Ms. Wachi is well-versed in corporate legal affairs, and the Company has deter- strongly motivates them to perform their duties, thereby contrib- um-Term Management Plan.
Audit &
Yoko mined that she will be able to use such experience and expertise in audits of the Company. Since
Supervisory Wachi there is no risk of conflict of interest vis-à-vis general shareholders, moreover, the Company has 13/13 16/16 uting to sustained improvement in the group’s earnings and
Board
members designated Ms. Wachi as an independent audit & supervisory board member. corporate value. b) Remuneration for directors of subsidiaries as oper-
Mr. Takahashi has held major positions in the IT and internal control departments for many years ating companies
Kazuo and has abundant experience in corporate management, and the Company has determined that a) Director remuneration at the company as a hold- Remuneration for directors of subsidiaries as operating compa-
he will be able to use such experience and expertise in audits of the Company. Since there is no 10/10 13/13
Takahashi
risk of conflict of interest vis-à-vis general shareholders, moreover, the Company has designated ing company nies is determined based on their duties and responsibilities
Mr. Takahashi as an independent audit & supervisory board member.
Remuneration for directors of Otsuka Holdings, a holding com- (execution of business based on group strategies formulated by
* The number of Board of Directors meetings and Audit & Supervisory Board meetings attended by outside director Yoshihisa Aoki is not listed because he was newly appointed at the 11th pany, consists of fixed remuneration according to title or posi- Otsuka Holdings, as well as duties and responsibilities involving
General Meeting of Shareholders held on March 28, 2019.
tion, bonuses linked to performance that provide short-term the formulation of strategies for the operating company, and
incentives, and stock-based compensation that provides strengthening corporate governance) and is not to exceed the
Independence Standards for Outside Directors (Corporate Governance Guidelines 8. (3)) medium- to long-term incentives. Beginning in fiscal 2019, we cap on director remuneration resolved at the General Meeting of
will be replacing stock options with a restricted stock-based Shareholders. Note that the restricted stock-based compensation
The Company determines that an outside director is independent if none of the following applies:
compensation system as an incentive plan to achieve sustained system newly implemented in fiscal 2019 will also apply to
1. A person who is a relative within the second degree of kinship of an outside director is currently or has been in the past three fiscal years a man-
growth in medium- to long-term earnings and corporate value. roughly 40 directors (excluding outside directors) at some of the
aging director, executive officer, executive operating officer, or important employee (each an “Executive”) of the Company or one or more of the
Company’s subsidiaries. The restricted stocks issued under this system are part of a com- group’s major subsidiaries.
2. A company to which an outside director belongs as an Executive has had one or more transactions with the Otsuka group, in which the amount pensation system that reflects the attainment of Medium-Term
of such transaction(s) in any fiscal year within the past three fiscal years exceeds 2% of consolidated net sales of either company.
3. The outside director, as a legal, accounting, or tax expert or as a consultant, has received remuneration exceeding ¥5 million per fiscal year
directly from the Otsuka group (excluding remuneration as the Company’s outside director) in any fiscal year within the past three years.
4. The amount of donation to a non-profit organization to which an outside director belongs as an Executive from the Otsuka group has exceeded
¥10 million in total for the past three fiscal years and such amount exceeds 2% of the income of such non-profit organization.
74 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 75Foundation of Value Creation
The Otsuka group CSR: Governance
c) Remuneration for auditors of the Company  Total Remuneration by Officer Category, Total Remuneration by to evade the payment of taxes. The group also endeavors to parency and trust when dealing with tax authorities worldwide.
Type, and Number of Applicable Officers
Audit & Supervisory Board members are essentially paid only appropriately disclose information and ensure a degree of trans-
basic remuneration; there are no variable components based on Total Total remuneration, by type Number of
earnings. cO atf ef gic oe rr y n (¥er e mr eam t ilt c liu i . oo - nn
)
remB tu ia ons ni ec ra- cc o( h¥ A s oa t m pm r o tgoi f il e
o
l u si d no tn o sn t a c ) s k Bonus reo r me bf w tf c u iai oehc nsi ne o iv ecr e rs a - Risk Management
Directors
(excluding 350 273 −45 123 8 Basic Policy
outside directors)
The Otsuka group carries out risk management under the supervi- management efficiency and controlling the risks inherent in its
Audit & Super- sion of top management based on the recognition that pursuing business activities is key if it is to enhance corporate value.
visory Board
members
(excluding 25 25 — — 2 Risk Management System
outside Audit &
Supervisory In establishing a risk management system for the Otsuka group, and others. Leveraging the controls put in place by each risk
Board members)
we have put in place Risk Management Policy and set up Risk management department, Risk Management Committee
Outside
directors 54 54 — — 8 Management Committee comprising director in charge of assesses and comprehensively manages the risks that jeopardize
administration, President and Representative Director (as chair), the enhancement of the group’s sustained corporate value.
Compliance
Approach
Basic Policy We individually assess risks in each of our businesses. The risk could pose a risk within the organization. Training related to
Legal compliance forms the cornerstone of all our business activi- aim to achieve sustained growth along with earning the trust of management officer performs analyses and evaluation, formu- topics such as corruption prevention and the protection of
ties. The Otsuka group possesses high ethical standards and we our customers by conducting our business activities honestly. lates and executes action plans with the aim of meeting objec- human rights based on the Otsuka Group Global Code of Busi-
tives and targets for the organization, and periodically ness Ethics is also part of this approach. We also regularly hold
Approach implements employee training with reference to events that drills to prepare for unexpected contingencies like disasters.
The Otsuka group has established Otsuka Group Global Code of regular meetings are held so the progress of initiatives in each
Business Ethics and we openly publish information about our country can be shared. A compliance officer from Otsuka Hold- Business Continuity Planning and Management
stance on initiatives in line with this code on our website in the ings also visits our overseas group companies to gather informa- The Otsuka group has business continuity plans (BCP) in place to that from a BCM standpoint, our organization is equipped with
form of a message from the President of Otsuka Holdings. We tion and offer suggestions on how improvements may be made. ensure that the group continues to operate as effectively as infallible business continuity capabilities. Through collaboration
have also drawn up the Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption A due diligence policy is also in force at each of our group com- possible and can maintain a stable supply of products, even mainly between Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Policy, which represents our stance on preventing corruption at panies. We conduct due diligence on new business partners for when large-scale earthquakes and disasters strike. From the Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, and Otsuka Warehouse, we are
all of our sites worldwide. Accordingly, we continue to conduct the purpose of assessing risk related to corruption. And at perspective of business continuity management (BCM), Otsuka making every effort to strengthen our countermeasures and
our business activities based on a strong sense of ethics. We hold Otsuka Holdings and our leading group companies, we have Holdings and the group companies have jointly constructed a systems so that the Otsuka group as a whole can continue its
universal training sessions once or more every year based on the taken steps to establish internal whistleblowing systems that can group-wide business continuity framework. We have gradually business activities as best as possible and guarantee stable prod-
content of the aforementioned code and policy—they are be accessed from within the company or from an external loca- expanded the scope of this framework since acquiring ISO22301 uct supply even during times of disaster. In 2018, our major
attended by all employees of subsidiaries and we prepare materi- tion, such as the offices of our attorneys. Our rules allow for certification in August 2012 for the production and stable supply group companies jointly conducted a desktop simulation drill on
als in English, Chinese, and Indonesian, in addition to Japanese. whistleblowing not only by full-time employees but also by con- of medicinal products, beverages, and foods. We then acquired the assumption of an earthquake with an epicenter directly
Furthermore, details about our training sessions are reported tract, dispatched, and part-time employees, all of whom can rest certification for the stable supply of infusion solutions in April below Tokyo. The drill provided an opportunity to test out our
regularly to the Board of Directors of Otsuka Holdings. Internal assured knowing that information about themselves and their 2015, followed by the stable supply of anticancer drugs in May collaborative framework based on the topic of ensuring stable
compliance-related audits are implemented periodically at each reports are strictly managed to prevent any negative repercus- 2016. The acquisition of ISO22301 certification demonstrates product supply.
group company, the results of which are reported to the Board of sions. Information related to the internal whistleblowing systems
Directors. As for initiatives overseas, compliance officers have at the major group companies is reported regularly at the Board Information Security
been appointed at each of our group companies in Asia and of Directors meetings of Otsuka Holdings. In striving to raise the level of, and constantly improve, compre- which construct data. The Otsuka group has established a man-
hensive security across the group, we set up Otsuka Group Infor- agement system to protect sensitive personal information of its
mation Security Committee to facilitate the sharing of up-to-date customers and has acquired personal information protection
Tax Compliance
security information and the examination of specific security management system (PrivacyMark) certification and information
measures. In order to counter the risk of cyber-attacks, the security management system (ISMS) certification for its busi-
Basic Policy Otsuka group employs a number of measures, such as arranging nesses where appropriate. Otsuka also established its EU General
The Otsuka group operates in countries around the world and contributes to the local economy in those countries and regions. system security audits by external specialists, diagnosing website Data Protection Regulation Compliance Policy in 2017 concern-
recognizes that the appropriate payment of taxes in accordance The Otsuka group fulfills its tax obligations in accordance with vulnerabilities, conducting drills related to targeted email attacks, ing General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) as part of group-
with relevant laws and regulations in each country and region the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics. and monitoring posts on social media. In addition, the group wide initiatives on information security.
conducts regular emergency drills with a focus on core systems
Approach
The Otsuka group complies with the aforementioned code of international taxation rules, submitting tax declarations correctly,
ethics, tax policies, country-specific laws, tax conventions, and paying corporate tax, and not engaging in transactions designed
76 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 77Foundation of Value Creation
Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members
(as of March 28, 2019)
From left: Noriko Tojo, Yoshihisa Aoki, Sadanobu Tobe, Yukio Matsutani, Yoshiro Matsuo, Ko Sekiguchi, Ichiro Otsuka Tatsuo Higuchi, Yozo Toba, Yuko Makino, Hiroshi Sugawara, Shuichi Takagi, Yoko Wachi, Atsumasa Makise, Kazuo Takahashi, Masayuki Kobayashi
Directors
Chairman and Representative Director President and Representative Director, CEO Senior Managing Director Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director
Ichiro Otsuka Tatsuo Higuchi Yoshiro Matsuo Yukio Matsutani Ko Sekiguchi Yoshihisa Aoki
Apr. 1987 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Mar. 1977 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1985 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1975 Intern, Pediatric Department, St. Luke’s International Hospital Apr. 1973 Joined Mitsubishi Corporation Apr. 1974 Joined ITOCHU Corporation
June 1997 E xecutive Director, Director of Consumer Products Development June 1998 S enior Managing Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Jan. 2003 V ice President, Associate General Manager of the General Affairs Oct. 1981 J oined Ministry of Health and Welfare (present day Ministry of May 1990 Joined The Boston Consulting Group June 2003 Executive Officer, ITOCHU Corporation
Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Pharmavite) Department, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Health, Labour and Welfare) Jan. 1996 G eneral Manager of Sterrad Business Division, Johnson & Johnson Apr. 2009 M anaging Executive Officer, President, Food Company, ITOCHU
June 1998 M anaging Director, responsible for Consumer Products, Publicity, Nov. 1998 E xecutive Deputy President and Executive Director, Otsuka June 2006 V ice President, General Manager of the General Affairs Department, Aug. 2005 D irector-General, Health Policy Bureau, Ministry of Health, Labour Medical K. K. (present day Johnson & Johnson K. K. Medical Corporation
Promotion and Development Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Welfare Company) Apr. 2010 M ember of the Board, Senior Managing Executive Officer, President,
Dec. 2001 E xecutive Director, Research and Development, Otsuka Pharmaceuti- June 1999 E xecutive Director, responsible for U.S. Business, Otsuka Pharmaceu- Nov. 2007 S enior Vice President, General Manager of the General Affairs Aug. 2007 Director, National Sanatorium Tama Zenshoen Nov. 1998 P resident and Representative Director, Janssen Kyowa Co., Ltd. Food Company, ITOCHU Corporation
cal Factory, Inc. tical Co., Ltd. Department with additional responsibility for Legal Affairs and Apr. 2012 President, National Institute of Public Health (present day Janssen Pharmaceutical K. K.) Mar. 2017 Administrative Officer, ITOCHU Corporation (Current Position)
May 2002 Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. June 2000 P resident and Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., External Relations, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Dec. 2015 V ice President, International University of Health and Welfare July 2009 Chairman and Director, Janssen Kyowa Co., Ltd. June 2017 Outside Director, ARATA CORPORATION (Current Position)
Dec. 2003 E xecutive Deputy President and Representative Director, Otsuka Ltd. July 2008 M anaging Director, Corporate Administration, Otsuka Holdings Co., (Current Position) Oct. 2009 Supreme Advisor, Janssen Kyowa Co., Ltd. Mar. 2019 Outside Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (Current Position)
Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. June 2008 Executive Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Ltd. Mar. 2016 Outside Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (Current Position) Jan. 2011 R epresentative Director, DIA Japan (present day SH DIA Japan)
Dec. 2004 P resident and Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical July 2008 P resident and Representative Director, CEO, Otsuka Holdings Co., Mar. 2016 S enior Managing Director, Corporate Administration, Otsuka Apr. 2012 O utside Director, N.I.C. Corporation (present day Solasto Corpora-
Factory, Inc. Ltd. (Current Position) Holdings Co., Ltd. tion) (Current Position)
July 2008 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Dec. 2011 Executive Director, Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. Jan. 2017 E xecutive Director, Otsuka Medical Devices Co., Ltd. (Current Mar. 2014 Outside Director, Kenedix, Inc.
June 2010 E xecutive Deputy President and Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Feb. 2015 P resident and Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Position) Mar. 2018 Outside Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (Current Position)
Co., Ltd. Ltd. (Current Position) Mar. 2019 S enior Managing Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (Current
June 2014 R epresentative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Position)
Vice Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Mar. 2015 E xecutive Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Current Position)
Chairman, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. (Current Position)
Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
(Current Position)
Executive Director, CFO Executive Director Executive Director
Yuko Makino Sadanobu Tobe Atsumasa Makise
Apr. 1982 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1976 S enior Managing Director and Representative Director, Shinko Foods Dec. 1987 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Audit & Supervisory Board Members
Apr. 1996 Joined Baxter Limited Co., Ltd. (present day Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd.) June 2002 V ice President, Director of ODPI Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Apr. 2000 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. July 1993 E xecutive Deputy President and Representative Director, Otsuka Co., Ltd.
Mar. 2015 D irector of the Corporate Finance & Accounting Department, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. June 2003 V ice President, Director, Finance Department of OIAA Division,
Holdings Co., Ltd. Nov. 2004 E xecutive Deputy President and Representative Director, Otsuka Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Standing Audit & Outside Audit & Outside Audit & Outside Audit & Supervisory
Sept. 2016 V ice President, Director of the Corporate Finance & Accounting Chemical Holdings Co., Ltd. (present day Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd.) June 2007 M anaging Director, Finance and Accounting, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Board Member
Department, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. May 2006 P resident and Representative Director, Otsuka Chemical Holdings Co., Ltd.
Vice President, Director of Accounting Department, Otsuka Co., Ltd. July 2008 S enior Managing Director, Corporate Finance, Otsuka Holdings Co., Yozo Toba Hiroshi Sugawara Yoko Wachi Kazuo Takahashi
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. July 2008 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Ltd.
Apr. 2017 V ice President, Director of the Tax Department, Otsuka Holdings Co., June 2009 Vice Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. May 2009 Chairman and CEO, Otsuka America Inc. Apr. 1979 Joined Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. Oct. 1997 Joined Chuo Audit Corporation Apr. 1989 R egistered as an attorney at law (Dai-ichi Tokyo Apr. 1975 J oined EBARA-UDYLITE CO., LTD. (present day
Ltd. June 2011 Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. Apr. 2010 Chairman, Otsuka America Inc. Jan. 1995 D irector, Information Center, Otsuka Chemical Oct. 2000 J oined Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu (present day Bar Association) JCU CORPORATION)
Vice President, Director of the Finance & Accounting Department, June 2012 Vice Chairman, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Mar. 2017 Executive Director, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC) Joined KAJITANI LAW OFFICES (Current Mar. 1986 E xecutive Director, Strategic Planning, RA
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. June 2013 S tanding Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Holdings Co., Mar. 2018 P resident and Representative Director, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Jan. 2006 CFO, Trocellen GmbH Feb. 2006 V ice President, Will Capital Management Co., Position) Institute Co., Ltd.
Mar. 2018 E xecutive Director, Corporate Finance, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Ltd. (Current Position) May 2009 O perating Officer, Information System Ltd. (Current Position) June 2015 C orporate Auditor, NICHIAS Corporation Nov. 1992 E xecutive Director, General Manager of the
Mar. 2019 Executive Director, CFO, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (Current Position) Nov. 2013 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (Current Position) Department, Otsuka Chemical Holdings Co., June 2010 O utside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, (Current Position) System Division, Sunkus & Associates, Inc.
June 2014 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (Current Position) Ltd. (present day Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd.) Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (Current Position) Mar. 2016 O utside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Oct. 2004 E xecutive Director, Head of the Information
Mar. 2018 Chairman, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. June 2009 C orporate Officer, Director of IT, Corporate June 2012 O utside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (Current Position) System Division, Circle K Sunkus Co., Ltd.
Mar. 2019 Executive Director, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. (Current Position) F Hi on la dn ince g s& C A oc .,c Lo tu dn .ting Department, Otsuka Oct. 2013 O O uts tu sik da e P Dh ia rerm cta oc r,e Nu It Pic Pa Ol NCo P., A L Rt Kd. ING DEVELOP- May 2006 E S tx re ac tu et giv y e O D ffi ir ce ec , t to hr, e C Ch uie stf oo mf eth r e & M Fra an na cg he ism ee en t
Executive Director, Business Portfolio Dec. 2011 E xecutive Director, Corporate Administration, MENT Co., Ltd. Relations Office, and the Internal Control &
Executive Director Executive Director Management Accounting and IT, Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. Mar. 2016 A udit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka E Sun nvi kr uo sn m Coe .n , t La tl d M .anagement Office, Circle K
Mar. 2015 E xecutive Vice President, Corporate Finance & Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Current Position)
Masayuki Kobayashi Noriko Tojo Shuichi Takagi Accounting & Corporate Service Department, May 2008 E xecutive Director, Head of Area Franchise,
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Circle K Sunkus Co., Ltd.
O Auct g. . 1 29 09 03 2 J P o rein se idd e T na ti ,h To a iP hh oa Prm haa rc meu a t Uic Sa Al C , Io n. c, .L (t pd r. esent day TAIHO ONCOLOGY, A Ap ur g. . 1 19 98 97 1 J Jo oi in ne ed d G Sho eld am rsoa nn LS ea hch ms a ( nJa Bp ra on th) eC ro s r Hpo or ldat inio gn s Inc. A Sep pr. t . 1 19 98 99 5 J J o oi in ne ed d T OO tsB uIS kH a I PM hA a rC mO aR ceP uO tR icA aT l I CO oN ., Ltd. Mar. 2018 S Ot ta sn ud ki an g H oA lu dd init g & s CS ou .p , e Lr tv di .s o (Cry u rB reo na tr d P oM se itm iob ne )r, M Ma ay r. 2 20 01 10 8 E OD x i uve tic ssu ii dot ei nv ,e A C uD i dri cr ite le c & t Ko S r S, u uH pn ee k ra vud is s o oCf ro yI . n , B f L oo t ar dm r. da Mtio en m S by es rt ,e ms
INC.) July 2002 Engagement Manager, McKinsey & Company, Japan Office Aug. 2002 F inance Department of OIAA Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (Current Position)
Sept. 2003 Executive Director, Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. June 2006 Director, Intel Capital Japan, Intel Corporation Ltd.
Apr. 2010 President and CEO, Otsuka America, Inc. Aug. 2008 Managing Director, Corporate Development, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. July 2003 C orporate Finance & Accounting Department, Otsuka Pharmaceuti-
Apr. 2012 P resident and Representative Director, Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Feb. 2011 Executive Director, Otsuka Medical Devices Co., Ltd. cal Co., Ltd.
A Mp ar r. . 2 20 01 14 7 C E( EC xx hu ee a cr c ir uu re m ttn ii vv at ee nP , DDo Ts ii A rri eet Ii H cco ttn O oo) rr ,, O T ONa ti C sh uOo k LP aO h HGa or Ym l, d Ia iN n U C gs.S (A CC, ou I .rn , rc Le. tn dt . P (Cos ui rt rio enn t) Position) A A Jap u nr g .. . 2 2 20 0 01 1 12 5 7 P E P Ltxr r de ee .s sc i i (ud d Cte e uivn n ret t r e a aD nn ni trd d e P cC R ot seE o ipO r t ir oa, e nO nsd e )ts n Cu tak E ta O i v,A ePm h De a irr r ei mc ca ta, ov I rin ,t e Oc. tL sL uC ka Medical Devices Co., M M Jana ar y .. 2 2 20 0 01 1 15 5 9 V C St F ia eci Ec c naOe t l io o, P Ir nC rr y d Ve l, a is iI a crni id e sc Pe . PO rn i rvt t e asr su te ie dks a ep L no iP m tn r , iis tv Pi eb a rd etle e ) s if dLo i emr n I i tn t ’e sd di Oa ( fpB fir cu e es s ,i en One tts s s d u, a kO y at Os Hu t ok s lua dk iP nah g Pa sh r Cm a ora m .c , e a Lu tc deti .uca -l
May 2017 Executive Director, Otsuka America, Inc. Mar. 2019 E xecutive Director, Business Portfolio Management, Otsuka Holdings
Aug. 2017 Chairman, Pharmavite LLC Co., Ltd. (Current Position)
Mar. 2018 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (Current Position)
78 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 79Data Section
Main Data
With effect from fiscal 2016 (ended December 31, 2016), Otsuka adopted the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Information for fiscal 2015 (ended December 31, 2015) is also
presented in line with IFRS.
Billions of Yen Billions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars *4
J-GAAP J-GAAP IFRS IFRS
Item*1 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2014.12*3 2015.12 2016.12 2017.12 2018.12 2018.12
Results of Revenue ¥ 1,127.6 ¥ 1,154.6 ¥ 1,218.1 ¥ 1,452.8 ¥ 1,224.3 ¥ 1,427.4 ¥ 1,195.5 ¥ 1,240.0 ¥ 1,292.0 $ 11,639
Operations
Selling, general and administrative expenses*2 457.6 457.4 462.2 563.4 508.6 636.4 535.9 558.7 564.4 5,084
Research and development expenses 164.7 159.2 192.4 249.0 172.9 202.7 168.8 175.6 216.1 1,947
R&D ratio (%) 14.6 13.8 15.8 17.1 14.1 14.2 14.1 14.2 16.7 —
Operating profit 126.3 148.7 169.7 198.7 196.5 148.9 101.1 104.2 108.3 976
Operating profit margin (%) 11.2 12.9 13.9 13.7 16.1 10.4 8.5 8.4 8.4 —
Profit attributable to owners of the Company 82.4 92.2 122.4 151.0 143.1 102.0 92.6 112.5 82.5 743
Financial Total assets ¥ 1,589.7 ¥ 1,666.8 ¥ 1,779.2 ¥ 2,028.4 ¥ 2,178.2 ¥ 2,575.3 ¥ 2,478.3 ¥ 2,480.3 ¥ 2,476.6 $ 22,312
Position
Total equity 1,163.3 1,222.8 1,325.1 1,510.8 1,658.6 1,727.4 1,738.4 1,822.0 1,732.3 15,606
Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the
(%) 72.4 72.5 73.7 73.2 74.7 66.0 69.0 72.3 68.8 —
Company to total assets
ROE (%) 7.9 7.8 9.7 10.8 9.2 6.1 5.4 6.4 4.7 —
Cash Flows Net cash flows from operating activities ¥ 87.7 ¥ 147.6 ¥ 119.3 ¥ 226.5 ¥ 88.5 ¥ 257.9 ¥ 142.0 ¥ 102.8 ¥ 135.8 $ 1,224
Net cash flows from investing activities (131.5) (107.6) (91.2) (108.5) (28.7) (422.6) (135.1) (40.1) (93.3) (841)
Free cash flows (43.8) 40.0 28.1 117.9 59.9 (164.7) 6.9 62.8 42.5 383
Dividends Annual dividend per share (Yen) ¥ 28 ¥ 45 ¥ 58 ¥ 65 ¥ 75 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 $ 0.90
Dividend pay-out ratio (%) 17.3 27.2 26.1 23.4 28.4 53.1 58.5 48.2 65.7 —
Common Stock/ Number of shares outstanding at year-end (thousand 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 —
Stock Price shares)
Stock price at year-end (Yen) ¥ 2,055 ¥ 2,450 ¥ 3,300 ¥ 3,087 ¥ 3,617 ¥ 4,317 ¥ 5,093 ¥ 4,948 ¥ 4,493 $ 40.48
Number of Total (persons) 25,188 24,595 25,330 28,288 29,482 31,940 31,787 32,817 32,935
Employees *5
Japan (persons) 14,030 13,808 13,732 14,116 14,285 14,082 13,909 13,880 13,757
Outside Japan (persons) 11,158 10,787 11,598 14,172 15,197 17,858 17,878 18,937 19,178
Female Manager Number of female managers (persons) 187 202 226 248 269 270 280
Ratio *6
Female manager ratio (%) 4.8 5.3 6.1 7.0 7.7 7.8 8.1
E Dn av ti ar o *n 7mental Total CO2 emissions*8 ( tt oh no su -Csa On 2d
)
801 818 842
Japan (%) 42.8 39.8 38.5
Outside Japan (%) 57.2 60.2 61.5
CO2 emissions per sales (ton/¥ million) 0.67 0.66
Water usage*8 (thousand m3) 18,721 19,768 19,463
Resource recycling rate*9 (%) 98.3 98.9 99.5
*1 Item names according to IFRS. *5 Number of employees at Otsuka Holdings and its 162 subsidiaries (as of December 31, 2018).
*2 SG&A expense under J-GAAP is presented as total expense less R&D expenses. The Company believes that this is useful to investors in comparing the Company’s financial results under *6 6 companies (non-consolidated): Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Warehouse, and Otsuka Foods
J-GAAP with those of IFRS. *7 Environmental data is limited to the past four years due to a change in collation criteria from 2016.
*3 Due to a change in the consolidated fiscal year, fiscal 2014 (ended December 31, 2014) was a transitional period covering the nine months from April 1 to December 31, 2014. *8 Calculated for the consolidated subsidiaries of the Otsuka group, and the companies that constitute the top 95% or more of CO2 emissions originating from energy.
*4 The U.S. dollar amounts in this report represent translations of Japanese yen, solely for the reader’s convenience, at the rate of 111.00=US$1, the approximate exchange rate on December *9 Figures of 14 major consolidated subsidiaries in Japan.
31, 2018.
80 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 81Data Section
Management Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated
Financial Results for Fiscal 2018
Market environment
EB-1020) and guadecitabine (development code: SGI-110), year. This increase was mainly due to increases in property, plant the previous fiscal year. Net cash provided by operating activities
The environment surrounding the healthcare industry is currently which are currently being developed for the treatment of atten- and equipment of 11,109 million yen, goodwill of 34,633 million was 135,821 million yen in fiscal 2018. Net cash used in invest-
experiencing a period of change. In particular, an aging society, tion deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and acute myeloid yen, intangible assets of 28,080 million yen, and deferred tax ing activities was 93,341 million yen, due to investments made
the introduction of expensive drugs, and outbreaks of infectious leukemia (AML), respectively. assets of 21,448 million yen, while there was also a decrease in for the future, including acquisition of the remaining shares of
diseases are contributing to ever-increasing health care budgets, Selling, general, and administrative expenses for the current other financial assets of 20,951 million yen. ReCor Medical, Inc. and acquisition of Visterra, Inc. Net cash
making governments of Japan, the United States and those in fiscal year included an impairment loss of 11,533 million yen on used in financing activities was 89,198 million yen, as a result of
the Europe become more aware of costs for medical treatments. intangible assets (trademarks, marketing rights, etc.), due to Liabilities dividend payments of 100 yen per share to shareholders (54,184
Faced with limited financial resources, medical guidelines are termination of the license agreement for ONZETRA Xsail (generic Total liabilities as of December 31, 2018 were 744,368 million million yen in total) and repayments of non-current borrowings
caught in the balance between the costs and benefits of treat- name: sumatriptan). In addition, in this fiscal year Avanir Pharma- yen, an increase of 86,061 million yen compared to 658,306 of 41,755 million yen. As a result, the total amount of cash
ments, while the penetration of generic drugs and reforms to the ceuticals, Inc. (California-based subsidiary of the Otsuka group) million yen at the end of the previous fiscal year. This increase outflows from investing and financing activities exceeded operat-
drug pricing system are continuing to progress, and expensive has reached an agreement in principle to resolve the United was mainly due to 98,054 million yen in current and non-current ing cash inflows.
medical treatments and new technologies are emerging as well. States Department of Justice’s investigation related to certain of contract liabilities resulting from the application of IFRS 15 from The total amount of bonds and borrowings as of December
Under these circumstances, needs are steadily increasing for Avanir’s past sales and marketing practices for its product fiscal 2018, while there was also a 35,548 million yen decrease 31, 2018 was 205,885 million yen, which was exceeded by total
daily measures for disease prevention and balanced life plans NUEDEXTA®. The agreement in principle between Avanir and the in current and non-current bonds and borrowings due to the cash and cash equivalents. Therefore, the group has maintained
that include nutrition, in addition to exercise and rest. United States is contingent upon the parties’ negotiation and scheduled payment of borrowings for the acquisition of Avanir its own financial soundness.
The Otsuka group’s operations encompass two core busi- execution of civil, criminal and administrative agreements. We Pharmaceuticals, Inc. The status of the Group’s cash flows during fiscal 2018,
nesses: the pharmaceutical business, which provides comprehen- estimated that fines, damages, disgorgement, restitution, legal along with the contributing factors, is as follows.
sive health support from diagnosis to disease treatment, and the fees and interest charges may total approximately $120 million, (Current liabilities)
nutraceutical business, which assists people in maintaining and part of which had been accrued in the previous fiscal year, so in Total current liabilities as of December 31, 2018 were 427,502 Cash flows from operating activities
improving their day-to-day health. In response to the growing this fiscal year we accrued the remaining ¥10,064 million in million yen, an increase of 41,036 million yen compared to Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2018 amounted
awareness of health, we are reconfirming our strong belief in the “Selling, general and administrative expenses.” 386,465 million yen at the end of the previous fiscal year. This to 135,821 million yen. The contributing factors were 109,497
importance of total health care including disease prevention. increase was mainly due to increases in trade and other payables million yen in profit before taxes, 59,275 million yen in deprecia-
Financial position
of 10,956 million yen, contract liabilities of 10,809 million yen tion and amortization expenses, 34,742 million yen in impair-
Status of revenues
accompanying the application of IFRS 15 from fiscal 2018, and ment loss and reversal of impairment loss, 16,508 million yen in
During the fiscal year that ended December 31, 2018, the Assets other current liabilities of 16,793 million yen. share of profit of associates, 20,468 million yen in increase in
Otsuka group recorded consolidated revenues of 1,291,981 Total assets as of December 31, 2018 were 2,476,634 million trade and other receivables, and 29,589 million yen in income
million yen (up 4.2% from the previous fiscal year), with operat- yen, a decrease of 3,621 million yen compared to 2,480,256 (Non-current liabilities) taxes paid.
ing profit of 108,304 million yen (up 4.0%), profit for the year of million yen at the end of the previous fiscal year. Current assets Total non-current liabilities as of December 31, 2018 were
85,395 million yen (down 25.3%) and profit attributable to decreased by 77,840 million yen, while non-current assets 316,865 million yen, an increase of 45,025 million yen compared Cash flows from investing activities
owners of the Company of 82,492 million yen (down 26.7%). increased by 74,218 million yen. Both the decrease in current to 271,840 million yen at the end of the previous fiscal year. This Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2018 amounted to
Strong growth of global products and a new product lineup assets and the increase in non-current assets were due mainly to increase was mainly due to an increase in contract liabilities of 93,341 million yen. The main investing activities included 57,075
contributed favorably to increased revenues. The group achieved the fact that the Group used cash-on-hand to finance the acqui- 87,245 million yen due to the application of IFRS 15 from fiscal million yen in payments for acquisition of property, plant and
a growth in operating profit, even after actively investing in R&D. sition of the remaining shares of ReCor Medical, Inc. and the 2018, while there was also a decrease in bonds and borrowings equipment, 16,533 million yen in payments for acquisition of
Profit attributable to owners of the Company decreased from the acquisition of Visterra, Inc. of 36,988 million yen. intangible assets, 33,846 million yen in proceeds from sales and
previous fiscal year, due mainly to the 2017 tax reform in the redemption of investments, 32,136 million yen in payments for
Equity
U.S., the transient impact of which reversed income tax expenses (Current assets) acquisition of investments, 68,101 million yen in payments for
into profits. Excluding this impact, profit attributable to owners Total current assets as of December 31, 2018 amounted to Total equity as of December 31, 2018 was 1,732,266 million yen, acquisition of subsidiaries, and 47,287 million yen in decrease in
of the Company for the current fiscal year would be on par with 933,102 million yen, a decrease of 77,840 million yen compared a decrease of 89,683 million yen compared to 1,821,950 million time deposits. The payments for acquisition of subsidiaries were
those of the previous fiscal year. to 1,010,942 million yen at the end of the previous fiscal year. yen at the end of the previous fiscal year. This decrease was primarily for the acquisition of the remaining shares of ReCor
During the current fiscal year, 17,971 million yen was recog- This decrease was mainly due to decreases in cash and cash mainly due to a 37,039 million yen decrease in retained earnings Medical, Inc. and the acquisition of Visterra, Inc.
nized as other income, which is related to a transaction in which equivalents of 51,590 million yen, and other financial assets of as a result of 54,184 million yen in payment of dividends, 82,492
the group acquired the remaining shares of ReCor Medical Inc., 49,769 million yen, which offset increases in trade and other million yen in profit attributable to owners of the Company, a Cash flows from financing activities
transformed the company into a wholly owned subsidiary, and receivables of 14,600 million yen, and inventories of 12,589 70,242 million yen impact due to the application of IFRS 15, and Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2018 amounted to
reevaluated its existing shareholding and contractual rights with million yen. a 52,011 million yen decrease in other components of equity, 89,198 million yen. The main financing activities included 6,544
ReCor Medical, Inc. in accordance with the IFRS. due to stock market and exchange rate fluctuations. million yen in proceeds from non-current borrowings, 41,755
In addition, an impairment loss of 23,208 million yen on (Non-current assets) million yen in repayments of non-current borrowings, and
Status of cash flows
intangible assets (in-process research and development) was Total non-current assets as of December 31, 2018 were 55,295 million yen in dividends paid.
recorded as R&D expenses, as a result of revising future profit- 1,543,532 million yen, an increase of 74,218 million yen com- Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2018 decreased
ability projections for centanafadine (development code: pared to 1,469,313 million yen at the end of the previous fiscal by 51,590 million yen to 285,022 million yen, from the end of
82 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 83Data Section
Consolidated Financial Statements
Otsuka Holdings and its Subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2018
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
Billions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars* Billions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars*
Assets 2017.12 2018.12 2018.12 Liabilities and equity 2017.12 2018.12 2018.12
Current assets Liabilities
Current liabilities
Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 336.6 ¥ 285.0 $ 2,568
Trade and other payables ¥ 159.9 ¥ 170.9 $ 1,539
Bonds and borrowings 64.5 65.9 594
Trade and other receivables 363.9 378.5 3,410
Other financial liabilities 2.3 4.2 38
Inventories 144.5 157.1 1,416 Income taxes payable 8.0 7.2 65
Contract liabilities — 10.8 97
Income taxes receivable 11.5 9.2 83
Other current liabilities 151.7 168.5 1,518
Other financial assets 116.4 66.6 600 Subtotal 386.5 427.5 3,851
Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 0 0 0
Other current assets 37.5 36.6 329
Total current liabilities 386.5 427.5 3,851
Subtotal 1,010.5 933.1 8,406
Non-current liabilities
Assets held for sale 0.5 0 0 Bonds and borrowings 177.0 140.0 1,261
Other financial liabilities 19.0 22.8 206
Total current assets 1,010.9 933.1 8,406
Net defined benefit liabilities 14.7 18.3 165
Provisions 3.7 0.6 6
Contract liabilities — 87.2 786
Deferred tax liabilities 44.7 35.6 320
Non-current assets
Other non-current liabilities 12.8 12.3 111
Property, plant and equipment 382.5 393.6 3,546 Total non-current liabilities 271.8 316.9 2,855
Total liabilities 658.3 744.4 6,706
Goodwill 249.5 284.1 2,559
Intangible assets 455.9 483.9 4,360 Equity
Equity attributable to owners of the Company
Investments in associates 188.2 189.6 1,708
Share capital 81.7 81.7 736
Capital surplus 505.6 505.9 4,558
Other financial assets 176.1 155.2 1,398
Treasury shares (47.3) (47.3) (426)
Deferred tax assets 7 28.4 256 Retained earnings 1,266.4 1,229.4 11,075
Other components of equity (13.2) (65.2) (587)
Other non-current assets 10.2 8.7 78
Total equity attributable to owners of the Company 1,793.3 1,704.5 15,356
Total non-current assets 1,469.3 1,543.5 13,906 Non-controlling interests 28.7 27.8 250
Total equity 1,822.0 1,732.3 15,606
Total assets ¥ 2,480.3 ¥ 2,476.6 $ 22,312
Total liabilities and equity ¥ 2,480.3 ¥ 2,476.6 $ 22,312
* The U.S. dollar amounts in this report represent translations of Japanese yen, solely for the reader’s convenience, at the rate of 111.00=US$1, the approximate exchange rate on December 31,
2018.
• For consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements, refer to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”:
https://www.otsuka.com/en/ir/library/report.html
84 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 85Data Section
Consolidated Financial Statements
Otsuka Holdings and its Subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2018
Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Billions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars* Billions of Yen
Equity attributable to owners of the Company
2017.12 2018.12 2018.12
Other components of equity
Rev Ce on su t e of sales ¥ 1 (, 42 24 20 .. 50 ) ¥ 1 (,2 49 42 1. .0 8 ) $ 1 (1 3, ,6 93 89 0 ) cS ah pa itr ae l C sua rp pi lt ua sl Tr se ha as ru er sy R ee at ra ni in ne gd s Re m dm e ee n fia t nss e u o dr f e - F ti hmn ra fe oan a uic rs g i u va hr al e l oa uds te hs a e ett rs trc aF uo nrr sre e lai ng tc in oy n C has eh d gfl eo sw Total Total N it no r ton el- rlc i eno sgn ts - eT qo ut ia tl y
Gross profit 817.5 850.2 7,659 benefit plans com ip nr ce oh me ensive reserve
Selling, general and administrative expenses (558.7) (564.4) (5,084) Balance as of January 1, 2017 ¥ 81.7 ¥ 504.0 ¥ (47.3) ¥ 1,209.1 — ¥ 22.4 ¥ (59.4) ¥ 0.0 ¥ (37.0) ¥ 1,710.5 ¥ 27.9 ¥ 1,738.4
Research and development expenses (175.6) (216.1) (1,947) Profit for the year — — — 112.5 — — — — — 112.5 1.9 114.4
Share of profit of associates 19.3 16.5 149 Other comprehensive income — — — — 2.1 17.4 3.3 (0.0) 22.8 22.8 0.7 23.4
Other income 6.1 24.5 221 Comprehensive income — — — 112.5 2.1 17.4 3.3 (0.0) 22.8 135.3 2.6 137.8
Other expenses (4.4) (2.3) (21) Purchase of treasury shares — — (0) — — — — — — (0) — (0)
Operating profit 104.2 108.3 976 Dividends — — — (54.2) — — — — — (54.2) (0.6) (54.8)
Share-based payment transactions — 0.2 — — — — — — — 0.2 — 0.2
Finance income 4.3 9.2 83
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries
Finance costs (5.1) (8.0) (72) that do not result in loss of control — 1.4 — — — — 0.0 — 0.0 1.4 (1.2) 0.3
Other non-operating income (expenses) 0.3 0 0 Transfer from other components of
equity to retained earnings — — — (1.0) (2.1) 3.2 — — 1.0 — — —
Profit before taxes 103.7 109.5 986
Total transactions with owners, etc. — 1.6 0 (55.2) (2.1) 3.2 0 — 1.1 (52.5) (1.8) (54.3)
Income tax expenses 10.7 (24.1) (217)
Balance as of December 31, 2017 81.7 505.6 (47.3) 1,266.4 — 42.9 (56.1) 0.0 (13.2) 1,793.3 28.7 1,822.0
Profit for the year ¥ 114.4 ¥ 85.4 $ 769
Balance as of January 1, 2018 ¥ 81.7 ¥ 505.6 ¥ (47.3) ¥ 1,266.4 — ¥ 42.9 ¥ (56.1) ¥ 0.0 ¥ (13.2) ¥ 1,793.3 ¥ 28.7 ¥ 1,822.0
Changes in accounting policies — — — (70.2) — — — — — (70.2) — (70.2)
Attributable to: Restated balance 81.7 505.6 (47.3) 1,196.2 — 42.9 (56.1) 0.0 (13.2) 1,723.0 28.7 1,751.7
Owners of the Company 112.5 82.5 743 Profit for the year — — — 82.5 — — — — — 82.5 2.9 85.4
Non-controlling interests 1.9 2.9 26 Other comprehensive income — — — — (2.7) (12.0) (32.5) 0.0 (47.1) (47.1) (1.4) (48.5)
Comprehensive income — — — 82.5 (2.7) (12.0) (32.5) 0.0 (47.1) 35.4 1.5 36.9
Earnings per share: Yen U.S. Dollars* Purchase of treasury shares — — (0.0) — — — — — — 0.0 — 0.0
Basic earnings per share ¥ 207.60 ¥ 152.24 $ 1.37 Dividends — — — (54.2) — — — — — (54.2) (1.1) (55.3)
Diluted earnings per share 206.99 151.26 1.36 Share-based payment transactions — (0.0) — — — — — — — 0.0 — 0.0
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries
that do not result in loss of control — 0.3 — — — — 0.0 — 0.0 0.3 (0.8) (0.5)
Disposal of subsidiaries — — — — — — — — — — (0.5) (0.5)
Transfer from other components of
equity to retained earnings — — — 4.9 2.7 (7.6) — — (4.9) — — —
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Total transactions with owners, etc. — 0.3 (0.0) (49.3) 2.7 (7.6) 0 — (4.9) (53.9) (2.4) (56.3)
Billions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars* Balance as of December 31, 2018 ¥ 81.7 ¥ 505.9 ¥ (47.3) ¥ 1,229.4 — ¥ 23.3 ¥(88.5) ¥ 0.0 ¥ (65.2) ¥ 1,704.5 ¥ 27.8 ¥ 1,732.3
2017.12 2018.12 2018.12
Profit for the year ¥ 114.4 ¥ 85.4 $ 769 Millions of U.S. Dollars*
Equity attributable to owners of the Company
Other components of equity
Other comprehensive income Non-con-
Com Rep mo en ae sn urt es mth ea nt t sw oi fl l d n eo fit n eb de br ee ncl ea fs its i pf li ae nd s to profit or loss 1.9 (2.5) (23) cS ah pa itr ae l C sua rp pi lt ua sl Tr se ha as ru er sy R ee at ra ni in ne gd s bR ee m ndm ee e fe n f iia tt n ss pe u o d lar f e n - s F cti ohmn mra fe oa in p na uic rs r cg i eu ova h hr al m e el oa ud ens te hs sa e ie vtt r es trc aF ru eo nr sr sr ee e la ri ng vtc i en oy n C has eh d gfl eo sw Total Total it nr to el rli en sg ts eT qo ut ia tl y
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehen-
17.0 (11.6) (104) Balance as of January 1, 2018 $ 736 $ 4,555 $ (426) $ 11,409 $ — $ 387 $ (505) $ (0) $ (119) $ 16,156 $ 258 $ 16,414
sive income
Changes in accounting policies — — — (633) — — — — — (633) — (633)
Share of other comprehensive income of associates 0.5 (0.7) (6)
Restated balance 736 4,555 (426) 10,776 — 387 (505) (0) (119) 15,523 258 15,781
Subtotal 19.5 (14.8) (133)
Profit for the year — — — 743 — — — — — 743 26 769
Other comprehensive income — — — — (25) (108) (292) 0 (425) (425) (13) (437)
Components that may be reclassified to profit or loss Comprehensive income — — — 743 (25) (108) (292) 0 (425) 319 14 332
Foreign currency translation reserve (4.5) (26.3) (237) Purchase of treasury shares — — (0) — — — — — — (0) — (0)
Cash flow hedges (0) 0 0 Dividends — — — (488) — — — — — (488) (10) (498)
Share of other comprehensive income of associates 8.4 (7.5) (67) Share-based payment transactions — (0) — — — — — — — (0) — (0)
Subtotal 4.0 (33.8) (304) Changes in ownership interests in
subsidiaries that do not result in
Total other comprehensive income 23.4 (48.5) (437) loss of control — 3 — — — — 0 — 0 3 (7) (4)
Comprehensive income ¥ 137.8 ¥ 36.9 $ 332 Disposal of subsidiaries — — — — — — — — — — (5) (5)
Transfer from other components of
equity to retained earnings — — — 44 25 (69) — — (44) — — —
Attributable to:
Total transactions with owners, etc. — 2 (0) (444) 25 (69) 0 — (44) (486) (22) (507)
Owners of the Company 135.3 35.4 319
Balance as of December 31, 2018 $ 736 $ 4,558 $ (426) $ 11,075 $ — $ 210 $ (797) $ 0 $ (587) $ 15,356 $ 250 $ 15,606
Non-controlling interests 2.6 1.5 14
* The U.S. dollar amounts in this report represent translations of Japanese yen, solely for the reader’s convenience, at the rate of 111.00=US$1, the approximate exchange rate on December 31, * The U.S. dollar amounts in this report represent translations of Japanese yen, solely for the reader’s convenience, at the rate of 111.00=US$1, the approximate exchange rate on December 31,
2018. 2018.
• For consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements, refer to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”: • For consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements, refer to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”:
https://www.otsuka.com/en/ir/library/report.html https://www.otsuka.com/en/ir/library/report.html
86 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 87Data Section
Consolidated Financial Statements Group Structure & Overview of
Otsuka Holdings and its Subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2018
Main Operating Companies
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Billions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars*
2017.12 2018.12 2018.12
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before taxes ¥ 103.7 ¥ 109.5 $ 986
Depreciation and amortization expenses 62.2 59.3 534
Impairment loss and reversal of impairment loss 28.8 34.7 313
Share of loss (profit) of associates (19.3) (16.5) (149)
Finance income (4.3) (9.2) (83)
Finance costs 5.1 8.0 72
Other non-operating (income) expenses (0.3) — —
Decrease (increase) in inventories (8.4) (17.4) (157)
Decrease (increase) in trade and other receivables (9.9) (20.5) (184)
Increase (decrease) in trade and other payables (5.8) 16.3 147
Other (12.3) (6.5) (59)
Subtotal 139.5 157.7 1,421
Interest and dividends received 10.2 10.6 96
Interest paid (3.6) (3.0) (27)
Income taxes paid (43.2) (29.6) (267)
Net cash flows from (used in) operating activities 102.8 135.8 1,224
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. A holistic healthcare company supporting whole-body health, from helping to cure disease
through to the promotion of everyday health
Cash flows from investing activities
In keeping with its corporate philosophy, the company is expanding its operations along two core businesses: the
Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.5 4 pharmaceutical business, which provides breakthrough treatments for patients around the world, and the nutraceutical
business, which helps healthy people become even healthier.
Payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment (54.2) (57.1) (514)
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Original company of the Otsuka group and a leader in IV solution with more than 70 years of
Payments for acquisition of intangible assets (23.4) (16.5) (149)
experience in the intravenous solutions business in Japan
Proceeds from sales and redemption of investments 74.4 33.8 305 Based on its “The Best Partner in Clinical Nutrition” management vision, the company creates innovative products to
meet a variety of needs: pharmaceuticals and medical devices, oral rehydration solutions and other medical foods, OTC
Payments for acquisition of investments (48.4) (32.1) (290)
drugs, and more. The company is expanding its businesses globally, mainly in Japan and Asia.
Payments for acquisition of subsidiaries (47.1) (68.1) (614)
Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. A pioneer of oral anticancer agents in Japan for half a century
Decrease (increase) in time deposits 59.7 47.3 426
“We strive to improve human health and contribute to a society enriched by smiles”—that is the corporate philosophy
Other (1.6) (1.1) (10) of Taiho Pharmaceuticals, an R&D-driven specialty pharmaceutical company specializing in the three fields of oncology,
immunology & allergology, and urology. Particularly in the field of oncology, Taiho is well known as one of the leading
Net cash flows from (used in) investing activities (40.1) (93.3) (841) companies in Japan and is also actively expanding its global presence. In the consumer healthcare business too it is
focused on creating products that help people lead a life brimming with love based on its customer-first policy.
Cash flows from financing activities Otsuka Warehouse Co., Ltd. Contributing to people’s health worldwide in the field of logistics
Since its founding, Otsuka Warehouse has been consistently engaging in logistics for pharmaceuticals and food prod-
Purchase of treasury shares (0.0) (0.0) (0) ucts. It has built a common distribution platform for the Otsuka group in the three product areas of pharmaceuticals,
Increase (decrease) in current borrowings (18.0) 4.0 36 food & beverages, and daily necessities. In recent years, the company has grown to offer logistics services outside the
group.
Proceeds from non-current borrowings 25.5 6.5 59
Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. Creatively giving shape to the power of materials for customers and the future
Repayments of non-current borrowings (40.0) (41.8) (376)
With materials at the core of its operations, Otsuka Chemical aims to create products that bring prosperous living to
Dividends paid (54.9) (55.3) (498) society through ceaseless technological innovation. Its main business segments are the hydrazine business, inorganic &
composite materials business, and pharmaceutical intermediate & active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) business. The
Other (7.2) (2.7) (24) company provides products to global markets in the areas of automotive, electrical & electronic equipment, housing,
and healthcare.
Net cash flows from (used in) financing activities (94.5) (89.2) (804)
Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Creating high value-added products that offer new dietary lifestyles since its founding in 1955
Taking “the company begins with people and food begins with spirit” as its motto, Otsuka Foods conducts businesses in
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (31.8) (46.7) (421)
the areas of foods and beverages, with “deliciousness, safety, peace of mind, and better health” as the spirit of foods
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 369.9 336.6 3,033 among all employees. It will continue to develop as a company which delivers products that allow customers to live
healthy lives and create new dreams through foods.
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (1.5) (4.9) (44)
Otsuka Medical Devices Co., Ltd. Aiming to make Otsuka’s medical devices business unique by introducing new technologies
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period ¥ 336.6 ¥ 285.0 $ 2,568
Otsuka Medical Devices seeks to grow its medical devices business, which operates mainly in Japan, China, and other
Asian countries, into one of the group’s core businesses in the future. The company is striving to spur further growth by
* The U.S. dollar amounts in this report represent translations of Japanese yen, solely for the reader’s convenience, at the rate of 111.00=US$1, the approximate exchange rate on December 31,
bringing together the group’s medical device experience and know-how, integrating new technology introductions into
2018.
new devices, and thereby meeting new healthcare needs.
• For consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements, refer to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”:
https://www.otsuka.com/en/ir/library/report.html
88 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 89Data Section
Global Network Corporate Information/Shareholder Information
Corporate Profile Company organization
Otsuka operates in (as of December 31, 2018) (as of April 1, 2019)
30 Shareholders’ Meeting Internal Control Department
Company Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Name Board of Directors Internal Audit Department
Countries and regions Nutraceutical Business Global Strategy
and Planning Headquarters
Established July 8, 2008
Corporate Planning Department
U.K. Spain
Sweden Czech Republic Capital ¥ 81.69 billion Chairman Global Business Support Department
Germany Portugal North President Finance and Accounting Department
Switzerland Netherlands Europe America Head Office 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi, Chiyoda-ku, Project Office
Belgium 40 32 Tokyo 101-0048, Japan Tax Department
France
Italy companies companies Tokyo Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, Corporate Service Department
Business Development Department
Japan Headquarters 2-16-4 Konan, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan
48 Investor Relations Department
Telephone +81-3-6717-1410 Administration Department
companies
President Office
U.S.
Canada Number of 94 (consolidated: 32,935) Public Relations Department
Brazil Employees CSR Promotion Department
Human Resources Department
China Indonesia South Business Description Control, management and related activities Human Resource Planning Department
South Korea India Asia, Oceania America with respect to the Company’s subsidiaries and affili-
Taiwan Singapore Middle East 3 2 ates active in the pharmaceutical industry, nutraceutical IT Planning Department
Philippines Turkey 64 industry, consumer products, and other areas. Legal Affairs Department
Vietnam Pakistan companies companies Statutory Auditors/ Statutory Auditor’s Office
Thailand Egypt companies Board of Statutory Auditors
Myanmar Australia
New Zealand
Shares
* As of December 31, 2018. Otsuka Holdings and subsidiaries and affiliates: 189 companies (as of December 31, 2018)
Number of shares authorized 1,600,000,000 shares
Number of shares issued 557,835,617 shares
Number of shareholders 54,112
Number of operations and employees
 Principal shareholders (top 10 shareholders)  Stock distribution
Number Share-
Name of shareholder of shares holding Treasury Securities
held ratio shares companies
(thousand) (%)
2.87 2.82
The Nomura Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. 57,798 10.66 % %
Otsuka Founders Shareholding Fund Trust Account
Companies Employees Factories Research Institutes Other Financial
The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 42,358 7.81 corporations institutions
189 47,000 171 47
Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 26,882 4.96 17.35 Breakdown of 36.61
% %
Approx. Otsuka Estate Co., Ltd. 23,296 4.29 shareholders
by type
Otsuka Group Employee Shareholding Fund 13,202 2.43
48 18,000 52 22
Japan Japan Approx. Japan Japan The Awa Bank, Ltd. 10,970 2.02
Outside Japan 141 Outside Japan Approx.29,000 Outside Japan 119 Outside Japan 25 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 9) 7,799 1.43
STATE STREET BANK WEST CLIENT - TREATY 505234 7,740 1.42
Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 5) 7,476 1.37 Individuals Overseas
and others corporations
Otsuka Asset Co., Ltd. 7,380 1.36
19.71 20.64
% %
• Number of shares held is rounded down to the nearest thousand.
History of global business expansion
• Although the Company holds 15,987,217 of its own shares, treasury shares are excluded
from the above list.
• Shareholding ratio is calculated after treasury shares are deducted.
1973 1977 1979 1981 2006 2007 2008 2012 2015
North America Africa Western China India South Eastern Turkey Australia
(U.S.) (Egypt) Europe America Europe Website information Otsuka Holdings Website
Asia (Thailand) (Spain) (Brazil) (Czech https://www.otsuka.com/en/
Republic) Visit our website at:
90 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 91Significance of the Corporate Symbol
A symbolic representation of Otsuka group’s corporate philosophy, the
corporate symbol adopts the initial ‘O’ of the corporate name as its
motif. Representing the sky above, the large ‘O’ is rendered in grada-
tions of Otsuka BLUE and the small ‘O’ in Otsuka RED represents the
focused energy of Otsuka, the wellspring of these tenets. Offsetting the
two forms poised in balance, the Otsuka name is spelled out in an open
and friendly typeface. The corporate symbol conveys Otsuka group’s
energetic commitment to human happiness through good health.