Integrated Report 2021
For the year ended December 31, 2021Essence
of Management
Corporate Philosophy
(Our Corporate Culture)
Otsuka-people creating new products
Ryukan-godo
for better health worldwide
(by sweat we recognize the way)
The process of
In keeping with this corporate philosophy and the Otsuka values of Ryukan-godo (by sweat
discovering the core
we recognize the way), Jissho (actualization) and Sozosei (creativity), we strive to do what only
substance of something
Otsuka can do. The Otsuka group supports the lives of people worldwide through a wide range of through hard work and
innovative and creative products including pharmaceuticals, functional beverages, and functional practice
foods. We are dedicated to cultivating a dynamic corporate culture and workplaces that reflect our
vision as a healthcare company, to finding ways to live in harmony with local communities and the
natural environment, and to contributing to richer and healthier lives.
Jissho
(actualization)
Self-actualization
Otsuka’s Goal
through achievement,
completion and the
To become an indispensable contributor
discovery of truth
to people’s health worldwide
The Otsuka group aims to be an indispensable contributor to people’s health worldwide, fulfilling
its corporate philosophy in every aspect of its operations. This commitment to improving people’s Sozosei
health worldwide is part of the unchanging value we will continue to provide society. Our operations (creativity)
encompass two core businesses: the Pharmaceutical Business, which provides comprehensive health
Pursuing that which only
support from diagnosis to treatment of diseases, and the Nutraceutical Business,* which helps people
Otsuka is capable of
maintain and improve day-to-day health.
delivering
* Nutraceuticals = nutrition + pharmaceuticalsContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 001
CONTENTS
Otsuka’s Value Creation How We Will Create Value Facts & Data
Providing Value through Our Businesses 2 Further Advancing as a Unique Total Healthcare Company 26 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights 74
Otsuka’s Goal through Its Development Pharmaceutical Business 28 ESG Content Index 76
as a Total Healthcare Company 3
Nutraceutical Business 34 Main Data 78
Message from the CEO 4
Consumer Products Business / Other Businesses 40 Group Structure / Global Network /
Feature Corporate Information 80
Message from the Director in Charge of Sustainability 41
A 100-Year History of the Otsuka Group
Company Organization /
Health 43
Developing into a Total Healthcare Company 8
Overview of Main Operating Companies 81
People 45
Value Creation Model 14
Disclosure by the Otsuka Group 82
Quality in All We Do 47
Value Creation Process That Generates Originality 16
Stock Information 83
Environment 51
The Otsuka Group’s Approach to Sustainability 18
Messages from Outside Directors 56
Materiality (Material Issues) 20
Message from the CSO 61
Message from the CFO 22
Governance
Corporate Governance 62
Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members 68
Compliance 70
Tax Compliance / Risk Management 71
100th Year Symbol
The zeros of the 100 are made up of an O for Otsuka, and a Q for quality. The quality refers to
our promise and guarantee to create, manufacture and deliver products we care about and
that our customers can trust.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 002
Providing Value through Our Businesses
As a total healthcare company, the Otsuka group contributes to
people’s health worldwide by creating innovative products in its two
core businesses: the Pharmaceutical Business, which aims to address
unmet medical needs, and the Nutraceutical Business, which seeks to
fulfill the yet-to-be-imagined needs of consumers.
Unmet medical needs
From diagnosis to treatment
Pharmaceutical Business
Providing value
What only Otsuka can do
Bringing health to people worldwide
Maintaining and improving day-to-day health
Nutraceutical Business
Yet-to-be-imagined needsOtsuka’s Goal through Its Development as a Total Healthcare Company
What only Otsuka can do
Value Creation A sustainable society
Process
➡Page 16
Unmet medical needs
Pharmaceutical Business Social well-being2
To become an indispensable contributor
Goal
to people’s health worldwide
Physical well-being2 Mental well-being2
Otsuka’s
Strengths
➡Page 17
What we can achieve
1. Cosmedics = cosmetics + medicine
2. The state of health, as defined in the constitution of the World Health Organization (WHO)
ylesolc
ot
sessenisub
gnipoleveD
seussi
laicos
sserdda
Total Healthcare
ytilairetaM
Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 003
Pharma-
ceuticals
Nutra-
Chemicals
ceuticals
OTC Cosmedics1
Consumer Clinical
Products Nutrition
Medical
Diagnostics
Devices
Value Creation How We Will
Model Create Value
➡Pages 14 –15 ➡Pages 26 –73
Yet-to-be-imagined needs
Nutraceutical Business
➡Pages
20 –21
Founding Present FutureContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 004
Message from the CEO
Otsuka’s Centennial, Otsuka’s Values
The Otsuka group originated in the 1921 establishment of
We will continue to
a chemical raw material manufacturer in Naruto,
build on a century Tokushima Prefecture, Japan. Although the following 100
years included some tough times, we were able to
of progress to help
overcome those challenges by adhering to concepts
achieve a sustainable espoused by three generations of leaders from the Otsuka
family—values that have always underpinned our business
society by doing what
and are as relevant today as ever: Ryukan-godo, Jissho,
and Sozosei.
only Otsuka can do.
Ryukan-godo (by sweat we recognize the way) is taken
from the words of Otsuka founder Busaburo Otsuka: “In all
things, only through your own sweat and toil can you
discover truth and essence.” For instance, a problem with
the quality of magnesium carbonate in our earliest days
Tatsuo Higuchi caused considerable frustration. After much head-
scratching and experimenting, a solution was discovered
President and Representative Director, CEO
quite by coincidence—a fortuitous accident that would not
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
have occurred without the everyday endeavors of those
involved. In this way, unstinting effort helped create the
bedrock of our business.
Jissho (actualization) is inspired by advice from
The Otsuka group of companies celebrated its 100th anniversary in September 2021. We reached Masahito Otsuka, a leader from the second generation:
this milestone thanks to the support of our stakeholders, including consumers, patients, medical “Hypothesize, experiment, and achieve.” In the world of
pharmaceuticals, a drug that has satisfied 99 percent of
professionals, business partners, and local communities.
requirements for regulatory approval is still a drug that
As we embark on our second century, I offer heartfelt thanks and reconfirm the determination of
has yet to be approved. What might seem like a measly
every Otsuka employee to pursue what only Otsuka can do, thereby contributing to people’s one percent could be the first indicator of a major flaw in
health worldwide. the project and that there is still a long, long way to go.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 005
Message from the CEO
When Masahito Otsuka said, “In life, doing trumps laboratories in the 1970s and has since become the Otsuka challenges, to persevere, and to pursue the truths at the heart
knowing,” he was referring to the need to try many group’s corporate philosophy. These days, creativity is a of the matter.
approaches to overcome challenges and ensure that final common byword, but Akihiko Otsuka was saying more
one-percent gap is bridged. When a younger me first than four decades ago that we would be judged on our
heard those words, I thought that was all very well, but creativity and innovation. His calls for greater creativity and A Strategy to Stay Abreast of Changing
surely it was necessary to study something before innovation were born of a conviction that we could External Risks and Opportunities
attempting it. It was not until later that I realized that only become world-class only by pursuing projects that other
by being on location, and observing and listening first- companies found too challenging and, as a result, Since its appearance in 2019, the COVID-19 pandemic has
hand can we truly learn how products are made at our developing revolutionary products. In fact, it has led to had an outsized impact not only on day-to-day life, but also
factories, how consumers react to our products in-store, blockbusters like ABILIFY and Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE, on industrial structures and business models, which has
and why consumers prefer a particular product. Naturally, and the creation of new-category products such as POCARI included significant, rapid change in the pharmaceutical
we need to gather facts, but it takes action to parlay SWEAT and Calorie Mate. industry. Today, we are faced with myriad risks and
those facts into real awareness and understanding. These three Otsuka leaders shared a common determination opportunities, including geopolitical turmoil, supply chain
Sozosei (creativity) comes from Akihiko Otsuka, a leader to always keep their eye on the task at hand, and an appetite disruption, rising raw material costs, environmental
from the third generation. The sentiment is encapsulated in for the hard work that was usually necessary to get things problems, population issues, and the evolution of artificial
the slogan “Otsuka-people creating new products for done. Sometimes things do not turn out as planned, but in intelligence and computer technology. It is very hard to
better health worldwide,” which was adopted as the those failures lie hints and discoveries. Today, as always, the predict what the world will look like in the future. For the
philosophy of Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s factories and Otsuka group corporate culture encourages people to take on Otsuka group to become an indispensable contributor to
the health of people worldwide, we need to envision a
society and economy 10 years, 20 years, and further ahead,
and to be agile in our response.
No one could anticipate the ways in which the world
Ryukan-godo Jissho Sozosei
would change when we launched our Third Medium-Term
(by sweat we recognize the way) (actualization) (creativity) Management Plan in fiscal 2018. The Otsuka group of
companies has never sat back and accepted fate—our
The process of Self-actualization Pursuing that which only
discovering the core through achievement, Otsuka is capable of style has always been to keep a close eye on
substance of something completion and the delivering developments, adapt flexibly, and change where
through hard work and discovery of truth appropriate. This has enabled us to adjust to the
practice
transformations brought about by the pandemic but still
pursue our business in a way that is consistent with ourContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 006
Message from the CEO
management plan. I believe that the increase in popular In fiscal 2021, the middle year of the Third Medium- taking on challenges.
awareness of health issues amid the new normal of the Term Management Plan, revenue tracked roughly in line I believe a business’s three main drivers are its
post-COVID-19 era presents us with growth opportunities, with the initial forecast. Business profit was below target philosophy, its culture, and the capabilities of its people and
and that now is the time for us to demonstrate our true as a result of our agile approach to prioritizing investments organization. The Otsuka group corporate philosophy,
value as a unique total healthcare company. for growth; nevertheless we will redouble our efforts to “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health
In the Pharmaceutical Business, we have achieved the push business profit beyond the 200 billion yen target in worldwide,” will remain universally applicable. A company
revenue targets for our four Global Products set forth in the fiscal 2023 by making ROIC (return on invested capital)- with a solid philosophical backbone is strongest in turbulent
Third Medium-Term Management Plan two years ahead of conscious investments and managing SG&A expenses. times, and we remain dedicated to seeking out the hard
schedule. Moreover, in adapting to the changing landscape, challenges, unafraid of change or failure. The lessons we
we are carrying out R&D that includes virtual clinical trials; learn in this pursuit should then be incorporated into
enhancing business continuity planning and developing Our Vision for the Next 100 Years subsequent ventures, thereby creating a cycle that enhances
labor-saving technologies to maintain a stable supply the capabilities of individuals and advances our ability to
system for manufacturing; and operating a hybrid The support of all our stakeholders and the grounding manage organizations comprised of such individuals.
communication system in sales that combines in-person principles left to us by generations of Otsuka family leaders The Otsuka group has, as a unique total healthcare
and digital methodologies. Moreover, we continue to have enabled the Otsuka group of companies to thrive for company, contributed to the health of people worldwide by
pursue innovation with the establishment of Otsuka over a century. Observance of the leader’s time-tased developing and providing creative products and services
Pharmaceutical’s Osaka Pharmaceutical Research Institute wisdom must, however, be coupled with flexibility in the covering everything from diagnosis and treatment of
(tentative name) and our partnership with Sumitomo way we view and carry out our business, so that we may diseases to health maintenance and improvement. Moving
Dainippon Pharma (now Sumitomo Pharma) and its U.S. adapt to changes in the market, keep up with technological forward, increasing digitalization will surely bring major
subsidiary Sunovion Pharmaceuticals in the psychiatry and advances, and respond to geopolitical risks. We cannot change to our industry, such as in drugs and treatments
neurology area. hope to keep up with changes in operating environments if that fuse digital technology and conventional healthcare
In the Nutraceutical Business, we are solidifying our we are unable to move with the times or adapt to the methodologies, and advancements in diagnosis and
presence in consumer healthcare markets via a strategy that needs of specific regions. To sustain growth, we must prediction of disease. We strive to be a provider of
focuses on global expansion, new concepts and categories, overcome preconceptions and stereotypes, and comprehensive services and products to meet the specific
and high-profit-margin products. In addition, our strategy energetically incorporate and act on diverse opinions. Those healthcare needs of each community in each era. The sheer
emphasizes taking advantage of increased health who do not dare, achieve no progress, and spark no variety of the Otsuka group’s business portfolio gives us the
consciousness and addressing new needs generated by innovation; if we seek innovation, we will find it in the foundation needed to accelerate intragroup cooperation
women playing more active roles in the workplace. insights generated out of diversity and the bold action of and joint ventures in the pursuit of our unwaveringContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 007
Message from the CEO
Furthermore, we have newly defined carbon neutrality, services. Together with business partners and all our other
circular economy and water neutrality as environmental stakeholders, we will strive to live up to the trust and
material issues and have set medium-term targets to responsibility invested in us as a manufacturer, and to
promote next-level initiatives. Already, we are working in address and fulfill unmet medical needs and be the best
accordance with the recommendations of the Task Force on partner the medical community and consumers could hope
Climate-related Financial Disclosures, an advisory board set for. The Otsuka group has signed comprehensive
up by the G-20 Financial Stability Board for companies to partnership agreements with prefectures and municipalities
analyze and respond to the risks and opportunities brought throughout Japan, under which we help with health
about by climate change. maintenance and improvement activities and support
disaster preparation and response efforts. These activities
are made possible by the group’s position as a provider of
To Our Stakeholders unique total healthcare, and they are an ideal opportunity
for us to work closely with local communities to find
Humanity has faced pandemics before; every time the solutions to the challenges facing society.
pandemics have had a major impact; every time we have Shareholders and investors can be confident in our
used our wisdom and technical innovations to overcome continued commitment to transparency and fairness in
them. In the case of COVID-19, the challenge facing the management, such as through a strong governance
world is to find a way to live with the virus. We at the framework and appropriate disclosures in accordance with
Otsuka group seek always to contribute to society— Japan’s Corporate Governance Code. Through proactive
otherwise, there would be no reason for us to exist as a dialogue, we will continue to live up to the trust invested in
corporate philosophy, and I am convinced that focusing on company. Every day, we work hard toward that goal, us and fulfill our responsibilities to society as we remain
contributing to people’s health will help usher in another inspired by three generations of leaders from the Otsuka dedicated to seeking sustained growth and generating
century of sustained growth for the group and sustainability family buoyed by lofty aspirations, and steeled by medium-to-long-term value in accordance with our
in society. unyielding determination. corporate philosophy.
Our stance toward helping the world overcome Today, patients and consumers are more health- We sincerely ask for continued support and guidance
environmental and other problems can be seen in our conscious than ever before. For our part, we pursue our from all stakeholders, and urge you to hold high
Sustainability Mission, launched in 2019, and our 2050 business with an unwavering commitment to contribute to expectations for the next 100 years of the Otsuka group.
Environmental Vision, “Net Zero,” launched in 2021. people’s health worldwide through new products andContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 008
For Life. Realizing the hidden power within.
Feature
A 100-Year History of the Otsuka Group
Developing into a Total Healthcare Company
The Otsuka group celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2021. The values we have cultivated over our
long history have enabled us to take on new endeavors in each of our businesses. Our employees
around the world continue to create new value for people everywhere under our unwavering
corporate philosophy: “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide.”
Photo courtesy of Tokushima Prefectural MuseumContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 009
Otsuka’s Story (¥ billion)
1,600
Since its founding as a chemical raw material manufacturer in 1921, the Otsuka group has not only demonstrated
outstanding creativity, but has also honestly endeavored to take the path it believes to be correct, and to stay true to the
values that have enabled it to pursue what only Otsuka can do. Based on these values—Ryukan-godo (by sweat we recognize
the way), Jissho (actualization) and Sozosei (creativity)—group members have spurred each other on toward the goal of
1,200
becoming a unique total healthcare company. In addition to responding to changing times and conditions, we will continue
to contribute to people’s health by anticipating future trends and developing businesses that leverage our uniqueness.
Revenue
Pharmaceutical Business Nutraceutical Business, Consumer Products Business, Other Businesses 800
(¥ billion)
400 400
21 30 40 50 65 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14* 15 16 17 18 19 20 21
* Due to a change in fiscal year, results for fiscal 2014 are
for the 9-month period ended December 31, 2014.
Medical
Cosmedics devices
Pharma-
nC ul tin rii tc ioa nl OTC
ceN uu tt ir ca a-
ls
C po rn os du um cte sr
nC ul tin rii tc ioa nl
ceuticals
C po rn os du um cte sr cP eh ua tr im caa ls-
Diagnostics
C po rn os du um cte sr
Diagnostics C po rn os du um cte sr PharmD ai -agnostics Cosmed Cic os
nsumer
DivB eu rss ii fin ce as ts i on Be m cC g aah a1 re gn bm 9 n oi s e2c naa s1 ll ais e u ts em o f StaC r1h te e9m di 4 c ta 6 hls e IV Chemi Lca a1l us 9 n5 chn 3C u el ti dn rii t c i oa nl nC ul tin rii tc ioa nl Ch 1e 9mi 6ca 5ls OTC nC ul cti eNn ri ui t uc i to ta ir cnl a a- ls 1968ChemO icT aC ls ceN uu tt ir ca a- ls Chemicals OTC nC ul tin rii tc ioa cnl eN uu tt ir ca a- ls ChemicalsOTC cP eh ua tr i nm c C uaa ll tis- n rii tc ioa nl ceN uu tt ir ca a- ls ChemicaO lsTC ce nCu ut l ti ic n ra ii tcl is oa nl ceN uu tt ir ca a- ls Chemicals p Or To Cducts 化学品
s bo ulu sit nio en sss Oronine Ointment ORONL Aa Mun INch Ced
D RINK
Launched Bon Curry
Established
1 a9 p7 h1
armaceutical
Estab1 li9 sh7 e6
d the
Launche2 d0 I0 nn5
erSignal Established
Ots2 u0 ka1 1
Medical Devices
OTC薬
research institute Otsuka Assay Laboratories
消費者
The Otsuka group was founded Aiming for further growth, in the 1970s the The Otsuka group has grown into a 製品
in 1921 as a chemical raw Otsuka group began proactively expanding provider of a wide variety of science-
material manufacturer in Naruto its businesses overseas. To maintain and even backed products and services that
City, Tokushima Prefecture. It improve quality, the group insisted on local meet the healthcare needs of the times
moved away from single-product manufacturing. In addition to providing and the countries and regions it serves.
manufacturing when it diversified products at appropriate prices, this approach The group has launched the new
into intravenous injection, drip created jobs and contributed to local medical devices business, and has been
and infusion solutions and other communities. “Otsuka-people creating new aiming for globalization while working
pharmaceutical products, which A factory during the founding era products for better health worldwide” Contract signing ceremony at to develop the ideal approach in this
it sold nationwide. In addition to became the philosophy of the group’s China Otsuka Pharmaceutical age of heightened concern for the
pharmaceuticals, the group moved into the food and housing domains. Thus, factories and research institutes. The Otsuka group created new markets environment. In doing so, the group has successfully configured its diverse
the foundations of today’s Otsuka group were built. through numerous unique products, and its businesses diversified. businesses to generate value through synergy.
Founding Era (1921–1970s) International Expansion (1970s–2000s) Further Development (2000s Onward)Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 010
Founding Era (1921–1970s)
The Otsuka Group Begins as Otsuka Seiyaku Kogyobu
Founding From Pharmaceuticals to Food and Housing
The Otsuka group began as Otsuka Seiyaku Kogyobu, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka
which was founded on September 1, 1921 by Busaburo Foods Industry (currently Otsuka Foods), Otsuka
Otsuka in Naruto City, Tokushima Prefecture. Naruto City Warehouse and other group companies were established
had many salt pans, hence it was here that the group in the 1960s and 1970s, Japan’s period of rapid economic
began business as a chemical raw material manufacturer, growth. With the addition of Earth Corporation, the
producing magnesium carbonate (a rubber additive) from group’s operating infrastructure grew substantially.
ORONAMIN C DRINK
bittern, which was a by-product of salt production. In 1965, the group launched the carbonated energy
drink ORONAMIN C DRINK with the catchphrase Genki
Entrance into the Pharmaceutical Business Hatsuratsu! (“Full of Vitality”). Born from the revolutionary
and Nationwide Expansion idea of creating the first-ever carbonated energy drink, it
To complement its steady growth as a chemical raw went on to become one of the group’s most familiar
material manufacturer, in 1946 the Otsuka group entered Busaburo Otsuka long-selling products.
the pharmaceutical business. The group successively In 1968, the group launched the world’s first retort
launched new intravenous injection, drip and infusion pouch food product Bon Curry. Developed using expertise
solutions and expanded its business throughout Japan. cultivated in the IV solutions business, Bon Curry quickly
Furthermore, while diversifying its businesses using its became widely popular among Japanese households, Bon Curry
technological expertise in intravenous injection, drip and revolutionizing mealtimes.
infusion solutions and chemical products, in 1953 the Intravenous injection and infusion
group launched the sterilizer/disinfectant Oronine Ointment solutions from the time the IV
solutions business was launched
as its first over-the-counter (OTC) pharmaceutical.
1921 Established as Otsuka Seiyaku Kogyobu 1963 Established Taiho Pharmaceutical
1940 Renamed as Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory 1964 Established Otsuka Pharmaceutical
1946 Entered the intravenous injection, drip and Launched Otsuka Foods Industry (currently Otsuka Foods) through equity
infusion solutions business Oronine Ointment investment in CBC Foods Industry
Launched Tiovita Drink
1950 Established Otsuka Chemical and Medical
Products (currently Otsuka Chemical) 1965 Launched ORONAMIN C DRINK
1953 Launched Oronine Ointment 1968 Launched Bon Curry
1961 Established Otsuka Warehouse 1970 Equity investment in Earth Corporation
Founding Era (1921–1970s) International Expansion (1970s–2000s) Further Development (2000s Onward)Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 011
International Expansion (1970s–2000s)
Progress of Internationalization and Total Healthcare
Internationalization The Birth of POCARI SWEAT—A Replenishing Drink
Leveraging the rise of the yen against the U.S. dollar in 1971, Developed to replenish the water and electrolytes lost through
the Otsuka group began expanding overseas with its sights set perspiration, ion supply drink POCARI SWEAT, which is now one
on internationalization. Beginning with the establishment of of the Otsuka group’s leading products, went on sale in 1980.
Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical and its first office in the U.S. in Palo The group decided to go with blue packaging for the
Alto in 1973, the group expanded into Europe, Indonesia, product, despite the color being considered a taboo color for
Taiwan, Egypt and China. Today the Otsuka group has soft drinks in Japan at the time, and it initially did not receive a
Inauguration ceremony at
approximately 47,000 employees working at 200 companies in Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical positive response. However, as a result of continuous visits to
33 countries and regions worldwide. (As of December 31, 2021) sports venues, supermarkets, public baths, saunas, and similar POCARI SWEAT
places to communicate the importance of replenishing water
In-house Drug Discovery and electrolytes lost through perspiration and to promote the
With a desire to create pharmaceuticals that would contribute value of the product in addressing this issue, POCARI SWEAT is
to global healthcare, in 1971 the group established a research now enjoyed in more than 20 countries worldwide,
institute within Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Tokushima Factory, predominantly Japan and other countries in Asia.
and began in-house drug discovery.
Having discovered the potential of the carbostyril structure, Mikelan and Meptin
The World’s First Art Museum Housing Ceramic
in 1980 the group launched its first in-house drug, the beta-
Reproductions of Major Works of Art
blocker Mikelan. It went on to release the bronchodilator
In March 1998, the Otsuka group marked its 75th anniversary with
Meptin, and Mucosta for gastritis and gastric ulcers, evolving
the opening of the Otsuka Museum of Art.
its in-house R&D and production structure in the process.
Built for both educational and tourism purposes, the Otsuka
Museum of Art is the only art museum in the world to house over
1973 Established Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical, 1,000 full-size ceramic reproductions of major works of art from
the group’s first overseas operating company Mucosta around the world.
Reproduction of the Sistine Chapel ceiling
Opened first office in the U.S. at the Otsuka Museum of Art
1974 Launched Futraful
Opened first offices in Europe
Established P.T. Otsuka Indonesia 1983 Launched Calorie Mate
Established Taiwan Otsuka Pharmaceutical 1988 Established Otsuka Pakistan
1977 Established Arab Otsuka Pharmaceutical 1989 Established Otsuka America
(currently Egypt Otsuka Pharmaceutical) Established Otsuka America Pharmaceutical
1980 Launched POCARI SWEAT Pharmavite joined the Otsuka group
Launched Mikelan and Meptin 1990 Launched Mucosta
1981 Established China Otsuka Pharmaceutical Anticancer drug Futraful 1998 Established the Otsuka Museum of Art
Nutritionally balanced food
1982 Established Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical Launched MATCH throughout Japan Calorie Mate
Established Otsuka Pharmaceutical Europe
Founding Era (1921–1970s) International Expansion (1970s–2000s) Further Development (2000s Onward)Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 012
Further Development (2000s Onward)
Becoming a True Total Healthcare Company
The Otsuka group will continue to provide value that meets the needs of the times and the countries and regions it serves, with the aim of helping resolve social issues.
Contributions Unique to Otsuka Providing Value to Meet New Needs
Since launching ABILIFY—the world’s first dopamine D2 partial agonist for psychiatric In recent years, in addition to heightened awareness of the importance of health, increasing
treatment—in the U.S. in 2002, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has gone on to develop and sell a attention is being paid to environmentally friendly food products. The Otsuka group has been
diverse range of unique products and services in more than 60 countries and regions moving to address needs for such products from a very early stage under the theme of social
worldwide. These include Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE, an original drug for a disease for which contribution. In the U.S., Daiya Foods, which develops, manufactures, and sells plant-based food
there was no known treatment, and that met the need for a diuretic that promotes the products, is growing as a result of firm support from individuals with strong health awareness and
excretion of only water, without electrolyte loss. Moreover, in the oncology area—a central new health-related values, as well as from those with food allergies. In addition, Nutrition & Santé
pillar of the group’s Pharmaceutical Business—Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical, offers a range of healthy foods including “free-from”* food products and alternative food
and Astex Pharmaceuticals are strategically sharing the unique, advanced technologies they products in more than 40 countries worldwide, mainly in Europe. In Japan, the group also sells a
have independently cultivated. Linking these technologies with its many years of expertise and variety of healthy, environmentally friendly products. These include the Bon Curry Veggie series of
experience, the Otsuka group aims to further drive sales of its four Global Products for future products, which contain no animal-derived ingredients; two Zero Meat hamburger products,
growth. Aiming to address unmet needs that cannot be fulfilled by pharmaceuticals alone, the which were the first in Japan to acquire JAS certification as soy meat foods; and the SOYJOY
group is also developing unique medical devices by combining its strengths in pharmaceuticals Plant-Based series, which acquired vegan certification for their use of only plant-based ingredients.
and clinical development with revolutionary technologies. In doing so, the Otsuka group is
* Food products that do not contain (are free from) specific ingredients. For example, foods that do not contain gluten
striving for further growth as an unrivaled total healthcare company. are gluten-free.
2001 Launched OS-1 2014 Launched EQUELLE
2002 Launched ABILIFY in the U.S. 2015 Launched REXULTI in the U.S.
2003 Launched Amino-Value 2017 Launched BODYMAINTÉ
2006 Launched SOYJOY 2018 Launched Zero Meat Gerblé from Products from Daiya Foods
Nutrition & Santé
2008 Established Otsuka Holdings 2021 Launched BioMimics 3D
2009 Launched Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE in the U.S. in Japan
and Europe 2022 Launched the SOYJOY
2010 Otsuka Holdings listed on the First Section of Plant-Based series SOYJOY Plant-Based series
the Tokyo Stock Exchange
2011 Established Otsuka Medical Devices
2013 Launched ABILIFY MAINTENA in the U.S.
2014 Launched LONSURF
Zero Meat Bon Curry Veggie
Founding Era (1921–1970s) International Expansion (1970s–2000s) Further Development (2000s Onward)Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 013
Challenge New Frontiers; Do what only Otsuka can do
Addressing Unmet Needs Initiatives in the Women’s Health Market
Aiming to generate innovation from creative, diverse research platforms in addition to its existing As women’s empowerment in society progresses, the Otsuka group seeks to create a world
strengths, Otsuka Pharmaceutical is using cell and gene therapies, regenerative medicine, in which every individual can play an active role. To that end, the group is focusing on
biologics, immune system research, and advanced digital technologies for highly innovative drug initiatives to tackle women’s health issues throughout life.
discovery in fields such as immunology, oncology, and neurodegenerative therapy. To further The group provides science-backed products such as EQUELLE, a dietary supplement
these efforts, and to promote close collaboration and information exchange with companies containing equol that supports women’s health and beauty at a time when aging brings physical
inside and outside the group, in 2022 Otsuka Pharmaceutical will open the Osaka and mental changes; tocoelle, a complex supplement to address the psychological and physical
Pharmaceutical Research Institute as a research hub to create value from a global perspective. premenstrual symptoms that are experienced by around 80% of women; and BUP-4 LADY, the
first OTC pharmaceutical in Japan accredited for being effective against urinary urgency in
women. The group also publishes women’s health and health management information.
Meanwhile, U.S.-based Uqora, a specialist provider of products for urinary health—a particular
concern for many women—has joined the Otsuka group, which will enable the group to support
women in an even wider range of fields. The group will stay closely attuned to individual needs
and work to provide solutions to women’s unique health issues.
Image of the Osaka Pharmaceutical Research Institute EQUELLE tocoelle Products from Uqora
Visterra joined the Otsuka group in 2018. The
company’s proprietary Hierotope® platform technologies
for antibody development use an entirely different
approach to conventional methods. Using this
approach, the Otsuka group aims to design and develop
therapeutic antibodies for drug discovery targets and
BUP-4 LADY
diseases that until now have been considered
untreatable. In doing so, the group intends to provide
pharmaceuticals to address unmet medical needs.
Founding Era (1921–1970s) International Expansion (1970s–2000s) Further Development (2000s Onward)Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 014
Value Creation Model
INPUTS
OUTCOMES
Providing Stakeholder Value Page 15
Human Capital1
Employees: Approx. 47,000
Japan Approx. 17,500
Consumers
Outside Japan
Approx. 29,500
Corporate Philosophy / Sustainability Mission / OUTPUTS
Value Creation Process
Social and Revenue (Fiscal 2021)
Relationship Capital1 Pharma- ¥1,498.3 billion Patients
Total group companies: 200 ceuticals
J Oa up ta sn id e Japan 1549 1 Chemicals ceN uu tt ir ca a- ls Products & Services
• Pharmaceutical Business
Business sites: 33 countries/regions Therapeutic drugs, Healthcare
clinical nutrition products, professionals
Unique and
diagnostics, and medical devices
OTC Cosmedics Bringing health to
Manufactured Capital1 diverse • Nutraceutical Business
people worldwide
Manufacturing sites: 175 businesses Functional beverages and
Japan 50 foods, cosmedics, OTC Shareholders
products, and quasi-drugs
Outside Japan 125 and investors
Consumer Clinical
Products Nutrition • Consumer Products Business
Beverages, foods, and
alcoholic beverages
Intellectual Capital1 Diagnostics Medical
Devices • Other Businesses
Research sites: 44
Chemicals, fine chemicals, Employees
Japan 24 warehouse and distribution,
Outside Japan 20 Sustainability Mission Page 18 packaging, and
electronic equipment
Total CO2 Emissions2 (Fiscal 2021)
Financial Capital
683,000 t-CO2
Suppliers
Ryukan-godo Jissho Sozosei
Total assets: ¥2,820.9 billion
Natural Capital2 Local
communities
Energy consumption and society
359,100 kL
Water consumption
17,680,000 m3
(As of December 31, 2021) Reinvestment and
allocation of capital
1. Data for 200 companies including Otsuka Holdings and its subsidiaries and affiliated companies
2. All manufacturing sites of the consolidated Otsuka groupContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 015
Providing Stakeholder Value (Initiatives in Fiscal 2021)
•• Expand product access •• Contribute to the resolution of unmet needs through innovation
Consumers, • Countries/Regions where the anti-tuberculosis drug delamanid is available: More than 120 • New drugs approved: 4 1
patients, and • Countries/Regions where the antipsychotic drug ABILIFY MAINTENA is sold: 48 • Development projects for unmet needs: 38 2
healthcare
professionals • Otsuka Pharmaceutical formulated the Otsuka Global Patient Access Support Policy • Research and development expenses:
¥232.3
billion
(July 2021) • In-house drug discovery ratio: 76 %3
•• Maintain a sound financial foundation •• Deliver stable returns to shareholders
Shareholders and • Credit rating:
AA–4
• Annual dividend per share:
¥100
investors • D/E ratio: 0.11 •• Provide new information
• Net cash5 ÷ Average monthly consolidated revenue: 2.2 months • Business briefings for institutional investors: 3 6
•• Create vibrant workplace environments
•• Enhance employee engagement
• Group companies recognized as 2021 Certified Health & Productivity
• Female manager ratio at Otsuka Holdings: 30.3% Management Outstanding Organizations by METI: 10 8
Employees
• Employees taking parental leave: 637 (at 19 group companies7) •• Enhance measures to respect human rights
Male employees taking parental leave: 341 (54% of above total) • Formulated and implemented the Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy
(March 2021) and offered necessary training
•• Further promote sustainable procurement
53
• Companies that attended supplier briefings:
Suppliers
57
• Suppliers implementing self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ):
7
• Interviews held with suppliers:
•• Enhance system for the realization of healthy lifestyles •• Reassess use of raw materials
• Executed cooperation agreements with all 47 prefectures of Japan for the promotion • Launch of PET bottles made using recycled materials
Local of collaboration in health awareness activities (Otsuka Pharmaceutical) •• Environmental management
communities and •• Provide support during COVID-19 pandemic • Formulated 2050 Environmental Vision, “Net Zero”
society • Donated relief goods and funds • Revised medium-term goals and targets for material issues
•• Increase utilization of renewable energy
• Announced support for the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-
• Reduction in CO2 emissions through adoption of renewable energy: 143,000 t-CO2 related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) and carried out scenario analyses
1. Quick Navi – Flu+COVID-19 Ag, Otsuka minor BCR-ABL mRNA measurement kit, AJOVY, and Moizerto 7. Domestic: Otsuka Holdings, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse,
2. Unmet needs areas defined by Otsuka based on PatientsMap2021JP and PatientsMap2020US, M3 & SSRI Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Foods, Otsuka Medical Devices, Otsuka Electronics, Otsuka Techno, Okayama Taiho Pharmaceutical,
3. In-house drug discovery ratio among late-phase development projects (Phase 3 onward) Otsuka Packaging Industries, Otsuka Ohmi Ceramics, Higashiyama Film, Otsuka Wellness Vending, and JIMRO
Overseas: Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development & Commercialization, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, and Pharmavite
4. Rating and Investment Information, Inc.
8. Otsuka Holdings, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Earth Corporation, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Otsuka
5. Net cash = Cash and cash equivalents – (Borrowings + Bonds)
Pharmaceutical Health Insurance Association, Otsuka Medical Devices, Otsuka Wellness Vending, Otsuka Electronics, and JIMRO
6. Briefing on Tuberculosis Initiatives, Briefing on Daiya Business for Institutional Investors, and Briefing on Pharmavite Business
for Institutional Investors
For briefing materials, visit: https://www.otsuka.com/en/ir/library/briefing.htmlContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 016
Value Creation Process That Generates Originality
Taking on the challenge of doing what only Otsuka can do
The originality of Otsuka is generated from the combination of unique and diverse businesses.
We are attempting to create new value using our unique standing as a total healthcare company
involved in diverse businesses.
New original
value
(Products and
Utilize links between businesses
services)
Create new domains from
Diverse businesses existing businesses
The Otsuka group boasts a wealth of human
resources with diverse expertise and experience,
Rather than enter existing markets,
and has accumulated various technological and
create new markets that no other
scientific assets.
company has thought to take on
Pharma-
ceuticals
Nutra- Diversifying needs
Chemicals
ceuticals
• Changes brought by the times
• Environmental changes
Unique and
OTC Cosmedics • Changes in health-related notions
diverse
Anticipate needs that will arise from these changes
businesses
Consumer Clinical
Products Nutrition
Medical
Diagnostics
DevicesContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 017
Value Creation Process That Generates Originality
What only Otsuka can do: Otsuka’s Strengths
People are the source of our strengths. Since Otsuka’s establishment in 1921, employees everywhere have pursued business guided by our enduring corporate philosophy
in order to bring health to people worldwide. Through their determination, we have developed many strengths. The six strengths described below are a representative
sample. Otsuka group employees utilize these and other strengths in working to maximize effects and contributing to the health of people around the world.
An enduring corporate philosophy and essence of management,
An unwavering quest for originality An ability to nurture enduring brands
passed down and practiced throughout the group
76 1 Top-share products by pharmaceutical category4:
33 In-house drug discovery ratio: % 8 3
countries/regions
in Japan, outside Japan
Our corporate philosophy is displayed prominently Development projects 38 2
in offices in every country and region where we for unmet needs: projects S eh xpar ee
r
io enf cc eo n os fu um sie nr gs w POit Ch
A
t Rh Ie
S WEAT:
87.7 %5
do business
Through communication of our corporate philosophy and We continue to take on the challenge of revolutionary We are developing each product’s brand by tenaciously
essence of management, Otsuka employees around the products and services by striving for creativity in all value communicating the value of our revolutionary products,
world work to do what only Otsuka can do to contribute to chains and always looking for opportunities to make unique and in doing so aim for sustainable growth and further
the health of people worldwide. Otsuka innovations. enhancement of our corporate value.
1. In-house drug discovery ratio among late-phase development projects 4. Copyright © 2022 IQVIA. Created based on annual category totals for the
(Phase 3 onward) past 10 years, including IQVIA MIDAS 2011 to 2021 and Otsuka research.
2. As of December 2021; unmet needs areas defined by Otsuka based on Categories defined by Otsuka. Reprinted with permission.
PatientsMap2021JP and PatientsMap2020US, M3 & SSRI 5. November 2021 survey in Japan conducted by Otsuka
A business model centered A global reach incorporating solutions to social A solid financial foundation and strong
on total healthcare issues through our core business processes earnings power that drive sustainable growth
163
IV solutions business overseas companies: AA–6
Social well-being
Rating:
Physical well-being Countries/Regions where 20
Mental well-being POCARI SWEAT is available: More than B Nu us ti rn ae cs es
u
p tir co af
l
i Bt um sa inrg esin
s:
o f 12.4 %7
Countries/Regions where the anti-tuberculosis 120
Contributing to three aspects of health
drug delamanid is available: More than
We provide a variety of science-based products and services We are extending our global reach by addressing social We are cultivating a solid financial foundation and strong
that meet the specific healthcare needs of the times in each issues that differ in each country/region depending on earnings power whereby nutraceuticals and IV solutions
community. culture, customs, and the times. generate stable earnings and act as a base, while
therapeutic agents, which are a driver of growth, fund
3. Number of companies engaged in the IV solutions business. Many of
these companies also export products to neighboring countries, thereby ongoing investment in creative new areas befitting Otsuka.
making a meaningful contribution to medical care in those countries.
6. Rating and Investment Information, Inc.
7. Average for the previous three years (For reference: average operating
profit margin of S&P Food & Beverage Select Industry Index constituents
for the previous three years: 8.2%)The Otsuka group has determined its material issues to be society (health,
people, quality in all we do), environment (carbon neutrality, circular
economy, water neutrality), and governance, and worked as a group to
achieve its 2030 goals.
Sustainability Mission
Address social issues such as the evolution toward a healthier and more
sustainable society, while simultaneously achieving growth. These activities
are all supported by a comprehensive governance system.
Contribution to a More Sustainable Society Map of Social Issues2
We compiled a list of social issues relevant to the Otsuka group’s businesses and created a
map of social issues considering their importance in terms of sustainability and degree of
Otsuka’s business is fully synchronized with our efforts to address social issues
impact on business activities.
High3.00
Environment (Healthier Planet) Society (Healthier Society)
Carbon Neutrality Circular Economy
Health People Quality in All We Do Water Neutrality Global warming Spread of
2.50 infectious diseases
Governance Risks stemming
Corporate Governance Compliance Risk Management from social change
2.00 Lack of response to
Consumption and production diversification
that impairs sustainability
Increase in
1.50 environmental impact Fragile governance
system
Presenteeism3
1.00
0.50
0
0 0.50 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00
Degree of impact on business activities High
ytilibaniatsus
ot
drager
htiw
ecnatropmI
Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 018
Creating Future Value That Leads to Originality
The Otsuka Group’s Approach to Sustainability
1 Identification of social issues with reference to respective international guidelines
Assessment of social issues that our business activities can
2
contribute to solving and their importance
Determination of material issues by the Sustainability Promotion Committee
3
from the viewpoint of their impact on society and on the Otsuka group
4 Approval at the Otsuka Holdings Board of Directors meeting
1. The Sustainability Promotion Committee promotes sustainability throughout the Otsuka group. The committee’s
responsibilities include discussing and deciding on the direction and plans for sustainability activities. The Otsuka
Holdings director in charge of sustainability promotion serves as the committee chair. Committee members comprise
group managers of departments relating to sustainability and the sustainability officers of each company.
Increase in issues caused
by population aging Nutritional needs
Unmet medical and
health needs
Reduced freshwater
availability due to water
Process for Determining Materiality (Material Issues) resource risks
Materiality is initiatives that Otsuka is focused on. To determine the Otsuka group’s material
issues, we first compiled a list of social issues, referencing a range of international guidelines
and frameworks, including ISO 26000, GRI, and the U.N. SDGs. We narrowed down the list
of issues by evaluating them in terms of their importance, taking into account our ability to
contribute to a solution, their impact on business, and our strengths.
Issues were then discussed by the Sustainability Promotion Committee1 and approved at
the Otsuka Holdings Board of Directors meeting.
2. Issues in bold are the nine priority social issues
3. A situation in which, despite coming in to work, productivity does not increase due to the employee’s poor mental
and physical conditionContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 019
The Otsuka Group’s Approach to Sustainability
Relationship between Materiality and the Medium-Term Management Plan
Description of Materiality Description of MTM Plan
Corporate Philosophy
Sustainability Mission
Long-term FY 2023 Goals
Contribute to the Challenge New Frontiers: Promotion of R&D for unmet needs
resolution of unmet needs Do what only Otsuka can do • Address unmet needs in the psychiatry and neurology areas
Health • Create first-in-class products in the cardiovascular and renal area
In areas with unmet needs
Generate innovation from creative
• New development projects: 10 or more
and diverse research platforms
• Late-phase development projects advancing to the next phase:
30 or more
Eradication of tuberculosis • Provide delamanid for a more than 60,000 cases
• Supply DELTYBA (generic name: delamanid) for pediatric patients
• Launch a clinical trial for new treatment regimen
• Increase access to delamanid by collaborating with partners
Creation of a system for the Challenge new categories Create new systems and reinforce existing
realization of healthy lifestyles and new areas systems for the realization of healthy lifestyles
Create new concepts and products keeping
Healthy life extension Maintain a high-profit structure
an eye on changes in environments
Health People Quality in All We Do Carbon Neutrality Circular Economy Water Neutrality GovernanceContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 020
Materiality (Material Issues)
Social
Materiality Social Issues Our Goals Our Activities Related SDGs FY 2023 Goals FY 2021 Progress
Issues
Promotion of R&D for unmet needs • In areas with unmet needs
• Address unmet needs in the psychiatry and neurology areas New development projects: 15 projects1
• Create first-in-class products in the oncology area Late-phase development projects advancing to the next phase: 15 projects1
❶ • Create first-in-class products in the cardiovascular and renal area
In areas with unmet needs
• New development projects: 10 or more
• Promotion of R&D for unmet needs
• Late-phase development projects advancing to the next phase: 30 or more
Unmet medical and health needs • Contribution to the resolution of unmet needs • R&D of anti-tubeculosis drugs and improvement
of drug access • Provide delamanid for more than 60,000 cases • Provided delamanid for 60,000 cases ahead of schedule, in more than 120 countries/regions • Continued participation in Pan-TB collaboration and accelerated the development
Health NSp ur te ra itd io o nf a i ln nf ee ect dio sus diseases • • E Cr ra ed ai tc ioa nti o on f ao f s ytu stb ee mrc fu olo r s ti hs e realization of • S hu ep alp tho r mt a an ind t ea nw aa nr ce en /e imss p a roc vti ev miti ee ns tf ,o mr p ae ino lyp l oe n’s ❷ • • S Lau up np cly h D a E cL liT nY icB alA tr ( iag le fn oe rr i nc e n wa m tree a: td mel ea nm t a ren gid im) f eo nr pediatric patients • • D DeE tL eT rmYB inA ed a tp op cro ov ne dd u cfo t r c lp ine id ci aa lt tr ric ia p l a foti re nn ets w i n t hE ru er eo -p de ru i gn cO oc mto bb ine ar t2 io0 n2 1 therapy regimen that includes • o Df e n lae mw a T nB id t r se ua pt pm lie en dt tr he rg oi um ge hn the Global Drug Facility (GDF) of the Stop TB
Increase in issues caused by healthy lifestyles exercise and nutrition, etc. • Increase access to delamanid by collaborating with partners OPC-167832 and delamanid Partnership and alliance partners
population aging • Healthy life extension • Promotion of problem solving by strengthening • Continued participation in the Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (GHIT Fund)
partnerships • Challenge new categories and new areas • Executed comprehensive cooperation agreements on health with all 47 prefectures in Japan and other • Ongoing provision of the Kenko Shacho (“Healthy President”) service
• Create new systems and reinforce existing systems for the realization of local governments, and promoted collaboration in health and other fields • Expanded dietary education to communicate the importance of good nutrition
Society ❸ healthy lifestyles • Raised awareness of proper hydration and electrolyte replenishment • Support in disasters and emergencies
(Healthier • Create new concepts and products keeping an eye on changes in • Continued to hold Women’s Health Seminars • Support for the Tokyo Marathon
Society) environments • More than 30 years of publishing the Otsuka Health Comic Library • Support for the Inter-High School Championships
• Cumulative total OATHAS2 registrants: Approximately 21,000
• Further instill the corporate culture and philosophy • Cumulative total participants in the executive human resource development programs of Otsuka Global • Total number of attendees at group-wide diversity seminars: 2,0704
• Human resource development • Build systems for ongoing human resource development aligned with Academy (OGA): 2033 • Implemented Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy and offered necessary training
Presenteeism1 • Creation of a corporate culture that stimulates creativity
People • Diversity promotion ❻ changes in society and the times • Cumulative total participants in Health Seminars: Approximately 2,800
Lack of response to diversification • Enhance employee engagement
• Health and productivity management • Further promote and instill diversity as a source of innovation
• Build new systems to maintain more comfortable working environments
• Sustainable procurement and product design • Suppliers implementing self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ): 200 • Cumulative total of companies implementing SAQ: 137 • Held the Global Product Quality Meeting
• Gaining stakeholder trust
• Thorough quality control and stable supply • Pursuing sustainability at all levels of the value chain • Cumulative total of companies participating in supplier briefings: 126 • Formulated NC Global Quality Policy
Quality in Consumption and production • Pursuing sustainability at all levels of the value chain
• R esponsible promotional activities and information provision ❼ • Sustainable procurement • Stable supply of products during the COVID-19 pandemic • Improved products based on customer feedback
All We Do that impairs sustainability • Establishing a quality assurance system for safety
• Deepening communication with stakeholders Conduct supplier briefings For 160 suppliers • Held the Global Production Meeting, “Manufacturing Errors” Workshop, and Environmental
and security
• Promotion of “Consumer-oriented management” Original goal: Over 30 times/companies by fiscal 2023 Management Information Exchange Meeting
C Na er ub to ran
l ity2 Global warming
•
t
2 o0 2 28
0
1t 7arget: Reduce 50% in CO2 emissions compared
• Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the value chain ❽
•
e
R ne ed ru gc ye eC ffO ic2
i
ee nm cyissions by introducing renewable energy and maximizing • A (Tn Cn Fo Du )n ac ne dd cs au rp rp ieo dr t
o
f uo tr rt ih ske are nc ao lym sem sendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure •
•
I Cn os mta pll le ed
t
ec do - ing te rn oe dr ua ct tio ion
n
s oys
f
t Ce Om 2s
-
fa ren ed efu lee cl
t
c rio cn itv ye
5
r as tio an
ll
e 2q 3u i dp om me en st
tic factories of five
• Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the value chain group companies6
• 2028 target: Reduce 50% in simple incineration and • Reduce environmental impact by improving • Reduce environmental impact through enhanced resource efficiency • Began sales of PET bottles using recycled PET resin
Circular landfill disposal compared to 2019 resource efficiency • Promote business activities that aim for social and environmental
Environmental load increase ❾
Economy3 • 2030 target: 100% content of recycled and plant- • Promotion of business activities aimed at sustainability
Environment based materials in our PET bottles sustainability for both society and the earth
(Healthier
• 2028 target: Expand the plant water management • Analyze and ascertain risks regarding sustainable water usage • Formulated plan to create water resource management program
Planet)
Water Reduced freshwater availability program to all locations globally • Understanding water resource risks • Ensure effective use and management of water resources
❿
Neutrality4 due to water resource risks • 2028 target: Develop a water use strategy for • Management and effective use of water resources
business locations in water-stressed areas
• Build a system to strengthen compliance within the group • Carried out activities for directors to raise effectiveness • Reinforced efforts to improve efficacy of crisis management
• Strengthen corporate governance
Fragile governance system • Strengthen corporate governance to further raise effectiveness • Board of Directors meeting attendance rate: 100% • Reinforced response to overseas risks
Governance • Long-term improvement of corporate value • Thorough compliance ⓬
Social change risk • Build a governance system capable of global business development and • Implemented the Otsuka Group Global Anti-Fraud Policy • Improved level of information security at each group company
• Risk identification, evaluation and management
response to various changes • Launched basic cyber security training program
1. A situation in which, despite coming in to work, productivity does not increase due to the employee’s poor mental and physical condition
2 Sustainable energy use
3 Sustainable use of raw materials
4 Sustainable use of water resourcesContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 021
Fiscal 2023 Goals and Fiscal 2021 Progress
Among the 12 social issues determined to be Otsuka group’s materiality, we selected nine issues that we regard as especially important at present, and set
goals related to them for fiscal 2023.
Social
Materiality Social Issues Our Goals Our Activities Related SDGs FY 2023 Goals FY 2021 Progress
Issues
Promotion of R&D for unmet needs • In areas with unmet needs
• Address unmet needs in the psychiatry and neurology areas New development projects: 15 projects1
• Create first-in-class products in the oncology area Late-phase development projects advancing to the next phase: 15 projects1
❶ • Create first-in-class products in the cardiovascular and renal area
In areas with unmet needs
• New development projects: 10 or more
• Promotion of R&D for unmet needs
• Late-phase development projects advancing to the next phase: 30 or more
Unmet medical and health needs • Contribution to the resolution of unmet needs • R&D of anti-tubeculosis drugs and improvement
of drug access • Provide delamanid for more than 60,000 cases • Provided delamanid for 60,000 cases ahead of schedule, in more than 120 countries/regions • C ontinued participation in Pan-TB collaboration and accelerated the development
Health N Sp ur te ra itd io o nf a i ln nf ee ect dio sus diseases • • E Cr ra ed ai tc ioa nti o on f ao f s ytu stb ee mrc fu olo r s ti hs e realization of • S hu ep alp tho r mt a an ind t ea nw aa nr ce en /e imss p a roc vti ev miti ee ns tf ,o mr p ae ino lyp l oe n’s ❷ • • S Lau up np cly h D a E cL liT nY icB alA tr ( iag le fn oe rr i nc e n wa m tree a: td mel ea nm t a ren gid im) f eo nr pediatric patients •• D DeE tL eT rmYB inA ed a tp op cro ov ne dd u cfo t r c lp ine id ci aa lt tr ric ia p l a foti re nn ets w i n t hE ru er eo -p de ru i gn cO oc mto bb ine ar t2 io0 n2 1 therapy regimen that includes • Do f e n lae mw a T nB id t r se ua pt pm lie en dt tr he rg oi um ge hn the Global Drug Facility (GDF) of the Stop TB
Increase in issues caused by healthy lifestyles exercise and nutrition, etc. • Increase access to delamanid by collaborating with partners OPC-167832 and delamanid Partnership and alliance partners
population aging • Healthy life extension • Promotion of problem solving by strengthening • Continued participation in the Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (GHIT Fund)
partnerships • Challenge new categories and new areas • Executed comprehensive cooperation agreements on health with all 47 prefectures in Japan and other • Ongoing provision of the Kenko Shacho (“Healthy President”) service
• Create new systems and reinforce existing systems for the realization of local governments, and promoted collaboration in health and other fields • Expanded dietary education to communicate the importance of good nutrition
Society ❸ healthy lifestyles • Raised awareness of proper hydration and electrolyte replenishment • Support in disasters and emergencies
(Healthier • Create new concepts and products keeping an eye on changes in • Continued to hold Women’s Health Seminars • Support for the Tokyo Marathon
Society) environments • More than 30 years of publishing the Otsuka Health Comic Library • Support for the Inter-High School Championships
• Cumulative total OATHAS2 registrants: Approximately 21,000
• Further instill the corporate culture and philosophy • Cumulative total participants in the executive human resource development programs of Otsuka Global • Total number of attendees at group-wide diversity seminars: 2,0704
• Human resource development • Build systems for ongoing human resource development aligned with Academy (OGA): 2033 • Implemented Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy and offered necessary training
P resenteeism1 • Creation of a corporate culture that stimulates creativity
People • Diversity promotion ❻ changes in society and the times • Cumulative total participants in Health Seminars: Approximately 2,800
Lack of response to diversification • Enhance employee engagement
• Health and productivity management • Further promote and instill diversity as a source of innovation
• Build new systems to maintain more comfortable working environments
• Sustainable procurement and product design • Suppliers implementing self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ): 200 • Cumulative total of companies implementing SAQ: 137 • Held the Global Product Quality Meeting
• Gaining stakeholder trust
• Thorough quality control and stable supply • Pursuing sustainability at all levels of the value chain • Cumulative total of companies participating in supplier briefings: 126 • Formulated NC Global Quality Policy
Quality in Consumption and production • Pursuing sustainability at all levels of the value chain
• R esponsible promotional activities and information provision ❼ • Sustainable procurement • Stable supply of products during the COVID-19 pandemic • Improved products based on customer feedback
All We Do that impairs sustainability • Establishing a quality assurance system for safety
• Deepening communication with stakeholders Conduct supplier briefings For 160 suppliers • Held the Global Production Meeting, “Manufacturing Errors” Workshop, and Environmental
and security
• Promotion of “Consumer-oriented management” Original goal: Over 30 times/companies by fiscal 2023 Management Information Exchange Meeting
C Na er ub to ran
l ity2 Global warming
• t2 o0 2 28
0
1t 7arget: Reduce 50% in CO2 emissions compared
• Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the value chain ❽
•
e
R ne ed ru gc ye eC ffO ic2
i
ee nm cyissions by introducing renewable energy and maximizing • A (Tn Cn Fo Du )n ac ne dd cs au rp rp ieo dr t
o
f uo tr rt ih ske are nc ao lym sem sendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure •
•
I Cn os mta pll le ed
t
ec do - ing te rn oe dr ua ct tio ion
n
s oys
f
t Ce Om 2s
-
fa ren ed efu lee cl
t
c rio cn itv ye
5
r as tio an
ll
e 2q 3u i dp om me en st
tic factories of five
• Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the value chain group companies6
• 2028 target: Reduce 50% in simple incineration and • Reduce environmental impact by improving • Reduce environmental impact through enhanced resource efficiency • Began sales of PET bottles using recycled PET resin
Circular landfill disposal compared to 2019 resource efficiency • Promote business activities that aim for social and environmental
Environmental load increase ❾
Economy3 • 2030 target: 100% content of recycled and plant- • Promotion of business activities aimed at sustainability
Environment based materials in our PET bottles sustainability for both society and the earth
(Healthier
• 2028 target: Expand the plant water management • Analyze and ascertain risks regarding sustainable water usage • Formulated plan to create water resource management program
Planet)
Water Reduced freshwater availability program to all locations globally • Understanding water resource risks • Ensure effective use and management of water resources
❿
Neutrality4 due to water resource risks • 2028 target: Develop a water use strategy for • Management and effective use of water resources
business locations in water-stressed areas
• Build a system to strengthen compliance within the group • Carried out activities for directors to raise effectiveness • Reinforced efforts to improve efficacy of crisis management
• Strengthen corporate governance
Fragile governance system • Strengthen corporate governance to further raise effectiveness • Board of Directors meeting attendance rate: 100% • Reinforced response to overseas risks
Governance • Long-term improvement of corporate value • Thorough compliance ⓬
Social change risk • Build a governance system capable of global business development and • Implemented the Otsuka Group Global Anti-Fraud Policy • Improved level of information security at each group company
• Risk identification, evaluation and management
response to various changes • Launched basic cyber security training program
1. Cumulative total since 2019 4. Cumulative total since 2019
2. Otsuka Advanced Training for Healthy Aging Supporters: A program that supports pharmacies as health information 5. Includes carbon-neutral electricity utilizing certificates equal to renewable energy that does not emit CO2
hubs with strong connections to local communities 6. Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods
3. As of December 31, 2021Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 022
Message from the CFO
Brands of the Nutraceutical Business, overcoming loss of
revenue due to the expiration of major co-promotion
agreements. Business profit was 157.1 billion yen, a
We will practice business
decrease of 59.8 billion yen from the previous year, as solid
management with an awareness
growth in existing businesses was outweighed by an
of capital cost, and pursue increase in expenses due to one-time factors and the early
sustainable growth and deployment of investments for growth. ROE was 6.5% and
ROIC was 5.6%.
enhanced corporate value by
Our initial targets for the middle year of the Third
maximizing business value and Medium-Term Management Plan were 1,500 billion yen in
making investments for growth. revenue, 160 billion yen in business profit, and ROE of 6.0%
or higher. Excluding the aforementioned expenses due to
one-time factors, revenue would be 99.9% of the target,
business profit 15.8% above target, and ROE on target.
Yuko Makino
Results under the Third Medium-Term Management Plan
Executive Director, CFO
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Fiscal 2023 Targets
• Revenue ¥1,700 billion
• Business profit ¥200 billion (CAGR 10.0% or more)
• ROE 8.0% or higher
Progress in the Third Medium-Term Progress in the Middle Year (Fiscal 2021) of
(¥ billion) 1,700
Management Plan the Third Medium-Term Management Plan
1,550
1,498
In fiscal 2021, our business was impacted by a variety of events 1,396 1,422
1,292
Overview of the Plan such as the COVID-19 pandemic, soaring raw material prices,
216
The period of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan is and supply chain disruptions, but we have been able to 200
187 190
positioned as a five-year growth phase to “Advance in the overcome these issues by harnessing our strengths in 157
Global Market as a Unique Total Healthcare Company.” In conducting broad-ranging business as a unique total 120 88..22 88..00 oorr hhiigghheerr
77..33 77..22
t wh ee wPh ila
l
r mm aa xc imeu izti ec a el
x
B isu tis nin ge bss
u
sa in nd
es
t sh ve
a
N luu et r aa nc de u ct ri ec aa tl
e
B nu esi wne ss, hea Wlth ec a ar ce
h
c ieo vm edp a rn ey v.
enue of 1,498.3 billion yen for the year, 44..77
66..55
10% or
higher
value, and conduct business management with a corporate- an increase of 75.5 billion yen from the previous year
wide awareness of capital cost, and thereby maintain mainly from an increase of around 90 billion yen in revenue 2018A 2019A 2020A 2021A 2022E1 2023E2
sustainable growth while at the same time making from the four Global Products in the Pharmaceutical Revenue Business profit CAGR ROE
investments for growth and ensuring returns to shareholders. Business and the three Major Brands and three Nurture 1. Announced February 2022
2. Announced May 2019Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 023
Message from the CFO
However, a variety of risks—including those relating to pursue progress toward these targets in line with the Third creation in our core businesses of pharmaceuticals and
geopolitics, interest rates, and exchange rate fluctuation— Medium-Term Management Plan. nutraceuticals while being conscious of capital costs in our
continue to make for an unpredictable operating business operations. This commitment will lead to maximizing
environment in fiscal 2022 and beyond. We will keep a cash returns from existing business, allocating that generated
close eye on their potential impact on our business and Measures for Enhancing Corporate Value cash to reinvest in future growth areas, and to appropriately
respond flexibly in a timely manner to meet the targets of making stable and ongoing shareholder returns.
the Medium-Term Management Plan. (1) Maximizing Existing Business Value During the Third Medium-Term Management Plan, will
through ROIC Management work to implement a corporate-wide awareness of capital
Plan for Fiscal 2022 One aim of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan is to cost, and as such we have set the weighted average cost of
As we made upfront investments in the period up to and embed a commitment throughout the group to focus on: capital (WACC) benchmark for the Otsuka group at 5.5%.
including fiscal 2021, we foresee further growth in the four maximization of existing business value as well as new value We are focusing on embedding ROIC management during
Global Products of the the Third Medium-Term Management Plan in order to secure
Framework of Financial Strategies
Pharmaceutical Business, as stable returns on business activities in excess of the cost of
well as POCARI SWEAT and capital. In addition to pursuing maximization of revenues, we
supplements in the Returns in excess of cost of capital will aim to achieve better cost management, improved
Nutraceutical Business. business management tailored to each business and product,
ROIC ＞ WACC
Therefore, for fiscal 2022 we and more efficient asset and liability management that is
forecast revenue of 1,550 closely aligned to the balance sheet—one of the major
billion yen, a year-on-year Cash flow generation Cash allocation factors for ROIC management. Thoroughly implementing this
increase of 51.7 billion yen. approach will lead to higher cash returns from businesses.
We forecast business profit of Business Investments for Specific measures aimed at establishing ROIC management
profit growth
190 billion yen, a year-on-year Operating Reinvestment are outlined below.
cash flows
increase of 32.9 billion yen,
Improvement Capital
led by ongoing growth in of CCC1 expenditure Maximizing Revenues from Existing Businesses
existing businesses and We will maximize revenues from our two core businesses:
increased revenue from new Debt financing Dividends the Pharmaceutical Business and the Nutraceutical
Shareholder
product launches. Our forecast returns Business. In the Pharmaceutical Business, we are two
Reduction in Share buybacks
is ROE of 7.2%, a year-on-year non-operating assets years ahead of schedule, having achieved our final year
increase of 0.7 points, and revenue targets for the four Global Products under the
ROIC of 6.6%, a year-on-year Medium-Term Management Plan. In the Nutraceutical
External debt Shareholders’ equity
increase of 1.0 points. We will Business, we are aiming for faster growth through a
Optimal capital structure2 further major expansion of the three Major Brands and by
better conveying the value provided by the three Nurture
1. Cash Conversion Cycle Brands. In the supplement business in particular, higher
2. The optimal mix between external borrowing and shareholders’ equityMessage from the CFO
levels of health consciousness and greater trust in our structure that encompasses our operations in multiple From the financing perspective, we will stabilize our
brands and quality are generating revenue growth. regions—Japan, North America, Europe, Asia, and China— financial base and improve capital efficiency by reducing
we are also looking to expand shared services, strengthen interest-bearing debt. If external financing is required, we
Cost Efficiency in Existing Businesses our IT platform, promote intragroup financing, and will do so on a case-by-case basis based on a comprehensive
As to launched pharmaceutical products, we have set optimize procurement functions. One example of assessment of the cost and time required to access the
selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense ratio intragroup financing is our adoption of a cash management funds, balance in terms of debt-to-equity ratio and other
targets and seek to make efficient use of costs by system for each region. This system leads to more efficient metrics, and credit rating. In this way, we ensure the optimal
carefully controlling expenses. Our goal for the SG&A funding among Otsuka group companies in each region, balance between interest-bearing debt and shareholders’
expense ratio in the final year of the Third Medium-Term reduces the need for external borrowing, reduces interest equity in our capital structure.
Management Plan is approximately 29%, which we aim payments, and contributes to our ability to generate cash. To embed thorough ROIC management group-wide, we
to achieve ahead of time. must improve not only short-term capital efficiency, but
In the Nutraceutical Business, amid aggressive Corporate Department Initiatives in Each Region medium-to-long-term corporate value as well. From a
investment by competitors, we are striving for efficient, financial standpoint, we must build a stable financial base
Initiatives in each region
disciplined control of costs through unique methods of in order to continue doing what only Otsuka can do. Such
communicating product value. Japan Established Otsuka Business Support in 2019. Standardization and
efficiency initiatives in human resources, IT, and accounting. ROIC Management from an Invested Capital Perspective
North Standardization and efficiency initiatives in human resources,
America procurement, finance, and IT, centered on Otsuka America. Invested Capital (Operating Approach)
Established Otsuka Holdings Europe in Germany in 2021; began
Europe standardization and efficiency initiatives for work processes. Operating liabilities Invested
(Working capital, etc.) Capital
(Financing
Asia Standardization and sharing initiatives for finance work processes.
Operating assets Approach)
China Efficiency initiatives for human resources, finance, IT, audit, and (Working capital, Interest- Financing
compliance work processes, centered on Otsuka (China) Investment. fixed assets, etc.) bearing debt
(Borrowings, bonds)
Cost of debt
A Close Eye on the Balance Sheet (Interest
payments)
Looking at invested capital from the assets perspective, we
will emphasize efficient management of operating assets, Shareholders’ Creditors
Non-operating equity
strive to maintain appropriate inventory levels, control assets
Cost of equity
working capital, strengthen management of fixed assets, (Expected
returns)
Corporate Department Initiatives and periodically review shares held for business strategic
The corporate department supports cost efficiency at purposes. Meanwhile, we will continue to address the issue Returns in excess of Optimal capital
indirect departments and smooth business operations by of non-operating assets including idle fixed assets, either by cost of capital structure
enhancing the business foundation group-wide. While finding ways to make effective use of them in our
strengthening governance through a management businesses or by selling them off. Increased medium-to-long-term corporate value
stnemtsevnI
srotsevnI
Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 024
SG&A Expense Ratio of Pharmaceutical Products
Already on the Market 15,500
(%)
36 Approx. 36%
34
32
30
Approx. 29%
28
Approx. 28% 26
2018A 2019A–2021A: 2022E 2023E
3-year average
Third Medium-Term Management Plan Actual results / Fiscal 2022 planContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 025
Message from the CFO
Business Profits in the Pharmaceutical and
a base will in turn help us contribute to society by paving impending patent expiration during the Second Medium-
Nutraceutical Businesses
the way for innovation. Term Management Plan period, but also to fund investments
(¥ billion)
for organic growth in the Nutraceutical Business.
(2) Framework of Financial Strategies to Support By business segment, in the Pharmaceutical Business we 200
Pharmaceutical
New Value Creation are directing funds toward ongoing investments in R&D aimed Business
150
Source of Funds for Investments for Growth at enhancing our products and pipelines in core areas such as
In principle, investments for growth are funded through the the psychiatry and neurology area, the oncology area, and the
100
reinvestment of cash returns generated from businesses, cardiovascular and renal area. In addition, investments are
and through effective use of funds from the cash targeted at creating new value to meet unmet medical needs,
50 Nutraceutical
management system established within the Otsuka group including diseases with no existing therapeutic drugs; in new Business
in Europe, North America, and Japan. Where external concepts that integrate drugs with digital technologies, such
0
procurement of cash is required, we are always prepared to as ABILIFY MYCITE; and in medical devices that apply new
2015A 2016A 2017A 2018A 2019A 2020A 2021A
implement the full range of options, including commercial approaches such as ultrasound renal denervation treatment. Second Medium-Term Third Medium-Term
Management Plan Management Plan
paper, corporate bonds, bank loans, and share issues. By refining manufacturing technologies, enhancing product
When selecting the optimal approach, we take into account quality, and implementing rationalization measures, the clinical
factors such as credit rating, financial security, and the cost nutrition business has achieved stable cash generation in the Business’s steady generation of profits has enabled the
and time required, thereby ensuring our ability to act in a Japanese market. To link this to success in overseas growth group as a whole to sustain stable growth.
timely manner on business opportunities when they arise. markets, we are allocating funds not only by business area,
but also by regional market. (3) Shareholder Returns Policy
Allocation of Funds for Growth Investments In the Nutraceutical Business, we are reallocating cash Our basic policy for shareholder returns is to maintain stable
At the Otsuka group, we see investment as a vehicle for earned from the three Major Brands to the creation of new dividends. While emphasizing the continuity and stability of
pursuing innovation that enables us to contribute to society. categories and expanding into new regions. We will build dividends, we carefully consider the amount of dividends,
We will continue to pursue investments with the potential to brands and strengthen manufacturing and marketing comprehensively weigh issues such as appropriate levels of
increase corporate value and our social contribution. When structures for the three Nurture Brands by making proactive retained cash for investments for growth, maintaining a solid
reallocating funds for investment, our position continues to investments that will better convey the value of our products. financial standing, and achieving the optimal capital structure.
be that funds need not necessarily be allocated within their Through aggressive investments in the Pharmaceutical As a core tenet of our financial strategy, we have
original portfolio segment (such as to a specific business, and Nutraceutical Businesses we have established a continued to issue stable dividends during the Third Medium-
product, or region within the Pharmaceutical Business or structure in which the two businesses are both Term Management Plan period, despite short-term
Nutraceutical Business), but that different segments should inseparable—like two wheels of a cart—but also capable of fluctuations in performance. Moving forward, we will consider
help each other out with cash for investment. supporting each other in terms of revenues and profit further shareholder returns depending on circumstances,
For instance, ABILIFY generated large-scale revenues. during the period of the Third Medium-Term Management which include the outlook of investments for growth
Cash from ABILIFY was used not only to diversify the Plan. While the Pharmaceutical Business is susceptible to targeting increased profit under subsequent medium-term
Pharmaceutical Business’s revenue structure and promote ups and downs in revenues and profits due to factors such management plans, and the group’s overall financial situation.
globalization of our business so as to avert the risk of as the expiration of exclusive licenses, the NutraceuticalContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 026
How We Will Create Value
Further Advancing as a Unique Total Healthcare Company
Progress of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan
As a comprehensive provider of a diverse range of science-based products and
services, the Otsuka group’s growth has been underpinned by our dedication to Overview of Fiscal 2021
addressing healthcare needs in accordance with the times and the characteristics of Fiscal 2021, the third year of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan, saw ongoing social
the communities we serve. The social issues faced by countries and regions differ uncertainty due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which also had an impact on the Otsuka group’s
depending on local cultures and customs, and are constantly evolving. By identifying business activities. However, despite restrictions on sales activity and reduced consumption, we
and helping to resolve these changing social issues, we continue to expand globally. took heightened health awareness as a growth opportunity, and leveraged our true value as a
We are devoted to supplying products and services that can help more countries and unique total healthcare company. As a result, we maintained solid growth, achieving revenue of
regions overcome their challenges. 1,498.3 billion yen, an increase of 5.3% from the previous year.
Business Strategy: Revenue by Business Segment
Existing Business Value Maximization and New Value Creation
2.1%
• Strengthen strategic initiatives for growth drivers four Global Products in the 7.5%
Pharmaceutical Business; three Major Brands and three Nurture Brands in the
Nutraceutical Business
FY 2021 ● Pharmaceutical Business
• L aunch and nurture new drivers for sustainable growth in Pharmaceutical and 25.1%
Nutraceutical Businesses ¥1,498.3 ● Nutraceutical Business
● Consumer Products Business
billion 65.2%
● Other Businesses
Performance Target:
Business Profit CAGR of 10% or More
• Organic growth of mainstay products and brands in Pharmaceutical and
Nutraceutical Businesses
• A ctively invest in R&D to continue creating new drugs that will drive revenue Outcomes and Progress
during and beyond the next medium-term management plan
Total healthcare company
• Disseminate and provide new value as a unique total healthcare company in response to new social issues caused
by the pandemic
Revenue: ¥1,700 billion • Adapt to environmental changes and tailor the Third Medium-Term Management Plan
Third Medium-Term
Results
Management Plan Targets Business profit: ¥200 billion (CAGR of 10% or more) • Fiscal 2021 results are progressing in line with Third Medium-Term Management plan targets
(FY 2023) • Pharmaceuticals | Four Global Products sales achieved Third Medium-Term Management Plan targets two years
ROE: 8.0% or higher ahead of schedule
• Nutraceuticals | Profitability has reached one of the highest in the Japanese food sector
Growth strategy
• Strengthen pipeline in psychiatry and neurology area
• Enrich pipeline for Japan business
• Nutraceuticals | New categories (women’s health, plant-based foods)
• Achieve Nature Made target as a “100 billion-yen-brand”Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 027
Further Advancing as a Unique Total Healthcare Company
Among the Otsuka group’s materialities, we set specific goals for three health-related social issues (unmet medical and health needs, spread of infectious diseases, and
nutritional needs) under the Third Medium-Term Management Plan (ending in fiscal 2023), and are making progress toward meeting these goals.
Social Issues Unmet medical and health needs Spread of infectious diseases Nutritional needs
Goals Contribute to the resolution of unmet needs Eradication of tuberculosis Creation of a system for the realization of healthy lifestyles
Promotion of R&D for unmet needs
• Address unmet needs in the psychiatry and neurology areas
• Create first-in-class products in the oncology area • Provide delamanid for more than 60,000 cases • Challenge new categories and new areas
• Create first-in-class products in the cardiovascular and renal area • Supply DELTYBA (generic name: delamanid) for pediatric patients • Create new systems and reinforce existing systems for the realization
FY 2023 Goals of healthy lifestyles
In areas with unmet needs • Launch a clinical trial for new treatment regimen
• Create new concepts and products keeping an eye on changes in
• New development projects: 10 or more • Increase access to delamanid by collaborating with partners environments
• Late-phase development projects advancing to the next phase:
30 or more
• Executed cooperation agreements on health with all 47 prefectures in
Japan and other local governments, and promoted collaboration in
• Provided delamanid for 60,000 cases ahead of schedule, in health and other fields
more than 120 countries/regions
• Raised awareness of proper hydration and electrolyte replenishment
• DELTYBA approved for pediatric patients in Europe in October 2021
• Continued to hold Women’s Health Seminars
In areas with unmet needs1 • D the et re ar pm yi n ree gd i mto e nco tn hd au t c int cc ll uin di eca s l O tr Pia Cl -f 1o 6r 7n 8e 3w 2 t ah nre de d-d er lau mg ac no im dbination • More than 30 years of publishing the Otsuka Health Comic Library
FY 2021 Progress • New development projects: 15 projects2 • Continued participation in Pan-TB collaboration and accelerated • Cumulative total OATHAS registrants: Approximately 21,000
• Late-phase development projects advanced to the next phase: the development of new TB treatment regimen • Ongoing provision of the Kenko Shacho (“Healthy President”) service
15 projects2
• Delamanid supplied through the Global Drug Facility (GDF) of • Expanded dietary education to communicate the importance of good
the Stop TB Partnership and alliance partners nutrition
• Continued participation in the Global Health Innovative • Support for disasters and emergencies
Technology Fund (GHIT Fund) • Support for the Tokyo Marathon
• Support for the Inter-High School Championships
1. Unmet needs areas defined by Otsuka based on PatientsMap2021JP and PatientsMap2020US, M3 & SSRI
2. Cumulative total since 2019Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 028
Further Advancing as a Unique Total Healthcare Company
Pharmaceutical Business
The Third Medium-Term Management Plan calls on us to we began six new development projects (15 projects since Progress of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan
maximize existing business value, to challenge new frontiers fiscal 2019) and advanced six late-phase development
by doing what only Otsuka can do, and to generate projects to the next phase (15 projects since fiscal 2019). (¥ billion)
1,200
innovation from creative and diverse research platforms. We * Unmet needs areas defined by Otsuka based on PatientsMap2021JP
will take advantage of this strategic framework to position and PatientsMap2020US, M3 & SSRI 977.5 997.0 11,,008800..00
our four Global Products—ABILIFY MAINTENA, REXULTI, Progress of Four Global Products 800 817.1
Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE and LONSURF—as growth For the four Global Products, we expanded regions and added
drivers. With a focus on increasing revenue from these indications overseas, and worked to increase awareness of 489.8 524.0
400
Global Products, we will continue to develop the business convenient dosage formulations of our drugs. Revenue in 278.1 448800..00
as we work to achieve the plan target of 1,080 billion yen fiscal 2021 rose 14.0% from the previous year to 489.8 billion
in revenue in fiscal 2023. yen, achieving the 480 billion yen target of the Third Medium- 0
2018A 2021A 2022E 2023E
The Otsuka group focuses on unmet medical and health Term Management Plan two years ahead of schedule.
3rd MTM Plan
needs as a social issue. In fiscal 2021, in unmet needs areas* Four Global Products Pharmaceutical Business Growth in the future
FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2022
(¥ billion) Year-on-year Growth rate
revenue revenue revenue plan
ABILIFY MAINTENA 116.0 130.3 +12.3% 143.5 +10.2%
REXULTI 104.6 121.1 +15.7% 130.0 +7.4%
Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE 168.3 192.4 +14.3% 199.0 +3.4%
LONSURF 40.7 46.1 +13.1% 51.5 +11.8%
Total 429.7 489.8 +14.0% 524.0 +7.0%
ABILIFY MAINTENA REXULTI
aripiprazole | Antipsychotic long-acting injectable brexpiprazole | Atypical antipsychotic
As a global treatment for schizophrenia, there is increased awareness of this drug’s efficacy claims Marketed as an adjuvant treatment for major depressive disorder and as a treatment for schizophrenia
and convenient dosage formulation. Following U.S. approval in 2017 for an additional indication in the U.S., this drug is highly evaluated for its efficacy and safety as a new treatment option for both
for the treatment of bipolar disorder, prescriptions are increasing. Prescriptions are also increasing diseases. In Japan, where the drug is marketed as a treatment for schizophrenia, we began sales of
in Japan following approval for an additional indication for the treatment of bipolar disorder in orally disintegrating tablets in November 2021. In Europe, sales began from April 2019.
September 2020. At present, several clinical trials are under way with the aim of further contributing to treating
unmet needs in the psychiatry and neurology area.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 029
Further Advancing as a Unique Total Healthcare Company
Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE LONSURF
tolvaptan | V2-receptor antagonist trifluridine/tipiracil | Anticancer agent
Samsca is highly evaluated in various guidelines in Japan, and prescriptions are increasing for the LONSURF is a treatment option for unresectable advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer. As of
treatment of cardiac edema and hepatic edema. Prescriptions for the treatment of autosomal December 2021, it has been approved in 98 countries and regions, and prescriptions are increasing.
dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), an intractable renal disease, are increasing owing to Furthermore, combination therapy with bevacizumab has been listed as a recommended treatment
the promotion of proper use guidelines and disease awareness activities. The drug has also option in both the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN)* Guidelines for Colon Cancer
contributed to resolving unmet needs following approval for an additional indication for the (January 2021) and Rectal Cancer (December 2020) in the U.S. and the Japanese Society for Cancer
syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) in June 2020. of the Colon and Rectum (JSCCR) Guidelines (January 2022). Meanwhile, also as a treatment
In May 2018, JYNARQUE was launched in the U.S. as a treatment for ADPKD. Efforts to raise option for metastatic gastric cancer, both the number of countries and regions in which LONSURF
disease awareness and make clinical trial data available have helped spread recognition of both has been approved and the total number of prescriptions are increasing. To further maximize its
the disease and the drug, leading to a steady increase in prescriptions. In Europe, JINARC is sold in value, we are currently conducting several clinical studies to develop better combination therapies.
approximately 20 countries and the number of patients receiving treatment through the drug is on * National Comprehensive Cancer Network: A non-profit alliance of 32 leading cancer centers in the U.S. that is
the increase. devoted to patient care, research, and education.
Global operation as an ADPKD drug
The Role of LONSURF in Medical Settings
LONSURF is a third-line or subsequent chemotherapy option for
patients with colorectal and gastric cancers. In addition to its
efficacy, as an oral agent I believe it provides additional value due
its convenience, which enables patients to spend less time
receiving treatment and more time outside the medical facility. For
Launched in approx. Contributed to approx. me, it is important in the field of oncology to support treatment
Chisato Mashita
20 countries 8,400 patients specialists on the frontline and to work closely with them to
Assistant Section identify each patient’s needs. Although the pandemic has made it
Manager,
difficult to gather and communicate information in medical
Yokohama Sales
settings, the Otsuka group is enhancing its cooperative framework
Contributed to approx. Branch Ethical Drug
6,800 patients Sales Section 1, by means that include sharing information between group
Taiho Pharmaceutical companies. This is something that only the Otsuka group can do.
By utilizing our unique group synergy, our aim is to quickly and
carefully communicate essential information, and in doing so,
improve quality of life for patients and their families.
Estimated number of ADPKD patients
U.S.: 140,000, Europe: 205,000, Japan: 31,000
(As of December 31, 2021, in-house survey)Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 030
Further Advancing as a Unique Total Healthcare Company
Future of Pharmaceutical Business
Opportunities and Risks Future Initiatives
disruptions caused by global conflicts or other factors. Against
Risks that affect the Pharmaceutical Business include those this backdrop, in addition to working to reduce these risks— In the Pharmaceutical Business, we are taking on challenges in
relating to reduced visits to medical institutions and delayed such as by reinforcing supply chains to ensure stable product new areas where we can utilize the unique qualities of the
clinical development due to the global COVID-19 pandemic, supplies—the Otsuka group will contribute to the resolution of Otsuka group, working to address unmet needs and generate
paradigm shifts in treatment caused by advances in digital social issues through initiatives targeting diseases where there innovation using our creative, diverse research platforms, and
technologies, medical cost inflation, and supply chain are unmet needs. working to develop systematic solutions to optimize medical
care. Furthermore, we will form alliances, promote open
innovation, and work with venture capital firms to reinforce
our drug discovery foundation and diversify our modalities. We
Strengths Weaknesses
will also seek to strengthen supply chains by securing back-up
•• Providing total healthcare solutions, from diagnosis to treatment •• Delays in registering trial participants due to specific to problems
•• Global R&D and marketing assets in the psychiatry and neurology in the field of psychiatry and neurology caused by the spread of suppliers and enhancing the accuracy of sales forecasts, and
area, and the renal area COVID-19 promote development and marketing activities that use digital
•• Presence in the oncology area •• Patent expiration of mainstay products
technologies.
•• Stable profit in the IV solutions business •• Dependence on manufacturing sites, raw material suppliers, and
•• Medical techniques using digital technologies production contractors concentrated in specific regions In addition, we will strive to improve profitability by
•• Originality free from fixed ideas S trength W eakness maximizing the value of existing products, carry out trials for
new projects that we actively invested in during the Second
and Third Medium-Term Management Plans, and develop new
Opportunities Threats
products. In doing so, we aim to grow the pipelines that will
•• Advances in science and technology, and the progress of basic •• Global drug price control policies and promotion of generic drug drive our development from 2030 onward and achieve
research related to diseases use due to medical cost inflation
•• Creation of synergies in therapeutic drugs through advances in •• Intensifying competition in core areas sustainable growth.
digital technologies •• Pandemic related to the spread of infectious diseases
•• Promotion of precision medicOines to enhance efficacy •• Supply chain disruptions due to geopolitical riskTs and other factors
pportunity hreatContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 031
Further Advancing as a Unique Total Healthcare Company
•• Psychiatry and Neurology •• Oncology
Aiming to become a top-class global player in the psychiatry and neurology Maximizing business value through proprietary drug discovery platforms
area, with a high-potential pipeline and product portfolio and initiatives for new drug discovery technologies and methodologies
Psychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder can Taiho Pharmaceutical’s broad product portfolio is supported by its proprietary drug discovery
develop at any age and affect a person’s social life, career, and studies. Moreover, there are platform technologies, including the biochemical modulation technology it has continued to
concerns about the increase in Alzheimer’s disease as the world population ages. These diseases develop throughout its history, the Cysteinomix Drug Discovery Platform1 that enables specific
affect not just the patient’s quality of life; they also place a strain on family members and covalent modification of therapeutic targets, and the fragment-based drug discovery2 platform
caregivers, as well as on the healthcare economy. There are still many psychiatric and neurological established by Astex Pharmaceuticals. One example is futibatinib, which was discovered using the
diseases for which satisfactory treatments have yet to be established. This is because their causes Cysteinomix Drug Discovery Platform. It has been granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation by
and mechanisms are not fully understood, which makes the discovery of new drugs extremely the U.S. FDA. In March 2022, the FDA also accepted the New Drug Application of futibatinib
difficult. The Otsuka group entered the psychiatry and neurology area in the 1970s and has under priority review. Likewise, pimitespib was approved by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and
continued to take on the challenge of new drug discovery with the goal of contributing to Welfare for the indication of gastrointestinal stromal tumors that have progressed after
medical needs. chemotherapy. Taiho Pharmaceutical is also accelerating its drug development to resolve unmet
At the Otsuka group, we have developed an extensive and high-potential pipeline and needs, collaborating with partner companies. Furthermore, it looks for opportunities for
product lineup through the application of both small molecule and large molecule compound collaboration with promising startups through corporate venture capitals, thereby expanding its
technologies and digital technologies. Our aim is to become a top-class global player in the development pipelines in cancer immunotherapy and other areas, and acquiring innovative drug
psychiatry and neurology area. discovery platform technologies.
Meanwhile, centering on external collaborations, Otsuka Pharmaceutical is taking on the
challenge of establishing new therapies with a focus on the future. This includes creating synergies
Agitation Associated with Dementia of the Alzheimer’s Type with new modalities, in areas such as gene-modified T cell therapies.
It is estimated that approximately 3.90 million people (estimated 2022)* in the U.S. have Individual group companies are combining their accumulated assets in their fields of strength
Alzheimer’s disease, and it is thought that a large number of those patients exhibit some to bolster global operations and enhance business value.
form of behavioral disorder (agitation), such as excessive motor activity, and verbal or
1. P latform for discovering compounds that specifically form a covalent bond with reactive amino acid residues (mainly cysteine
physical aggression. This kind of disorder places a burden on patients and caregivers, residues) of protein as potential drug target proteins.
impacting quality of life. The Otsuka group aims to market the world’s first treatment for 2. T echnology to create new compounds through molecular design. It clarifies interactions between small-molecular fragments
showing pharmacological activity that cannot be measured in high-throughput screening and large molecule proteins with
agitation associated with dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. Clinical trials are under way
complicated 3D structures that have been implicated in diseases and are potential drug targets.
on two drugs with different mechanisms of action, brexpiprazole and AVP-786.
We hope that these therapeutic development projects contribute not only to the
physical well-being of patients, but also to mental well-being and social well-being
including that of caregivers, and will become a solution for the realization of a
sustainable society.
* ©2022 DR/Decision Resources, LLC. All rights reserved. Reproduction, distribution, transmission or
publication is prohibited.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 032
Further Advancing as a Unique Total Healthcare Company
•• Cardiovascular and Renal System •• Anti-Tuberculosis Drug Research and Development
Creating first-in-class products through new drug discovery technologies Delamanid is improving global health one of the first new drugs in 40 years
and medical devices “If nobody does it, Otsuka must do it.”
In the cardiovascular and renal area, in addition to strengthening our proprietary drug discovery Delamanid is one of the newest anti-tuberculosis drugs approved in the world in the past 40
platforms, we also plan to actively make growth investments, examples of which have included our years. Although MDR-TB is currently gaining prominent attention, it had been thought that TB
business alliance with Aurinia Pharmaceuticals for voclosporin and the acquisition of Visterra, a had become a disease that humankind has already overcome since rifampicin, currently used as
company with a renal disease-related pipeline. Combining our expertise in pharmaceuticals and one of the first-line drugs, was discovered in 1964. In the 1970s, when many researchers and
medical device technologies, we also develop medical devices that are minimally invasive and less research institutes around the world stopped development, Otsuka Pharmaceutical continued
impactful on the body. In 2021, we launched the BioMimics 3D Vascular Stent System in Japan. research, based on the belief that “TB is a serious global health problem, and we must continue
Meanwhile, our Ultrasound Renal Denervation System, a revolutionary treatment method for patients our research if nobody else does it.” Delamanid was created after more than 40 years. Otsuka
with high blood pressure where existing treatments have proved ineffective, was granted Pharmaceutical remains actively engaged in R&D on new anti-tuberculosis drugs. For more than a
Breakthrough Device Designation by the U.S. FDA. The treatment bears the CE mark* in Europe, and decade, the company has consistently ranked among the top funders of TB R&D worldwide.
clinical trials are under way in the U.S. and Japan.
Moving forward, we aim to provide first-in-class products through our innovative approaches. Next-generation tuberculosis drug candidate, OPC-167832
* Displayed on products that conform with relevant health, safety, and environmental protection standards specified by Otsuka Pharmaceutical is conducting research into anti-tuberculosis drugs that will follow
EU legislation.
delamanid. The latest development is a compound called OPC-167832, which as of 2021 is
undergoing Phase II trials in South Africa to confirm its safety and efficacy. OPC-167832 kills TB
Focusing on Building Otsuka’s Kidney Franchise
bacteria through a mechanism that inhibits the activity of enzymes that are essential for
Since joining Otsuka in 2018, Visterra has endeavored to grow synthesizing mycobacterium tuberculosis cell walls. Because its mechanism of action differs
our capabilities in biologics-based drug discovery and accelerate completely from those of existing anti-tuberculosis drugs, including delamanid, it is expected to
medicines into clinical testing. We continue to develop state-of-
be effective as a treatment for various strains of TB. In developing the drug, we received grants
the-art machine learning algorithms to expedite our workflows
from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which has cited elimination of TB worldwide as one of
and employ innovative scientific strategies to create novel
its top priorities, to advance clinical trials. We will continue engaging in TB R&D with the aim of
antibody-based designs.
Through successful collaboration between the medical teams establishing innovative treatment methods.
Zachary Shriver at Visterra and Otsuka, we continue to advance our investigational
Chief Scientific Officer, medicines, even with the challenges presented by the COVID
pandemic. Our collective efforts led to several noteworthy
Visterra
successes. Sibeprenlimab (VIS649) has progressed rapidly to Phase
III clinical trials for the treatment of IgA nephropathy, a serious
autoimmune disease of the kidney, and was recently awarded an
orphan drug designation by the European Medicines Agency. In
addition, VIS171, a drug intended to regulate autoimmune
responses, was recently granted regulatory permission to initiate
clinical trials.
Given recent successes, we look forward to continued
collaboration, expanding upon Otsuka’s franchise in nephrology
and immunology.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 033
Further Advancing as a Unique Total Healthcare Company
Major Development Progress in 2021
Product Indication Country/Region Progress
Psychiatry and neurology
brexpiprazole Schizophrenia in pediatric patients U.S. Approved
fremanezumab Migraine Japan Approved
aripiprazole (long-acting injectable) Schizophrenia China Filed
centanafadine Smoking cessation U.S. Started Phase II
U.S. Implemented Phase III
ulotaront Schizophrenia
Japan Implemented Phase II/III
SEP-4199 Bipolar I depression Japan/U.S. Implemented Phase III
Oncology
pimitespib Gastrointestinal stromal tumor Japan Filed
fosnetupitant Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting Japan Filed
Cholangiocarcinoma Japan/U.S./Europe Started Phase III
futibatinib
Urothelial cancer U.S./ Europe Started Phase II
TAS-117 Solid tumors harboring germline PTEN inactivating mutations Japan/U.S./Europe Started Phase II
ASTX727 Acute myeloid leukemia U.S. Started Phase II
OPC-415 Multiple myeloma Japan Started Phase I/II
TAS1553 Acute myeloid leukemia U.S. Started Phase I
Cardiovascular and renal system
OPC-61815 Cardiac edema Japan Filed
voclosporin Lupus nephritis Europe Filed
bempedoic acid Hypercholesterolemia Japan Started Phase II
NO-13065 Obesity U.S. Started Phase I
Other categories
difamilast Atopic dermatitis Japan Approved
pamufetinib Chronic fibrosing interstitial lung diseases with a progressive phenotype Japan Started Phase IIContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 034
Further Advancing as a Unique Total Healthcare Company
Nutraceutical Business
The Third Medium-Term Management Plan calls for revenue Furthermore, we are working to maintain a high-profit structure Progress of the Three Major Brands
growth of 40 billion yen in the three Major Brands—POCARI capable of a sustained business profit margin of 10% or higher. Our POCARI SWEAT
SWEAT, Nature Made, and Nutrition & Santé—and 40 billion strategies include creating new product concepts in anticipation of Despite the effect of restrictions due to the COVID-19
yen in the three Nurture Brands—BODYMAINTÉ, EQUELLE, changes in business and other landscapes, expanding into new pandemic on consumer activity, sales volume for POCARI
and Daiya. categories and new regions, and accelerating our global expansion. SWEAT (a beverage for replenishing fluids and electrolytes) is
increasing, particularly overseas, due to awareness-raising
Revenue During the Third Medium-Term Management Plan
3rd MTM Plan activities and market development tailored to conditions in
(¥ billion) Revenue for the three Major Brands and the three Nurture Brands each region. In Japan, in addition to our regular activities to
Global
New Products Operations New Businesses 5,000 Revenue in the Nutraceutical Business raise awareness of heat disorder countermeasures, new
Business profit margin
4,500
activities included providing support for the running of the
4,000 4,040
Inter-High School Championships and the All-Japan Junior High
3,767
Business profit margin
3,390 School Championships, at which we also communicated the
Maintain at 10% or higher 3,000 3,100 importance of measures to prevent the spread of infectious
2,770
2,584
diseases. Public understanding of the importance of
2,300 14.4%
Build a resilient business foundation 2,000 12.7% 12.4% 13.5% replenishing fluids and electrolytes at home has also been
increasing, and revenue has been growing steadily as a result.
2nd MTM Plan 1,000 three Nurture Brands In 2021, the Asia-Pacific sports beverage market expanded
Review management assets three Major Brands with CAGR of 2.1%.* However, we expect to outpace market
that underpin the value chain
0 growth, forecasting CAGR of 9.4% in overseas revenue for
2018A 2021A 2022E 2023E POCARI SWEAT during the period of the Third Medium-Term
Third Medium-Term
Management Plan Management Plan.
Accelerating Global Expansion—Trends in Overseas Revenue Sports Beverage Market (Asia-Pacific)* Furthermore, given higher levels of health consciousness,
we are strengthening our global sales structure to expand into
(¥ billion) Japan North America Europe Others Overseas (US$ million) Asia-Pacific
6,000 revenue ratio 6,000 CAGR 2.1% new regions where we expect growth in demand for health
POCARI SWEAT beverages. In the future, we aim to grow POCARI SWEAT into
Overseas overseas revenue plan
revenue ratio 62% 4,000 CAGR a 100-billion-yen brand by further enhancing brand strength
4,000 Japan (2018–2023) through original marketing that thoroughly communicates the
38% 2,000 CAGR 4.6% 9.4 product concept.
%
2,000 0
2020 2021
■ Japan ■ China ■ Indonesia ■ South Korea ■ Thailand ■ Malaysia
■ Others ■ Philippines ■ Vietnam ■ Taiwan
0
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 * Euromonitor International of the U.K.
■ ■ 売上収益（左軸） ■● 海外売上高比率（右軸）Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 035
Further Advancing as a Unique Total Healthcare Company
Nature Made Nutrition & Santé
Launched in 1971 by Pharmavite LLC, a California-based corporation engaged in supplement- Nutrition & Santé (N&S) was founded in 1972, and is a pioneer in European health food
specific research and development, Nature Made is the No. 1 supplement brand1 sold in U.S. manufacturing. “Santé” means “health” in French, so the company’s objective is to provide better
stores. nutrition to keep consumers healthy. N&S has 11 factories and people stationed in France,
Sales of Nature Made in Japan began in 1993, and the brand has continued to grow by offering Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain, Brazil,and Portugal.
a range of high-quality products designed and manufactured for Japanese consumers. As a pioneer, One important asset of N&S is the partnerships it has built over 40 years with local farmers,
Nature Made leads the Japanese supplement market, with its multivitamin and mineral supplements enabling it to achieve the objectives of sourcing main ingredients cultivated using sustainable
and vitamin D supplements ranking No. 1 for in-store sales in their respective market categories.2 farming methods and ensuring traceability. Today, consumers’ and governments’ concept of
Nature Made marked its 50th anniversary in 2021, and continues to be recognized for its health is shifting from “human health” to the wider concept of “the Earth’s health,” which has
quality and dedication to health and wellness. For 24 years beginning in 1997, a U.S. News & increased the value of such partnerships among our stakeholders. We will continue to strengthen
World Report survey conducted in collaboration with specialist publication Pharmacy Times has this asset to deliver health to more people.
named Nature Made the No. 1 Pharmacist Recommended supplement.3
Compared to the pre-COVID era, the percentage of individuals in the U.S. who take supplements
almost every day has increased, indicating that awareness of the importance of health is rising. As a
Accelerating toward Our Vision at Nutrition & Santé
result of rising demand, CAGR in the supplement market in the U.S. is 4.5% per year.4
At Nutrition & Santé, we are accelerating our transformation
1. Based on total U.S. retail sales aggregate data reported through the Scantrack service in the supplement vitamin
category for the 52-week period ended December 26, 2021. ©2022 Information Resources Inc. journey—focusing and strengthening our categories and
2. INTAGE SRI Multivitamin / Vitamin D markets, cumulative market share by brand for January–December 2021 brands like Gerblé and rapidly growing our e-commerce
3. US News & World Report and Pharmacy Times 2021 Survey: Product categories: Letter Vitamins (A–E), Coenzyme
business—while at the same time simplifying our portfolio and
Q10, Omega-3/Fish Oil, Flax Seed Oil, Herbal Supplements, Mood Health Supplements, Diabetic Multivitamins,
Cholesterol Management—Natural, Garlic Supplements improving our operating performance in order to fuel growth.
4. Euromonitor International of the U.K. In that sense, we aim to develop strong capabilities in
e-commerce in our core countries—France, Belgium, the
Results of Survey on Frequency of Netherlands, Italy, Spain, and Portugal—proposing services to
Supplement and Vitamin Intake in the U.S. YoY Change in Nature Made Revenue Luis Uribe consumers that go beyond products. Doing so should enable
President us to not only develop our D2C* business, but also to
Nutrition & Santé
(%) ■ Do not take ■ Less than once/month ■ 1–2 times/month ■ 1–2 times/week (%) accelerate our transformation toward our Vision: “Be the
100 ■ Almost everyday 40 recommended partner of natural nutritional solutions for the
80 wellbeing of body and mind.” This represents an important
21%
20 18% 18%
60 shift in our business strategy, While we con tinue to respect
40 1% 8% our foundations based on nutrition and local supply chain
0
20 48% 49% 53% 55% sourcing. In 2022, we celebrate the 50th anniversary of
-4% Nutrition & Santé. We will reflect on our foundations while
0 -20
2017 2019 2020 2021 Pre-COVID era pursuing our Vision to lead preventive nutritional solutions.
Pre-COVID era * D2C: Direct to Consumer
2019 2019 2020 2020 2021 2021
first halfsecond half first half second halfFirst halfsecond half
Source: Euromonitor International of the U.K.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 036
Further Advancing as a Unique Total Healthcare Company
Progress of three Nurture Brands
BODYMAINTÉ
Focusing on the fact that athletes who put their bodies through demanding training and people Lactic Acid Bacteria B240
under regular stress due to work or study are at a higher risk of health problems, Otsuka Lactiplantibacillus pentosus
ONRICb0240 is a plant-derived
Pharmaceutical used research findings in the fields of “intestines and nutrition” and “exercise and lactic acid bacteria isolated through
nutrition,” to develop BODYMAINTÉ. BODYMAINTÉ Jelly is a conditioning food that contains the the fermentation of a type of tea
leaf, traditionally consumed in
proprietary lactic acid bacteria B240, as well as BCAA, arginine, and whey protein as main northern Thailand. It was isolated
by Sanae Okada, Professor Emeritus
ingredients, and has won the support of many athletes, sports trainers and others who challenge
of Tokyo University of Agriculture*
their bodies daily. BODYMAINTÉ Drink is a conditioning beverage containing lactic acid bacteria and its efficacy was confirmed by
Otsuka Pharmaceutical.
B240 and electrolytes that help keep the body hydrated. It is a convenient way for consumers
* J Gen. Appl. Microbiol.
everywhere to regularly maintain their health and condition. 1986;32:57-65
EQUELLE
EQUELLE originated from research conducted at Otsuka Pharmaceuticals’ Saga Nutraceuticals
Equol
Research Institute, where women’s health is a research theme. EQUELLE, which contains equol, is
Equol is an ingredient produced when daidzein, a
sold in Japan and the U.S. as a food product that supports women’s health and beauty at a time soybean isoflavone, is metabolized by intestinal bacteria.
One aspect of Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s many years of
when aging brings physical and mental changes. In Japan, we have deployed dedicated staff with
soybean research was a focus on the properties of equol.
expert knowledge of women’s health nationwide. With the cooperation of physicians, pharmacists The Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute succeeded in
isolating the Lactococcus 20-92 strain, a lactic acid
and other healthcare professionals we convey the importance of personal care to women who are bacteria that produces equol. We publicize the progress
experiencing physical and mental changes, among other activities aimed at maintaining and results of a variety of research and continue to be a leader
in global research in this field.
improving the health of women and enhancing quality of life. Otsuka Pharmaceutical also provides
a broad range of up-to-date information concerning women’s health, including through the
Women’s Healthcare Project website.
Daiya
Daiya Foods develops, manufactures, and sells high-quality, creative plant-based food products
such as cheese alternatives, dressings, and desserts. Its brand, Daiya, is enjoyed not only by
vegetarians and people with food allergies, but also by the health-conscious millennial generation.
The U.S. plant-based alternatives market continues to grow. Daiya Foods is expanding its sales
channels and product lineup, mainly in the area of cheese alternatives, which are its core product.
Under the Third Medium-Term Management Plan, we plan to achieve revenue CAGR of 25%.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 037
Further Advancing as a Unique Total Healthcare Company
Future of Nutraceutical Business
Opportunities and Risks Future Initiatives
to emerging health issues. Utilizing expertise honed in its
The Nutraceutical Business involves risks such as stagnation in Pharmaceutical Business, the Otsuka group will develop Health awareness is on the rise. In the Nutraceutical Business
the global economy due to the COVID-19 pandemic, original science-based products to maintain and improve we will use the unique expertise we have accumulated in the
intensifying competition, soaring raw material and shipping people’s health and supply these products around the world. Pharmaceutical Business to provide solutions (based on
prices, a shrinking market in Japan due to population decline, Furthermore, by tenaciously continuing with activities to entirely new concepts) that address yet-to-be-imagined needs
and sluggish markets due to unseasonable weather. Despite communicate the value our products, we will create entirely and health issues. In doing so, we aim to extend healthy life
these risks, the Otsuka group continues to search for solutions new product markets. expectancy through the maintenance and improvement of
people’s health. Furthermore, we will reinforce our supply
chain by decentralizing manufacturing sites and optimizing
Strengths Weaknesses logistics, and respond to pandemic-related changes in
•• Creative products and marketing based on scientific evidence •• Brand development in this field takes time consumer needs using our current strategy of targeting the
•• POCARI SWEAT and other products with long-term popularity •• Mechanisms for responding to unforeseen increases in demand self-medication market. In countries where we already do
•• Overseas businesses that incorporate solutions to social issues •• Dependence on manufacturing sites and raw material suppliers
business, we will engage in new types of marketing activities
through their core business processes concentrated in specific regions
•• Steady earnings power for our Major Brands and Nurture Brands to improve brand
S W
trength eakness value, expand the scale of our business, and accelerate our
global expansion through new growth markets.
Opportunities Threats
•• Rising consumer awareness of self-medication, prevention and •• Sluggish overall beverage market due to unseasonal weather
daily health in tandem with medical cost inflation •• Intensification of competition in core areas due to entry of new
•• Diversification of diet competitors
•• Changing consumer needs due to the pandemic •• Pressure on earnings due to soaring raw material and
shipping prices
O T
pportunity •• Supply chain disruptions due to geopolitical risk and hotherr efactaorstContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 038
Further Advancing as a Unique Total Healthcare Company
Research and Development
Otsu Nutraceuticals Research Institute
The Otsu Nutraceuticals Research Institute was
At our R&D sites in the Nutraceutical Business, we are investigating themes such as established in 2000 to advance research on
nutrition and exercise from unique viewpoints that utilize expertise honed in our intestinal immunity, with a particular focus on the
Pharmaceutical Business. intestines, which play a key role in overall health.
One example of the institute’s research is related
Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute to enhancing the body’s biological barrier by
In addition to developing new science-based products using in-house research published data, we increasing the secretion of immunoglobulin A
will continue to undertake research on the replenishment of fluids, electrolytes, and nutrients to (IgA), an antibody that plays a crucial role in
support improved physical performance and conditioning among consumers. mucosal immunity. Exploratory R&D demonstrated
Since its establishment in 1984 as Japan’s first private research institute for clinical exercise and that lactic acid bacteria B240 heightens the
nutrition, the Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute has conducted R&D in various fields related to function of mucosal immunity and lowers the probability of catching the common cold.
exercise and nutrition, women’s health, and other health issues. In 2014, one of the largest
controlled-environment rooms in Japan was completed at the institute, enabling the recreation of Otsu Skin Care Research Institute
hypoxic environments equivalent to those found Otsu Skin Care Research Institute performs R&D of cosmedics. We wanted to improve people’s
at an altitude of 5,000 meters, which were health not only from within, but also from without, by ensuring the skin, the body’s protective
previously difficult to recreate, as well as high- covering, was cared for. Focusing on the ingredient AMP,1 a substance found naturally in the body,
temperature/high-humidity and low- we developed Energy Signal AMP.2 An active ingredient that supports skin turnover and
temperature/low-humidity conditions. This encourages melanin excretion from the body, it is an ingredient of the main products of the
facility helps advance research into sports InnerSignal series. UL∙OS contains the moisturizing ingredient AMP,3 which is based on one of
nutrition, such as by verifying the effects of fluid Otsuka’s proprietary formulas. The product line has steadily expanded to include moisturizer,
and nutritional intake in such environments. sunblock, skin wash, refresh sheets, shampoo, and whitening care,4 and has grown into a brand
that offers total skin care for the body from head to toe.
1. Adenosine monophosphate 3. A denosine monophosphate (moisturizing ingredient)
2. Disodium adenosine monophosphate OT 4. S uppresses production of melanin and prevents skin
blemishes and frecklesContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 039
Further Advancing as a Unique Total Healthcare Company
Continued Activities to Achieve Healthy Lifestyles
Considering nutritional problems to be a social issue, the Otsuka group continues Sponsoring the Tokyo Marathon from the Inaugural Race: Supporting
to work to create systems that can support people’s health in a range of situations, Runners in Replenishing Fluids, Electrolytes and Nutrients
including exercise and sport—which are an essential health maintaining. Otsuka Pharmaceutical has been an official partner of the Tokyo Marathon—one of the largest
urban marathons in Asia—since the inaugural race, and has supported runners in replenishing
Activities to Communicate the Importance of Replenishing Fluids and Electrolytes fluids, electrolytes and nutrients during the event. The Tokyo Marathon sparked a running boom
Since launching POCARI SWEAT, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has continued to communicate the in Japan, and in conjunction with rising health awareness, has been a major factor in increasing
importance of replenishing fluids and electrolytes in a variety of contexts. Following the the number of domestic runners. In 2021, with thorough infection prevention measures in place,
establishment of the Japan Sport Association’s Study Group for the Prevention of Heat Disorders in the public were able to run in the Tokyo Marathon for the first time in three years.
Sports Activities in 1991, from 1992 Otsuka Pharmaceutical began working with the association For runners competing in the 26.2 miles (42.195 km), dehydration, loss of energy, and muscle
on activities to build understanding of and help prevent heat disorders. During the ensuing years, injury can be serious issues. Every year at the Tokyo Marathon, replenishing fluids, electrolytes and
the company has continued to provide information on a growing number of themes, including nutrients that runners lose is a major challenge to finishing the race safely. Using the expertise
children’s sport, labor health and safety, and rehydration for senior citizens. Otsuka from its Pharmaceutical Business, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has provided runners with evidence-
Pharmaceutical’s website includes an information section titled Protect Yourself From Heat based nutraceutical products and relevant information, and will continue to offer support to
Disorders and a section presenting content based on the Japan Sport Association’s A Guidebook runners in future races.
for the Prevention of Heat Disorder During Sports Activities (First Edition). Another initiative is the
Heat Disorders Prevention website, which was created in collaboration with weather forecasters. Heat Disorder Countermeasures Suited to the New Normal at the All Japan
Through these and other activities, we are Inter-High School Championships
further raising awareness of the topic. In Ensuring Safe Operation and Supporting the Health of Competitors and Officials
addition, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, which Otsuka Pharmaceutical has been a special sponsor of the All Japan Inter-High School
sells OS-1, an oral rehydration solution, provides Championships for eight consecutive years since 2014. Due to the pandemic, in 2021 the
operational support to Oshiete! “Kakure championships had to be held with thorough infection prevention measures in place. As such,
Dassui” Iinkai, an organization that raises Otsuka Pharmaceutical worked with the All Japan Inter-High School Sporting Association and the
awareness of ways to prevent and treat hosting prefectures to create a system to ensure thorough support for the prevention of heat
dehydration before it becomes critical. disorders. Measures included encouraging the use of personal squeeze bottles by athletes, which
minimizes interaction with officials and prevents the sharing of drinks and other forms of close
contact. In addition to supporting organizing committee members in becoming qualified as Heat
Disorder Prevention Advisors, the company also worked with students in the broadcasting team to
draft warning announcements regarding heat disorders. In these and other ways, Otsuka
Pharmaceutical is supporting both athletes and event staff.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 040
Further Advancing as a Unique Total Healthcare Company
Consumer Products Others
In 1968, Otsuka Foods released Bon Curry, the world’s first commercially available food in plastic Otsuka’s diversified operations include a chemical business that supplies various materials in the
pouch bags (retort bags), and has since launched a range of products that have been ahead of fields of automobiles, electrical and electronic equipment, and building materials; a transportation
their time, such as Mannan Hikari, a rice-like processed food made from refined konjac flour and and warehousing business that aims for environmentally friendly logistics, mainly for Otsuka group
other ingredients, the My Size series, perfect for people who feel that the portion size and calorie pharmaceuticals, foods, and beverages; and an electronic equipment business that supports the
count of their meals are high, and Zero Meat, meat-free products made from soybeans. development of leading-edge technologies. Otsuka Chemical’s operations center on materials. The
Otsuka Foods aims to develop the kinds of products that people are happy to serve to their friends company aims for continuous technological innovation in automotive, electrical and electronic
and family and incorporate the four key ingredients of flavor, safety, peace of mind, and health. equipment, housing, and healthcare areas, and provides products worldwide.
Based on its original concepts and development capabilities, as well as a traditional pioneering Based on organic, inorganic, and high-molecular chemical technologies, Otsuka Chemical is engaged
spirit, Otsuka Foods will continue to deliver original flavors and new dreams to people’s tables as in diverse material development with the aim of offering high added value in line with the needs of the
only Otsuka Foods can. smart device, mobility, and other markets. Moreover, the company goes beyond offering materials to
propose solutions for various industries from a global perspective.
Otsuka Chemical has also succeeded in the development of GCLE, a proprietary pharmaceutical
intermediate for cephalosporin antibiotics. Leveraging the technological expertise accumulated in this
development process, the company is moving forward with research and development on active
pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates, including for ß-lactam antibiotics.
Zero Meat Bon Curry Veggie
Zero Meat was developed to solve Bon Curry Veggie is an addition to the Bon Curry lineup
a range of current social issues that brings out the delicious flavors of plant-based
Otsuka Chemical India (GCLE Production Plant) New office at Zhangjiagang Otsuka Chemical
related to health, food shortages, ingredients and uses no animal-derived ingredients. Made
and environmental impact. With using vegetables and beans produced in Japan, Bon Curry Otsuka Warehouse provides optimal logistics solutions. This includes working with external
no animal-based ingredients,1 Veggie is unlike conventional curries that use a flour-based manufacturers to promote joint distribution, with a focus on the Otsuka group’s pharmaceuticals, beverages/
Zero Meat products are entirely stock, instead using pureed vegetables and fruits to gently food products, and daily necessities. Furthermore, the company has built an IT-based connected logistics
plant-based, using soy2 as a meat thicken the sauce. Moreover, ingredients have been system and is promoting paperless working environments, eco-friendliness, and work style innovation.
alternative. carefully selected to ensure the product is vegan-friendly.3
1. Animal-based ingredients include 3. Otsuka Foods’ definition of vegan friendly is as below:
those made from beef, pork, chicken, Products that do not use animal-based ingredients (beef, pork,
eggs, milk, honey, and seafood. chicken, eggs, milk, honey, or seafood).
2. This product uses processed soybeans. Further information:
https://www.otsukafoods.co.jp/en/company/business/vegan.html
Warehouse work using digital devices Paperless offices using data-sharing systemsContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 041
Message from the Director in Charge of Sustainability
treatments for some conditions, and undernutrition. We
approach these issues by considering what only Otsuka can do
and setting about addressing the related unmet medical needs.
We are making cohesive,
For example, in the Pharmaceutical Business, we seek to
group-wide efforts to help eradicate tuberculosis—one of the “big three” infectious
diseases. Tuberculosis is a serious public health challenge, and
realize a sustainable society.
like COVID-19, accounts for a high number of deaths every
year. In fact, tuberculosis kills 1.5 million people annually,1,2 and
is particularly prevalent in the developing world. We continue
to work with various partners around the world to deliver
drugs and address the disparity in access to medicines due to
economic factors.
Yoshiro Matsuo
In the Nutraceutical Business, we develop innovative
Executive Deputy President and Director
science-based products that leverage the know-how that the
In charge of Otsuka group sustainability
Pharmaceutical Business has accumulated over many years, and
promotion
conduct ongoing health education programs aimed at tackling
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
challenges involved in access to nutrition. (See pages 43–44)
1. Global Tuberculosis Report 2021, World Health Organization
2. WHO Coronavirus (COVID-19) Dashboard, World Health Organization
Resolving Social Issues through Our Business on) to further clarify the group’s commitment to sustainable
growth. The material issues were selected with consideration of People and Quality in All We Do Are
The Otsuka group of companies, in accordance with its social issues and based on the characteristics and strengths of Essential for Sustained Corporate Growth
corporate philosophy, “Otsuka-people creating new products the Otsuka group in conducting broad-ranging businesses, and
for better health worldwide,” seeks to be an indispensable we are working together to achieve the goals we have set for Nurturing successive generations of talent is essential for the
contributor to people’s health worldwide through a wide range each material issue. sustainable growth of a company. At the Otsuka group, we
of innovative and creative products including pharmaceuticals, know that the diversity of our people is key to innovation,
functional beverages, and foods. We believe that by making In Search of Solutions for Unmet Needs globalization, and the development of revolutionary products.
our philosophy a reality we will effectively achieve sustainability. That is why we always seek to hire a broad range of people,
As such, our basic stance is to grow sustainably and help One of the Otsuka group’s important missions is to contribute encourage effective personnel exchanges within the group, and
resolve social issues through our business, in accordance with to the resolution of unmet needs. We work every day to help conduct training that further invigorates and develops our
that philosophy. in the prevention and treatment of illness around the world, workforce. The Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics, a
In 2019, when we unveiled the Third Medium-Term and to maintain and improve peoples’ health. Daunting code of conduct for business activities in global markets,
Management Plan, we also announced our Sustainability challenges remain, including the threat of prolonged includes topics on human rights and diversity. Furthermore, we
Mission and Materiality (the initiatives that Otsuka is focused pandemics, insufficient medical infrastructure, lack of effective are signatories to the United Nations Global Compact (as ofContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 042
Message from the Director in Charge of Sustainability
2016), which stipulates ten principles on human rights, labor, Further Strengthening Group Corporate issues. Amid rapid day-to-day change in the external
the environment, and anti-corruption, as well as to the Governance environment and societal demands related to sustainability,
Women’s Empowerment Principles (as of 2017), thus further opportunities to participate in lectures and discussions by
underlining our commitment to social responsibility. In addition, For the Otsuka group to remain relevant to all stakeholders, a outside experts on the latest trends are also provided.
we released the Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy in 2021, strong governance structure is necessary. Based on realizing its We at the Otsuka group are committed to growing
and are engaged in group-wide initiatives to ensure respect for corporate philosophy, Otsuka Holdings is committed to sustainably in accordance with our corporate philosophy and
human rights. (See pages 45–46) maximizing corporate value sustainably over the medium to resolving social issues through our business.
Commitment to quality has been an important part of the long term. To meet this commitment, its basic policy is to make
Otsuka spirit since the company’s inception. “Quality in all we transparent, fair, and timely decisions, and to fulfil its corporate
do” signifies not only our product quality, but quality at all social responsibility by living up to the expectations of all
stages of the value chain, from R&D and production through to stakeholders and engaging in ongoing dialogue. Governance
distribution and accountability to customers, as well as quality has been a key focus since the establishment of Otsuka
Sustainability Management Structure
in management. We will continue with our group-wide efforts Holdings. We continue working to strengthen governance, as
to achieve higher levels of quality. (See pages 47–50) illustrated by the introduction of Enterprise Risk Management dA elp ibp ely r af to ior n
Otsuka Holdings Otsuka Group Sustainability Promotion Leader
(ERM) in July 2020. (See pages 62–73) Board of Directors (Otsuka Holdings Director)
Our 2050 Environmental Vision, “Net Zero” Approval
Sustainability Management Structure Proposal Approval Promotion
The Otsuka group aims to help resolve social issues through its Group Companies’
Otsuka Group Sustainability Promotion Committee Executive in Charge
business activities. In 2021, amid the increasing seriousness of We believe that sustainability initiatives are an integral part of of Sustainability
climate change and various other environmental issues, we our business and should be undertaken by each and every
Promotion
adopted the 2050 Environmental Vision, “Net Zero,” which employee. To this end, the Otsuka group has established the
calls for us to reduce the total environmental impacts of our Otsuka Group Sustainability Promotion Committee. Examination Environment Procurement CR2
business activities to zero. Under this vision, we identified three The committee was formed in 2018 to discuss and in each area1 H ru igm hta sn I cn ot ner tn roa ll ・・・・・ Promotion Report Promotion
environmental material issues: carbon neutrality, circular determine the direction and plans for the group’s sustainability
economy, and water neutrality; set new medium-term targets efforts. Committee members comprise managers of Promotion
that include reducing 50% in CO2 emissions compared to 2017 departments related to sustainability-relevant areas such as the
Group Companies and Divisions
levels by 2028; and raised the target of the Otsuka Group supply chain, the environment, human resources, general
Plastic Policy to 100% use of recycled and plant-derived raw affairs, compliance and risk management, public relations, and, 1. Activities are promoted through various conference bodies, WGs, TFs, and
materials in our PET bottles by 2030. The group will work as from 2021, production and quality. others (including time-limited PJ)
2. Consumer Relations
one to achieve its 2050 Environmental Vision, “Net Zero,” by For those in charge of the supply chain, the environment,
pursuing unique initiatives to realize a sustainable society that human rights, and other relevant areas, the committee provides
can be passed on to future generations. (See pages 51–55) a forum for sharing their initiatives and progress on sustainabilityContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 043
Health
For more details about our health-related initiatives, visit:
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/society/health/pharmaceutical.html
Pharmaceutical Business: The Challenge of Addressing Unmet Medical Needs
disease worldwide); contribute to Doctors Without Borders programs; have secured funding
Basic Policy from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for the development of new TB treatment drugs; and
Good health is a universal desire. At the Otsuka group, we work every day to help forge alliances with global companies in places where we have no corporate presence, all with
healthcare professionals around the world prevent and treat illness, and to help ordinary the aim of using our strengths to contribute to public health.
people maintain and improve their health. Numerous challenges remain, including Otsuka Pharmaceutical is working to establish a
protracted infectious disease outbreaks, underdeveloped medical infrastructure, and
system for sustainable drug supply at appropriate
insufficient effective treatment options. We approach these issues by considering what
prices so that people around the world can access
it is that only Otsuka can do, with a particular focus on working to address unmet
medical needs. Moreover, with medical costs soaring, maintaining and improving health delamanid when they need it, regardless of the
is now an issue not just for individuals but for society as a whole to face head on. The socioeconomic conditions or income level of the
Otsuka group endeavors not only to raise awareness of health-related issues among countries in which they live. This multifaceted
individuals, but also teams up with communities to help all people become and stay
approach has seen use of delamanid expand to
healthier.
more than 120 countries/regions by the end of
In this section, we look at the Otsuka group’s initiatives targeting unmet medical
needs, focusing on efforts to eliminate tuberculosis, which is one of the world’s “big 2021, with enough doses to treat more than 60,000
three” infectious diseases. cases shipped since 2016.
Expanding Access to Patients Worldwide Battling Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR)
Alongside HIV/AIDS and malaria, tuberculosis (TB) is considered one of the world’s “big three” Otsuka Pharmaceutical has been implementing the Responsible Access Program to prevent the
infectious diseases. Its deadliness is comparable with newcomers such as COVID-19; of the more outbreak of delamanid-resistant TB and to promote proper use of the drug.
than ten million people that are affected by TB each year, 1.5 million die. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Our stewardship achievements, including efforts to educate about proper use, increase
has contributed to the fight against TB with the development of delamanid, a TB drug that is the global access to delamanid, and conduct ongoing research and development into drug-
result of more than 40 years of R&D. However, given that many of the world’s TB patients are in resistant TB, are acknowledged in the AMR Benchmark, a survey of global pharmaceutical
developing countries/regions in Africa, Asia, and other parts of the world where Otsuka companies conducted by the Access to Medicine Foundation, which is funded by the U.K.
Pharmaceutical has no corporate presence, we are working to expand access to TB drugs and and Dutch governments.
diagnostics by teaming up with the Stop TB Partnership, an organization that helps developing
nations purchase medicines sustainably via its Global Drug Facility. For more details about our Fight against Tuberculosis – An Ancient Disease with a Contemporary
In addition, we work with a wide range of stakeholders to contribute to people’s health Face, visit:
worldwide. For instance, we participate in the Global Health Innovative Technology (GHIT) Fund https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/society/health/to_health.html
(a public-private partnership headquartered in Japan that aims to tackle the spread of infectiousContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 044
Health
Nutraceutical Business: Initiatives for Yet-To-Be-Imagined Needs
provide a variety of information in this regard. Since 2015, we have held Women’s Health Seminars
Basic Policy throughout Japan. Furthermore, we launched the Otsuka Advanced Training for Healthy Aging
The advance of medical technology and improvement in public health has seen the Supporters (OATHAS) program to assist pharmacies and pharmacists in supporting the health of
average lifespan increase worldwide. However, new health challenges have also their local communities. This program is both a source of essential knowledge for community
emerged, such as declining birthdates, aging populations, and the rise of lifestyle-
health, and an opportunity for hands-on practical experience. Other measures include webpages
related diseases. At the Otsuka group, our Nutraceutical Business pursues a range of
that offer insights into women’s health, including the Women’s Health Promotion Project, KO-
initiatives aimed at supplying the world with products that help people maintain and
improve their health. These initiatives include the development of innovative products NENKI.Lab (with content on menopausal health issues), and PMS LABORATORY, through which we
that combine scientific evidence with the Pharmaceutical Business’s accumulated offer day-to-day health support for women of all ages.
expertise, and ongoing health awareness programs aimed at tackling challenges related
to access to nutrition. Here, we present our initiatives for women’s health, as well as
offerings that support the self-medication trend, such as Nature Made. Supporting the Self-Medication Trend
The U.S. is a global leader in nutrition and supplements. Nature Made was developed in the U.S.
by Pharmavite, which was founded by a pair of pharmacists who felt that more could be done to
Contributing to Total Healthcare for Women
improve people’s wellness other than simply prescribing drugs. To address this issue, they
The Otsuka group continues to research topics relating to women’s health and actively engage in developed a range of products that contain nutrients essential for life in a form as close as
product development. In addition to EQUELLE and EQUELLE Gelée, which contain equol (an possible to their natural state.
ingredient that supports women’s health and beauty at a time when aging brings physical and
mental changes), Otsuka Pharmaceutical released tocoelle in 2021, which emerged from R&D
focused on premenstrual symptoms. Furthermore, Taiho Pharmaceutical launched BUP-4 LADY, Nutritional Support and Helping Families Fill Nutrition Gaps
which aims to improve the day-to-day lives of women with urinary urgency. In 2021, the Otsuka Pharmavite, which is based in the U.S. and handles
group acquired Uqora, a U.S. provider of products for women’s urinary health. We are committed to the development and sales of Nature Made
addressing health needs in a broad range of areas and contributing to total healthcare for women. products, has partnered with the non-profit
organization Feed the Children to provide products
and support for health over three years. Through
Building Awareness of Women’s Health
this partnership, the company has donated
Otsuka Pharmaceutical strives to support approximately 15 million children’s chewable
women in leading active, healthy lives, and multivitamins. Each family received a two-year
knows the importance of building supply of children’s vitamins, reaching 8,800
understanding of the changing health needs families total.
of women throughout life, and of arming In addition, Nature Made registered dietitians
individuals with the knowledge they need to provided on-site nutritional education to families
make choices that are right for them. We on how to compensate for nutritional deficiencies.
Women’s Health Promotion Project website (available only
in Japanese)Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 045
People
For more details about our people-related initiatives, visit:
Diverse Human Resources to Drive Innovation https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/society/people/
A System That Generates Innovation
Basic Policy
Human Resource Development through Collaboration Inside and Outside
Innovation has always been driven by people. The Otsuka group attracts talented
the Group
people and offers opportunities for skills development to enable those people to
make the most of their skills. Moreover, we are establishing a network across The Otsuka group views partnerships and collaborative efforts inside and outside the group as
workplaces and business fields that will actively promote communication inside and opportunities to help address the unmet medical needs of patients worldwide. By sharing
outside the group. By doing so, we hope to generate a lasting source of innovation
expertise and state-of-the-art technologies, we are boosting our drug discovery capabilities,
that is free from fixed ideas.
further improving our development capabilities, and stepping up our global expansion. For
example, Taiho Pharmaceutical established its own corporate venture capital (CVC) subsidiary in
the U.S. in 2016, and is using it to forge a network with promising biotech start-ups and the
Human Resource Development academic community in the U.S. and elsewhere with a view to generating innovation. The
company also seconds employees from Japan to the CVC subsidiary for a few years to gain
Upholding Our Corporate Culture and Developing Global Leaders
overseas experience as part of their professional development.
In 2016, Otsuka Holdings established the Otsuka Global Academy with the aim of ongoing identification
and development of the global human resources needed for sustained growth. The academy’s programs, Developing Digitally-Capable Human Resources
which target Otsuka group employees worldwide, are designed and run in-house, but we also partner Otsuka Holdings is conducting a variety of initiatives to speed up digital transformation
with outside institutions in some areas for more effective human resource development. Guided by the throughout the group. One example is the Otsuka Group AI Forum, which is used to share case
commitment of Otsuka Holdings’ executives and rooted in the leadership of the Otsuka group’s founding studies of group companies’ successes and generally promote the spread and understanding of
figures and the group’s unique approach to business, participants learn about and discuss the kinds of artificial intelligence mainly among group company presidents and directors. Training in a wide
people the Otsuka group needs for its next generation of leaders and the skills they are expected to spectrum of technologies such as data science is also provided in order to help boost employees’
possess, and are cultivated as future leadership candidates. IT capabilities. In addition, a group-wide portal site was launched in 2021 to disseminate and
Meanwhile, since 2021 Taiho Pharmaceutical has partnered with share in-house and external information relating to digitalization.
outside institutions to provide training that emphasizes dialogue on Otsuka Medical Devices hosted a training session at which university professors shared
upholding the company’s longstanding corporate culture and examples of how to employ artificial intelligence in the field of medicine. Meanwhile Otsuka
mindset. Inspired by the company’s slogan “Acting on what should Warehouse, knowing that IT is vital for overcoming the challenges faced by the logistics industry, is
be done,” training currently targets company executives, but the seeking to improve the IT literacy of its
company intends to broaden coverage going forward. employees through in-house study
workshops and by encouraging employees
to take the Japanese government’s IT
Highlight Global E-Learning Platform Passport exam by subsidizing examination
In April 2020, we launched the Global E-Learning (GEL) Platform employing the Harvard fees. The company’s commitment to
ManageMentor program provided by Harvard Business School Publishing Corporate Learning. A building IT competency also includes
first for the Otsuka group, it is a shared learning platform for group employees worldwide. So
ongoing year-round IT skills training for
far, a total of 2,400 employees from 75 group companies in 29 countries/regions have
those who pass the exam.
participated. In addition to cultivating business literacy and skills, the program features messages Executives and employees at the Otsuka Group AI Forum
from top Otsuka group executives, as well as training initiatives unique to Otsuka that group
employees around the globe can take part in together, including a learning “café” and webinars.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 046
People
Diversity and Inclusion Health and Productivity Management
Basic Policy Basic Policy
At the Otsuka group, we know that the contributions of a diverse array of people is At the Otsuka group, we believe that maintaining workplaces that enable each
conducive to innovation and globalization, and to the development of innovative employee to work in good health and spirits is vital for making our shared corporate
products. That is why we embrace and promote diversity. As a group of companies driven philosophy a reality. This was also the thinking behind the declarations on health made
to innovate, we are committed to ensuring our workplaces are welcoming to all people. by major Otsuka group companies.
Promotion System Promotion System
Since 2008, the Diversity and Inclusion Promotion Team at each group company has led efforts for Otsuka Holdings’ executive deputy president and director is in charge of health and productivity
greater diversity and inclusion through individual company and coordinated group initiatives. These management, and under his supervision the Otsuka Pharmaceutical health insurance association,
initiatives include planning group-wide systems, conducting seminars, and holding regular meetings each group company’s health and productivity promotion manager, and specialist staff such as
to share each company’s effective examples of diversity and inclusion. industrial physicians and nurses work collaboratively across the entire organization to help maintain
and enhance the health of employees and their families. As a result of these initiatives, 15 Otsuka
Collaborative Group Activities group companies were selected by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry under the 2022
Certified Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations Recognition Program.
In Japan, we have introduced the Family Smile Support System, which encourages employees to
work from home before/after parental leave, or when taking on childcare and nursing care
Raising Health-Awareness among Employees through Business Activities
obligations. This system has led to improvements in work efficiency, productivity, and work-life
balance. We have also introduced the Work Interval System, which mandates minimum rest periods We hold seminars on a variety of topics with the aims of deepening employees’ understanding of
for shift workers. We also hold regular group-wide diversity seminars. A total of 2,070 people group company activities and encouraging them to give their own health and the health of their
attended the six seminars held from fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021. We know that it is not enough families more thought. In 2021, a total of 1,300 employees attended online seminars on women’s
for only employees to be aware of the issues—their bosses must broaden their awareness too. That health and on cancer. Other seminars were held on headaches and presenteeism, and on alcohol
is why we established the “Ikuboss” (managers supportive of work-life balance) declaration, which consumption. Furthermore, employees of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory have produced a series of
has already led to increases in the female manager ratio and the number of employees taking online health support videos for the benefit of their colleagues.
parental leave. (Please refer to Financial and Non-Financial Highlights on page 75.)
Highlight Boosting mental and physical health on a virtual run.
Highlight
In conjunction with World Mental Health Day, the POCARI SWET RUN charity event took place
Otsuka America Pharmaceutical among Recipients of HBA’s ACE Award* between October 1 and November 14, 2021, in collaboration with Silver Ribbon–a mental health
Otsuka Pharmaceutical in the U.S. established Otsuka’s Network awareness NPO based in Singapore. The event is a virtual running race utilizing a smartphone app.
of Otsuka Women (NOW) in 2019 to drive efforts toward Participants choose their distance and donate to the NPO based on how far they manage to run.
diversity, equity, and inclusion as key parts of its global business Around 4,000 runners including Otsuka group employees from Japan and Indonesia laced up their
strategy. With a membership of more than 500 employees, NOW running shoes and took part in the event.
connects women with opportunities to consider how to succeed Before the race, participants could join online
and grow in the workplace, and NOW members have had higher seminars to hear psychiatrists and athletes talk
promotion rates. In recognition of this and other initiatives, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical about mental health, focusing on mental welling,
received the 2021 Advancement. Commitment. Engagement. (ACE) award* from the exercise, and hydration. Events of this kind
Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association (HBA). highlight how Otsuka can work closely with and
support consumers’ mental and physical health by
* This award honors companies committed to ensuring gender diversity and leadership opportunities for
women as part of their organizational DNA. utilizing the synergy of its two core businesses.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 047
Quality in All We Do
For more details about our quality in all we do-related initiatives, visit:
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/society/quality/
Fields Field-Specific Quality in All We Do Challenges
Basic Policy
To help build a sustainable society, the Otsuka group guided by an enduring philosophy Ethical Considerations in Accordance with Laws and Guidelines
of “Customers First” and “Quality First,” pursues quality at all stages of the value chain, Research and We comply with all relevant laws and guidelines while striving to uphold
and promotes initiatives taking into account the environment, society, and human rights. Development bioethics and scientifically valid methodologies from the viewpoints of
preservation of the environment and safety management.
Sustainable Procurement in Cooperation with Suppliers
We share the Otsuka Group Procurement Policy and Otsuka Group Sustainable
Procurement Procurement Guidelines with suppliers. We carry out robust due diligence
when selecting new suppliers, and work with suppliers to promote sustainable
procurement with regard to legal compliance, consideration for the
environment, human rights, and other issues.
Research and
Development
Group-wide Teamwork to Ensure Stable Supply of High-Quality Products
We comply with relevant laws and regulations, administrative instructions, and
industrial standards, and have also been working to obtain international
Customer Production, certification for quality and food safety management standards. In addition, we
Service Procurement Quality Control observe the laws and regulations of each country in which we do business and,
and Patient/ based on GxP,* perform quality control, quality assurance and utilize our global
safety surveillance system to implement post-marketing safety measures, including
Customer Safety
the collection and monitoring of safety information concerning adverse events.
* GxP (Good x Practice): A general term for “Good Practice” standards (ministerial
ordinances, regulations, and guidelines) established by governments and other public
institutions for ensuring safety and reliability
Building a Logistics Foundation with the Ultimate Mission of
Production, Quality Ensuring Supply Stability
MSa al re ks e a tin nd g Co Cn ut sr to ol man ed r SP aa ft eie tynt/ Logistics We rigorously control and maintain product quality throughout pharmaceutical,
food product, and beverage distribution. Furthermore, we have incorporated
transportation into our business continuity planning, including registration of
vehicles for authorized access to restricted areas in an emergency.
Logistics
Appropriate Promotion and Enhanced Information Access
We have established a Code of Practice that builds on the International
Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations’ Code of Practice
and the Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association’s Promotion Code for
Sales and Prescription Drugs. In addition to complying with that code, Otsuka group
“Quality is vital in a factory and so is packaging. We have to manufacture
Marketing companies also observe industry rules such as the “Guidelines for Provision of
and market, putting ourselves in the consumer’s position.” Sales information on Prescription Drugs” and conduct sales and marketing
activities responsibly and with a high level of ethics. We have also established
In 1946, when Otsuka began the manufacture and sale of injection drugs, Otsuka’s founder, an expert panel, comprising members drawn from multiple departments, to
perform reviews of marketing plans and sales promotion materials.
Busaburo Otsuka, wrote the above guiding principles to clarify what his employees should do to
ensure proper manufacturing, transportation, and sales. Sincere Response to Inquiries and Reflection in Company Activities
Today still, these principles are on display at the Otsuka group’s manufacturing sites and other We have established dedicated customer contact points (staffed by specially
Customer trained personnel) that field inquiries and are tailored to the characteristics of
facilities, conveying our philosophy of “Customers First” and “Quality First.” Service particular drugs, quasi-drugs, food products, and other respective products.
All employees of the Otsuka group will remain true to this philosophy, and now as in the past, Opinions and suggestions regarding products and services are proactively shared
within the group for the purpose of product development and improvement.
our responsibility as a health-related company will always be to think of customers and quality first.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 048
Quality in All We Do
Procurement
Sustainable Procurement in Cooperation with Suppliers
Sustainable Procurement Initiatives
Basic Policy
Embedding Sustainable Procurement through Training
The Otsuka group is a signatory to the 2016 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC),
and considers the compact’s positions on human rights, labor, the environment, and We provide sustainable procurement-related training that takes into consideration human rights,
anti-corruption to be universal values. Our procurement is guided by the Otsuka the environment, and other issues, in order to further embed the Otsuka Group Procurement
Group Procurement Policy, which sets out the direction for consistently upholding the Policy and Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines throughout the group. Moreover,
UNGC’s values, maintaining sustainable procurement practices in accordance with our
specific task forces work to improve the skills of procurement staff, providing them with
corporate philosophy, “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health
opportunities to learn about sustainable procurement issues and other topics.
worldwide,” and improving corporate value while making a contribution to society.
Briefings on Sustainable Procurement Practices
Target for 2023: Conduct Briefings for 160 Suppliers
Promotion System
2021 Progress: Conducted Briefings for 126 Suppliers
The Otsuka Sustainable Procurement Task Force, which is supervised by Otsuka Holdings’ directors We hold briefings for suppliers on sustainable procurement practices. Attendees learn about the
and comprises Otsuka Holdings and eight group companies,* was formed in 2020. The task force Otsuka Group Procurement Policy and the Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines, and
meets once every two months to share views on challenges, exchange information, and report on our expectations regarding compliance. These events are also opportunities for all parties to stay
each company’s progress. In addition, we formulated the Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement up-to-date on human rights and environmental issues and hear about examples of the group’s
Guidelines in September 2020 as concrete guidelines for suppliers to follow. initiatives in action. Suppliers that agree to uphold our policies sign a pledge affirming their
Starting in 2022, the Otsuka group has begun focusing on a new area—stability of supply, intention to cooperate in achieving sustainable procurement as business partners.
which addresses natural disasters and geopolitical risks—in addition to the four existing areas of
attention: human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) on Sustainable Procurement
Target for 2023: Conduct SAQs at 200 Suppliers
* Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Foods,
Otsuka Packaging Industries, Otsuka Techno, and EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical. 2021 Progress: Conducted SAQs at 137 Domestic and Overseas Suppliers
Suppliers that sign the pledge conduct a self-assessment, which consists of the common SAQ
published by Global Compact Network Japan, and the Human Rights SAQ and Environmental SAQ
that we have developed taking into account characteristics of the Otsuka group business activities.
Based on the results, we then conduct interviews with suppliers. Seven companies were
interviewed in fiscal 2021, with the interviews conducted remotely as a pandemic measure. The
sharing of examples of sustainable procurement practices are opportunities to learn from
successful case studies, and cooperating to address specific concerns ensures that we and our
suppliers can make tangible progress toward sustainable procurement.
Group meeting on sustainable procurement
Attendees include directors, executive officers, and procurement staff from
Otsuka Holdings, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory,
Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka FoodsContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 049
Quality in All We Do
Production, Quality Control and Patient/Customer Safety
Group-wide Cooperation to Ensure Stable Supply of High-Quality Products
departments from Japan and around the world, and are an ideal opportunity to share and learn
Basic Policy from manufacturing errors case studies from each company.
At the Otsuka group, we believe that providing a stable supply of high-quality products is part Promotion System for Quality Control and Patient/Customer Safety
of our contribution to a sustainable society. Accordingly, we seek to make the most effective use
of the characteristics of our businesses, which include pharmaceuticals, foods, chemical products, The Otsuka group designs systems for quality control and patient/customer safety in accordance
and cosmedics, in the quest for a level of quality that justifies customers’ faith in us. To that end, with the characteristics of each business, whether it be pharmaceuticals, food, chemical products,
we believe it is vital to pursue talent development across departmental borders, to maintain a or cosmedics. We comply with the Act on Securing Quality, Efficacy and Safety of Products
reliable quality assurance system spanning all relevant companies (which also has the advantage
Including Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices and observe laws and regulations of the countries
of enabling us to stay abreast of changes in the operating environment), to minimize quality
in which we operate, perform quality control based on Good Quality Practice and Good Vigilance
risks, and to undertake dynamic initiatives that contribute to supply chain stability.
Practice in manufacturing and sales, and implement post-marketing safety measures. Moreover,
The Otsuka group’s systems for production, quality, and safety management are compliant
with relevant laws and regulations, administrative instructions, and industry standards we submit necessary reports to regulatory authorities, and update and maintain all required
(including those prescribed by the Act on Securing Quality, Efficacy and Safety of Products documentation. In addition, with regard to the manufacture and sale of pharmaceuticals at Otsuka
Including Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices and the Food Sanitation Act). Furthermore, we group companies, information is exchanged among the General Marketing Compliance Officer
aim not only to obtain appropriate standards certification (ISO 9001 for quality, ISO 22000, and the Quality Assurance Manager, and the Safety Control Manager. We have established a
and FSSC 22000 for food safety), but also to foster a “quality culture” that goes beyond the pharmacovigilance system that facilitates the constant collection and assessment of product safety
minimum obligations required by law. information throughout the group worldwide, and this has enabled us to provide information
swiftly to medical institutions.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical and its overseas group companies have established global product
Promotion System for Production quality policies,* implement measures to ensure the reliability of quality-related data, and publish
manuals that outline common procedures. We strive to improve our quality systems, for instance
At the Otsuka group, we aim to maintain a stable supply of high-quality products. To that end, our
by holding annual management reviews—globally, at the Otsuka International Asia Arab Division,
production departments practice stringent production management that facilitates the tracing of
and in Japan—in order to promote compliance with Good Clinical Practice, Good Vigilance
products throughout the entire supply chain, from the procurement of raw materials through
Practice, and Good Manufacturing Practice from development through commercial sale.
production and distribution to sale.
Since 2019, product quality department of the Pharmaceutical Business and Nutraceutical Business
Moreover, to share information, hold discussions, and implement technical improvements group-
jointly hold an annual Global Product Quality Meeting. The third meeting, held online, was attended by
wide, managers and staff from Otsuka group factories around the world come together under the
approximately 120 executives and quality supervisors for pharmaceuticals and nutraceuticals from 12
supervision of group company executives for the Global Production Meeting, which has been held for
countries/regions, including Japan. The attendees shared information on changes in the social
over 30 years. It leads to new activities that leverage the strengths of the Otsuka group in conducting
landscape and quality improvement initiatives. In addition, a Quality Performance Award was
broad-ranging businesses, including the promotion of cross-company technical exchanges.
established to recognize quality control initiatives, and efforts are being made to train people for quality
In terms of day-to-day production, we know the importance of reflecting on and learning
control and to raise awareness.
from past performance, and to that end we have held “Manufacturing Errors” Workshops twice
a year since 2017. These meetings bring together representatives of group company production * Policies established at Pharmaceutical Business in 2017; at Nutraceutical Business in 2021.
Commitment to the NC Global Quality Policy
Over 30 Years of Technical Exchange at the Global In 2018, Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Quality Assurance Office of the Quality
Production Meeting Headquarters inaugurated a Global Product Quality Team, with members
The Global Production Meeting returned in fiscal 2021 after a gap of from 14 Otsuka group companies from around the world involved in the
two years due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The 2021 meeting was Nutraceutical Business. Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s approach to quality is
held online under the theme “New Forms of Production,” and was rooted in, and remains faithful to, founder Busaburo Otsuka’s words:
attended by 138 employees and executives from 14 countries/ “Quality is vital in a factory and so is packaging. We have to manufacture
Ken Konagai
regions. Participants presented case studies, including reports on and market, putting ourselves in the consumer’s position.”
Ryo Harima remote support for the launch of a new overseas plant and the use Director The key message of the NC Global Quality Policy is “Customer
V Di ec pe u P tr ye Gsi ed ne en rt al Manager, of a big data analysis system in production, exchanged views, and O Qf uf aic lie t yo Af N ssu ut rr aa nc ce eu ticals delight through Quality,” which expresses the founder’s sentiment
Production Headquarters joined the ceremony for the 2021 Production Awards, which Quality Headquarters in our own words and declares our common global commitment.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical recognize outstanding production achievements. Otsuka PharmaceuticalContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 050
Quality in All We Do
Customer Service
Sincere Response to Inquiries and Reflection in Company Activities
ステークホルダーの声を聴き企業活動へ反映する Reflecting Stakeholders’ Views in Company Activities
Basic Policy
We recognize that respecting consumer rights is an important human rights issue. Our Customer-facing departments of Otsuka group companies receive a broad variety of feedback
Declaration of Consumer-oriented Commitment, made in October 2018, establishes
from patients, healthcare professionals, and consumers, and we make sure that feedback is shared
basic policies regarding our commitment to our social responsibilities as a corporation,
appropriately with the relevant departments. We also strive to share this feedback throughout the
which we fulfill by pursuing consumer-oriented management and making appropriate
decisions that are based on dialogue with all stakeholders. value chain with the right executives and departments, so that it can be properly reflected in our
company activities.
Value Chain Communication with Stakeholders
Promotion system
Patients and
The cross-group Otsuka Sustainable Procurement
Each Otsuka group company has established dedicated contact centers to field inquiries from consumers Procurement Task Force communicates closely with suppliers to
promote sustainable procurement.
patients, healthcare professionals, and general consumers, and these centers are staffed by trained
personnel that provide information as appropriate. Inquiries are reported to the relevant department Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Tokushima Itano Factory
and the management team at each company so that views and suggestions about our products can DRe es ve ea lorc ph m a en nd t Production a On tsd u H kau m Foa on d R s’e Ts oo ku urc se h iD me av e Fl ao cp tom re y n ht o I ln ds t oit nu lit ne e, and
inform future improvements. factory tours as part of community outreach.
Customer Procurement Quality In addition to collecting feedback through the
Group-wide Customer Service Liaison Meeting Service
Control and Consumer-Relations Office, Otsuka
Patient/ Pharmaceutical collects and analyzes consumer
Since 2008, we have held a Group-wide Customer Service Liaison Meeting every year under the Customer comments from social media, and incorporates
supervision of Otsuka Holdings directors. Meetings are attended by representatives of companies Safety these comments in product improvements.
in the Pharmaceutical Business, Nutraceutical Business, Consumer Production, Otsuka Warehouse, which handles the Otsuka
Products Business, the daily necessities and e-commerce categories, and MSa al re ks e a tn ind g Q au na dlit Py a C tio en nt tr /ol group’s logistics operations, holds meetings with
Customer Safety transport partners as necessary to share policies
well as from other relevant departments. The various companies report Logistics and initiatives, and also engages in mutual
on their customer service activities and initiatives for greater consumer employee exchanges aimed at promoting digital
Logistics transformation and operational improvements.
orientation, thus fostering our consumer-oriented corporate culture. The
27th meeting, held in 2022, focused on evolving consumer trends amid Swift dissemination of information using online
Sales and tools enabled us to provide information about
social changes in the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and best practices for
Marketing pharmaceuticals and nutritional products without
product improvements informed by customer feedback. Switching to label-less bottles compromising strict COVID-19 countermeasures.
by reflecting customer feedback
Group-wide Initiatives to Leverage Customer Feedback High Hopes for Deeper Permeation of Consumer-
At Otsuka Pharmaceutical, the Quality Assurance Office of the oriented Management
Quality Headquarters and the Consumer-Relations Office hold an I have the deepest respect for the people of the Otsuka group, who
annual Listen to Customer Feedback Meeting. This year’s meeting work hard to create a sustainable society together with consumers,
was held online in December 2021, connecting Consumer-Relations inspired by the ideal of ethical consumption founded on three key
Office offices in Tokushima, Osaka, Tokyo, and at production plants, concepts: the environment, workers’ rights and happiness, and the
and was attended by 115 representatives from sales, production, community. In an age when we can no longer count on the future
Toshifumi Fujishita quality, procurement, and other head office departments, as well as Prof. Izumi Kado being a direct extension of the past, I am convinced that the Otsuka
Director members of Otsuka Holdings. Participants heard customer feedback Department of Business and group’s consumer-oriented management style, imbued with a spirit of
Consumer-Relations Office about products and examples of how feedback had been Communication, altruism and defined by diverse, in-depth and, ethical communication
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Shikoku University,
incorporated into product improvements. Junior College with all stakeholders, will come to be shared widely around the world.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 051
Environment
For more details about our environment-related
initiatives, visit:
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/environment/
Toward Our 2050 Environmental Vision, “Net Zero”
The Otsuka group has established 2050 Environmental Vision, “Net Zero,” with the
aim of reducing the total environmental impact across all its business activities to zero.
We will work toward our medium-term targets
while also advancing initiatives to achieve
Sustainability Mission
our overall 2050 goal. Carbon
Contribute to
Neutrality
a healthier and
more sustainable
2028 target
2050
society, while
Environmental Vision
Reduce 50% in simultaneously
“Net Zero”
CO2 emissions achieving growth
compared
Water to 2017 Circular
Neutrality Economy
2028 target 2028 target 2030 target
Ongoing initiatives to
reduce environmental impact • Expand the plant water Reduce 50% 100% content of
management program to all in simple recycled and
locations globally incineration and plant-based
• Develop a water use strategy landfill disposal materials in our
for business locations in compared to PET bottles
water-stressed areas 2019
Materiality (Material Issues) Social Issues Our Goals Our Activities
Carbon
Neutrality1
• Global warming • 2028 target: Reduce 50% in CO2 emissions compared to 2017 • Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the value chain
• 2028 target: R educe 50% in simple incineration and landfill • Reduce environmental impact by improving resource
Circular disposal compared to 2019 efficiency
• Environmental load increase
Economy2 • 2030 target: 1 00% content of recycled and plant-based materials • Promote business activities aimed at sustainability for both
in our PET bottles society and the earth
• 2028 target: E xpand the plant water management program to all
Water • Reduced freshwater availability due to locations globally • Understanding water resource risks
Neutrality3 water resource risks • 2028 target: D evelop a water use strategy for business locations in • Management and effective use of water resources
water-stressed areas
1 Sustainable energy use 2 Sustainable use of raw materials 3 Sustainable use of water resourcesContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 052
Environment
Otsuka Group Environmental Management System
Basic Policy
Aiming to create a healthy future as a total healthcare company, the Otsuka group has
Otsuka Group Sustainability Promotion Committee
established 2050 Environmental Vision, “Net Zero,” with the aim of reducing the total
environmental impact across all its business activities to zero.
Based on this vision, we have determined the material issues in our environmental Sharing and promotion
initiatives to be carbon neutrality, circular economy, and water neutrality. As global
Otsuka Holdings
action aimed at a decarbonized society gathers speed, we have established a new set of Executive Deputy President and
Environmental Committee Chairperson
medium-term targets with the aim of being more proactive in our own initiatives. We Director at Otsuka Holdings
• Making decisions on
will promote activities to improve employees’ understanding and recognition of
environmental strategies
environmental issues through environment-related training, generate synergy among Committee Directors and Executive Officers at
• Approval of goals and
Otsuka group companies, and act from a unified standpoint. activity plans members Otsuka Group Companies
Proposals and reports Approval
Carbon Neutrality
Otsuka Group Global
Persons in charge of environmental
Environmental Council Chief officers
management at Otsuka Holdings
Global warming and the resulting change in climate are having a major impact on the • Formulation of goals and
world’s bioresources and water resources, and environmental problems are becoming more activity plans
Persons in Persons in charge of environmental
• Reporting on the results of
apparent on a global scale. As a group that operates globally, we recognize that climate charge management at Otsuka group Companies
activities
change presents major risks but at the same time offers new business opportunities. In
aiming to contribute to a decarbonized, more sustainable society, we are working to reduce
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions throughout the value chain in line with the international Strategy
targets and indicators adopted under the Paris Agreement. The Otsuka group conducts climate change scenario analysis to assess the resilience of its strategies.
Specifically, it references the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2020 and other materials to assess business
Disclosure According to TCFD Recommendations
risks and opportunities in both the below 2°C scenario and the 4°C scenario.
In October 2021, Otsuka Holdings announced its support for the recommendations of the
Change in Global Mean Surface
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Accordingly, we are moving
Temperature* 4°C Scenario
forward with the disclosure of information on climate-related
A scenario in which development is dependent on fossil
risks and opportunities in governance, strategy, risk fuels and climate change measures are not introduced.
management, and metrics and targets, according to the R wi ase rm o if n 2 g. 7 co°C un– t5 e. r4 m°C e aif s un ro e sa d ad reit i to an ka enl global R ni es gin ag ti vt ee m imp pe ara ct tu ore ns cc ra ou ps se , aa nn d i n locr se s a os fe bin io n da ivt eu rr sa itl yd .isasters,
framework recommended by the TCFD.
Below 2°C Scenario
A scenario in which development is sustainable and
Governance climate change measures are proactively implemented to
keep the temperature rise below 2°C. Measures to
The Otsuka Holdings Environmental Committee comprises the executive deputy president and director of achieve a decarbonized society are enhanced, including
Otsuka Holdings, group company directors, and executive officers. The committee is responsible for making R wi ase rm o if n 0 g. 9 c° oC u– n2 te.3 rm°C e aif s ud rr ea ss t aic r eg l to ab ka enl t eh xe p ain nt sr io od nu oc ft i to hn e o ref nC eO w2 ae bm lei s es nio en rs g yre mgu al ra kt eio t.ns and
(Year)
decisions on key challenges relating to climate change. Furthermore, resolutions on matters relating to
group-wide direction are shared with each company following approval by the Board of Directors. These * Based on the Ministry of the Environment’s Japanese translation of Summary for Policymakers, Working Group II
Report, Fifth Assessment Report published by the IPCC
matters are communicated to each company in the form of Otsuka group policies and incorporated into
Main Scenarios Referenced
specific action plans. In 2021, the Board of Directors approved 2050 Environmental Vision, “Net Zero,” • IEA World Energy Outlook 2020 (Sustainable Development Scenario, Stated Policy Scenario)
with the aim of reducing the total environmental impact across all its business activities to zero. • IPCC (RCP2.6, RCP8.5)
• OECD-FAO Agricultural Outlook 2021–2030Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 053
Environment
Scenario Analysis: Financial Impacts and Responses Associated with Risk Management
Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
The Otsuka group examines and assesses climate-related risks that have the potential to impact its
Business/ financial affairs and strategies. The Otsuka Holdings Environmental Committee considers related risks,
Financial Impacts
Category Contents Our Response/Resilience and committee members in charge of environmental management report on any matters that are
Below
2°C 4°C deemed to be significant in the risk assessment process to the Board of Directors. Resolutions on matters
Policies and • I ncreased costs due to tightened approved by the Board of Directors are communicated to each company in the form of Otsuka group
regulations regulations such as carbon pricing Large Large • Introduction of internal carbon pricing policies, and the whole group works to minimize climate-related risks.
• Introduction of CO2-free electricity
Transition Market • Steep rise in renewable energy prices Large Large • Introduction of solar power generation systems including mega
Risks • Steep rise in energy prices Large Large solar power systems Metrics and Targets
• Improving energy efficiency through energy saving and fuel
• Reputation risk and investment-related conversion
Reputation risk associated with inadequate response Large Medium • Investment in environmental facilities in Japan and overseas The Otsuka group has established 2050 Environmental Vision, “Net Zero,” with the aim of reducing the total
to climate change and water resource risks
environmental impact across all its business activities to zero. In addition to revising our CO2 emissions
• R isks of damage to production and other • Decentralized production of major products
reduction target upward (from a 30% reduction by 2030 to a 50% reduction by 2028; compared to 2017), we
facilities due to intensification of extreme • Formulation, disclosure, and sharing of procurement policies and
weather, and cost increases to prepare for guidelines with suppliers have joined the international RE100 initiative (see next page) and continue to promote activities aimed at
Acute extreme weather events Medium Large • Strengthening communication with our supply chains (expanding
• R isks in raw material procurement such the number of suppliers that are subject to our supply chain decarbonization. Looking ahead, we will maximize group synergy and proactively engage in efforts to achieve
Physical as disruption to supply chains and stable questionnaires, improving and enhancing contents of the carbon neutrality.
procurement questionnaires, and holding discussions)
Risks
• I ncreased energy costs associated with
Large Large • Systematic renewal of facilities
temperature rise
Chronic • E ffects of climate change on drug • Collection of information about the impacts on drug discovery Targets • 2028 target: Reduce 50% in CO2 emissions compared to 2017
discovery using crop and other natural Medium Medium using crops and other natural products, risk assessment, and
products examination of countermeasures
Fiscal 2021
iC nO tr2
o
e dm ui cs ts ii oo nn s
o
fr e rd eu nc et wio an bs
l
eth er no eu rg gh
y
CO2 emissions
R efe fs ico ieu nrc ce
y
• R ine trd ou dc uti co tn io o nf oo fp ee nra ert gin yg -e c fo fis ct ies nth t rough the Large Medium • C wo al tl ee rc t ti ro en a to mf ein nf to tr em ca ht nio on lo o gn y tn he aw t dte oc eh s n no olo t g reie qs u ( irs eu c sh te a as m m ) ae nm db rane NC ea ur tb rao ln
it y
Results 143,000 t-CO2 683,000 t-CO2
equipment examination of introduction of such technologies in a timely manner
• Introduction of internal carbon pricing
Energy • R toe d pu roc ati co tn iv eo f i ne tn roer dg uy c p tir oo nc u or fe rm ene en wt ari bsk le d ue Large Small • Collection of information on next-generation energy sources (such Targets • 2028 target: Reduce 50% in simple incineration and landfill disposal compared to 2019
sources energy as hydrogen and ammonia) and examination of introduction of • 2030 target: 100% content of recycled and plant-based materials in our PET bottles
such sources in a timely manner
• Formulation of the Otsuka Group Plastic Policy (in 2020) that aims Total waste volume Simple incineration and
• Increased revenue from increased at reducing reliance on fossil fuel-derived materials Circular Fiscal 2021 landfill disposal volume
Oppor- Products demand for products that mitigate or • Examination of introduction of recycled PET resin or plant-based Economy Results 90,100 t 16,400 t
address climate change (e.g., products for Large Large bio-PET resin for PET bottle beverage containers
tunities and services preventing heat stroke and the spread of • Examples: Expand sales of products for preventing heat stroke,
infectious diseases) and expand sales of products with low environmental impact
throughout their lifecycles Targets • 2028 target: Expand the plant water management program to all locations globally
• 2028 target: Develop a water use strategy for business locations in water-stressed areas
• Increased revenue from expansion into
• Development of products that mitigate or address climate change
Market new market categories with products that Medium Medium
address climate change (e.g., plant-based products) Water usage Water intensity per unit of sale
Fiscal 2021
• Strengthening business continuity • S et nr ee rn gg yt h the rn oi un gg h o if n p tero rnm ao l t ci ao rn b o of n e pn re icr ig ny g saving and renewable NeW uta rt ae lr it y Results 17.68 million m3 11.80 m3/¥ million
Resilience planning (measures against disaster and Medium Large
supply chain disruptions) • B (au ns ti in -se es is s mco icn t min eu ait sy u p rela s n a nm de mas eu are sus ra et s m aga an iu nf sa tc ft lu or oin dg in s gi )tes (Calculated based on the performance of all manufacturing sites in the consolidated Otsuka group)
Assessment of business/financial impacts
Large: One billion yen or more (equivalent to 1% of operating income assuming a minimum operating income of 100 billion yen)
Medium: From negligible to less than one billion yen
Small: NegligibleContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 054
Environment
Joining the RE100 Initiative Introducing CO -Free Electricity at Four* Indonesian
2
Group Companies
In April 2022, the Otsuka group joined the international RE100 initiative, which asks
companies to commit to using 100% renewable energy in their business activities. As the Among our overseas businesses, the highest generator of CO2 emissions after Japan is
world transitions to a decarbonized society, under our 2050 Environmental Vision, “Net Zero,” Indonesia, where we are engaged in the pharmaceutical, nutraceutical, and chemical
through which we aim to reduce the total environmental impact across all business activities businesses. In Indonesia, we have introduced CO2-free electricity from geothermal power,
to zero, we will continue to proactively implement measures to reduce CO2 emissions. which we forecast will reduce annual CO2 emissions by about 60%.
Moving forward, we will continue increasing our use of renewable energy and maximizing
energy efficiency both in Japan and around the world, and make use of group synergy to
contribute to a decarbonized, more sustainable society.
* PT Otsuka Indonesia, PT Amerta Indah Otsuka, PT Widatra Bhakti, and PT Lautan Otsuka Chemical
Increasing Utilization of Renewable Energy and
Maximizing Energy Efficiency
The Otsuka group has set the target of reducing CO2 emissions by 50% (compared to 2017)
by 2028. To achieve this target, we are increasing our renewable energy usage through the
introduction of CO2-free electricity and solar power generation equipment, and maximizing
our energy efficiency through the adoption of co-generation systems.1
In 2021, we introduced CO2-free electricity at all 23 manufacturing sites of five2 Otsuka
group companies, and as a result reduced our annual emissions by approximately 109,800
Sukabumi Factory, PT Amerta Indah Otsuka
t-CO2.3 Furthermore, in Tokushima Prefecture, which is home to many Otsuka group
production facilities, we have begun upgrading the co-generation facility at Otsuka
Building a New Integrated Energy Service Structure
Chemical’s Tokushima Factory. This will enable us to supply electricity and steam to
neighboring Otsuka group manufacturing sites and improve our energy efficiency. The new As one effort to achieve 2050 Environmental Vision, “Net Zero,” and reduce the total
co-generation system is scheduled to begin operation in 2024, and is expected to cut annual environmental impact across all business activities to zero, the Otsuka group has established
emissions by approximately 8,000 t-CO2. In addition, we have introduced a new co- a new integrated energy service structure under the retail electricity provider model. Through
generation system and changed boiler fuel at Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory’s Naruto this move, we will be able to procure renewable energy from power producers and other
Factory, which should result in an annual reduction of approximately 4,800 t-CO2. sources, and more efficiently supply electricity generated within the Otsuka group to group
1. The engines, turbines, or fuel cells of co-generation systems generate electricity from natural gas, LPG, or other fuel business sites.
sources. At the same time, the systems collect the waste heat, thereby achieving efficient use of both heat and electricity
2. Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods
3. Compared to 2017Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 055
Environment
Circular Economy Water Neutrality
In line with global trends, for us to be able to create a more sustainable society and achieve Water resources are unevenly distributed across countries and regions, each of which faces
sustainable corporate growth, we must shift to a more sustainable business model whereby we different challenges. We are working with all our stakeholders to conduct ongoing water
can achieve growth without having a serious impact on the environment. To continue offering conservation initiatives from intake to discharge (including cultivation of water resources,
products that contribute to the health of people worldwide, we have set ourselves two goals: conscientious use, and clean return) as we aim for sustainable water use. As such, we have
reduce simple incineration and landfill disposal of waste by 50% compared to 2019 and use revised our targets to include developing and implementing a water use strategy for business
100% recycled or plant-based materials in our PET bottles by 2030* as per the Otsuka Group sites in water-stressed areas, and expanding the plant water management program to all
Plastic Policy. We will continue to increase resource efficiency throughout the value chain and locations globally, both by 2028.
build a harmonious and sustainable relationship with bioresource and other resource sources. Working together, group companies use the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) Aqueduct
* Goal has been revised. Previous goal: 50% content of recycled or plant-based materials in PET bottles by 2030 Water Risk Atlas, as well as extensive water-related data, to assess the water risks at all
manufacturing sites within the scope of consolidation. Based on that assessment, we draw
up model cases for water management and water targets tailored to each country or region.
Containers and Packaging for a
PET We will examine and evaluate the results and launch similar initiatives at sites worldwide.
Sustainable Society bottle
Based on the Otsuka Group Plastic Policy, we are quickly
moving forward with measures to reduce the environmental Processing into Collection Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas and Breakdown by Region of Water Consumption in the
PET resin
Otsuka Group
impact caused by our plastic containers and packaging. Bottle-to-Bottle
In doing so, we are contributing to sustainable closed-
loop recycling for plastics and other resources.
Washing Crushing
Europe
Launch of PET Bottles Made Using Recycled Materials 1%
We launched a PET bottle made using
50% recycled PET resin for Crystal Geyser Japan
62%
North
in April 2021, and a 30% recycled PET America Water stress
East 3% Very high
Asia (>80%)
bottle for POCARI SWEAT in March 10% High
South Asia (40 – 80%)
2022. While moving forward with and N 5o %rth Africa M (20o d – e 4r 0a %te ) to high
further technological development, we Sou At sh ie aast AS mo eu rt ih ca L ( L1o o0w w-2 t 0o % m )oderate
18% <1% (<10%)
will gradually extend the use of recycled Use of dry low water
310ml 500ml 700ml 300ml 500ml No data
PET bottles to other products. Source: WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas
Crystal Geyser POCARI SWEATContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 056
Messages from Outside Directors
For the full text of these messages, visit:
https://www.otsuka.com/en/ir/management/message/outside_message.html
a unique corporate culture since its founding, so it will be
important to examine how to become truly global while
Evolving corporate governance continuing to reap those benefits.
while maintaining the founding
family’s spirit and Otsuka’s
Development through Diversity
unique approach
Biological evolution is a continuous process in which
individual species within a group successfully adapt to the
Yukio Matsutani surrounding environment and pass on their genes. As
environments change, it is not always easy to predict
Outside Director
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. which species will be able to adapt to any given change.
In that sense, I believe the rich diversity of the Otsuka
group’s businesses will enable it to continue evolving with
the times.
On the other hand, with such rich diversity comes
From My Appointment to the Present Day governance structures while maintaining the founding certain inefficiencies. The aim of global governance is to
family’s spirit and Otsuka’s unique approach. deal with these inefficiencies. However, the group must
The Otsuka group achieved growth before its listing One of the most important issues in global corporate determine what is to be managed as a group, and what is
through the charismatic management of its founding governance is risk management. Global governance is to be left to local operating companies to deal with in their
family. Since its listing, the company has shifted from being extremely complex, as each country has its own challenges. own ways. Markets differ by country, as does the stage of
an owner-operated company to one in which leadership is But although there are of course many issues to deal with, development of each group business. Even business
chosen by shareholders. Such structural transitions I feel that the group is steadily building an organizational purposes differ. Overmanaging these businesses can also
sometimes lead to disruptions in areas including corporate structure for addressing them. lead to inefficiencies. Clarifying responsibility for the timing
governance, but in Otsuka’s case it has been relatively and criteria for investment or liquidation decisions, or for
smooth. The group’s success in this respect is no doubt evaluating the success or failure of a particular business is
partly due to CEO Tatsuo Higuchi being a long-time veteran Progress and Challenges in Global Governance important, but overmanagement can also be costly. Given
of the Otsuka group with an understanding of the the difficulty of determining what to keep and what to
founding family’s spirit and expertise in global Given the diversity of the Otsuka group’s shareholders, eliminate from an organizational perspective, it will be
management. As the group expands the scale of its customers, clients, and other stakeholders, it is essential necessary to create a platform for decision-making based
business for further growth as a truly global company, it that we carefully discuss what the best overall structure for on evidence and data.
must address how to evolve its management and corporate global governance is. The group has enjoyed the benefits ofContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 057
Messages from Outside Directors
numerous personnel systems and wage structures makes it
difficult to implement shared services across all of these
companies, and to ensure effective personnel utilization
Maximizing value and
and education that will increase group-wide value. Once
generating sustainable the roles and responsibilities of each group company have
been clarified, it will be important from an organizational
growth as a group perspective to create a global personnel system and
strategies that are linked to the level of contribution that
those companies make to the group. In addition, giving
consideration to an ideal remuneration system that could
Ko Sekiguchi cover a variety of business types would further enhance
group governance.
Outside Director
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Responsibility to Contribute to and
Fulfill an Important Role in the Group
We live in an era in which continuously creating and
Progress in Enhancing Group Governance capital cost. Executive Director, CFO Yuko Makino is leading developing novel, innovative pharmaceuticals is difficult.
these efforts. In addition, the introduction and expansion of This is why it is important for each business and operating
In addition to ensuring the smooth development of each shared services is moving forward. I consider such services company to responsibly engage in initiatives with an
operating company’s businesses, Otsuka Holdings must to be an extremely important factor in enhancing group awareness of how they contribute to the group and what
manage with a focus on how to maximize value and ensure governance. Group companies differ in scale, structure, role they should fulfill. In the Nutraceutical Business, the
sustainable growth as a group. industry, and stage of development, so it will take group stands in a unique, unrivaled position, and therefore
In March 2022, Managing Director Shuichi Takagi was considerable effort to incorporate these services. has great potential for even more innovation. There are
appointed CSO to strengthen the corporate strategy Nonetheless, I believe progress has been steady. very few companies in the world who cover everything
functions of Otsuka Holdings. I believe this was a significant from prevention to recovery.
step toward enhancing group governance. The next step is I also believe there is a need to improve group-wide
to deepen discussion on whether the goal of each Importance of a Global Personnel Strategy communication and strategic consideration of investment
operating company is aligned with that of Otsuka Holdings, decisions and strategies. Entrusting investment to
and whether each of those companies has a clear role to In addition to the introduction and operation of these operating companies that have extensive experience,
perform within the group, keeping in mind group-wide shared services, global personnel functions will also fulfill a expertise, and competitive advantages in specific fields
synergy and the group’s vision for 10 years from now. key role in group governance. Currently, each operating could lead to even greater value. This is an important
Regarding finances, in its Third Medium-Term company is responsible for the formulation and approach given the group’s aims to take capital cost into
Management Plan the group stated its intention to conduct implementation of its own personnel systems and account in management.
business management with a corporate-wide awareness of strategies. From a global perspective, however, havingContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 058
Messages from Outside Directors
human resource development, rotation, and allocation
functions within Otsuka Holdings to develop and increase the
Creating robust mechanisms number of management personnel for group companies.
in anticipation of further
globalization and development Further Growth in the Nutraceutical and
Consumer Products Businesses
Compared to the management foundations of the
Yoshihisa Aoki Pharmaceutical Business, those of the Nutraceutical Business
Outside Director and the Consumer Products Business are still in the
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. development stage. That said, the unique development of
these two businesses has led to steady growth in their
foundations. In the consumer products market, systems and
values are undergoing major changes due to environmental
issues, the need to address infectious diseases, and other
Challenges in Global Governance In rebuilding mechanisms, Otsuka Holdings now needs factors. If the Otsuka group were to utilize bold investments
to clarify the scope and scale of responsibility it will give to in taking these changes as opportunities to employ its
Until now, management of the Otsuka group was based on each group company. To ensure that the group’s direction unique approach, I believe the scale of the business could
competition among its operating companies. This approach and profitability are not affected, Otsuka Holdings needs increase significantly.
enabled it to grow into a unique total healthcare company. to strengthen the management and capabilities of each
As the world becomes more complex and the number of operating company while respecting their independence.
Otsuka group companies reaches the 200 mark, however, At the same time, it must carefully balance responsibilities Founding Spirit
I believe it is time to reexamine the group’s direction and under its control as a holding company with the responsibilities
review the mechanisms for keeping it on track. As a listed it entrusts to operating companies. The Otsuka group already It is not easy to manage a company while maintaining faith
company, Otsuka Holdings has a responsibility to contribute has various management mechanisms in place, but I believe in its founding spirit. However, the Otsuka group’s founding
to its stakeholders by further boosting management even more robust mechanisms will be required if the group spirit continues to be passed on through the group’s
efficiency and enhancing profitability. Consequently, the continues to develop through further globalization and if the corporate philosophy. My hope is that the group can make
group must establish a new direction and rebuild its number of group companies continues to increase. Although use of this philosophy to provide even more solutions that
mechanisms while maintaining its founding spirit. The there is already a significant focus on personnel development benefit people and society.
appointment of Managing Director Shuichi Takagi as CSO in the group, it is now at the stage where preparations must
in March 2022 reflects the group’s intention to do so. be made to prepare for further expansion by strengtheningContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 059
Messages from Outside Directors
successes more visible could inspire even more successful
collaborations among operating companies and projects.
Considering management On the topic of investments, whether it be in R&D, IT, or
the expansion of sales channels, the Otsuka group can
policies and business
make much larger-scale investments than single entities. As
strategies to further enhance a group, it can adopt a larger risk appetite for investments
in promising domains. Meanwhile, in external collaborations
the value of the Otsuka group
too, the recognition that can be gained for the group’s
comprehensive strengths is much more significant than that
Mayo Mita possible for a lone operating company.
Outside Director On the other hand, the group must also make the correct
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. choices as social demands change with the times. It is
therefore important to create new mechanisms that allow
the group to take on new challenges that can in turn lead to
virtuous cycles. With so many different businesses, it is only
natural that their KPIs differ—what is important is that
The Otsuka Group’s Value as an Organization corporate value through globalization, innovation, and synergy. through the setting of KPIs, management is then undertaken
At the Board of Directors, we constantly consider what with a sense of ownership and responsibility. Embedding the
The Otsuka group has grown into a huge organization and has management policies and business strategies will best improve concepts of cost of capital and ROIC throughout every
diverse corporate history. With so many operating companies, the value of the Otsuka group. operating company in the group is a difficult task, however,
the Board of Directors and the Corporate Governance converting these indicators into numerical targets is a way to
Committee continue to deliberate over how to show the increase decision-making transparency for both the business
group’s true abilities and maximize its underlying value. If the Innovation and Efficiency through Creativity execution side and the governance side regarding business
group can make full use of its strong management foundation details and investment priorities.
and maximize group synergy, its value will no doubt increase. The Otsuka group’s structure enables it to create and In becoming a listed company, Otsuka Holdings
To date, the creativity of each operating company has inspired facilitate relationships within the group that are unlike welcomed shareholders as a new category of stakeholder.
mutual improvement, enabling the group to generate external collaborations. Some pioneering examples include When shareholders purchase shares in Otsuka Holdings, it
numerous innovations. However, the current speed and scale the collaboration between Taiho Pharmaceutical and is because they look forward to the sustainable growth of
of change in digitalization, borderless information sharing, and Otsuka Pharmaceutical for the sale of anticancer agents in the group. Communicating the group’s commitment to
other external trends is unprecedented. Amid this environment, the U.S., and the partnership between Otsuka Medical growth to each category of stakeholder will no doubt lead
the call is even greater for corporations to improve their Devices and Otsuka Pharmaceutical. I believe making these to improved relationships of trust.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 060
Messages from Outside Directors
Meanwhile, to maintain better health throughout society,
it is important to directly address the needs of patients,
consumers, and communities. A representative example among
Governance under which
pharmaceuticals is ABILIFY MAINTENA, a drug developed for
schizophrenia patients that offers them a more convenient
Otsuka is always moving in
prescription format and solutions to the issues they face in
the right direction and society and life. POCARI SWEAT is another example. Although
sales began one bottle at a time, direct contact with consumers
aspiring to greater heights raised awareness of the product’s advantages, and built it into
a popular brand. Almost 40 years later, Otsuka developed
POCARI SWEAT ICE SLURRY, which supports construction
Tatsuaki Kitachi workers and others working under extremely hot conditions,
and is now promoting it at various sites. Products such as these
Outside Director
could not have been created through product development
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
and marketing activities that only had efficiency in mind.
A Key Mission: Enhancing Financial Efficiency
Governance as Expressed in the Strive to Do What Only Otsuka Can Do Today, the Otsuka group comprises 200 companies (including
Corporate Philosophy affiliated companies), each conducting independent
management as an independent company. Moreover, some of
The Otsuka group’s communications often reference
these operating companies are engaged in multiple businesses.
For me, the Otsuka group’s corporate philosophy— “what only Otsuka can do” and “uniqueness.” To me,
Although this approach is suited to long-term business
“Otsuka-people creating new products for better health rather than connotations of “specialness” or “exclusivity,”
management, including personnel development, it is
worldwide”—is the prime expression of what the group’s these words express how the group is willing to use strong
important to further reinforce the methods and tools required
approach to governance should be. The words “for better leadership to take on challenges that others cannot.
to manage financial accounting and managerial accounting
health worldwide” show the group’s desire to ensure Research and development requires a long-term
from different perspectives. In the current environment, in
better health in governance too, in that it emphasizes a commitment, process management, and supportive
which there is significant movement at the macroeconomic
constructive approach to governance, in other words colleagues and partners. Meanwhile, large investments do
level, it is essential to find the most beneficial means of
looking at what to eliminate and what to revise. “Creating not always guarantee success in R&D; sometimes, small
implementing financial management and capital efficiency
new products,” meanwhile, is an expression of the group’s investments can lead to major or fascinating results. Even if
across all group companies. The Otsuka group must therefore
willingness to take on new challenges to reach greater the outcome of a project is difficult to foresee, it is
incorporate approaches for enhancing financial efficiency, such
heights. My role as an outside director is to ensure important for R&D leaders to commit to supporting their
as centralized capital management and foreign exchange risk
governance under which the Otsuka group is always team. It is also necessary to create networks and exchange
management. Improving financial efficiency is key if the group
moving in the right direction and aspiring to greater information, and to move forward while gradually revising
is to meet the expectations of its shareholders and investors.
heights. the direction of projects as necessary. I believe the Otsuka
While this will present a significant challenge, it is one that the
group can apply all of these capabilities to great effect.
group must tackle.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 061
Message from the CSO
have sought to reinforce both strategic, proactive approaches
to cooperation (by increasing opportunities for discussion on
We will implement robust group asset strengths and strategies) and precautionary approaches
to cooperation (by enhancing monitoring of our operating
governance and management to
companies and quickly finding solutions to emerging business
ensure we can continue contributing challenges). We must also hold further discussions on ways to
create a more robust organization, including the overall
to the lives of customers
direction of the group and the significance and relevance of
each business.
Diversity and Value Creation
Shuichi Takagi As a total healthcare company, the Otsuka group’s success is
Managing Director, CSO (Chief Strategy Officer) grounded in the diversity of both the industries it does
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. business in and of the human resources and expertise it
brings together. Furthermore, each operating company is at a
different stage of growth. One of the group’s biggest
strengths is its ability to integrate different ideas and values
Combining the Creativity of Each Operating As society continues to become more diverse and from various perspectives. This enables it to respond to
Company with Group Governance operating environments rapidly change, we must take change and generate entirely new value as it goes about
measures to continue to meet the expectations of our business and management. As a holding company, we must
The Otsuka group currently comprises 200 companies. To stakeholders and provide social value. In this sense, it is value the creativity of each business, develop opportunities
date, operating companies within the group have used their imperative that we integrate the creativity and management for small projects to grow into major successes, and offer
accumulated creativity and strengths to offer unique capabilities of our operating companies—which are support for the creation of new value through group synergy.
businesses and undertake independent management, while responsible for carefully examining social needs and Moving forward, we will also look at promoting interaction
inspiring mutual improvement and generating broad- identifying what value we should create—with group among employees to create new environments where they
ranging innovation in the process. Since the shift to a governance, which will be key to enhancing the effectiveness can play active roles, as well as organizational personnel
holding company structure, as well as introducing shared of group management from a systematic, overarching development programs that leverage employee diversity.
services and improved corporate functions, we have sought perspective. In particular, due to rapid recent changes in the At the Otsuka group, our aim is to continue contributing
to accelerate group synergy and innovation. To that end, we social environment, we need to rebuild supply chain networks to people’s lives as a total healthcare company. By building
have built mechanisms to optimize asset use and promote in certain businesses and it is difficult to anticipate what the strong relationships of trust and enhancing cooperation
collaboration, for example through information-sharing future will bring. As the group looks to further grow in scale within the group, we will strive to ensure more robust
platforms for operating companies and shared value chains. and promote global development, over the last few years we group governance and management.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 062
Governance
For more details about our governance-related initiatives, visit:
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/governance/
Corporate Governance Initiatives to Strengthen Corporate Governance
Remuneration
Institutional design Other corporate governance measures
for directors
Basic Policy 2008 Establishment of Otsuka Holdings
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (“the Company”) is committed to promoting sustainable Term of directors set at one year
Appointment of outside Audit &
increase of its corporate value over the medium to long term by realizing its
Supervisory Board members begins
corporate philosophy, “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health
worldwide.” To meet this commitment, it adopts a basic policy of making transparent, 2010 Stock publicly listed in December Stock options as performance-
linked remuneration introduced
fair and timely decisions, and fulfilling its corporate social responsibility by living up
to the expectations of all stakeholders, including customers, business partners, 2011 First Medium-Term Management Plan announced
employees, local communities, and shareholders, through ongoing dialogue.
2013 Appointment of outside directors
begins
2014 Second Medium-Term Management Plan announced
Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics established
Corporate Governance Guidelines Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy established
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/governance/pdf/governance_guideline.pdf
2015 Corporate Governance Guidelines established
Corporate Governance Report (April 12, 2022) Internal whistleblowing system (for Otsuka Holdings
and major group companies) established, with reporting
https://www.otsuka.com/jp/csr/governance/pdf/governance_report2022.pdf (available only in Japanese) to an independent body outside the Company
2016 System for granting stock Effectiveness of Board of Directors evaluated
options conditional on
progress with the medium-
Corporate Governance Organizational Structure term management plan
introduced
Shareholders’ Meeting 2017 Corporate Governance Committee Corporate Governance Guidelines revised
Elects/Dismisses Elects/Dismisses Elects/Dismisses established Started to evaluate the effectiveness of the Board of
Directors based on questionnaires completed by all
Corporate Consults Board of Directors O Ap cce ora ut nio tin na gl aa uu dd ii tt ss Audit & Supervisory Board directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members
Governance Recommends (13 directors; 5 of whom are outside directors) (4 Audit & Supervisory Board Started to hold reporting meetings for outside
Committee Appoints/Dismisses mem oub te sr is d; e 3 m of e mw bh eo rm s) are directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board
members to improve their understanding of the
President and group’s management and business
Representative Director, CEO (Cooperates with) (Cooperates with)
Accounting audits 2018 First female directors appointed Corporate Governance Guidelines revised
Instructs Reports Instructs Reports Accounting Auditor
Internal Control Internal Audit 2019 Restricted stock-based Third Medium-Term Management Plan announced
Department Department compensation plan introduced
(Cooperates with)
Approval of Meetings of the Prior 2020 Otsuka Group Global Policy for Conflict of Interest
material matters/ group’s boards consultation/ established
Management of corporate Ex post
guidance auditors facto reports 2021 Accounting auditors changed Corporate Governance Guidelines revised
Subsidiaries (Shareholders’ Meeting, Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, etc.) Otsuka Group Global Anti-Fraud Policy formulated
2022 Ratio of independent outside directors Otsuka Group Global Speak-Up Policy formulated
increased to more than one thirdContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 063
Governance
Board of Directors Director Skill Matrix
In line with the Board of Director regulations, the Board of Directors convenes regularly once Technology, Strategic Legal, Healthcare Major
Global planning, Finance, compliance, Company
R&D, administration, qualifications,
a month and holds extraordinary meetings as necessary to make important business business production marketing, accounting risk analysis public health etc.
sales management
decisions and supervise the execution of operations.
Ichiro Otsuka •• •• ••
The term of directors at Otsuka Holdings is set at one year to clarify executive
responsibility for each fiscal year. Furthermore, the Company works to ensure the overall Tatsuo Higuchi •• •• •• ••
diversity of directors, and appoints people with the insight, expertise, and experience needed Yoshiro Matsuo ••
to realize and maintain appropriate and effective corporate governance. For internal
Yuko Makino ••
directors, we comprehensively evaluate the experience, expertise, insight, and other attributes
Shuichi Takagi •• •• ••
of candidates to ensure that they have the qualities needed to implement the group’s
Masayuki Kobayashi •• •• ••
corporate philosophy, Code of Business Ethics, and management strategies. For outside
directors, the Company looks for individuals with a wealth of knowledge and extensive Noriko Tojo •• •• ••
experience in various fields. The Company requires that candidates have the ability to Makoto Inoue •• •• ••
adequately exercise management oversight functions through fair and objective monitoring,
Yukio Matsutani •• MD
supervision, and auditing of management from a neutral and objective viewpoint.
Ko Sekiguchi •• ••
Meetings Held in Fiscal 2021 (Average Attendance): Yoshihisa Aoki ••
15 (100%)
Mayo Mita ••
Ratio of Independent Directors Ratio of Female Directors
Tatsuaki Kitachi •• •• CPA
Outside directors: 5 Female directors: 3
Inside directors: 8 Male directors: 10
Director Selection Criteria/Independence Standards for Outside Directors
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/governance/governance_system.html
23%
For the reasons for nominating each director, refer to the Notice for the
38%
Calling of the 14th Annual Shareholders’ Meeting
https://www.otsuka.com/en/ir/stock/pdf/meeting/202112_01.pdf
62%
77%Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 064
Governance
Evaluation of Effectiveness of Board of Directors
Major Matters Deliberated by the Board of Directors
Category Major reports and discussions in fiscal 2021 During January and February 2022, the Company conducted a questionnaire survey of all
directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members. Results of the survey were reviewed by a
• Monitoring of progress of consolidated results and plan
Business performance • Discussions on current conditions and issues regarding the performance of each company attorney, and then considered and evaluated at the Board of Directors meeting in
and plan operating company and business segment March 2022.
• Monitoring of progress of Medium-Term Management Plan
Questionnaire items were as follows.
• Identification of issues in improving the effectiveness of the Board of Directors (1) Composition of the Board of Directors
• Approval of officer election and remuneration
(2) Each director’s understanding and knowledge of business fields and specific management
Corporate governance • Monitoring of subsidiary activities
strategies and plans
• Confirmation of progress of measures to reinforce group governance
• Review of cross-shareholdings (3) Cooperation with outside directors
(4) Cooperation with the Audit & Supervisory Board
• Formulation of group energy strategies
• Approval of support for the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate- (5) Operation of Board of Directors meetings
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
(6) Governance-related matters
• Confirmation of the status of execution of programs for cultivating management
Sustainability
personnel i Function of the Board of Directors in determining the direction of management strategy
• Formulation of 2050 Environment Vision, ”Net Zero” and approval of revised ii Monitoring of each business with respect to the execution of management strategy
material issues
• Approval for joining the RE100 international initiative iii Understanding of the perspectives of major investors and stakeholders
iv Risk management
• Discussion of a license agreement for joint development and commercialization
by Otsuka Pharmaceutical, and Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma (now Sumitomo v Cooperation and information sharing with each operating company
M&A and partnerships Pharma) and its U.S. subsidiary Sunovion Pharmaceuticals
(7) Support system for outside directors
• Discussion of Pharmavite’s acquisition of Uqora
(8) Operation of the Corporate Governance Committee meetings (frequency, agenda, etc.)
• Approval of internal control reports, update on implementation of global training
(9) Overall functioning of the Board of Directors from the perspective of effectiveness
programs and on confirmation of conflicts of interest, and approval of activity
reports and activity plans
• Annual reporting on internal whistleblowing system (whistleblowing system
Risk management improvement status, number of reports and overview) and approval of action plan
Summary of Evaluation in Fiscal 2021
• Formulation of new global policies (Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy, Otsuka
Group Global Anti-Fraud Policy and Otsuka Group Global Speak-Up Policy)
The overall opinion was that improvements have been made from the previous year, and that
• Reporting on ERM monitoring activities
the Board of Directors is functioning appropriately from the standpoint of effectiveness.
• Reporting on progress of initiatives to reinforce overseas crisis management
Nonetheless, the results confirmed the need for ongoing efforts to make further improvements
in areas such as the role of the Company as a holding company, approaches for fully
• Formulation of funding policy
coordinating and sharing information with subsidiaries, and the stance of the Company with
Financial strategy • Discussions of new capital investments
respect to investors and other stakeholders.
• Formulation of dividend policy
• Reinforcement of cyber security measures
IT
• Reporting on Otsuka group IT activities, etc.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 065
Governance
Corporate Governance Committee
Ratio of Independent Major Matters for Deliberation
Outside Directors
Otsuka Holdings established the Corporate Governance Committee in February 2017. As an
Outside directors: 5 Nomination Director and Audit & Supervisory Board member
advisory body to the Board of Directors, the committee discusses matters relating to the
Inside directors: 2 nomination, succession plans
enhancement of the corporate governance structure, including the nomination of directors
and Audit & Supervisory Board members, as well as succession plans and the remuneration Remuneration Remuneration systems and levels for directors
and Audit & Supervisory Board members
system and remuneration levels for directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, and 29%
reports the results of its deliberations to the Board of Directors. The committee has seven Other corporate Improvement of group governance and global
members: the president, the director in charge of administration, and all outside directors (five 71% governance matters g po rov mer on ta ion nce
,
,
e
o tcr .ganizational structure, innovation
as of the publication of this report). The president serves as the chair of the committee.
Effectiveness of the Corporate Governance Committee
Audit & Supervisory Board
The initial role of the Corporate Governance Committee was as a nomination and remuneration
committee. Although the committee continues to effectively carry out this role, it now allocates Ratio of Outside
Audit & Supervisory Board members attend and express
more time to discussion of corporate governance overall, with greater freedom than the Board Audit & Supervisory
of Directors. I feel that the committee has evolved to a point where its discussions get to the opinions at meetings of the Board of Directors, and monitor Board Members
very roots of corporate governance. the performance of duties of directors in terms of legal Outside members: 3
Yukio Matsutani, Outside Director compliance and soundness of management through audits. Inside members: 1
To ensure the effectiveness of auditing by Audit &
Although the president serves as the chair of the committee, Corporate Governance Committee
meetings have become a platform for truly open discussions, and there are currently no issues Supervisory Board members, systems have been established
regarding transparency. Considering that discussions on sustainability-related matters will increase
by which Audit & Supervisory Board members can interview
even further, it may be best to set up a separate committee for matters concerning nomination, 25%
directors and employees about the status of business
remuneration, and governance.
execution, review internal consultation documents and other
Ko Sekiguchi, Outside Director 75%
important documents pertaining to business execution, and
The current structure enables lively exchange of opinions, so I believe the committee is serving
promptly receive reports on the execution of operations
its purpose effectively. I look forward to even more in-depth exchange of opinions in the future.
when requested. The Statutory Auditor’s Office has been
Yoshihisa Aoki, Outside Director
established to assist the duties of Audit & Supervisory Board
The committee provides outside directors with the opportunity to exchange opinions and members. It convenes meetings of the Audit & Supervisory
interact with the individuals who execute business at each operating company. As financial
Board and assists in the duties of Audit & Supervisory Board
market attention to succession plans increases, I am grateful that I can get a first-hand look at
the different kinds of leaders in various group businesses and the approaches these leaders members independent of directors’ authority.
take toward management of operating companies.
Mayo Mita, Outside DirectorContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 066
Governance
Audit & Supervisory Board Member Skill Matrix Remuneration for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members
Strategic Legal, Basic Approach to Officer Remuneration
Technology, Healthcare Major
Global planning, Finance, compliance, Company
business R&D, marketing, accounting risk analysis administration, qualifications, The Company’s remuneration plan for directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members is
production public health etc.
sales management designed to achieve sustainable growth and enhanced corporate value over the medium to
Yozo Toba •• •• long term for the group based on the corporate philosophy, while also ensuring that
functions such as business execution and management supervision are exercised
Hiroshi Sugawara •• CPA
appropriately, maintaining transparency and fairness.
Kanako Osawa •• Attorney
Remuneration Levels
Sachie Tsuji •• •• CPA
Considering the need to acquire and motivate outstanding personnel who will take
responsibility for the Company’s global business activities, the Company sets remuneration
Internal Audit Department
levels fully commensurate with the roles and responsibilities expected of such personnel,
The Company’s Internal Audit Department reports directly to the president. The department while also considering levels at companies that the Company considers benchmarks based
on the scale, industry, and business model.
regularly conducts audits based on the Internal Audit Rules to verify that operations are
being executed appropriately and efficiently with regard to the assets and business of the
Remuneration System
Company and its affiliated companies. The department submits audit reports to the
With regard to remuneration for directors responsible for business execution, the Company
president, directors, and Audit & Supervisory Board members. Where there is need for
has formulated a remuneration system that is closely linked to performance in individual
improvement, the department recommends remedial actions and later confirms their
fiscal years, as well as over the medium to long term, while emphasizing sustainable
implementation, thereby contributing to the optimization of business execution. enhancement of corporate value. Remuneration consists of fixed remuneration as basic
remuneration, performance-linked bonuses, and share-based payments, emphasizing the link
Internal Control Department to shareholder value. Remuneration for outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board
members comprises only fixed remuneration as basic remuneration in light of their duties.
The Company views internal controls as an integral component of corporate governance that
functions together with compliance and risk management, and has established the Internal Total Remuneration to Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members
Control Department as the department in charge of compliance and risk management to
Total amount of Total amount by type of remuneration (¥ million) Number of
improve the internal control system. The Internal Control Department promotes the Otsuka
remuneration eligible
Fixed Performance- Share-based
Group Global Code of Business Ethics and other Otsuka group global rules at Otsuka (¥ million) remuneration linked bonus payment officers
Holdings and its affiliated companies. It also works to establish and promote compliance
Directors 764 342 129 292 13
programs and risk management programs at each company. The status of the establishment
[of which Outside Directors] [39] [39] [—] [—] [4]
and operation of those programs is regularly reported to the Board of Directors, the Audit &
Supervisory Board, and the accounting auditor. Audit & Supervisory Board Members 56 56 4
[of which Outside Audit & — —
The Internal Control Department handles internal controls regarding financial reporting by [32] [32] [3]
Supervisory Board Members]
the Company and its affiliated companies. The department formulates rules and manuals
Total
pertaining to internal controls, provides training, and ensures that employees thoroughly [of which Outside Directors and 820 398 129 292 17
understand operational rules. The department also works in cooperation with the Internal Outside Audit & Supervisory Board [72] [72] [—] [—] [7]
Members]
Audit Department to continuously monitor the status of operations. This is the basis of an
Notes: There are no directors of the Company who concurrently serve as employees.
internal control system under which management personnel can be reliably evaluated. During fiscal 2021, outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members received total remuneration of ¥2 million
from the Company’s subsidiaries for their services as directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 067
Governance
Content of Remuneration to Directors (Excluding Outside Directors)
Fiscal year for evaluation and
Allotment ratio Summary of release conditions
The content of remuneration to directors (excluding outside directors) is as follows: allocation timing
Remuneration type Pa Fy ixm ee dn /Vt am rie at bh leod (Including policy for deteR re mm inu in ne gr ta it mio inn g c o on r t ce on nt ditions of remuneration) S (Ie nr ci ue ms A b ency 40 st% an o df a rth d e A fisll co ac l a yt ee ad r e aa sc th h ey e ea vr a, lt ua ak ti in og n a p esi rn iog dle O s (Hun ob wjc eo ecn vt ed f ri i ,t s ti c ho a en l syo hef aa i rrn e s(c su winm ilg lb l nee o n f ti c bsy c e ai n rl e yt leeh aae sr e) d if
number of the combined consolidated revenue and
• Remuneration for directors of the holding company is determined based on their duties condition) shares consolidated operating profit target
and responsibilities including formulation of group strategies, monitoring group achievement rate is less than 80%)
operations, and strengthening corporate governance. Evaluation Period 1 is the three fiscal In each evaluation period, the value of (2)
• Remuneration for directors who serve concurrently as directors of subsidiaries that are years from fiscal 2019 through fiscal below may not fall below the value of (1)
Fixed Cash/ operating companies is determined based on their duties and responsibilities including Series B 30% of the 2021, with the shares for the three (1) T he cumulative amount of the planned
remuneration Fixed e fox re mcu ut li ao tn
io
o nf ob fu ss ti rn ae tess
g
ib ea ss fe od
r
o on
p
eg rr ao tu inp
g
s ctr oa mte pg aie ns
ie
f so
,
r am nu dl a st te red
n
b gy
th
O ents iu nk ga
c
H oro pld oi rn ag tes , ( mA ec dh ii uev me -m tee rn mt of ns uta mn bd ea rr d
o f
y t Ehe ve aa lr s us t aaa trl il t oo noc fa
P
t t ee h rd e
io
a p dt e 2t rh i o ie sd ts ha em te
w
t oim fe
is
ca at
l
v b Ma e el fu o de r
iu
eo
m
f R -&“ Tc D eo
r
n mes x o p Ml eid an na st e ae s gd ”
e
mb ou f
e
s t ni hn te e
P
s T las h np ir r do fit
governance. (Remuneration shall not to exceed the upper limit of remuneration resolved performance shares years from fiscal 2022 through fiscal (2) The cumulative amount of the actual value
at the Shareholders Meeting.) targets) 2023, with the shares for the two of “consolidated business profit before
• Fixed remuneration is paid out equally every month. y the ea r ss t aa rll to oc fa t te hd e a pt e t rh ioe d same time at R&D expenses” for the evaluation period
• Remuneration is paid in a lump sum at a certain time every fiscal year, with the amount or Evaluation Period 1 is the three fiscal In each evaluation period, the value of (2)
calculation method determined based on (1) rate of achievement of the fiscal year’s years from fiscal 2019 through fiscal below may not fall below the value of (1)
Performance- Cash/ targets for consolidated revenue, consolidated operating profit, and consolidated business Series C 30% of the 2021, with the shares for the three (1) T he cumulative amount of the
linked bonus Variable p coro nf si ot lb ide afo ter de R p& erD fo e rmxp ae nn cs ee s t; a ( r2 g) e p tsr ;o ag nre ds s (3 w ) ait ph p r re os pp re iac tt e t o b um sie nd ei su sm m-t ao n- alo gn eg m-t ee nrm t i n ( tS ha et i msf ea dct iuio mn - to ef r m ns uta mn bd ea rr d o f y t Ehe ve aa lr s us t aaa trl il t oo noc fa P t t ee h rd e io a p dt e 2t rh i o ie sd ts ha em te w t oim fe is ca at l “ i cn ac o pan ic tcs aoo l rl ci dd oaa sn tt e c rd e a t wc ioo i ts fht o ro t hf t hec e a c p o ei vnt aa s lol u” l a idc ta ia ol tc neu d pla et re id o d
compliance with corporate governance, along with the individual’s personal performance. cost of capital shares years from fiscal 2022 through fiscal (2) T he cumulative amount of the actual
condition) 2023, with the shares for the two value of “consolidated net operating
• The Company has introduced a share-based payment plan that reflects progress in years allocated at the same time at profit after tax” for the evaluation period
achieving the targets in the Third Medium-Term Management Plan covering the period the start of the period
from fiscal 2019 to fiscal 2023.
Note: T he restricted stock allocation agreements concluded with the grantees stipulate that in certain cases, the transfer restrictions on
• Under the plan, restricted stock allocation agreements stipulating conditions including restricted stock shall not be released and the Company shall acquire all of the restricted stock without paying compensation.
Non-cash transfer restrictions for a set period are concluded with the grantees. The plan is designed For example,
Share-based (restricted to function as an effective remuneration system by combining multiple release conditions • if a director of the Company retires before the end of the transfer restriction period, the Company shall acquire without paying
payment stock)*/ for the transfer restrictions, including a set performance evaluation period and performance compensation all of the director’s restricted stock upon the retirement of the director, except when the Company recognizes a just
Variable achievement, and by, in principle, granting restricted stock requiring evaluation of reason, such as completion of the term of office or death;
performance over several fiscal years at the same time in the first fiscal year. • if a director retires before the end of the transfer restriction period due to a just reason, such as completion of the term of office or
• Specifically, stock is granted each fiscal year for items requiring evaluation of performance death, the number of shares of restricted stock to be released and the timing of the release shall be reasonably adjusted as necessary,
and the Company shall acquire without paying compensation all of the shares for which it has decided that the transfer restriction is
in a single fiscal year, and at the same time in the first fiscal year of the evaluation period
not to be released; or
for items requiring evaluation of performance over several fiscal years.
• if the performance-based release conditions have not been met, the Company shall acquire without paying compensation all of the
shares for which it has decided that the transfer restriction is not to be released.
* Overview of non-cash remuneration (restricted stock): To determine the number of shares to be allocated to grantees of restricted
stock, a standard number of shares is set for each fiscal year for each individual, giving consideration to his or her performance of
duties, responsibilities, and the weighting versus fixed remuneration as basic remuneration. Based on this standard number of shares,
shares are allotted for each series each fiscal year or at the same time in the first fiscal year of an evaluation period of several fiscal Composition of Outside Director Remuneration
years, according to the specified release conditions.
Remuneration for outside directors comprises only fixed remuneration, with no variable
components based on business performance.
For details and the latest information on corporate governance and officer remuneration, visit
Composition of Audit & Supervisory Board Member Remuneration
the Sustainability section of the Otsuka Holdings website:
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/governance/officer-compensation.html Remuneration for Audit & Supervisory Board members comprises only fixed remuneration,
Alternatively, please refer to the 14th Annual Securities Report: with no variable components based on business performance.
https://www.otsuka.com/jp/ir/library/securities.html (available only in Japanese)Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 068
Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members
(As of March 30, 2022)
Directors
Ichiro Tatsuo Yoshiro Shuichi Yuko
Otsuka Higuchi Matsuo Takagi Makino
C R Dh e irpa ei r cr e tm s oea rnn t aa tn ivd e P R Dr e ie rp es ri ced ts oe en rn ,t Ct a a En t Oid v e E P Dx r ie re esc i cu d tt oeiv n re t aD ne dp u ty M CSa Onaging Director, E Cx Fe Ocutive Director,
Profile Profile Profile Profile Profile
Apr. 1987 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Mar. 1977 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1985 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1989 Joined Tobishima Corporation Apr. 1982 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Jun. 1997 Executive Director, Director of Consumer Products Development Jun. 1998 Senior Managing Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Pharmavite) Jan. 2003 Vice President, Associate General Manager of the General Affairs Sep. 1995 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1996 Joined Baxter Limited
Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Nov. 1998 Executive Deputy President and Executive Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Department, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Aug. 2002 Finance Department of OIAA Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 2000 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Jun. 1998 Managing Director, responsible for Consumer Products, Publicity, Co., Ltd. Jun. 2006 Vice President, General Manager of the General Affairs Department, Jul. 2003 Corporate Finance & Accounting Department, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Mar. 2015 Director of the Corporate Finance & Accounting Department,
Promotion and Development Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Jun. 1999 Executive Director, responsible for U.S. Business, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Dec. 2001 Executive Director, Research and Development, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Nov. 2007 Senior Vice President, General Manager of the General Affairs Mar. 2015 Vice President responsible for India Business, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Sep. 2016 Vice President, Director of the Corporate Finance & Accounting
Factory, Inc. Jun. 2000 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Department with additional responsibility for Legal Affairs and External Factory, Inc. Department, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
May 2002 Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Jun. 2008 Executive Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Relations, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. May 2015 CEO, Claris Otsuka Private Limited (now Otsuka Pharmaceutical India Vice President, Director of Accounting Department, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Dec. 2003 Executive Deputy President and Representative Director, Otsuka Jul. 2008 President and Representative Director, CEO, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Jul. 2008 Managing Director, Corporate Administration, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Private Limited) Co., Ltd.
Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. (current) Mar. 2016 Senior Managing Director, Corporate Administration, Otsuka Holdings Jan. 2019 Senior Vice President, President’s Office, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Apr. 2017 Vice President, Director of the Tax Department, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
D J J Ju u ue l n n.c . .. 2 2 2 20 0 0 00 0 1 14 8 0 4 P E E Rxxr ee ee ps cc ri uud ett se ii v en v e nt e tD a aDn e ti pd ir ve u eR c t yte Do p P irr r, r e eeOs cse i tt d osn eu rt ,na k Ott a i av tH sne u doD k l Ed air xi e n Pec g c ht uo s at r riC, v mO o e a .t D,s c u L i ertk e uda c t. t i coP arh , la O Fr t am s cua tk oc ae r yu H ,t oi Ic nla d cl i . n F Vga isc c t eCo or .y ,, LIn tdc .. D F Mee abc r.. . 2 2 20 0 01 1 21 5 0 E P C (cx r h uee a rsc riiu r ed m nt ei tv n a )e nt aD ani nr d de c R Rt eo epr p, r rO e est ses eu n nk t taa at tiC iv veh e e D Dm i ir ri ec eca ctl to oC r r, ,o O O., t tL s sut ud k k. a a P Ph ha ar rm ma ac ce eu ut ti ic ca al l C Co o. ., , L Lt td d. . J M Man a ar r. . . 2 2 20 0 01 1 27 9 2 C E S Eex xo e en., c ci ou uL rt t t d i iMv v. e ea D Dnai er g pe i uc nt tgo y r, D P O ri ert e ss c iu dtk o ea r n, tOM ate nsd u di k c Raa e l H pD o re eldv sei ic n ne g ts as tC C ivo o e. ., , D L Lt it rd d e. . c( tc ou r,r r Oen tst u) ka Mar. 2019 E O E Cx x ote es .,uc c u u Lk tt ta di i v v .Pe eh D Dari ir rme ec cat tco oer ru, , tF Bii c un a sa l i n nCc eoe s. s ,a PLn t od d r . tB fou ls ioin e Ms as nP ao grt ef mol eio n tM , Oan tsa ug ke am He on lt d, ings M Ma ar r. . 2 20 01 18 9 V O E Ex xi tc e ese u c c u ukP t tar i ie v vPs e ehi d D Dae r i in r rm e et c c, a t tD c o oei r rr u , ,e t C Cc ic o Fto a Orplr , C oo Orof a t .t st,h ueLe kt F adF in .i Hn aa onn lc dc e ie , n O g& st sA Cuc okc .ao , u LH tn o dt l .i d n (ig cn u gD rs re eCp na o t)r .,t m Lte dn .t,
Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (current) Oct. 2021 President, Otsuka America, Inc. (current) Mar. 2022 Executive Director (Finance), Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (current)
Mar. 2015 Executive Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (current) Executive Deputy President and Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Mar. 2022 Managing Director (Business Strategy), Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Chairman, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. (current)
Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Managing Director, CSO, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current)
Mar. 2022 Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. (current)
Masayuki Noriko Makoto
Kobayashi Tojo Inoue
Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director
Profile Profile Profile
Apr. 1989 Joined The Daiwa Bank, Ltd. (now Resona Bank, Limited) Apr. 1987 Joined Goldman Sachs (Japan) Corporation Apr. 1983 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Oct. 1993 Joined Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Aug. 1991 Joined Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Jun. 2008 Vice President, General Manager of Diagnostic Division, Otsuka
Aug. 2002 President, Taiho Pharma USA, Inc. (now Taiho Oncology, Inc.) Jul. 2002 Engagement Manager, McKinsey & Company, Japan Office Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Sep. 2003 Executive Director, Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Jun. 2006 Director, Intel Capital Japan, Intel Corporation Jun. 2009 Senior Vice President, Deputy General Manager of Pharmaceutical
Business Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Apr. 2010 President and CEO, Otsuka America, Inc. Aug. 2008 Managing Director, Corporate Development, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Mar. 2015 Executive Director, Executive Vice President, General Manager of
Apr. 2012 President and Representative Director, Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Feb. 2011 Executive Director, Otsuka Medical Devices Co., Ltd. Nutraceuticals Business Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Apr. 2014 ( E Cc x hu e ar cr iue rmn tit v a) e n ,D Ti are ihc oto Or, nT ca oih loo g P yh , Ia nr cm . a (c U urS rA en, tI )nc. A Ap ur g. . 2 20 01 12 5 P Exre es ci ud te ivn et a Dn ird e cC tE oO r a, nO dts Cuk Ea O ,A Pm he ar ri mca a, v I in tec. LLC A Mp ar r. . 2 20 01 15 7 E Mx ae ncu agti iv ne g D Dir ie rec cto tor, r ,P Nh ua tr rm aca ev uit te ic L aL lsC Business, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Jan. 2017 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Medical Devices Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd.
Mar. 2017 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) (current) Sep. 2017 Executive Director, Daiya Foods Inc.
May 2017 Executive Director, Otsuka America, Inc. Mar. 2018 Senior Managing Director, Nutraceuticals Business, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Aug. 2017 Chairman, Pharmavite LLC Co., Ltd.
Mar. 2018 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Oct. 2018 Chairman, Nardobel SAS
Mar. 2019 Executive Deputy President and Executive Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Co., Ltd.
Mar. 2020 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
(current)
Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current)Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 069
Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members
Outside Directors
Yukio Ko Yoshihisa Mayo Tatsuaki
Matsutani Sekiguchi Aoki Mita Kitachi
Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director
Profile Profile Profile Profile Profile
Apr. 1975 Intern, Pediatric Department, St. Luke’s International Hospital Apr. 1973 Joined Mitsubishi Corporation Apr. 1974 Joined ITOCHU Corporation Apr. 1983 Joined Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. (now Mitsubishi UFJ Oct. 1985Joined Sanwa Tokyo Marunouchi Office Audit Corporation (now Deloitte
Oct. 1981 Joined Ministry of Health and Welfare (now Ministry of Health, Labour May 1990 Joined The Boston Consulting Group Jun. 2003 Executive Officer, ITOCHU Corporation Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd.) Touche Tohmatsu LLC)
and Welfare) Jan. 1996 General Manager of Sterrad Business Division, Johnson & Johnson Apr. 2009 Managing Executive Officer, President, Food Company, ITOCHU Jan. 1989 Equity Research Division (Healthcare), Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Apr. 1989Registered as a certified public accountant
Aug. 2005 Director-General, Health Policy Bureau, Ministry of Health, Labour and Medical K. K. (now Johnson & Johnson K. K. Medical Company) Corporation Co., Ltd. Jul. 1996Partner, Tohmatsu & Co. (now Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC)
Welfare Nov. 1998 President and Representative Director, Janssen Kyowa Co., Ltd. (now Apr. 2010 Member of the Board, Senior Managing Executive Officer, President, Dec. 2000 Managing Director, Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. Apr. 2010Commissioner, Public Interest Corporation Commission, Cabinet Office
Aug. 2007 Director, National Sanatorium Tama Zenshoen Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K.) Food Company, ITOCHU Corporation Dec. 2013 Senior Advisor, Investment Banking Business Unit (Healthcare), Oct. 2012Leader of Advisory Development Division, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC
Apr. 2012 President, National Institute of Public Health Jul. 2009 Chairman and Director, Janssen Kyowa Co., Ltd. Mar. 2017 Administrative Officer, ITOCHU Corporation (current) Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. Nov. 2013Member of the Board, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC
Dec. 2015 Vice President, International University of Health and Welfare Oct. 2009 Supreme Advisor, Janssen Kyowa Co., Ltd. Jun. 2017 Outside Director, ARATA Corporation (current) Mar. 2020 Outside Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Jun. 2017Leader of Industry Service Division, Advisory Service Headquarters,
Mar. 2016 Outside Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Jan. 2011 Representative Director, DIA Japan (now SH DIA Japan) Mar. 2019 Outside Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC
Jun. 2019 President, Japan Public Health Association (current) Apr. 2012 Outside Director, N.I.C. Corporation (now Solasto Corporation) Jun. 2019Thought Leader, Deloitte Tohmatsu LLC
Mar. 2014 Outside Director, Kenedix, Inc. Sep. 2021Special Adviser to the Governor of Kanagawa Prefecture (current)
Mar. 2018 Outside Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Mar. 2022Outside Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current)
Audit & Supervisory Board Members
Yozo Hiroshi Kanako
Sachie Tsuji
Toba Sugawara Osawa
Outside Audit &
Standing Audit & Outside Audit & Outside Audit & Supervisory Board
Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Member
Member Member Member
Profile Profile Profile Profile
Apr. 1979 Joined Otsuka Chemical Holdings Co., Ltd. (now Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd.) Oct. 1997Joined Chuo Audit Corporation Apr. 1998 Registered as an attorney at law (Dai-ichi Tokyo Bar Association)Joined Oct. 1996 Joined Tohmatsu & Co. (now Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC)
Jan. 1995 Director, Information Center, Otsuka Chemical Holdings Co., Ltd. Oct. 2000Joined Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu (now Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC) KAJITANI LAW OFFICES (current) Apr. 1999 Registered as a certified public accountant
Jan. 2006 CFO, Trocellen GmbH Apr. 2002Registered as a certified public accountant Oct. 2005 Admitted to the bar of the State of New York Jul. 2015 Representative Director, SPLUS Corporation (now Biz-suppli
May 2009 Operating Officer, Information System Department, Otsuka Chemical Feb. 2006Vice President, Will Capital Management Co., Ltd. (current) Jun. 2015 Outside Director (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member), LINTEC Corporation) (current)
Holdings Co., Ltd. (now Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd.) Jun. 2010Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Corporation (current) Jun. 2016 Director, Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (current)
Jun. 2009 Corporate Officer, Director of IT, Corporate Finance & Accounting (current) Apr. 2021 Committee Member for Reform of Collateral Law, Legislative Council of Mar. 2021 Outside Director (Audit & Supervisory Board Member), SBS Holdings,
Department, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Jun. 2012Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Pharmaceutical the Ministry of Justice (current) Inc. (current)
Dec. 2011 Executive Director, Corporate Administration, Accounting and IT, Otsuka Co., Ltd. May 2021 Director, Japanese Association for Business Recovery (current) Jun. 2021 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Shindengen Electric
Chemical Co., Ltd. Oct. 2013Outside Director, Nippon Parking Development Co., Ltd. Jun. 2021 External Director, TPR Co., Ltd. (current) Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (current)
Mar. 2015 Executive Vice President, Corporate Finance & Accounting and Mar. 2016Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Mar. 2022 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Mar. 2022 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Corporate Service Department, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) (current) (current)
Mar. 2018 Standing Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
(current)
Mar. 2019 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. (current)Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 070
Governance
awareness surveys, and other measures. Trainees are required to submit a signed declaration that they will
Compliance
observe the regulations, and the results of training and the status of submission of declaration forms are
regularly reported at meetings of the Board of Directors. The operational status of the internal reporting
systems and internal audits at group companies is likewise reported. Other examples of initiatives include
Basic Policy
the appointment of compliance officers at overseas group companies and regular meetings for sharing
The Otsuka group seeks to earn the trust of stakeholders and to achieve
the status of progress in each country. In Asia, for instance, the director in charge of compliance visits
sustained growth by contributing to people’s health worldwide, acting in
companies to gather information and offer suggestions on how improvements can be made.
good faith and with the highest level of ethics in accordance with the
corporate philosophy: “Otsuka-people creating new products for better
Compliance Promotion System
health worldwide.” That commitment is encapsulated in the Otsuka Group
Global Code of Business Ethics, which outlines the standards of behavior Board of Directors
expected of everyone involved in our work. This is reinforced with a range of
Supervises Reports
global policies that reflect our behavioral standards in core areas. Regular
training helps ensure that our compliance stance is thoroughly embedded.
Risk Management Committee
Administered by:
Otsuka Holdings
For more details about our various global policies and compliance-related Internal Control Department
initiatives, visit our website:
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/governance/compliance2.html Instructs Reports
Group companies
Departments in charge of compliance
Compliance Promotion System
As a holding company whose role is to maximize the group’s corporate value, Otsuka Holdings has Monitoring System
established a system for appropriate business operations from the perspective of the group as a whole. The Company’s Internal Audit Department reports directly to the president. The department conducts
We have established a system for facilitating cooperation in the Otsuka group. Under this system, group regular audits based on the Internal Audit Rules to verify that operations are being executed appropriately
companies report to Otsuka Holdings as necessary regarding items specified in the Affiliated Company and efficiently with regard to the assets and business in general of Otsuka Holdings and Otsuka group
Management Regulations, and obtain approval on relevant important items. The Board of Directors has companies. Audit reports are submitted to the president, directors, and Audit & Supervisory Board
built a group-wide risk management system, which includes the establishment of the Risk Management members. Where there is need for improvement, the department recommends remedial actions and later
Committee (chaired by the President and Representative Director), and oversees the system’s operation. confirms their implementation, thereby contributing to the optimization of business execution. The
The Risk Management Committee and the Board of Directors receive regular reports on compliance and department also shares information and works in cooperation with Audit & Supervisory Board members
risk management action plans and results from the Internal Control Department. These reports and and the accounting auditor.
plans form the basis for discussion of issues and additional measures. The Otsuka group operates an crisis management system that enables a swift, cohesive response if a
To instill thorough compliance at group companies, the Otsuka group conducts universal training risk event demanding an urgent response occurs in or outside Japan. When a critical or time-sensitive
based on policies such as the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics, the Otsuka Group Global event does occur, the group company immediately shares information with the main operating
Anti-Corruption Policy and the Otsuka Group Global Policy for Conflict of Interest. Training materials companies and Otsuka Holdings, and the relevant departments mount a coordinated response to
(available in English, French, Chinese, Korean, Indonesian, and other languages) are distributed to group mitigate impact. Otsuka Holdings maintains and updates regulations, manuals, and other documentation
companies, and executives and employees attend related training at least once annually. Depth and setting out fundamental approaches to risk management and response, and enhances group-wide
breadth of compliance understanding among employees is evaluated through a test during training, readiness through regular training and exercises.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 071
Governance
Governance
Tax Compliance
We work to maintain and improve tax-related governance, recognizing that this contributes to the
enhancement of corporate value. To this end, we are strengthening cooperation with operating
companies as well as securing and training capable human resources, thereby maintaining an appropriate
Basic Policy
system that enhances the group’s tax compliance and reduces tax risks. Furthermore, we have established
The Otsuka group operates around the world and recognizes that the
reporting obligations to the Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board regarding the above-
appropriate payment of taxes in accordance with relevant laws and
mentioned policies and processes, as well as their ongoing implementation and maintenance.
regulations in each country and region contributes to the local economy in
those countries and regions. The group complies with the Otsuka Group
Global Code of Business Ethics, the group’s tax policy, country-specific laws,
Risk Management
regulations and tax treaties, as well as international taxation rules, and does
not engage in transactions designed to evade the payment of taxes, but
carries out the appropriate filing and payment of taxes in each country.
We endeavor to appropriately disclose information and ensure a degree of Basic Policy
transparency and trust when dealing with tax authorities in each country. The Otsuka group recognizes that pursuing management efficiency and
The globalization of business makes tax oversight more complex, but by
controlling the risks inherent in business activities are important to enhancing
continuously updating information and consulting tax experts where
corporate value. To that end, it is vital to establish a group-wide system that
necessary, we are appropriately responding in order to minimize tax risk.
enables all executives and employees to uncover, identify, and deal with risks
related to their work swiftly. The Otsuka group manages risk via the initiatives
outlined below under the supervision of top management.
Correspondence with Tax Authorities
The Otsuka group remains committed to building constructive relationships with tax authorities in the
countries and regions in which it operates. As economies become more global and digital, the Organization
for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and other organizations have been reviewing the Risk Management System
basic rules of international taxation. The shift toward a system in which even enterprises without permanent To further enhance risk management at Otsuka Holdings and its main operating companies, the
facilities in a location are liable for tax on income earned in that market means that the process of reporting Company introduced enterprise risk management (ERM) in July 2020 for the purpose of recognizing and
to local tax authorities will become more complex and far-reaching. We will continue to improve the assessing group-wide risks, and prioritizing allocation of resources to the control of significant risks.
reliability of tax data and establish systems to provide it promptly. As part of ERM, we define uncertainties that could have a major impact on our ability to fulfill our
corporate philosophy and achieve business strategy goals as “risks,” and have established a group-wide
Transfer Pricing Policy risk management framework and a system for risk assessment to effectively and efficiently manage
The Otsuka group calculates transfer prices based on the OECD guidelines that were created for the significant risks faced by the group. Under this framework and system, we perform risk assessments to
prevention of double taxation and fair application of the transfer price tax system, as well as each identify and gauge the significant risks faced by the group’s main operating companies; determine
country’s transfer price tax system, and makes efforts to ensure proper transactions between related whether to mitigate, transfer, avoid, or accept risks; develop and implement risk management policies,
parties. Also, when necessary, we make use of advance pricing agreements (APAs) to obtain ahead-of- and conduct monitoring activities on an ongoing basis.
time consensus with tax authorities.Governance
At Otsuka Holdings, the Risk Management Committee oversees the group’s ERM as a whole. The
committee participates in deliberations on significant risks and reports on them at meetings of the Board
of Directors, formulates and monitors the implementation of policies for the management of significant
risks, and provides instructions and support to the main operating companies when needed. The Board
of Directors receives reports on committee activities, issues instructions as necessary, and oversees the
efficacy of the group’s ERM structure.
Details of Risk Management Activities
Risk Management System
Identification of significant risks begins with the sharing of risk awareness by senior management
through interviews at Otsuka Holdings and its main operating companies (top-down approach), as well
Board of Directors
as assessments of risks and controls by front-line employees (bottom-up approach). This enables us to
comprehensively identify the risks that exist in the group. Each group company develops risk • Reporting on • Supervision and
risk management instructions on risk
management policies and risk management action plans for the risks that are judged to be its significant activities management activities
risks, and regularly monitors and reviews the status of those risks and the progress of action plans.
Risk Management Committee
Otsuka Holdings aggregates and visualizes the significant risks faced by each group company so as to
(Chair: President and representative director)
grasp a comprehensive understanding of the existing risks and the status of controls in the group.
• Decisions on status of risk management
Common risks that apply to the whole group are studied closely and the significant risks are gathered • rR ie skp o mr ati nn ag g o en m s et na ttus of • Monitoring of status of risk management
and identified. Based on the results of this process, the Risk Management Committee assigns priority to • Review of risk management system
significant risks that could have major impact on the group’s business, for such as financial losses or
Coordination of each company’s risk management
business continuity.
PDCA initiatives; visualization of group risks
Identification
Risk Map Otsuka Holdings of the group’s
significant risks
Risk Categories by Degree of Impact and Level of Control
Plan Do Check & Action
Awareness of
management Review of risk
risks management status O M Cot as miu n pk Oa a npH ie eo r sl ad ti in ng gs and
Awareness of
I o r cd i of se mkhn si pt g ai afi h t nc e e ya s att i co hn F o m p ao cof a tr lr in im i ocs a i nku eg l s pea m lat ai no ne dn n
s
t R a r p pic o lsi as t k lk i ni v cm sm i it ei a sea n sn aa a nb gg da ee s m aem cd e te n io on tn nt •
•
M Re m pv
e
rao oa vnn gl iu eai rt wa ego t se r i sao mi n
n
on eg
d f
o n aa rf t
e
cn tr i pd n ii os
o
dk nri tc sia nt go r os
n
workplace • Risk reassessment
risks
tcapmi
fo
eergeD
puorg
elohw
eht no
Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 072
Otsuka Holdings and its main operating companies develop and implement countermeasures to each
significant risk based on its characteristics and risk tolerance. Otsuka Holdings provides the necessary
guidance and support to group companies, which submit reports and seek advice from Otsuka Holdings
as appropriate. In these activities, the whole group coordinates closely to promote and practice ERM.
Moreover, Otsuka Holdings and group companies work to prevent risks from realizing by regularly
monitoring them and confirming that they are within their respective tolerance levels.
Major
Risks requiring
Risks requiring
prioritized
regular group-wide
strengthening of
monitoring
group-wide control
Risks for which a Risks for which certain level of additional action plans
control has been are to be implemented
achieved at operating companies
Minor
Level of risk
High Control LowContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 073
Governance
Significant Risks
For more details about business risks, visit our website:
Through group-wide risk assessments, the Otsuka group recognizes the following significant risks at https://www.otsuka.com/en/ir/management/risk.html
Otsuka Holdings and the main operating companies, and is taking steps to mitigate them.
Item Risk scenarios Response Risk management policies
(Pharmaceutical Business) Healthcare • Revision of drug price standards; further lowering of drug prices •• D Me om nio tn os rt inra gt i an ng d t ah ne a v la yzlu ine g o af dn mew in id str ru ag ts i va en td r ep nr do sviding products at appropriate prices • C core ma pti an ng y v wa hlu ile e a ms aa i nto tata inl ih ne ga alt h hc ea ar le th y risk
cost containment measures • Further encouragement to use generic drugs and biosimilars • Creating value as a total healthcare company appetite
• Delay or cancellation of R&D • Enhancing pipeline in priority areas
( oP fh na erm w a dc re uu gt i dca el v eB lu os pin me ess n) t Uncertainty • Reduction of exclusive license periods • Expanding the range of development items • D a e hv ee al lo tp hi yn rg is n ke aw p pd er tu ig tes while maintaining
Significant • Emergence of competing products • Proper portfolio management through appropriate review of R&D policy
bri usk sis n i en s sc ore (Pharmaceutical Business) Side effects • Suspension of sales and recalls due to serious side effects •• E Es st ta ab bl li is sh hi in ng g a a s sa ysf te et my m foa rn ia mg pe lm emen et n s tt ir nu gc t su ar fe e, t yin mcl eu ad si un rg e c s o inll e ac ct cio on rd a an nd ce e wva il tu ha tt hio en r eo gf usa laf te it oy n i sn ofo f r em aca hti o con untry and region • R me ad nu ac gin eg m r ei nsk t b sty r ust cr te un regthening the safety
areas ( inN tu ot r na ec weu ct aic ta el g B ou ris ein s e as ns) d E rx ep ga ion nsi son • • • F C Da h ei a tlu enr rge ioe o rs a f t top io r ao nnd odu f c s ett rs ce ot no ng oa t md hd e icnr e cin oss g n c dou if ts it l oo e nm g sa ,e l pr r on e lse it te r id i cc as t li o inn ss tability • •• M O Repo lt en i vmit ao i nzr tii n n dgg e s pa t an ra rd tt mea gn eya n l tfy srz o cin m og o a pm eloa rancr tgo in- ta gen r omd n m p eei fc frr eso p c tet ir vce t ein v id nes fb oa rmse ad t io on n p cr oo lld eu cc tit o a nn ad n l do c aa nl ac lh ya sir sa , c at ne dri s st ti rc as tegizing • C r ae pr ge pa i eot tni in tsg e w v ha il lu ee m in a in ne taw in c ia nt ge g ao hr eie as l ta hn yd r isk
( P qN r uou adt lr iu ta ycc te su Bt uic sa inl eB su ss )i n Foe oss d a sn ad fe C to y n as nu dm er • Q cau ua sl eit dy bp yr o qb ul ae lm itys ( ce o. ng t., r oco l sn yt sa tm emin a fati io lun r eby hazardous substance) • •• E A On c nqs gu u or ii isn nitg gio c qno u m a an lp id tl yi a m in mac ie pn rw t oe vi nt eh a m nle c eeg n a to sl f a t c hn e rd r ot ur ife gig c hau t al ia uot dno isr t y sa , n r ee d tq ciu .ni tr ee rm nae tn it os n, aa ln sd t ag no dv ae rr dn smental and industry standards • R r se ae l fd a eu t te yc d i an t sg o s ur qi rs auk na b cli ey t ys t mre an ng at gh ee mni en ng t s ay nst de ms
T a cua nl lde tu n u rt n e r d e aec nrr dsu t i a ct onm rd pe in ont rg a a o tn efd c p od hre ip lv ooe srl oo a ptp e hm yent, • • F Fsta ari ial lu uter re eg yt to o s de ec vu er le o psu tf af li eci ne tnt human resources to execute high-level • • I Pd re on mti of tic ina gti o dn iv a en rsd it d y e bv ae sl eo dp m one n tht eo f O f tu sutu kr ae Gg re on ue pr a Gt li oo bn as lo Cf om da en oa fg Be um se inn et s h s u Em tha icn s ,r ae nso du prc re os v iv dia in O g t rs eu lk ea va G nl to sb ya sl t eA mca s d ae nm d y mechanisms • R ree sd ou uc ri cn eg d r eis vk e lb oy p s mtr ee nn tg gth roe un pin -wg ih du eman
• Building a structure (e.g., establishing committees) for addressing environmental issues
• D pre ola by le i mn saction or responses regarding resolution of environmental • Establishing the Otsuka Group Environmental Policy and Environmental Activity Guidelines to promote action to address issues • Reducing risk by proactively addressing
Environmental issues • F Ga Hil Gu r ee m to is sm ioe ne st ) the group’s environmental targets (e.g., cutting • P mu ar nsu ai gn eg m e ef nfi tc i se yn stt e a mn sd ) highly effective action through acquisition of ISO 14001 integrated certification (for environmental e bn uv sii nro en ssmental issues through our
• Pursuing action to cut GHG emissions throughout business value chains based on the establishment of clear targets for 2030
Supply chain transparency • M riga hjo tsr , n lao bn o-c r,o tm hep l eia nn vc ire o o nr m m ei ns tc ,o cn od ru ruct p t(e io.g n. ), ir ne l ta ht ein sg u pto p lh yu cm haa in n • •• E C Es sot tna adb bul li ics sh htii inn ngg g dt ah u ne e o O d nit gls i ogu iek nna gc G e m r wo ou nhp ie t n oP rr s io e nc l geu c sr t ye i snm tg ee mn sut pP po ll ii ec ry s and Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines • R s pee old se tu c -t sc i ei nn lg eg c s tr u ii os pk np t l mh ier oro s nu , iag tonh rd ie n ov ga n l ogu foa sit n uio g pn ps l iw erh sen
• Failure to appropriately allocate business resources • Strategic allocation of managerial resources for priority segments and important measures in each business • Reducing risk by strengthening
Risk as a holding company • • I In nc suo fm fip cil ee nte t go or vw er ro nn ag n cf eo r bm y u hl oa lt dio inn g o cr o r mev pie aw ny ,o if n g clr uo du ip n gst gra rt oe ug py • E gs lota bb al li s ph oin lig ci ea s group-wide oversight mechanism based on the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics and respective c ao no dp oe nra gt oio inn g a rm eio nn fog r g cero mu ep n tc o om f gp ra on uie ps
company management • Strengthening the internal monitoring framework and establishing a group-wide internal reporting system company management systems
C reo pr up to ar ta it oe n brand management and • Insufficient corporate brand development and management • •
•
E F Eos dt r ua m cb aul ti ls ia oh t ni in n ag g
n
t t dh h e e
tr
C aOI
i
t nM s iu na k gn a a
f
oGg re r o em u xe p en
c
P ut R tC
i
vo G em u si m d ae nit l dt ine eee ms
ployees
• R a syne sd d teu e mc si tn sag b lr ii ss hk i nth gr o inu fg oh rm o an tg ioo nin cg o t llr ea ci tn ii on ng
• Failure to generate synergies due to insufficient due diligence of
S rii sg kn si f ci oc man mt on Business alliances and acquisitions • p I fn oa s lr u lt ofn wfe ic ir nis e g o n ar t na b c u aq s cu i qni ur ee is sd s i t m ic oo a nm nap ga en mie es nt when engaging in an alliance or •• C Sto rn od nu gc et ri n bg u sc ia nr ee sf su ml d ou ne it d oi rl ii ng ge n wc he e o nf eta nr gg ae gt i nco gm inp a an ni e as ll ia an nd c ea s os re t fos llowing an acquisition • R aned du mci on ng i tr ois rk in b gy ss yt sr te en mg sthening screening
to business
areas Digitalization • D die gc il ti an le iz i an t ic oo nmpetitive ability due to slow or insufficient •• A Imd po rp ot vin ing g s lt ia tete ra-o cf y- t ah ne d- a sr kt i lt le s c gh rn oo ul po -g wie ids, e c to hn rd ou uc gt hin sg e mpr io no arf s-o af n-c do in nc fe op rt m d ae tm ioo nn ss ht ara rit nio gns, and practical application • R lae td eu stc i tn eg ch r nis ok l ob gy i ep sr o aa nc dt i ove ffl ey ra ind go p trt ain ing i nth ge
Natural disasters and pandemics • S i nnu ats tep ure rr aun lps i dto i ion san o s tof e rp r dl oa e rn l at p y ao np o de f er pa mrt oi io cdn us c, t e dt ec. v, e l lo os ps mof e nh tu m dua en tr oe s mo au jr oce r s, • •• F C To hor onm rd ou u ul ca gtt i hnin g ig m r b e pgu leus mi ln a ee r n s ds t r ac i to ll in s o t nai n n odu f i et Cy x O ep Vrl ca IDin se -s 1, s 9in pc rlu evd ein ng ti oo nn g mo ein ag su r re ev siew and improvement • R d b kee i us ed sa i pu s nt ic e nei sn r gs g s ecc or mei nns pk ta li r onb i yuoy e isi t en ya sc n po id nlr a fp p n oo a n rr n mia ndt egi e dn ,m g ai ncn s da it nu tr oa l
Supply stability • D gle os bta ab l i eli cz oa nt oio mn i co f s tm aga nte ar ti ia ol n p oro r c hu er ie gm hte en nt e a dn gd e s ou pp op ll iy ti cc aa lu rs ie sd k by • •• E D Ses it v ca e ub r rs il ni is f gh ic i a an t pg i po i rnn o - o ph f ro ipu ars to ee c s iu nt ra ven emd na te or nd rt ys s ab o na u ds re c sed ps ro a en c a rG do iM s ns g P m pa u rn l otd di pG ule cD t P is ou s npt a p an l cid re oa rs sr , sd a ms n ud l ts ie pc lu e r min ag n a ul ft ae cr tn ua rt ii nv ge sr ia tw es materials • R s sc ee e cd n uu a rc ir ni in o gg s a, r ldi ts i ek v re nb r ay si t fr iy vu i en n n rg ai n s wug p m v pa alr i tei eo r rsu i, as a l snd
Patent infringement • • T I pnh rf oi rr pid n e- g rp e ta ymr rt ey ign i hn t tf b sr yin tg he em Oe tn sut ko af i gn rt oe ull pe c ot fu ta hl ip rdro -pp ae rr tt yy ir nig teh lt ls ectual •• E Us st ia nb gl i dsh atin ag b aa s em s a an na dg re em see an rt c ha n ad g em no cn ieit so tr oin cg o nsy ds ut ce tm s ef ao rr c i hn et se l ale nc dt u coal l lp ecro t p ine fr oty rm ri ag th iots n • R me ad nu ac gin eg m r ei nsk t b any dst mre on ng it th oe rin ni gn g s ystems
Litigation • • L Init si ug fa ft icio ien n b t r lio tu igg ah tt io b ny ra e st ph oir nd s eparty • • E Cs ot oa pb eli rs ah ti in og n a wn i tin ht oe urn tsa il d r ee p coo urt nin seg l ,a en td c. cooperation system • R sye sd teu mcin s g a nr dis k s tb rey n e gs tt hab enlis inh gin cg o i on pt ee rr an ta il o n
• Major system outage • Establishing the Otsuka Group Global Information Security Policy
Information management • External cyberattack • Education and training for executives and employees • R lee vd eu lsc ,i n og n gr ois ik n gth ir mou pg roh v h emig eh ne tr s s , e ac nu dri ty
• Falsification, misuse, or leakage of data through negligence, etc., • Establishing the Group Information Security Committee employee training
on the part of an employee, contractor, or other third-party • Establishing an emergency response system centered on the internal Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT)
• Failure to keep up with legal restrictions in countries where the • Cooperation by relevant departments to implement appropriate management for business operations based on local operating • Reducing risk by establishing systems for
Global business operations group operates environments cooperation among operating companies
• Sudden changes in economic conditions or the business environment • Optimizing strategy from a long-term perspective based on product and local characteristics and relevant departmentsContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 074
Financial and Non-Financial Highlights
Profit Attributable to Owners of the Company, Return
Revenue, Overseas Revenue Ratio Business Profit, Business Profit Margin (Ratio to Revenue) on Equity Attributable to Owners of the Company (ROE)
Revenue, Overseas Revenue Ratio Business Profit, Business Profit Margin Profit Attributable to Owners of the Company, Return on Equity Attributable to Owners of the Company (ROE)
(¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (%)
2,000 59.4 60 250 20 200 12
5566..88
1,500 11,,449988..331,550.0 200 190.0 15 150 146.0
40 8
115577..11 112255..55
150
1,000 12.3 10 100 7.2
100 1100..55 66..55
20 4
500 5 50
50
0 0 0 0 0 0
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
(Plan) (Plan) (Plan)
Revenue (left) Overseas revenue ratio (right) Business profit (left) Business profit margin (right) Profit attributable to owners of the Company (left)
Return on equity attributable to owners of the Company (ROE) (right)
Pharmaceutical Business Total Assets, Ratio of Equity Attributable to
R&D Expenses*, R&D Ratio (Ratio to Revenue) Owners of the Company to Total Assets Annual Dividend per Share, Dividend Payout Ratio
R&D Expenses (in Pharmaceutical Business) Total assets Annual dividend per share
(¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (%) (¥) (%)
250 30 400 80 100 110000 100 80
232.0
7711..33
221188..11
200
300 60 75 60
22,,882200..99
23.3 20
150 2222..33
200 40 50 40
100 4433..22
37.2
10
100 20 25 20
50
0 0 0 0 0 0
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
(Plan) (Plan)
R&D expenses (left) Total assets (left) Annual dividend per share (left)
R&D ratio (right) Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the Company to total assets (right) Dividend payout ratio (right)
* Excluding impairment lossesContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 075
Financial and Non-Financial Highlights
Visit the Otsuka Holdings website for key sustainability data at:
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/data/
NuNmubmerb oef rE mofp lEomyepesloyees NuNmubmerb oef rF eomf aFlee mMaanlea gMeras,n Faegmearlse, MFeanmaageler RMataionager Ratio EmNpulomyebees rta okfin Egm paprleonytael elesa Tveaking Parental Leave
(%)
35,000 450 15 700
3333,,222266
440044 663377
30,000
25,000 1100..44
300 10 296
60.3%
20,000
350
15,000
150 5
10,000
341
5,000 39.7%
0 0 0 0
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Outside Japan Japan Number of female managers (left) Female manager ratio (right) Female Male
Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group Scope: (Fiscal 2017–2018) Six companies: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Scope: (Fiscal 2017–2018) Six companies: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho
Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods
(Fiscal 2019) Nine companies: six companies above plus Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development & (Fiscal 2019) Nine companies: six companies above plus Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development &
Commercialization, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, and Pharmavite Commercialization, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, and Pharmavite
(Fiscal 2020) Eleven companies: nine companies above plus Otsuka Holdings and Otsuka Medical Devices (Fiscal 2020) Eleven companies: nine companies above plus Otsuka Holdings and Otsuka Medical Devices
(Fiscal 2021) Nineteen companies: Eleven companies above plus Otsuka Electronics, Otsuka Techno, (Fiscal 2021) Nineteen companies: Eleven companies above plus Otsuka Electronics, Otsuka Techno,
Okayama Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Packaging Industries, Otsuka Ohmi Ceramics, Higashiyama Film, Okayama Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Packaging Industries, Otsuka Ohmi Ceramics, Higashiyama Film,
Otsuka Wellness Vending, and JIMRO Otsuka Wellness Vending, and JIMRO
Simple Incineration and Landfill Volume,
TotCaOl C2 OE2m eimssiisosinons,s CO2 Emissions per Sales WaWtear tUesra gUes,a Wgaet,e Wr Uastee Erf fiUcsieangcey per Sales TotTaol twaal sWte avostluem Veolume
(Thousand tons-CO2) (Tons/¥ million) (Thousand m3) (m3/¥ million) (Tons) (Tons)
900 1.00 20,000 20 20,000 9977,,440000 100,000
8888,,990000 9900,,110000
1177,,668800
Japan 27.6%
1166,,110000 1166,,440000
668833 Indonesia 22.3% 15,000 Japan 61.7% 15 15,000 1144,,550000 75,000
600 India 19.5% Southeast Asia 18.3%
South Korea 8.8% 0.50 10,000 1111..88 East Asia 10.2% 10 10,000 50,000
South Asia and
North America 8.2% North Africa 5.3%
00..4466
300 China 7.4% North America 3.0%
5,000 5 5,000 25,000
Europe 2.5% South America 0.1%
Others 3.6% Europe 1.4%
0 0 0 0 0 0
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021
Total CO2 emissions (left) CO2 emissions per sales (right) Water usage (left) Water usage per sales (right) Simple incineration and landfill (left) Total waste volume (right)
Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka groupContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 076
ESG Content Index
In addition to information included in this integrated report, the Otsuka group discloses the following
ESG-related information on its website. Please visit the website for more details.
Item Policies, commitments, and systems Initiatives
Overall • Signatory to the United Nations Global Compact
• Sustainability Mission Page 18
• Materialities Page 20
• Goals and progress Page 21
• Stakeholder engagement
• Sustainability management structure Page 42
• External recognition
• Data (people, the environment, and governance)
Society Health Basic policy Pages 43–44
Pharmaceutical • Basic policy • Contribution to unmet medical needs Pages 26–33, Page 43
Business • Goals and progress Page 21 • Initiatives for access to medicine Page 43
“FY 2023 Goals (Quantification)” and “FY 2021 Progress” • Initiatives for infectious diseases including tuberculosis Pages 32, 43
Nutraceutical • Basic policy • Catering to yet-to-be-imagined needs Page 44
Business • Goals and progress Page 21 • Initiatives for Access to Nutrition Page 44
People • Basic policy
Human resource • Basic policy Page 45 • Human resource development programs (including management human resource development programs) Page 45
development • Internship programs
• Systems for leveraging abilities (open recruiting system, self-assessment system, etc.)
Diversity & • “Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics” (“Diversity and Inclusion”) • Systems for diversity promotion (including mindset and establishing structure to help diverse human resources play active roles regardless
Inclusion • Basic policy Page 46 of nationality, race, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation, etc.) Page 46
• Signatory to the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) Page 42 • Examples of external recognition
• Ikuboss (managers supportive of work-life balance) declaration by group companies Page 46
Health and Safety • Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics • Initiatives for employee health maintenance and promotion Page 46
(“Human Rights and Labor Standards” and “Employee Health”) • Initiatives for workplace health and safety
• Basic policy • Initiatives for reduction overtime and encouraging employees to take paid leave
• Declaration on health by group companies Page 46 • Examples of external recognition
• “Health and Safety Committee” and other promotion structures
Fair employment •Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics • Internal training on bullying, harassment, and other issues
and working (“Human Rights and Labor Standards,” “Discrimination and Harassment,” and “Reporting Concerns”) • Employee survey, and improvement activities based on survey results
condition • Basic policy
Human rights •Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics • Implementing human right risk assessment to identify salient human right risks
initiatives (“Human Rights and Labor Standards,” “Discrimination and Harassment,” and “Reporting Concerns”) • Identifying salient human right issues and implementing corrective measures
• Basic policy • Whistleblowing hotline
• Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy Page 42 • Employee training on Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy Page 21
• Promotional structure • External collaboration
Quality in • Basic policy
All We Do • Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics (“Business Integrity,” “Maintaining Books and Records,” etc.)
• Certification status of ISO 9001 (quality), ISO 22000, FSSC 22000 (food safety), etc.
Research and • Commitments in R&D (compliance with laws and guidelines, ethical considerations, etc.) Page 47 • Ethical considerations in research involving animals
development • Ethical considerations in research Involving human-derived specimens
• Ethical considerations in research involving pathogenic microorganisms (pathogens, etc.) and genetically modified organisms
• Ethics in clinical trials
• Compliance in R&D by Otsuka group companies
• Management of public research funds
Procurement • Basic policy Pages 47–48 • Promotion of sustainable procurement with consideration for the environment, human rights, and other matters
• Otsuka Group Procurement Policy Pages 47–48 (including due diligence investigation on new suppliers, and the common SAQ and briefing sessions for suppliers) Pages 47–48
• Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines Pages 47–48 • Joint business collaborator audit by pharmaceutical companies
• Sustainable procurement promotional structure (establishment of the Otsuka Sustainable Procurement • Global initiatives for streamlining production and supply of products
Task Force) Page 48
• Goals and progress Pages 20–21
Production, • Basic policy Pages 47, 49 • Production, quality control and patient/customer safety in compliance with and regulatory requirements, and governmental and industry
quality control • Measures including global product quality policies for pharmaceutical products and the NC Global standards Pages 47, 49
and patient/ Quality Policy for the Nutraceutical Business of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Page 49 • Acquisition of ISO 9001 (quality), ISO 22000, FSSC 22000 (food safety), etc. Page 49
• Promotion structure including Global Production Meeting and Global Product Quality Meeting Page 49 • Quality control based on GQP and GVP, and post-marketing safety management Page 49
customer safety
• Global implementation of pharmacovigilance activities Pages 47, 49
• Measures against falsified medicines
• Employee training
Logistics • Basic policy Page 47 • Initiatives for quality control and maintenance (promotion of logistics in compliance with the Good Distribution Practice (GDP) guidelines,
• Establishment of the GDP Promotion Office and other promotion structures for control and maintenance employee training, etc.)
of product quality and stable supply in logistics • Initiatives for streamlined cooperation among shippers and distributors (standardization of IT-based data systems, digitization of forms, etc.)
• Initiatives for stable supply (distribution strage of inventory, registration of vehicles for authorized access to restricted areas, etc.)
• Environmentally friendly measures (the promotion of modal shift to reduce CO2 emissions, etc.)Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 077
ESG Content Index
The ESG balance sheet can also be found on our website:
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/esg_control_chart.html
Item Policies, commitments, and systems Initiatives
Sales and • Basic policy Page 47 • Conducting appropriate marketing and promotion activities in compliance with laws and regulations Page 47
Marketing • Establishing internal code of practice that expands on the JPMA’s Promotion Code for Prescription • Gathering and disseminating information about products, related knowledge, latest academic information, etc.
Drugs, for activities targeted at healthcare professionals Page 47 • Employee training
• Structural measures such as establishing the Scientific Affairs Department for gathering and • Reducing food loss (extending shelf life, switching to month-based expiration dates, etc.)
disseminating information about products, related knowledge, and the latest academic information,
and dedicated review unit to ensure appropriate marketing and promotion activities
Customer • Basic policy Page 50 • Promoting consumer-oriented management Page 50
Service • Declaration of Consumer-oriented Commitment Page 50 • Ensuring appropriate communication with customers Pages 47, 50
• Group-wide Customer Service Liaison Meeting, cross-department “Listen to Customer Feedback • Improved products based on customer feedback Pages 47, 50
Meeting,” and other promotion structures for consumer-oriented management Page 50 • Establishing dedicated contact points for patients, healthcare professionals, and customers Page 47
Environment Environmental • Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics (“Environmental Protection”)
Management • Otsuka Group Environmental Policy
• Otsuka Group Environmental Activity Guidelines
• Group promotional structures centering on the Otsuka Group Global Environmental Council Page 52
• Disclosure of ISO 14001 certification status
• 2050 Environmental Vision, “Net Zero” Page 51
Carbon • Basic policy Page 52 • Initiatives for efficient energy use and CO2 reduction (expanded use of renewable energy sources, such as by introduction of CO2-free
Neutrality • Goals and progress Page 53 electricity, including solar power generation for in-house consumption, and purchase of Green Power Certificates, etc.) Page 54
• Disclosure According to TCFD Recommendations Page 52
• Disclosure of CO2 emissions and other data Pages 53, 75
Circular • Basic policy Page 55 • Initiatives to achieve zero waste
Economy • Goals and progress Page 53 • Initiatives for plastic recycling Page 55
• Disclosure of waste volume (effective use volume and final disposal volume) and other data Page 75
Water • Basic policy Page 55 • Water risk evaluation at manufacturing sites Page 55
Neutrality • Goals and progress Page 53 • Disclosure of water usage, unit sales and other data. Pages 53, 75
Governance Corporate • Basic policy
Governance • Corporate Governance Guidelines
Governance • Basic policy Page 62 • Disclosure of Corporate Governance Report
Structure • Overview of governance structure Page 62 • Timeline of initiatives to strengthen corporate governance Page 62
• Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board and Corporate Governance Committee Page 63
• Rationale for selection of directors
• Evaluation of board effectiveness Page 64
• Skill matrix for directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members Pages 63, 66
• Succession plan
Remuneration • Basic policy Page 66 • Disclosure of Corporate Governance Report
for Directors • Remuneration standards, system, and method of determination Page 66
and Audit &
Supervisory
Board Members
Compliance Overall • Basic policy Page 70
• Compliance promotion structure Page 70
Tax Compliance • Basic policy Page 71 • Correspondence with tax authorities Page 71
• Tax policy Page 71 • Governance Page 71
• Transfer pricing policy Page 71
Anti-Corruption • Promotion system Page 70 • Due diligence
• Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics (“Bribery and Corruption,” etc.) • Training for employees Page 70
• Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy • Monitoring Page 70
Conflicts of • Promotion system Page 70 • Training for employees Page 70
Interest • Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics (“Conflicts of Interest,” etc.) • Monitoring Page 70
• Otsuka Group Global Policy for Conflict of Interest
Protecting • Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics (“Privacy and Confidentiality,” etc.) • Training for employees
Privacy • Otsuka Group Global Privacy Policy • Monitoring
Whistleblowing • Provision of internal and external whistleblowing hotlines
Hotline
Risk Overall • Basic policy Page 71 • Identifying significant risks via risk assessments and mitigating risks Page 73
Management • Risk Management Policy • Business continuity planning and management
• Enterprise risk management Page 71 • Risk management training
• Risk management system Page 72 • Initiatives to mitigate information security risk
Contribution to Communities • Policy • Contribution to communitiesContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 078
Main Data
With effect from fiscal 2016 (ended December 31, 2016), Otsuka adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Information for fiscal 2015 (ended December 31, 2015) is also presented in line with IFRS.
J-GAAP
Item1 (Unit) 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2014.125
Results of Operations
Revenue (¥ billion) ¥1,127.6 ¥1,154.6 ¥1,218.1 ¥1,452.8 ¥1,224.3
Selling, general and administrative expenses2,3 (¥ billion) 457.6 457.4 462.2 563.4 508.6
Business profit before R&D expenses (¥ billion)
Ratio of business profit before R&D expenses to revenue (%)
R&D expenses3 (¥ billion) 164.7 159.2 192.4 249.0 172.9
R&D ratio (%) 14.6 13.8 15.8 17.1 14.1
Business profit4 (¥ billion)
Business profit margin (%)
Operating profit (¥ billion) 126.3 148.7 169.7 198.7 196.5
Operating profit margin (%) 11.2 12.9 13.9 13.7 16.1
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (¥ billion) 82.4 92.2 122.4 151.0 143.1
Financial Position
Total assets (¥ billion) ¥1,589.7 ¥1,666.8 ¥1,779.2 ¥2,028.4 ¥2,178.2
Total equity (¥ billion) 1,163.3 1,222.8 1,325.1 1,510.8 1,658.6
Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the
(%) 72.4 72.5 73.7 73.2 74.7
Company to total assets
ROE (%) 7.9 7.8 9.7 10.8 9.2
Cash Flows
Net cash flows from operating activities (¥ billion) ¥ 87.7 ¥ 147.6 ¥ 119.3 ¥ 226.5 ¥ 88.5
Net cash flows from (used in) investing activities (¥ billion) (131.5) (107.6) (91.2) (108.5) (28.7)
Free cash flows (¥ billion) (43.8) 40.0 28.1 117.9 59.9
Dividends
Annual dividend per share (Yen) ¥ 28 ¥ 45 ¥ 58 ¥ 65 ¥ 75
Dividend payout ratio (%) 17.3 27.2 26.1 23.4 28.4
Common Stock, Stock Price
(Thousand
Number of shares outstanding at year-end 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836
shares)
Stock price at year-end (Yen) ¥ 2,055 ¥ 2,450 ¥ 3,300 ¥ 3,087 ¥ 3,617
Number of Employees8
Total (Persons) 25,188 24,595 25,330 28,288 29,482
Japan (Persons) 14,030 13,808 13,732 14,116 14,285
Outside Japan (Persons) 11,158 10,787 11,598 14,172 15,197
1. Line items are based on IFRS. 5. Due to a change in the consolidated fiscal year, fiscal 2014 (ended December 31, 2014) was a transitional period
2. SG&A expenses under J-GAAP are presented as total expenses less R&D expenses. The Company believes that this covering the nine months from April 1 to December 31, 2014.
information is useful to investors in comparing the Company’s financial results under J-GAAP with those under IFRS. 6. As of December 31, 2019, the Company finalized provisional accounting treatments for business combinations. This is
3. Excluding impairment losses reflected in the presentation of figures for the year ended December 31, 2018.
4. Business profit = Revenue − Cost of sales − Selling, general and administrative expenses + Share of profit of associates 7. Calculated at ¥115.02 = US$1.
− R&D expenses 8. Number of employees including Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. and its subsidiariesContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 079
Main Data
IFRS
Item1 (Unit) 2015.12 2016.12 2017.12 2018.126 2019.12 2020.12 2021.12 (Unit) 2021.127
Results of Operations
Revenue (¥ billion) ¥1,427.4 ¥1,195.5 ¥1,240.0 ¥1,292.0 ¥1,396.2 ¥1,422.8 ¥1,498.3 (US$ million) $13,026
Selling, general and administrative expenses3 (¥ billion) 617.5 519.5 531.4 552.8 557.6 562.4 622.3 (US$ million) 5,411
Business profit before R&D expenses (¥ billion) 369.8 285.7 305.4 313.8 403.0 433.7 389.4 (US$ million) 3,386
Ratio of business profit before R&D expenses to revenue (%) 25.9 23.9 24.6 24.3 28.9 30.5 26.0 (%) 26.0
R&D expenses3 (¥ billion) 199.6 152.6 174.0 192.9 215.8 216.8 232.3 (US$ million) 2,020
R&D ratio (%) 14.0 12.8 14.0 14.9 15.5 15.2 15.5 (%) 15.5
Business profit4 (¥ billion) 170.2 133.1 131.4 120.9 187.2 216.9 157.1 (US$ million) 1,366
Business profit margin (%) 11.9 11.1 10.6 9.4 13.4 15.2 10.5 (%) 10.5
Operating profit (¥ billion) 148.9 101.1 104.2 108.3 176.6 198.6 154.5 (US$ million) 1,343
Operating profit margin (%) 10.4 8.5 8.4 8.4 12.6 14.0 10.3 (%) 10.3
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (¥ billion) 102.0 92.6 112.5 82.5 127.2 148.1 125.5 (US$ million) 1,091
Financial Position
Total assets (¥ billion) ¥2,575.3 ¥2,478.3 ¥2,480.3 ¥2,477.4 ¥2,581.3 ¥2,627.8 ¥2,820.9 (US$ million) $24,525
Total equity (¥ billion) 1,727.4 1,738.4 1,822.0 1,732.3 1,795.4 1,883.4 2,045.2 (US$ million) 17,781
Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the
(%) 66.0 69.0 72.3 68.8 68.4 70.5 71.3 (%) 71.3
Company to total assets
ROE (%) 6.1 5.4 6.4 4.7 7.3 8.2 6.5 (%) 6.5
Cash Flows
Net cash flows from operating activities (¥ billion) ¥ 257.9 ¥ 142.0 ¥ 102.8 ¥ 135.8 ¥ 192.6 ¥ 232.8 ¥ 228.9 (US$ million) $ 1,990
Net cash flows from (used in) investing activities (¥ billion) (422.6) (135.1) (40.1) (93.3) (52.3) (99.9) (95.3) (US$ million) (828)
Free cash flows (¥ billion) (164.7) 6.9 62.8 42.5 140.4 133.0 133.6 (US$ million) 1,161
Dividends
Annual dividend per share (Yen) ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 (US$) $0.87
Dividend payout ratio (%) 53.1 58.5 48.2 65.7 42.6 36.6 43.2 (%) 43.2
Common Stock, Stock Price
(Thousand (Thousand
Number of shares outstanding at year-end 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836
shares) shares)
Stock price at year-end (Yen) ¥ 4,317 ¥ 5,093 ¥ 4,948 ¥ 4,493 ¥ 4,883 ¥ 4,418 ¥ 4,169 (US$) $ 36.25
Number of Employees8
Total (Persons) 31,940 31,787 32,817 32,935 32,992 33,151 33,226 (Persons) 33,226
Japan (Persons) 14,082 13,909 13,880 13,757 13,356 13,319 13,196 (Persons) 13,196
Outside Japan (Persons) 17,858 17,878 18,937 19,178 19,636 19,832 20,030 (Persons) 20,030Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 080
Group Structure / Global Network / Corporate Information
Corporate Information
(As of December 31, 2021)
Otsuka Group Corporate Philosophy
Company Name Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Established July 8, 2008
Overview
The Otsuka group of companies, whose origins date back to 1921, aims to contribute to the health of people around the world. It aims to do
so through two main pillars: the pharmaceutical business for the diagnosis and treatment of diseases and the nutraceutical*1 business to
Capital ¥81.69 billion
support the maintenance and promotion of everyday health.
The company’s culture, summarized in a few words as, “Ryukan-godo” (by sweat we recognize the way), “Jissho” (actualization) and
“Sozosei” (creativity), have been fostered by successive Otsuka leaders. These are emphasized by our 47,000*2 employees across 200 group
companies in 33 countries and regions who strive to create and market unique products and services. Head Office 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
*1. Nutraceuticals: nutrition+pharmaceuticals *2. As of end of December, 2021. Otsuka Holdings and subsidiaries and affiliates. 101-0048, Japan
Organizational Structure
Otsuka Holdings
Tokyo Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Konan,
Headquarters Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan
Otsuka Otsuka Pharmaceutical Taiho Otsuka Medical
Otsuka Warehouse Otsuka Chemical Otsuka Foods
Pharmaceutical Factory Pharmaceutical Devices
Telephone +81-3-6717-1410
Number of
Global Network 137 (Consolidated: 33,226)
Employees
(As of December 31, 2021)
Europe
41
Business Control, management and related activities with
companies Description respect to the Company’s subsidiaries and affiliates
operating in pharmaceutical, nutraceutical,
consumer product, and other businesses
North
Japan America
Otsuka operates in 49 36
33 MiddlA es Eia a, st, etc. companies companies
69
countries/regions
and has companies South and
200 group companiess Central America
Oceania 2
3
companies
companies
日本 日本
北南米 米国、カナダ、ブラジル、メキシコ
展開国 欧州 英国、スウェーデン、ドイツ、スイス、ベルギー、フランス、イタリア、スペイン、チェコ、ポルトガル、オランダ
アジア・中東 中国、韓国、台湾、フィリピン、ベトナム、タイ、インドネシア、インド、シンガポール、トルコ、パキスタン、エジプト、ミャンマー
オセアニア オーストラリア、ニュージーランドCompany Organization / Overview of Main Operating Companies
Company Organization Otsuka Pharmaceutical A total healthcare company supporting well-being for the whole body,
Co., Ltd. from the treatment of diseases to the promotion of everyday health
(As of April 1, 2022)
Under the corporate philosophy “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide,” Otsuka Pharmaceutical operates
with two core businesses to benefit people’s health: the Pharmaceutical Business, which provides new pharmaceuticals for the treatment of
diseases, and the Nutraceutical Business, which provides products to help people maintain and improve their health.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Original company of the Otsuka group, and a leader in IV solutions
Factory, Inc. in Japan with more than 70 years of experience in the field
Based on its management vision of being “The Best Partner in Clinical Nutrition,” Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory creates innovative
products that meet a variety of needs, including pharmaceuticals, medical devices, oral rehydration solutions and other medical foods, and
OTC pharmaceuticals. The company operates globally, with a focus on Japan and the rest of Asia.
Taiho Pharmaceutical Half a century of working in the field of oncology, for patients and people worldwide
Co., Ltd. Taiho Pharmaceutical is an R&D-driven specialty pharma focusing on the fields of oncology, allergy and immunology, and urology. Its
corporate philosophy is “We strive to improve human health and contribute to a society enriched by smiles.” In the oncology field in
particular, Taiho Pharmaceutical is known as one of the leading companies in Japan, actively promoting globalization as well. In its consumer
healthcare business, Taiho Pharmaceutical strives to create products that support a loving and affluent lifestyle with people’s needs as its
utmost priority.
Otsuka Warehouse Contributing to people’s health worldwide in the field of logistics
Co., Ltd. Since its founding, Otsuka Warehouse has developed businesses with an emphasis on pharmaceutical and food product logistics. This
includes constructing a shared platform that is tailored to the Otsuka group’s three business domains—pharmaceuticals, foods and
beverages, and daily necessities—and providing optimal logistics solutions through joint distribution with external manufacturers. In recent
years, Otsuka Warehouse has utilized IT to achieve Connected Logistics, and is working to reform its distribution solutions.
Otsuka Chemical Otsuka Chemical creatively gives shape to the power of materials together with its customers
Co., Ltd. With materials at the core of its operations, Otsuka Chemical aims for continuous technological innovation that leads to the creation
of products that enable higher standards of living. Otsuka Chemical provides products to global markets in automotive, electrical and
electronic equipment, housing, and healthcare areas through its main segments of the hydrazine business, the inorganic and composite
materials business, and the pharmaceutical intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) business.
Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Delivering revolutionary products for new dietary styles since 1955
Otsuka Foods’ motto is “the company begins with people and food begins with spirit.” With this in mind, everyone at Otsuka Foods brings
a spirit of food focused on deliciousness, safety, peace of mind and better health to the company’s business. With food and health as its
main themes, the company is striving to create and propose revolutionary products that meet social needs, aiming to bring people all the
joy and happiness that come with good health. In doing so, Otsuka Foods seeks to achieve sustainable growth by contributing to society.
Otsuka Medical Devices Developing innovative treatment methods and creating new value
Co., Ltd. Since its establishment in February 2011, Otsuka Medical Devices has focused on developing unique solutions that improve the health and
wellbeing of patients whose medical needs and conditions cannot yet be fulfilled by existing treatment methods. To achieve its aspiration
of becoming a pioneer in the medical device industry, the company combines global R&D efforts with the technology and drug discovery
know-how inherent within the Otsuka group’s heritage. Based on the Otsuka group’s corporate philosophy—“Otsuka-people creating new
products for better health worldwide”—Otsuka Medical Devices will do what it takes to offer patients new innovative treatment choices,
and contribute to the health and healthcare of people across the world.
gniteeM
’sredloherahS
srotceriD
fo
draoB
namriahC tnediserP
Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 081
Internal Control Department
Internal Audit Department
Nutraceutical Business Global Strategy
and Planning Headquarters
Corporate Planning Department
Business Insights and Analytics Department
CFO Planning Headquarters
Finance and Accounting Department
Tax Department
Corporate Service Department
Business Development Department
Investor Relations Department
Administration Department
President Office
Public Relations Department
Sustainability Promotion Department
Human Resources Department
Corporate Pension Office
Human Resource Planning Department
IT Planning Department
Gxp Support Center
Legal Affairs Department
Statutory Auditors/
Board of Statutory Statutory Auditor’s Office
AuditorsContents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 082
Disclosure by the Otsuka Group
The Otsuka group provides an overview of financial and non-financial information through this integrated report. ■ About the Integrated Report
Beginning with the fiscal 2017 edition, Otsuka Holdings has
Visit the Otsuka Holdings website for additional information, including consolidated financial statements, financial
combined its Annual Report and CSR Report into a single integrated
results presentations and supplementary documents, and information about research and development. report that brings together financial information and non-financial
information. We hope it deepens stakeholders’ understanding of the
group in its aim to become an indispensable contributor to people’s
Website The Otsuka Group’s Sustainability health worldwide.
https://www.otsuka.com/en/ https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/ ■ Reporting Period
Fiscal 2021 (January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021);
Note that certain information from January 2022 onward is also
included.
■ Scope of Reporting
In principle, this report covers Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. and its
subsidiaries. Where the scope of activities or data is narrower, details
are noted.
■ Guidelines Referenced
• International Integrated Reporting Framework, International
Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)
• GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI)
• ISO 26000
• Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2018,
Ministry of the Environment
• Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation,
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry,
• Other guidelines
Investor Relations Library
■ Precautions Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/library/
https://www.otsuka.com/en/ir/ This integrated report summarizes the operating and financial results
of the Otsuka group (Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries)
Sustainability Handbook for fiscal 2021 (January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021). The report
In this handbook, we present examples of contains forward-looking statements and forecast pertaining to plans,
our stance and initiatives with respect to projections, strategies, and performance for the Otsuka group of
sustainability in an easily accessible format
for the general public. companies. These statements are based upon current analysis and
beliefs in light of the information available on the issuing date of the
report. Actual results may therefore differ due to the risks and
uncertainties that may affect Otsuka group operations.
■ Medical Information
Environmental Report 2020 In this integrated report, for the sake of readability a unified brand
We have compiled and published a detailed name is used when a product has different brand names in different
Environmental Report that introduces the
Otsuka group’s environmental initiatives. countries or regions. Therefore, these products may not be available
in all countries, or may be available under different brand names, for
different indications, in different dosages and strengths.
Please note that the information regarding pharmaceutical
products (including products under development) is not intended for
advertising or promotional purposes, or as medical advice.Contents Otsuka’s Value Creation Message from the CEO How We Will Create Value Facts & Data Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2021 083
Stock Information
(As of December 31, 2021)
Number of shares authorized 1,600,000,000 shares Principal Shareholders (Top 10) Maximum/Minimum Stock Price and Volatility by Year
N Nu um mb be er
r
o of
f
s sh ha ar re es
h
ois ls du ee rd
s
5 75 77 ,1,8 23 95,617 shares Name of Shareholders sN (h thu a om re ub s
s
e ahr ne o dldf
)
Sh ra ar te ioho (l %di )ng Fiscal stoM cka x pim ricu em (¥) stoM ckin pim ricu em (¥) (staV ndo ala rt dil i dt ey v( i% at) ion)
2021 5,013 4,012 23.74
The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 68,567 12.64
2020 5,158 3,224 32.51
The Nomura Trust and Banking Co., Ltd.
Stock Distribution Otsuka Founders Shareholding Fund Trust Account 56,216 10.36 2019 5,072 3,434 27.61
2018 5,832 4,331 29.07
Treasury shares Securities Otsuka Estate Co., Ltd. 23,316 4.29
2.77% companies 2017 5,895 4,290 14.20
3.99% Custody Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 23,137 4.26 2016 5,139 3,467 17.69
Other companies Otsuka Group Employee Shareholding Fund 13,175 2.42 2015 4,774 3,433 20.22
Financial
17.10%
institutions The Awa Bank, Ltd. 10,970 2.02 2014 4,019 2,773 19.24
34.85%
2013 3,630 2,454 27.09
JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385635 8,862 1.63
2012 2,512 2,100 9.89
JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 380072 7,964 1.46
2011 2,252 1,737 13.77
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. 7,933 1.46
Total Shareholders’ Return
Individuals and others Foreign Otsuka Asset Co., Ltd. 7,380 1.36
20.17% corporations
21.12%
Notes: 1. Number of shares held is rounded down to the nearest thousand. Fiscal 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
2. A lthough the Company holds 15,443,722 of its own shares, treasury shares
are excluded from the above list.
3. S hareholding ratio is calculated after treasury shares are deducted. Otsuka Holdings 99.1% 92.1% 101.8% 94.6% 91.7%
Comparison:
122.2 102.7 121.3 130.3 146.9
TOPIX Total Return Index
Stock Performance
(¥) Stock price (left) Trading volume (right) (Thousand shares)
6,000 150,000
120,000
4,000
90,000
60,000
2,000
30,000
0 0
2011/12 2012/12 2013/12 2014/12 2015/12 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 2020/12 2021/12