Otsuka
Group
CSR
Report
2013
Otsuka Group
Head Office: 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi,
Chiyoda-ku Tokyo 101-0048, Japan CSR Report 2013
Tokyo headquarters: Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Konan,
Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan
Publication date of this report: September 2013
Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide
Contact information for inquiries
PR, Investor Relations Department, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Tel : +81 (0)3-6717-1410 (switchboard) Fax : +81 (0)3-6717-1409
This report is also available online. The report is printed using Non-VOC ink, made 100% from aroma-free vegetable oil that
does not contain volatile organic solvents. The report is printed on FSCTM certified paper,
http://www.otsuka.com/en using a waterless printing method that minimises generation of harmful liquid waste.Editorial Policy
OTSUKA GROUP
CSR REPORT 2013
In keeping with its corporate commitment to “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health world-
wide,” the Otsuka Group endeavors to create new and innovative products in diverse areas related to health,
as a global healthcare company devoted to better health worldwide.
The Otsuka Group CSR Report provides an overview of the diverse initiatives that the Otsuka Group
engages in: from its relationship with stakeholders in the course of doing business to realizing its corporate
commitment. We hope that this report promotes a better mutual understanding with our stakeholders.
In this report, we have tried to emphasize the unique aspects of our corporate social responsibility (CSR)
initiatives as a global company, organized around the five areas of health, the environment, quality, culture,
and employees. We also sought to expand the scope of information that we provide in the report.
The process of putting together this report has also provided us with new insights that we will use to fur-
ther expand the CSR initiatives of the Otsuka Group going forward.
Scope of report
This report focuses on Otsuka Holdings and encompasses information for Otsuka Group companies world-
wide, centering on the following 11 Group companies in Japan:
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Otsuka Electronics Co., Ltd.
Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Techno Corporation
Otsuka Warehouse Co., Ltd. Otsuka Packaging Industries Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. JIMRO Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd.
Period covered
The data presented in this report are actual figures from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013. The activities re-
ported on include some conducted more recently
Publication schedule
The next report is scheduled for publication in autumn 2014.
Guidelines referenced
This report was compiled with reference to the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 3rd Edition, ISO
26000, and the Environmental Report Guidelines 2012 Edition issued by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment.
About the Cover
The circular ribbon represents our mutual bonds and trust with stakeholders, symbolizing the Naruto whirl-
pools, Otsuka DNA, and the globe (Earth). Surrounding this with the five areas of health, environment, quality,
culture, and employees expresses the corporate social responsibility of the Otsuka Group.
Feedback on the Otsuka Group CSR Report
We welcome your feedback by email. Please do not hesitate to provide us with your feedback or impressions
of this report, including requests about the initiatives of the Otsuka Group. Your input is valuable and will help
us shape future reports and initiatives.
Email hd-pr@otsuka.jp
1 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013Corporate Profile Contents
As of March 31, 2013
About the Otsuka Group …………………… 2
Company name: Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Corporate Profile …………………………………… 2
Established: July 8, 2008 Otsuka Group across the Globe …………… 3
Business Overview of
Capital: JPY 81,690 million the Otsuka Group …………………………………… 5
Head Office: 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi,
Chiyoda-ku Tokyo 101-0048, Japan
Message from the President 7
…………
Tokyo Headquarters: Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Konan,
Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan Corporate Philosophy …………………………… 10
Representative: Tatsuo Higuchi, President and CEO
Employees: 70 (Consolidated: 25,330) Highlight 1
Rehydration for Better Health
Scope of consolidation: 71 consolidated subsidiaries and
14 equity-method affiliates Worldwide 11 ………………………………………………
Business description: Control, management, and other operational aspects of busi- Products for Modern Needs and
Preferences
ness activities related to holding the shares of companies that
operate in the fields of pharmaceuticals, nutraceuticals, con- Highlight 2
sumer products, and other businesses. Coexisting with Communities
in Indonesia 15
……………………………………………
Bettering the Lives of Many
Consolidated Net Sales Consolidated Operating Income Health ……………………………………………………………18
Operating income
(Unit: ¥ billion) Net sales (Unit: ¥ billion) Operating margin (%) Pri orit y Ar eas Heat Stroke Prevention
1,500 1,218.1 200 169.7 16 Education ……………………………… 19
1,084.3 1,127.6 1,154.6 150 148.7 14 Disseminating Health Information ………… 21
1,000 955.9 100 91.5 98.5 126.3 12.9 13.9 12 Research and Development …………………… 23
500
50 11.2 10 Environment ………………………………………………24
9.6
9.1
0 FY2008FY2009FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 0 FY2008FY2009FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 8 Pri orit y Ar eas Eco-Friendly Products ………… 25
Environmental Management …………………… 27
Low Carbon Neutral Initiatives ……………… 29
Consolidated Ordinary Income Research and Development Expenses Initiatives for a Resource Recycling
Society ……………………………………………………… 31
Ordinary income R&D expenses
(Unit: ¥ billion) Operating margin (%) (Unit: ¥ billion) Ratio of R&D expenses to net sales Biodiversity ………………………………………………… 32
200 184.5 16 200 192.4 18(%) Environmental Performance Data ………… 33 150 109.1 128.4 152.1 15.1 14 150 135.9 151.8 164.7 159.2 16 I On uit tia st idiv ee s J ab py a G n r …o …u …p …C …o …m …p …a …n …ie …s … …………… 35
100 96.1 13.2 12 100 15.8 14
14.2 14.0 14.6 13.8
50 11.4 10 50 12 Quality……………………………………………………………36
10.1 10.1
0 8 0 10 Pri orit y Ar eas Safety and Security ……………… 37
FY2008FY2009FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2008FY2009FY2010 FY2011 FY2012
Management ……………………………………………… 39
Compliance ……………………………………………… 41
Consolidated Net Sales Consolidated Net Sales
by Geographical Segment (FY2012) by Business Segment (FY2012) Culture …………………………………………………………42
Sales to external customers Sales to external customers
Pri orit y Ar eas Cleanup Activities ………………… 43
(Unit: ¥ billion) (Unit: ¥ billion)
Community Initiatives ……………………………… 45
Other: Japan: Consumer Products: Other:
177.1 595.3 45.2 75.0 Youth Education ……………………………………… 47
6.2%
14.5% 3.7%
Employees …………………………………………………48
20.3%
48.9% Pri orit y Ar eas Development of Human
36.6% 69.8% Capital …………………………………… 49
Diversity ……………………………………………………… 51
Work-Life Balance …………………………………… 52
North America:
445.7 Nutraceutical: Pharmaceuticals: Employee Health ……………………………………… 53
246.9 850.9
Third-Party Opinion /
Editorial Postscript ………………………………… 54
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 2
About
the
Otsuka
Group
Message
from
the
President
Highlight
Health
Environment
Quality
Culture
EmployeesOtsuka Group across the Globe
The Otsuka Group’s global businesses create a variety of
products that help to maintain and enhance daily health and
aid in the diagnosis and treatment of illness.
As of March 31, 2013, net sales from markets outside Japan accounted for 50% of the Group’s consolidated net sales.
There are approximately 25,000 employees in the consolidated Group worldwide, and 46% of these are outside Japan.
Otsuka Group employees are working every day around the world, for the universal betterment of human health.
Europe
1,446
employees
22
China
companies Otsuka (China) Investment Co., Ltd.
Zhejiang Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Sichuan Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Belgium Tianjin Otsuka Beverage Co., Ltd.
Nutrition & Sante Benelux S.A. Suzhou Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Shanghai Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd.
France Chongqing Otsuka Huayi Chemical Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical France SAS China Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.*
Euriso-Top SAS Guangdong Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.*
Nardobel SAS Shanghai MicroPort Medical (Group) Co., Ltd.*
Nutrition & Sante SAS Microport Scientific Corporation*
Nutrition & Nature SAS VV Food & Beverage Co., Ltd.*
Laboratoires Dietetique et Sante SAS
Valpiform SAS Egypt
Valpiform Compiegne SNC Egypt Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., S.A.E.
ALMA S.A.*
India
Germany Otsuka Chemical (India) Private Limited
Asia and
Otsuka Pharma GmbH
Middle East
Cambridge Isotope Laboratories (Europe) GmbH Indonesia
6,702
Euriso-Top GmbH P.T. Otsuka Indonesia
Advanced Biochemical Compounds GmbH P.T. Merapi Utama Pharma employees
P.T. Widatra Bhakti 26
Italy P.T. Amerta Indah Otsuka
companies
Nutrition & Sante Italia SpA P.T. Otsuka Jaya Indah
P.T. Lautan Otsuka Chemical
Spain
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, S.A. South Korea Thailand
Nutrition & Sante Iberia SL Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.*
Hebron S.A. Dong-A Otsuka Co., Ltd.*
Sweden Taiwan Pakistan
Otsuka Pharma Scandinavia AB Taiwan Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Pakistan Ltd.*
King Car Otsuka Co., Ltd.*
Switzerland
Nutrinat AG
UK
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Europe Ltd.
Otsuka Pharmaceuticals (U.K.) Ltd. List of consolidated companies. Equity-method affiliates are indicated with an asterisk (*).
3 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013Canada
Otsuka Canada Pharmaceutical, Inc.
2768691 Canada, Inc.
USA
Otsuka America, Inc.
Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development & Commercialization, Inc.
Otsuka Maryland Medicinal Laboratories, Inc.
Cambridge Isotope Laboratories, Inc.
Japan CIL Isotope Separations, LLC
13,732 Membrane Receptor Technologies, LLC
Pharmavite, LLC
employees
Ridge Vineyards, Inc.
21
Crystal Geyser Water Company
companies Soma Beverage Company, LLC
Otsuka America Manufacturing, LLC
CG Roxane, LLC*
Japan Crystal Geyser Brand Holdings, LLC*
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. J.O.Pharma Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Okayama Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Otsuka Packaging Industries Co., Ltd.
North America
Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Chilled Foods Co., Ltd.
3,450
Otsuka Warehouse Co., Ltd. Otsuka-MGC Chemical Company, Inc.
Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Furniture Manufacturing and Sales Co., Ltd. employees
Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. JIMRO Co., Ltd. 16
Otsuka Medical Devices Co., Ltd. KiSCO Co., Ltd.
companies
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Earth Chemical Co., Ltd.*
Otsuka Electronics Co., Ltd. Earth Environmental Service Co., Ltd.*
Otsuka Techno Corporation
Consolidated Net Sales in and outside of Japan Consolidated Number of Employees in and outside of Japan
(Unit: ¥ billion) (%) (No. of employees) (%)
1,400 60 30,000 50
1,200 1,127.6 1,154.6 1,218.1 24,589 25,188 24,595 25,330
1,084.3 22,928
1,000 955.9 50.2 51.1 50 42.4 45.8
41.3 48.5 49.0 20,000 40.4 44.3 43.9
800
40 10,415 11,158 10,787 11,598 40
600 395.0 525.5 552.5 579.7 622.8 9,271
10,000
400
30
200
560.9 558.8 575.1 574.9 595.3 13,657 14,174 14,030 13,808 13,732
0 20 0 30
FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012
Consolidated net sales in Percentage of consolidated net sales Employees outside Japan Percentage of employees outside Japan
international markets from international markets
Consolidated net sales in Japan Employees in Japan
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 4
About
the
Otsuka
GroupBusiness Overview of the Otsuka Group
Contributing to People’s Health and Well-being Worldwide
The Group is dedicated to being a global healthcare company that works for the benefit of people’s health worldwide. It
generates health-outcomes from many angles, while offering original products that create new markets. The Group pur-
sues a range of businesses in four main segments—pharmaceuticals, nutraceuticals, consumer products and other busi-
nesses. The Group strives to utilize its unique assets and skills, endeavoring to create products that are beneficial to health
and to society.
Pharmaceutical Nutraceuticals
Business Business
Pharmaceuticals Functional beverages
and foods
I.V. solutions
(clinical nutrition) Cosmedics
Diagnostics OTC products,
Quasi-drugs
Medical devices
The pharmaceutical business focuses on the priority areas of the The nutraceutical business focuses on functional beverages and
central nervous system and oncology in order to address unmet foods that help maintain and promote day-to-day well-being. In
medical needs. Furthermore, in order to provide comprehensive recent years the Group has been developing a soy-based busi-
healthcare solutions ranging from diagnosis to treatment of dis- ness predicated on the concept that the soybean is the “Soylution”
eases, the Group is engaged in a wide range of fields and busi- (“soy” and “solution”) to many of humanity’s problems such as
nesses, including the cardiovascular system, gastroenterology, health, and environment issues.
ophthalmology, diagnostics, and I.V. solutions and medical de-
vices. There is a particular focus on these devices. Nutraceuticals = nutrition + pharmaceuticals
Flagship products Flagship products
ABILIFY, Mucosta, Pletaal/Pletal, Pocari Sweat Pocari Sweat Oronamin C Drink Tiovita Drink OS-1
an antipsychotic an antigastritis and an antiplatelet agent Ion Water
antigastric ulcer agent
TS-1, Samsca, SoyCarat SOYJOY Calorie Mate
an anticancer agent an aquaretic agent
Aloxi, Abraxane, ELNEOPA, SOYSH Nature Made UL・OS Oronine H Ointment
an antiemetic agent an antimetabolite agent a high-calorie TPN solution
5 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013In the consumer products business, the Otsuka Group manufac- The Otsuka Group also pursues diversified businesses, such as
tures and supplies foods and drinks for everyday consumption. chemical materials for the automotive, electrical, electronic, and
We have led the way with the development of products such as building materials sectors. We operate transport and warehousing
Bon Curry, which was launched in 1968 as the world’s first com- services that provide eco-friendly logistics. These are focused on
mercially available food in a plastic pouch bag, and Sinvino Java the movement of Otsuka Group pharmaceuticals, foods and bev-
Tea Straight, which was a pioneer in the unsweetened tea bever- erages, in addition to supplying electronic equipment to support
age market. Our mission is to supply foods and beverages that cutting-edge advancements in science and technology.
satisfy on all levels: delicious, safe, reassuring, and healthy.
Flagship products Flagship products
Application of Poticon resin compound
Bon Curry Gold Bon Curry Neo My Size
Terracess Electronic parts
(friction material for brake pads) LED reflectors
(that increase light extraction efficiency)
Mannan Hikari CRYSTAL GEYSER MATCH
POCone, HM series of LED evaluators
a medical device
Sinvino Java Tea Straight Ridge Monte Bello
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 6
About
the
Otsuka
Group
Consumer
Other
Products
Businesses
Business
Beverages Functional chemical
products
Foods
Alcoholic beverages Fine chemicals
Distribution
Packaging
Electronic equipmentMessage from the President
Our CSR comprises initiatives
in the community inspired by
our corporate philosophy and
shaped by communication with
stakeholders
Responsibility of Corporations in
an Ever-Changing World
What are the social responsibilities of corporations amid accelerat-
ing political and economic globalization, and what must corpora-
tions do to survive and grow in our society?
Globally, we saw a number of countries experience a change of
leadership in 2012, starting with China, South Korea, and Japan in
Asia, while the administration in the United States was elected to
its second term in office. One factor in the selection of these lead-
ers was the fact that these nations were at a crossroads in terms of
whether they could continue to maintain public finances. In devel-
oping countries, economic modernization combined with double-
digit growth in GDP from demographic dividends*1 has brought
investment from developed countries and prompted governments
to adopt aggressive strategies linked to resource policy, which is
driving growth. The world is changing at a fast pace.
It is often difficult to recognize the turning points in history
from a current perspective, but several major factors will impact
the world over the next several decades. For example, the global
Tatsuo Higuchi population, currently seven billion people, will continue growing.
The resulting increase in human activity will affect water supply,
President and
Representative Director, CEO food supplies, resources, and energy, while also having an impact
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
on climate change.
*1: Demographic dividend or demographic bonus refers to economic growth that
arises when the labor force grows faster than the population growth.
Leveraging Creativity to Help People
Founded in 1921, the Otsuka Group has been in business for more
than 90 years, growing through a commitment to making innova-
tive products and services that benefit society. Corporations exist
7 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 8
Message
from
the
President
because they supply products and services that are useful to peo- This approach drives us to realize our corporate philosophy,
ple, and because they engage in activities that are needed. Now “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health world-
more than ever, we need creativity to achieve these things. wide,” and to pursue initiatives that are shaped by our commu-
We are seeing cuts in healthcare costs and changes to the nication with all stakeholders, summarizing our corporate social
public health insurance system in Japan, in an effort to reduce responsibility (CSR).
the cost of healthcare as Japan’s aging society progresses. There
is an emphasis on preventative lifestyles to avoid becoming sick
and enable us to live longer, healthier lives. The Otsuka Group ap-
proaches healthcare comprehensively, from the twin perspectives
of nutraceuticals that support healthy lifestyles and pharmaceu-
ticals that treat disease. Developing innovative products and
services is central to our business.
I believe that creativity will be the driving factor for corporate
growth amid the major trends of tomorrow.
Embracing Diversity and Creating
New Value
The Otsuka Group presently encompasses more than 150 compa-
nies, including our affiliated companies, with two-thirds of these
companies based outside of Japan. We employ some 40,000
people worldwide in 26 countries and regions, who speak 20 Social Responsibility Integral to Business
different languages.
These people’s different cultures have diverse approaches and The Otsuka Group pursues initiatives to conserve nature and the
historical backgrounds. In order for people from different back- environment, in order to achieve sustainability and help communi-
grounds to conduct business together, they must respect each ties for the sake of better health and good life. We are developing
other’s differences. The Otsuka Group welcomes diversity, includ- eco-friendly products and are increasing greenery at our plants,
ing in gender and age, and will leverage this diversity to identify and are installing biotopes that conserve biodiversity. We are im-
new value and secure further growth. plementing energy conservation measures and reducing waste
to zero emissions levels, to address global warming and achieve
Importance of Communication with sustainability. These initiatives are helping to conserve the environ-
All Stakeholders ment and to reduce our energy costs, while enhancing the working
environment for our employees and giving people from the com-
It is important to respect the position and thinking of other people. munity a place to relax.
This consideration applies to relations between our employees, Additionally, we operate the Otsuka Museum of Art in Tokushima
and extends to our relations with all stakeholders, including cus- Prefecture, the birthplace of the Otsuka Group. The museum pro-
tomers and business partners in the countries and regions that we motes local culture and brings in tourists while contributing to the
do business in. education of children. Projects and initiatives like these create syn-
Corporations are able to conduct business due to the coopera- ergies, including community partnerships built on trust, and better
tion of communities. Building a plant requires the acceptance of procurement by boosting the local economy, creating a cycle that
people in the community and the help of numerous businesses, enables us to give back to and build connections with communities.
including suppliers of building materials and construction compa- The Otsuka Group’s initiatives for environmental conservation,
nies. Corporations are not islands. They need to understand and and for customers and communities, are directly and indirectly
respect communities as a foundation from which to supply prod- helping us to improve our services and manufacturing, which is in
ucts, services, and information that are useful to people, in order to turn helping us to develop our business. These initiatives are im-
continue existing in communities. plemented in a continuous cycle with stakeholders and are integral
to our business.Message from the President
Social Responsibility Focusing on Health, in their approach. When we launched Bon Curry, it was an innova-
Environment, Quality, Culture and Employees tion that helped busy people to make meals easily, using retort
pouch packaging for the first time in Japan. In fact, the technology
We have redefined our initiatives for social responsibility, which for retort pouch packaging developed out of aseptic technology
are fully integrated with our business, in order to further propel for I.V. solutions. Similarly, the idea for Pocari Sweat came from the
our efforts with the support of more stakeholders. Accordingly, in novel concept of an oral I.V. solution to replenish lost electrolytes
this CSR report we have organized our initiatives into five areas: and continues to help people today.
health, environment, quality, culture, and employees. These areas
are central to our approach. Social Responsibility Grounded on Our Cor-
For example, our quality commitment comprehensively encom- porate Philosophy
passes our social responsibilities for public information disclosure
and collaborative efforts with business partners, in addition to our Developing innovative products requires breaking from precon-
commitment to manufacturing safety and security. This compre- ceptions and switching ideas. At our employee training center, the
hensive commitment to quality can be traced back to our founder, Human Resource Development Institute, there are three monu-
Busaburo Otsuka, who said, “Quality is the lifeblood of the factory. ments—giant tomato trees, bent giant cedar, and floating stones—
Packaging is a part of quality. Always make and sell products from that symbolize the importance of thinking outside of the box,
the standpoint of the customer.” which we emphasize through our training. All of our employees
continue to tackle the challenge of breeding innovation, through
Tackling Challenges as a Global a shared appreciation of the importance of creativity by switching
Healthcare Company ideas, and the drive to achieve our corporate philosophy.
Our initial public offering in 2010 has created greater opportuni-
The people of the world need many things, and this is where we ties for increasing the recognition of the Otsuka Group worldwide,
try to identify products and services that only Otsuka can provide, while expanding the platform for our activities and bringing your
doing what other companies are not doing and pursuing R&D to voice to the forefront. We remain committed to better health
address unmet needs. worldwide by listening to your feedback and working with you,
We are also focusing on developing products that are first in our stakeholders.
their segment, in order to supply new value where it did not exist, We thank you for your continued support of the Otsuka Group,
such as first-in-class pharmaceuticals that are novel or innovative as we strive for further growth.
9 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013Corporate Philosophy
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 10
Message
from
the
President
Corporate Philosophy of the Otsuka Group
These words embody our commitment to:
Creating Improving Contributing to
innovative human the lives of
products health people worldwide
In keeping with this corporate philosophy and the Otsuka mottos of Jissho (Proof through Execution) and Sozosei
(Creativity), the Otsuka Group strives to utilize its unique assets and skills to develop differentiated scientific solutions
which contribute to the lives of people worldwide in the form of innovative and creative products ranging from pharma-
ceuticals to consumer products. We are striving to cultivate a culture and a dynamic corporate climate reflecting our vi-
sion as a healthcare company. As such we are dedicated to achieving global sustainability, to our relationships with local
communities and to the protection of the natural environment.
Monuments embodying the Otsuka Group Philosophy
Giant Tomato Trees / Bent Giant Cedar / Floating Stones
These three monuments embody the Otsuka Group philosophy, reminding all who visit the birthplace of the Otsuka Group in
Tokushima of the importance of being creative and open-minded to new ideas.
Giant Tomato Trees Bent Giant Cedar Floating Stones
The giant tomato trees that cover the entire This piece features the trunk of a giant cedar This water garden features large stones that
ceiling of the hall can produce more than that is deeply bent instead of being typically appear to miraculously float on a wide ex-
10,000 fruit per year, as a result of maximizing straight, with the trunk of a second cedar panse of water, including some that seem to
the fruit-producing potential through hydro- crossing on top of it. The delicately balanced droop. The garden was created to capture
ponics that frees the roots from normal soil. piece—which at first glance appears unsta- and enrich the spirit of the people who look at
The tomato trees are symbolic of employing ble—was strong enough to withstand mag- it, and to free the mind for contemplation. The
new ideas to draw out potential. nitude 5 tremors during the Great Hanshin piece teaches us the importance of switching
Earthquake in 1995. The piece speaks to the ideas and thinking beyond the conventional.
idea that appearances may reveal something
completely different.Highlight Rehydration for Better Health Worldwide
1
Products for Modern Needs and Preferences
From the beginning, the Otsuka Group has conducted research into the relationship
between water, electrolytes, and health. We are involved in education and we develop
products such as intravenous (I.V.) solutions and beverages for rehydration, which are
essential for medical recovery and to maintain and improve health.
Story Behind the Development of
Pocari Sweat Ion Beverage
1 2
The Otsuka Group originated as a manufacturer of chemical ingre-
dients using nigari (bittern or concentrated salts) from local sea-
water, later expanding into I.V. solutions and growing to become a
comprehensive healthcare company that supports health in both
medicine and daily life. Leveraging our expertise in I.V. solutions,
1 The original 245 ml
we developed Pocari Sweat as a rehydration and electrolyte (ion)
can of Pocari Sweat
replenishment beverage to maintain and improve daily health.
2 Current Pocari Sweat
Pocari Sweat is enjoyed worldwide today, but it took major efforts
in 500 ml eco-bottle
to develop the beverage to make it ready for consumers. packaging
11 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 12
Highlight
3
Inspiration for a “Drinkable I.V. Solution”
Several years before the launch of Pocari Sweat, an Otsuka
Japanese researcher suffered food poisoning while on a business
trip outside Japan. Visiting a local medical clinic that did not have
I.V. equipment, the researcher was advised by a physician to drink
plenty of water and was handed a carbonated beverage. This led
the researcher to consider the need for a physiologically based
rehydration beverage that is readily available and easy to ingest.
On a separate occasion, the Otsuka researcher witnessed a
doctor drinking an I.V. solution to rehydrate after performing a long
surgery. This made the researcher think that a drinkable I.V. bever-
age would enhance absorption of liquid. This inspiration in turn led 3 Teaching the public about the importance of rehydration at sporting and
to the concept of a sweat replacement beverage to readily replen- other events
ish electrolytes lost from sweating, fast-tracking the development
of Pocari Sweat.
Winning Consumers Over to the Flavor of
Pocari Sweat
Developing a Completely New Taste
Pocari Sweat was finally launched in 1980, but initially struggled
In taste testing, the electrolytes in the sweat replacement drink to gain acceptance among consumers who thought it tasted weak
made the beverage taste bitter and less than enjoyable. Otsuka or less tasty than the sweet beverages they were accustomed to.
researchers tried numerous formulations to develop a palatable Furthermore, the concept of electrolyte replacement was still new
taste, and one day added a trial powder citrus juice that just hap- to consumers, who were not quite ready to embrace it.
pened to be on hand. This formulation produced a great new taste In order to get consumers to appreciate the taste of Pocari
and the discovery that certain citrus juices erase the bitter taste Sweat, Otsuka aggressively gave out samples of the beverage at
of electrolytes. sporting and other events across Japan where people were likely
The researchers developed numerous trial formulations in an to need rehydration. These efforts eventually won over customers
Products for Modern Needs and Preferences effort to develop a great-tasting beverage that was not cloying and to enjoy Pocari Sweat as an innovative and scientifically proven
could be readily ingested when thirsty. To replicate thirsty condi- beverage for health and daily life.
tions, researchers even brought the trial formulations with them to Today, we continue to educate consumers on the effectiveness
drink after hiking in the mountains. of Pocari Sweat for rehydration and electrolyte replenishment, any
After more than 1,000 trial formulations and seven years of de- time people are thirsty, including for heatstroke prevention and in
velopment, Pocari Sweat was finally born. dry autumn and winter conditions.
Importance of Rehydration in Daily Life
Whenever you sweat
In dry winter conditions
In enclosed indoor conditions
After a long bath
For long travel in a car or plane
After drinking alcohol
Web Otsuka Pharmaceutical—Rehydration http://www.otsuka.co.jp/en/company/business/rehydration/F
rom the R&D Labs
Pocari Sweat was released more than 30 years ago, but the OS-1 Rehydration Solutions
Otsuka Group continues to conduct advanced research on rehy-
The Otsuka Group developed OS-1 rehydration solutions contain-
dration both at its own research laboratories and in collaboration
ing balanced concentrations of carbohydrates and electrolytes.
with other research institutions, in continued efforts to develop and
OS-1 provides the right amount of hydration and electrolytes for
improve our products.
replenishment from dehydration due to diarrhea, vomiting, fever, or
excessive perspiration from colds or other ailments.
OS-1 oral rehydration solutions are categorized as special-
A New Low-Cal, Low-Sweetness Pocari Sweat
purpose food products for sick people, suited to treat light to mod-
Taste preferences and lifestyles change over time, creating the erate dehydration. Following the Great East Japan Earthquake, the
need for a modern ion beverage that is better suited to daily inges- Otsuka Group delivered 4
tion. To address these changing needs, Otsuka set out to develop emergency supplies of
a new beverage that offers the same benefits as Pocari Sweat for OS-1 to evacuation cent-
the needs of today. ers, helping to treat dehy-
Taste testing for the new beverage was even more extensive drated refugees.
than for the original Pocari Sweat, as researchers sought to The Otsuka Group will
develop a moderately sweet taste that was perfectly balanced continue to pursue its
with the taste of electrolytes. It took six years of development to unique R&D taking the un-
achieve the right taste formulation, culminating in the launch of traveled path in an effort
Pocari Sweat Ion Water in 2013 featuring a moderately sweet taste to create added value that 4 OS-1 rehydration solutions are categorized
as special-purpose food products for sick
with fewer calories and a refreshing aftertaste. helps to maintain and im- people by the Consumer Affairs Agency,
Government of Japan
prove health.
Akihisa Takaichi
Adviser on Nutritional Products,
Manufacturing Process
Development Department
(Nutritional Products),
Continuing to Develop Healthy Products That
Production Headquarters
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Excite Consumers
Pocari Sweat Ion Water was the product of six years of de-
velopment to create a modern Pocari Sweat with a refreshing
and moderately sweet taste for the needs and preferences
of today.
It was quite a challenge to develop a formulation that of-
fers the same benefits of Pocari Sweat with less sweetness,
while still erasing the bitterness of electrolytes. Aftertaste is
important for beverages, and achieving a low-calorie bever-
age with a refreshing aftertaste required even more extensive
taste testing than for the original Pocari Sweat.
Existing technologies and known information do not help
when tackling a new challenge. It is important to come up
with your own ideas and actually make the trial beverages
and taste them yourself, because you have to make your
own discoveries.
Products are direct expressions of the ideas of the com-
pany that are behind them. We want to develop products
and tastes that excite people and make health appealing to
people, and we will continue to develop products that meet
these ideals.
13 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 14
Highlight
Countries Japan Singapore Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates Indonesia Malaysia Kuwait Philippines Viet Nam
Pocari Sweat
is sold in Taiwan Bahrain Oman South Korea Thailand China Qatar Egypt
G
lobal Brand Concept
Pocari Sweat has grown to become a global brand marketed in 17 Pocari Sweat in Other Markets
countries and regions, including Japan, and favored worldwide as
The Otsuka Group launched Pocari Sweat in the South Korean
a sweat replacement drink. We communicate the message of rehy-
market in 1987, knowing that it might take some time to catch
dration and its importance according to the customs and lifestyle
on with consumers because there was no precedence for an
of each country and region, to deliver better health worldwide.
electrolyte replacement in that market. However, the 1988 Seoul
Olympics took place the following year bringing sports and health
to the forefront of the public mind, and Pocari Sweat suddenly
Pocari Sweat for First Aid
caught on with large segments of the public. In fact, Pocari Sweat
In Indonesia, Pocari Sweat is proving its worth for first aid. The recently placed first in customer satisfaction in the beverages cat-
rainy season in Indonesia lasts from November through March, egory for the fourth straight year according to the leading National
during which the number of dengue fever cases increases without Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) in South Korea.
fail. Dengue fever is an infectious disease that is transmitted by In China, the Otsuka Group completed construction of its third
mosquitoes and has no known treatment drug. Since dengue fever Pocari Sweat manufacturing plant in 2012 to meet rapidly grow-
is accompanied by high fever, it is usually treated using fever medi- ing demand from Chinese consumers. The Pocari Sweat plant
cation and through I.V. hydration. embraces community principles and actively accepts visitors for
Rehydration is critical for treating dehydration from dengue plant tours, which is not yet common in China, and in that capacity
fever. The Otsuka Group conducts seminars for physicians and educates the public on the importance of rehydration and on the
nurses on the benefits of supplying Pocari Sweat for dehydrated benefits of Pocari Sweat.
individuals. Pocari Sweat was launched in 2012 in the rapidly growing
The Otsuka Group also conducts regular seminars for com- economy of Vietnam, in concert with health education efforts.
munity residents on the dangers of dehydration and its treatment, The Otsuka Group will continue to communicate the importance of
educating the public on the importance of rehydration. rehydration to the public for better health worldwide, remaining true
to the concept of Pocari Sweat as a sweat replacement beverage.
5 6 7
5 Seminar for nurses about the
importance of rehydration for
dengue fever
6 Teaching children in Indonesia
about the importance of
rehydration
7 Pocari Sweat is also enjoyed
in the Middle EastHighlight Coexisting with Communities in Indonesia
2
Bettering the Lives of Many
The Otsuka Group works to better the lives of people in communities it does business in,
and values community ties and traditions. Six Otsuka Group companies are doing business
in the rapidly growing economy of Indonesia, pursuing diverse initiatives tightly linked
with communities.
Republic of Indonesia
Indonesia comprises more than 13,000 islands covering some 1.9
I
million square kilometers, which is roughly five times the land mass
nitiatives for Children of Japan. The multicultural nation is home to more than 300 ethnic
groups who speak over 500 different languages.
The Otsuka Group started manufacturing and marketing pharma-
P.T. Otsuka Indonesia
ceuticals in Indonesia in 1974 and presently operates six Group
P.T. Merapi Utama Pharma
companies in the country covering both the pharmaceutical and P.T. Amerta Indah Otsuka
nutraceutical businesses. P.T. Otsuka Jaya Indah
P.T. Lautan Otsuka Chemical
With a population of more than 240 million, Indonesia continues
P.T. Widatra Bhakti
to grow through modernization as a developing nation. Otsuka
Group companies that operate in Indonesia are supporting the
What does the prefix “P.T.” mean?
nation’s development by focusing on initiatives that are linked
“P.T.” stands for Perseroan Terbatas, which is a limited company.
with communities.
15 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 16
Highlight
1
Growth of the Satu Hati (One Heart)
Project
Nutraceutical company P.T. Amerta Indah Otsuka works in concert
with communities to pursue initiatives focusing on children’s edu-
cation. At the center of these activities are Satu Hati (One Heart)
charity events that the company has been conducting since 2007.
With considerable support from the private sector, government,
and non-profit organizations, Satu Hati has grown to encompass
community assistance in addition to children’s education.
2 3
Building Libraries and Donating Books
Satu Hati initially made efforts to rebuild schools that were dam-
aged in the 2006 Java earthquake, through corporate donations
from Amerta Indah Otsuka and by organizing a charity concert to
raise funds and draw on the generosity of the wider community. In
2007, the initiative was christened Satu Hati Cerdaskan Bangsa
4
(One Heart for Education) and set out on a new fundraising cam-
1 Satu Hati charity concert
paign to purchase books for elementary schools across Indonesia,
with the support of a television station and the government. Even 2 Library built in 2011
more funds were raised in 2008, enabling Satu Hati to build librar- 3 Children read in a library built by
Satu Hati
ies in elementary schools. Since 2011, Satu Hati has enlisted the
4 Collecting donations at a Satu
support of local non-profits and the Indonesian Ministry of Women
Hati charity event
Empowerment and Children Protection to further extend the scope
of its activities.
Satu Hati donates libraries and books to schools and villages Satu Hati built four libraries in 2012 including two libraries for
that would otherwise lack the necessary resources and gives out children in communities close to the Sukabumi Plant and the
books to individuals. In certain communities, any or individual Kejayan Plant. Otsuka Group also visited libraries that had previ-
volunteers give their time to lend out books to children in order to ously been built, bringing new books. To date, Satu Hati has built
encourage literacy. 24 libraries and donated more than 100,000 books.
I
5
nitiatives at Otsuka Group Plants
The mission of Satu Hati Cerdaskan Bangsa to support children’s
education and improve communities also extends to initiatives we
conduct at our plants.
Amerta Indah Otsuka gives plant tours to schools and other
organizations, showing children how products are made and
5 Satu Hati School at distributed.
the Kejayan Plant
The Kejayan Plant features a soccer pitch, mosque, and com-
6 6 Children studying
at the Satu Hati munity learning center that can be accessed by members of the
School community and children. The learning center features a Satu Hati
School that is held once a week, where employees take turns pro-
viding after-school tutoring in grammar, math, and English.Satu Hati Peduli Lingkungan
(One Heart for Environment) Program
7 Employees plant trees at a nearby mountain as a part of local conservation efforts
In addition to supporting children’s education, Satu Hati has grown 7
to encompass environmental education as well as assistance and
education to improve lives for all people in Indonesia, including
adults. In 2012, the Satu Hati Peduli Lingkungan (One Heart for
Environment) program was launched to support biodiversity and
forest conservation efforts in Indonesia and environmental action
by community residents.
Cleanup Events in Coastal Communities
In the first half of 2012, the Otsuka Group conducted environmen-
tal seminars for residents and high school students in the coastal
communities of Sukabumi, Yogyakarta, and Lombok. These
seminars were followed by coastal cleanup events where 2,145
volunteers collected 4,150 kilograms of trash. (To learn more, go to
p. 44.)
Water and Forest Conservation
In the second half of 2012, the Otsuka Group conducted envi- Recycled Cement Blocks for
ronmental conservation activities at the Gunung Halimun Salak
Communities
National Park, which provides some of the water used to make
Pocari Sweat. With the cooperation of non-governmental or- The plant of P.T. Lautan Otsuka Chemical burns coal to manufac-
ganizations and community residents, some 25,000 trees and ture a blowing agent that is used as a plastic additive. The resulting
vegetation were planted including Japanese witch hazel, schima coal ash is mixed with cement to make recycled cement blocks
mertensiana, and sugar palm trees whose sap can be used for that are donated for the construction of homes, schools, hospitals,
sugar production. Residents were recruited to use GPS equipment and mosques. Employees also volunteer their time to assist these
to locate areas needing conservation and to prepare a conserva- communities by building homes in needy villages using the recy-
tion map using the collected data. cled blocks.
T 9
ree Planting
The pharmaceuticals manufacturing plant of P.T. Otsuka Indonesia
is situated at the base of Arjuna mountain, which is a source of
pure spring water. In order to promote conservation of nearby
water sources, employees work alongside community residents
and students to regularly plant trees on Arjuna mountain and sur-
rounding hills.
In 2012, 180 volunteers planted 2,250 trees. Since the program
was launched in 2007, volunteers have planted some 10,000 trees
in all.
8 8 Planting trees on
Arjuna mountain
10 9 Building that was con-
structed using recycled
cement blocks
10 Blocks made from cement
and coal ash recycled
from chemical production
17 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013Health
As a comprehensive healthcare company,
the Otsuka Group develops innovative products
and disseminates information to help find cures for
diseases and to maintain and promote
people’s health.
Heat stroke prevention seminar (Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 18Health
Heat Stroke Prevention Education
Priority Areas
As a company that is committed to quality of life, the Otsuka Group Number of heat stroke victims receiving
emergency transport in Japan (July to September)
pursues diverse initiatives related to health education and is ac-
tively involved in heat stroke education. The number of heat stroke (Persons) Total number of persons transported: 173,238
60,000
victims has been rising in Japan since a record-breaking heat 53,843
Background
wave in 2010, and nationwide some 40,000 heat stroke victims 50,000
43,864
are rushed every year to hospitals by emergency transport. Heat 39,489
40,000
stroke covers a range of symptoms that occur in high tempera-
tures, including dizziness, vomiting, and loss of consciousness, and 30,000
23,071
can even be fatal in serious cases. Suitable prevention strategies and
20,000
emergency treatment can prevent heat stroke and save lives. The Otsuka Group focuses 12,971
10,000
on heat stroke education because it believes that it is important to know about and prevent
heat stroke. 0
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012(Year)
Source: Website of Fire and Disaster Management Agency, Japan
Education for Everyone from Children
to the Elderly
Since Pocari Sweat was first introduced, Otsuka Pharmaceutical user’s current location and heat stroke risk in the area, and supplies
has advocated the “importance of hydration” in various scenes. weather updates and real-time weather monitoring information.
The public has become more aware of the issue since the Study Focusing on children and youth, the Otsuka Group conducts
Group for Prevention of Heat Stroke in Sports Activities was es- Otsuka Academy Open School Seminars 2 in which employees
tablished by the Japan Sports Association in 1991, and Otsuka visit schools, clubs, and sports classes to talk about heatstroke
Pharmaceutical began to take part in activities to help prevent heat prevention and treatment, stressing the importance of rehydration.
stroke. The company has since expanded its activities in this area, The seminars are in their 14th year of implementation in 2013
and disseminated information about children’s sports, safety and and have grown more popular every year with schools requesting
health in the workplace, and the the seminars. Increasingly, the seminars are being incorporated
importance to senior citizens of into health lectures organized by nursing teachers and school
staying hydrated. health committees, and also conducted at school assemblies.
The company posts informa- The presentations use slides and images to talk about heat
tion on its website, “Protect stroke and are tailored to the specific circumstances and needs of
Yourself from Heat Stroke” the school or team receiving the presentation. To involve students,
(in Japanese) 1 , based on the the speakers start by doing a quiz and take familiar examples of
“Guidebook for Prevention of heat stroke, and highlight the critical points of the presentation at
1 Heat Stroke in Sports Activities” the end of the seminar so that students assimilate some knowl-
Protect Yourself from Heat Stroke published by the Japan Sports edge about heat stroke prevention.
website
Association. These animated
movies explain heat stroke and its prevention is a way that is easy
to understand.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical operates the Heat Stroke Prevention
website in cooperation with non-profit Weather Caster Network.
In addition to providing temperature information, the website pro-
vides a wet bulb globe temperature (WBGT) index that accounts
for humidity, radiant heat, and other factors to forecast the degree
of heat stroke risk. The WBGT index produces a value that is simi-
lar to perceived temperature, so that the public can easily grasp
the degree of heat stroke danger. The website enables visitors to
look up the WBGT index for their current location or anywhere in
Japan. Weather summaries and AMeDAS forecast information are
also displayed to help identify areas with a high risk of heat stroke. 2
The website for smartphones uses GPS information to detect the Heat stroke seminar at a junior high school
19 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 20
Health
Disseminating Information for Medical Heat Stroke Prevention in the Workplace
Practitioners and Instructors and Industry Collaboration
The Otsuka Group originally launched the Otsuka Academy Open The Otsuka Group provides workshop speakers to talk about heat
Seminar series in 2001 to disseminate information about rehy- stroke prevention and treatment in the workplace, at the request
dration and nutritional replenishment during sports activities, for of occupational safety and health personnel from companies.
elementary, junior high school, and senior high school students Many of these activities are conducted in the manufacturing sec-
across Japan. To better reach students, we created a course tor, where work can often take place in elevated temperatures.
specifically for instructors 3 in 2011, which incorporates the The Otsuka Group is also involved in an ongoing industry joint
seminar content with content for teachers, parents, and sports project for heat stroke prevention and treatment 4 in partner-
instructors, providing them with information on rehydration during ship with a major car and tire manufacture, in an effort to eliminate
sports. Many instructors have taken the course at the request of heat stroke in these workplaces. The programs are tailored to each
schools across the country. In addition to information on rehy- company and involve comprehensive training, education, and
dration, and nutritional replenishment, the Otsuka Group is also implementation of practices to address heat stroke, in addition to
communicating the importance of eating a proper breakfast, in re- conducting educational seminars. These programs have had great
sponse to growing demand from the public heatstroke prevention success in eliminating heat stroke cases with both companies
encapsulating food education. Feedback from participants has aligned toward the same goal. Every year after the main risk pe-
included comments such as: riod, Otsuka Group employees sit down with their colleagues at the
“The contents were in line with the message to ‘sleep early, partner companies to analyze the results and consider strategies for
wake early, and eat breakfast’ and is easily conveyed to children.” the following year as part of an ongoing cycle of improvement. The
“I wish the message could reach all households by creating a Otsuka Group also assists with the development of heat stroke
classroom newsletter.” prevention guidebooks for various organizations and works to dis-
“I learned a lot through the conversations with health educators.” seminate heat stroke prevention guidelines issued by the Ministry
of Health, Labour, and Welfare and Ministry of the Environment.
4
3
Heat stroke prevention workshop at a partner company
Teaching instructors about heat stroke prevention strategies
In 2012, the Otsuka Group conducted a live, open web seminar
For Our Employees and Plants
program featuring speakers on heatstroke prevention and treat-
ment, reaching out to industrial physicians as well as public health
nurses, nutritionists, nurses, and occupational safety and health The Otsuka Group conducts heat stroke prevention education for
personnel working in occupational settings. The webinars featured employees. At the start of summer, employees of Otsuka Techno
an interactive component through Q&A sessions. The feedback receive a heat stroke prevention pamphlet issued by the labor
from the webinars include comments such as: standards office. Employees of Otsuka Packaging Industries are
“I was able to brush up on my knowledge of heat stroke preven- reminded to rehydrate during breaks through posters and at morn-
tion and treatment through the webinars.” ing meetings.
“The detailed analysis of new data matches my own day-to-day Additionally, Otsuka Techno and EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical
perceptions and backed up my convictions of what to watch out for.” distribute and supply Pocari Sweat for the rehydration of employ-
“I was reminded of the importance for industrial physicians to ees who work outside in the summer and in plants with elevated
work together with staff to fully prevent heat stroke.” temperatures.Health
Disseminating Health Information
The Otsuka Group disseminates health information for all persons, including patients, their families,
medical practitioners, and children, to improve health and quality of life.
Cancer Initiatives Otsuka Health Comic Library
Taiho Pharmaceutical is working with cancer patients, their fami- The Otsuka Health Comic Library is a collection of comics about
lies, and medical practitioners to improve conditions for cancer health topics. The collection is expanded every year with the re-
treatment and to establish patient-centered clinical methods. lease of one new title and copies are donated to grade schools
The company has sponsored a major gathering of cancer pa- across Japan. The comics deal with topics that are interesting for
tients every year since 2005, in an effort to facilitate safe and quick students, such as secrets for growing taller and treating influenza
access to therapies and drugs needed by cancer patients. The symptoms. The content is reviewed by health professionals from
event serves as a platform to disseminate useful information to the Japan Medical Association and Japanese Society of School
cancer patients and their families. Health, and the comics are illustrated by well-known comic artists.
Taiho Pharmaceutical Since 1989, some 50 titles have been published featuring the work
also supports the Pink of over 10 comic artists, including 16 series for elementary school
Ribbon Campaign that students and six series for junior high school students.
is dedicated to early The comics are placed in school libraries and nurse’s offices for
detection, diagnosis, students to read at their leisure. In addition to being read and en-
and treatment of breast joyed by individual students, the comics are also used for school
cancer, and since 2006 health committee activities and student research reports, and used
the company has been in nutritional classes. The collection has been praised for using
involved in annual Pink comics as a platform to reach children, noting that students enjoy
Ribbon Festivals spon- reading the comics and have shown a greater interest in health
sored by the Japan 2012 Pink Ribbon Festival in Kobe after reading them.
Cancer Society. In 2012, The comics are also available online for children and parents to
the company distributed educational pamphlets on breast can- read outside of school settings. Starting in 2013, the Otsuka Group
cer and gave out promotional goods to encourage women to get is asking students to submit ideas for health-related topics to be
screened for breast cancer. covered in future titles, getting students to help shape the direction
Taiho Pharmaceutical, in partnership with the Shizuoka Cancer of the comics.
Center in Shizuoka Prefecture, operates the SurvivorSHIP.jp
website as a platform to support everyone involved in cancer sur-
vival—from cancer survivors to their families and medical staff—
in order to assist with the day-
to-day challenges of cancer
survivorship. The website is
dedicated to improving the
quality of life for cancer survi-
vors by disseminating useful
information for cancer survivors
and their families.
Otsuka Health Comic Library
SurvivorSHIP.jp app for iPhone and iPad
21 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 22
Health
My First Water Project Open Medical Seminar Series
Otsuka Foods started the My First Water Project to examine the The Otsuka Group sponsors seminars aimed at the media and
importance of water in parenting, with the belief that parents are open public lectures to disseminate recent information and en-
responsible for making good choices about water until their chil- courage a better understanding of various medical conditions.
dren are old enough to make their own decisions. To date, we have conducted 14 media seminars for oncology to
The project engages in activities to disseminate information disseminate information on cancer treatment, and 16 media semi-
about water, including tips on making safe water choices, and the nars on central nervous system disorders. In 2012, we launched
importance of rehydration, for parents of young children. In 2012, a series of three media seminars on dry eye syndrome. In the
the project published a picture book and coloring book about the seminars, leading physicians brief members of the media on the
importance of nature and water, which were distributed to 1,362 medical conditions. We also support open public seminars to
preschools and daycares across Japan serving some 196,988 broadly inform the public about schizophrenia and specifics about
children, along with samples of Crystal Geyser water. In 2013, the condition. The seminars feature psychiatrists and persons in
Otsuka Foods has already received book requests from more than the community who are dealing with schizophrenia, to talk about
1,000 preschools and daycares as of July 31. the condition and their personal experiences.
Open seminar for the public
Letters of thanks for coloring Kenzen Cars
books and picture books pro-
vided through the My First Water
Project
More than 20 million people in Japan aged 40 to 79 years suffer
from metabolic syndrome or are at risk of the condition. With obe-
sity issues increasing in Japan, Otsuka Foods operates the Kenzen
Car project to promote Mannan Hikari, a food product made from
konnyaku, a variety of yam, into the shape of rice grains. Kenzen
Cars go into communities and give out samples of Mannan Hikari,
Preschools and as well as provide cooking demonstrations for calorie control (33%
Mama Matsuri fewer calories) and distribute recipes. Feedback from the public
Masanao Okazaki has been positive, with consumers saying that Mannan Hikari
Mineral Water Product Manager, tastes just like rice, with fewer calories, and is changing the way
Beverage Products Department,
Marketing Division consumers view food and health.
Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd.
The My First Water Project is currently in its second year
and has received much positive feedback from preschools
and daycare facilities. It is gratifying to think that we are
making a real difference in raising awareness of the impor-
tance of water. Starting in 2013, the project will support the
Mama Matsuri event organized by moms for moms. The
event is run by the non-profit Childrin, which also assists
mothers with preschool children. Through the festival, we
will seek to communicate the importance of water to young
children and parents.
Kenzen Car promoting Mannan HikariHealth
Research and Development
In our mission to deliver better health worldwide and to help address global environmental issues, the
Otsuka Group is working to develop innovative new drugs and new foods that supply additional value.
Addressing Unmet Medical Needs Soylution
The Otsuka Group conducts R&D to develop new drugs that The Otsuka Group is using soy to resolve the world’s health and
address unmet medical needs for conditions that lack effective environmental problems, via its Soylution (soy + solution) concept.
treatment or medicines. Otsuka Pharmaceutical began conducting Soybeans contain nutritional benefits that have been found to
R&D into the central nervous system in the 1970s, leading to U.S. help maintain health and improve various medical conditions such
FDA approval of the antipsychotic drug Abilify in 2002. The drug as disease and obesity. Additionally, soybean production emits
has since been approved for sale in more than 60 countries and just 1/12th the carbon dioxide (CO2) required to produce beef,*1
regions worldwide, helping to treat many patients. so that eating soybeans directly consumes 1/50th the amount of
Otsuka Pharmaceutical is also conducting research into tuber- water and 1/20th the amount of energy.*2 Furthermore, producing
culosis, which is a major public health issue around the world. No one kilogram of beef requires 10 kilograms of grain including soy,
new anti-tuberculosis drug has been released in 40 years, and so eating soy directly can alleviate food shortages caused by pop-
there is a particularly strong need for a new drug to treat multidrug- ulation growth. Despite these benefits, only 6% of the soybeans
resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). Building on more than 30 years grown are directly eaten by people worldwide.*3
of research in this field, Otsuka Pharmaceutical developed the Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s two research centers in Tokushima are
Delamanid anti-tuberculosis drug to treat MDR-TB, filing for ap- concentrationg on the development of soy foods, continuing the
proval of the drug in Europe in 2011 and in Japan in 2013. pursuit of forms and flavors acceptable to people around the world.
Taiho Pharmaceutical is tackling the challenge of developing The first Soylution product was Soyjoy, a soy bar that is cur-
drugs that improve the quality of life for cancer patients, gaining rently available in 11 countries and regions. Since then, Otsuka
approval for the Futraful oral anticancer agent in 1974, followed by Pharmaceutical has introduced Soysh, a carbonated soy drink that
approval of UFT in 1984 and TS-1 in 1999. While great strides are even people with an aversion to soy milk can enjoy, and SoyCarat,
being made in anticancer drug treatment, there remain consider- a healthy soy snack that is favored by children and adults alike.
able unmet medical needs from cancers that still cannot be effec- The Otsuka Group will continue developing new Soylution prod-
tively treated today. Taiho Pharmaceutical is pursuing R&D for the ucts, bringing soy to the world.
entire spectrum of cancer treatment, including new drugs for future
cancer treatments, and antiemetic agents and other supportive *1: Calculated based on embodied energy and emission intensity data using Input-
Output Tables for Japan, from the Center for Global Environmental Research
care products.
Center of the National Institute for Environmental Studies.
New drug development is a long and expensive process involv- *2: Professor David Pimentel, Cornell University, U.S.A.
*3: U.S. Department of Agriculture
ing many obstacles, but the Otsuka Group will continue working
for the sake of those with medical conditions.
23 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013Environment
Our lives and our communities and business
activities are dependent on the bounty of nature.
The Otsuka Group embraces its responsibility to
conserve the natural environment, pursuing
sustainability at every stage from manufacturing to
the use of our products.
Biotope at Tokushima Itano Factory of Otsuka Pharmaceutical
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 24Environment
Eco-Friendly Products
Priority Areas
As a company that engages in manufacturing, the Otsuka Group en-
Products
deavors to help conserve the environment through its products. We
for a Better
develop products that reduce the environmental impact through-
Environment
out the entire product life cycle extending to disposal after use.
Product Development to Reduce Waste
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory developed ELNEOPA No. 1 and the formulation to be mixed aseptically. The quad-chamber kit
ELNEOPA No. 2 injection solutions 1 featuring the first-ever formulation bags effectively reduce waste and lessen the impact
quad-chamber kit formulation bags containing glucose, electro- on the environment.
lytes, and amino acids with vitamins and trace elements. The
I.V. solution bags offer greater safety for patients and enhanced
utility in medical settings, while significantly reducing medical
waste from using additional needles and solution containers
needed for intravenous injection of nutrition from multiple prod-
ucts. Handling multiple products involves extra work and there is
the risk of forgetting a solution and there are hygiene concerns.
The quad-chamber injection bags solve this issue by enabling
1
ELNEOPA No. 2 injection solutions
Lighter Bottles
Otsuka Pharmaceutical reduced bottles, and significantly reduces energy consumption and the fuel
the weight of plastic bottles by otherwise required for transportation.
introducing a method called Otsuka Foods reduced the weight of plastic bottles for MATCH
“positive pressure aseptic filling” beverages from 33 grams to 28 grams. The 15% reduction in weight
to its manufacturing lines, a first reduces greenhouse gas emissions from the manufacturing and
for Japan. The manufacturing disposal of plastic bottles and reduces plastic resin consumption.
technique eliminates the need for Taiho Pharmaceutical reduced the weight of 100 ml glass bot-
2
bottles with sufficient hardness tles used for Tiovita drinks, from 107 grams to 99 grams. To ensure
Preforms are expanded in a mold
and thickness to withstand high and formed into plastic bottles. that breakage rates during transport did not increase, the lighter
temperatures. This has enabled Otsuka Pharmaceutical to make bottles were designed to offer the same strength despite the
its 500 ml plastic bottles of Pocari Sweat the lightest in Japan reduced weight.
when they were introduced in 2007. The company also produces
plastic resin preforms 2 in-house for 900 ml plastic Pocari Sweat Reducing the Weight of Tiovita Bottles
bottles. This eliminates the need to wash and sterilize plastic (grams per bottle)
130 125 130
Weight
120 120
110 107 107 107 110
102 102
99 99
100 100
90 90
Before 1981〜 1992〜 1995〜 1996〜 2000〜 2011 2012(Year)
Plastic resin Preforms Bottle molding 1976
25 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 26
Environment
Reducing Label Waste
Otsuka Foods reduced the thickness of labels used on plastic bot- Otsuka Pharmaceutical reduced the thickness of labels from 60
tles from 90 microns to just 40 microns, saving some 59 tonnes of microns to 50 microns, and reduced the thickness of labels used
waste annually. In addition, the company switched from a stretch on 500 ml Pocari Sweat plastic bottles from 50 microns to 40 mi-
label to a wrap-around label, which facilitates the removal of labels crons, achieving a 17% reduction of waste.
for waste separation.
Lighter and Smaller Packaging Lighter and Reusable Pop Display
The Otsuka Group is developing lighter packaging for prod- Otsuka Foods is reducing waste in food sales by using lighter
ucts. Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical, EN Otsuka pop display, achieved by switching from clay-coated backboard
Pharmaceutical, and Otsuka Foods are switching to lighter card- to thin cardboard that is readily recyclable. The change in mate-
board and cases as well as reducing the weight of cardboard rial reduced the weight of the boxes by 18% without affecting
boxes by eliminating overlap width and thus excess material 3 . their strength.
Otsuka Foods changed its retort pouch processing to reduce Otsuka Packaging Industries
the size of single retort pouches, making it possible to reduce the developed a pop display unit
weight of cardboard shipping boxes and plastic wrapping. that can be reused 4 to display
multiple products by simply
modifying the internal parti-
tions. The reusable display unit
eliminates the need to fabricate
and dispose of customized
counter displays for each new
product type or version, which
is more efficient to set up and
conserves resources and re- 4
3
Cardboard box redesigned with less overlap width to reduce weight duces waste. Reusable pop display unit
Developing and Marketing Eco-Friendly
Packaging Materials
Otsuka Packaging Industries is reducing consumption of raw ma-
terials in addition to developing recyclable packaging materials.
The company is reducing paper consumption by redesigning
paper and cardboard shipping boxes so that the contents are
protected without needing to use additional internal parti-
tion pieces 5 . Other changes to reduce materials consumption
include the use of self-sealing paper boxes that do not require
additional items such as wrapping paper, sealing stickers, shrink
wrap film or tape, and the development of packaging that provides
sufficient protection without using cushioning materials. The pack-
aging solutions also simplify separation for disposal, by using a
single material.
Otsuka Packaging Industries also manufactures food trays and
5
paper trays made from biomass materials 5 . The company is
actively developing and marketing eco-friendly packaging materi- Cardboard box that uses less paper (top) and trays made from biomass mate-
rials (bottom)
als, and exhibited at the Eco-Products Fair in 2012.Environment
Environmental Management
Otsuka Group Environmental Policy
As a global healthcare company and a responsible corporate citizen, the Otsuka Group will always take account of
the global environment when it pursues its business activities. The Group will work on environmental issues with its
trademark qualities of independence, proactiveness and creativity.
Guidelines
1 Provide products and services that are friendly to the environment
At all stages, from product research, development and production through to distribution, sales, and disposal, the
Group will assess environmental impacts, and formulate and implement eco-friendly measures.
2 Contribute to a low-carbon society
Recognizing that there are limited global resources, the Group will contribute to the realization of a carbon-neutral
society by restricting emissions of greenhouse gases and conserving resources. The Group will reduce carbon dioxide
emissions through energy conservation and by improving the productivity of resource use.
3 Contribute to a sound material-cycle society
Natural resources have finite availability, so the Group will minimize their consumption by reducing waste discharge
and by recycling resources through reuse, material recycling and thermal recycling, along with suitable disposal.
4 Conserve biodiversity
The Group will continue to pursue initiatives for the promotion of biodiversity in order to maintain diversity of
ecosystems, species, and genetic materials.
5 Compliance
The Group will comply with environmental legislation and observe social norms. In addition, the Group will respond to
society’s expectations and independently set itself further, stricter voluntary standards and rules, with which the Group
will then work hard to comply.
6 Actively engage in social initiatives
The Group will engage in broad social communication, and as a good corporate citizen, it will actively pursue ongoing
social initiatives. The Group will focus on the three key themes of “health,” “the natural environment,” and “local
communities” to pursue initiatives for the general betterment of human health and well-being.
7 Enhance risk management
The Group will work to minimize potential risk to the environment from sudden accidents and emergencies, through
preparation of crisis management plans and implementation of risk management programs.
Organizational Structure of the Otsuka Group Environmental Otsuka Holdings
Promotion Council (Fiscal 2013)
Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
Taiho Pharmaceutical
Otsuka Warehouse
Secretariat
Otsuka Chemical
Managing company*
Otsuka Foods
Deputy managing company*
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Otsuka Electronics
Otsuka Techno
Otsuka Packaging Industries
JIMRO
Earth Chemical
* Each Otsuka Group Company is in change every two years.
27 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 28
Environment
Otsuka Group Environmental
Promotion Council
In 2003, the Otsuka Group launched an initiative to enhance demand for electricity. The Council responded by implementing
information exchange on environmental conservation initiatives measures to reduce peak electricity use and to enhance Group-
among environmental and ISO managers at Group companies in wide measures through information exchange and by proposing
the Tokushima area, where much of the production takes place. Group-wide enhancements for common issues faced by Group
This initiative grew to encompass additional Group companies and companies such as energy conservation and waste management.
evolved into the Otsuka Group Environmental Promotion Council
that today involves environmental managers from 13 companies
to advance environmental conservation initiatives as a Group. The
Council serves as a platform for information exchange on topics
ranging from technology trends to environmental compliance and
is a forum for discussing the overall direction of environmental
initiatives.
In 2012, government and industry bodies in Japan asked elec-
tricity users across Japan to conserve electricity consumption
during peak usage periods and hours to address tight supply and Otsuka Group Environmental Promotion Council
ISO 14001 Certified Business Locations
Group companies and business locations acquire ISO 14001 certification for environmental management systems, as a platform to advance
activities tailored to their respective operations.
Japan Outside Japan
Business location Year certified Business location Year certified
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Saga Factory, Tokushima Itano Factory 2000 Egypt Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., S.A.E. 1997
Tokushima Wajiki Factory, Tokushima Factory, 2001 P.T. Otsuka Indonesia 2005
Second Tokushima Factory
P.T. Lautan Otsuka Chemical (Indonesia) 2006
Takasaki Factory 2003
VV Food & Beverage Co., Ltd. (China) 2007
Fukuroi Factory 2004
Nutrition & Nature SAS (France) 2008
Integration of EMS for seven business sites 2008
Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Korea) 2008
Certification expanded to Tokyo Headquarter 2012
Pharmavite LLC (USA) 2009
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Toyama Factory 1999
Zhang Jia Gang Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. (China) 2009
Kushiro Factory 2002
P.T. Amerta Indah Otsuka (Indonesia) 2010
Naruto Factory, Matsushige Factory 2003
Integration of EMS for four business sites 2010 Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Thailand) 2011
Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Saitama Factory 2001 Nutrition & Sante SAS (France) 2012
Tokushima Factory 2003 Zhejiang Otsuka Pharmaceutical (China) 2013
Okayama Factory, Okayama Taiho Pharmaceutical 2006
Certification expanded to R&D in Tokushima and 2009
Saitama sites
Integration of EMS for three business sites 2011
Otsuka Warehouse Co., Ltd. Head Office and Osaka Branch, 2006
Aizumi Logistics Center
Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokushima Factory 1999
Naruto Factory, Matsushige Factory 2005
Integration of EMS for three business sites 2005
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Hanamaki Plant 2005
Otsuka Techno Corporation Wajiki Factory 2002
Head Office, Naruto Factory 2008
Otsuka Packaging Industries Co., Ltd. Head office plant 2005
Saga Factory 2008
Kitajima Factory 2010
Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Tokushima Factory 1999
Kushiro Factory, Shiga Factory 2008
Gunma Factory 2011Environment
Low Carbon Neutral Initiatives
Recognizing that there are limited global resources, the Group will contribute to the realization of
a carbon-neutral society by restricting emissions of greenhouse gases and conserving resources.
The Group will reduce carbon dioxide emissions through energy conservation and by improving the
productivity of resource use.
‘Reverse Summer Time’ to Reduce
Demand Monitoring Devices
Peak Demand
Otsuka Pharmaceutical shifts its summer working hours during the The Okayama Factory of Taiho Phar-
months from July to September, starting work one hour later than maceutical has installed demand moni-
usual to reduce electricity consumption during peak hours of de- toring devices in an effort to reduce
mand. The summer working hours have been instituted since 2011 electricity consumption throughout the
and are in effect at seven business locations in Japan, including plant. The devices set off a warning
plants and research facilities, covering some 2,000 employees. when electricity demand is approach-
Each business location posts their peak electricity demand for ing a fixed threshold level, prompting Demand monitoring device screen
employees to see, in order to increase awareness. The initiative employees to weaken air-conditioning
has effectively reduced electricity consumption during the peak settings and switch off lights to conserve energy. The demand
demand time of 1:00 to 2:30 p.m., by spreading consumption over monitoring devices have been particularly effective in reducing
the course of the day. peak electricity demand during the summer, and are helping em-
ployees to be more aware of the need to conserve electricity.
Effectively Cutting Electricity Initiatives at Otsuka Group Companies
Demand During Peak Hours
Hidefumi Watanabe
Otsuka Group companies are pursuing diverse initiatives to con-
Manager, Administration Department,
Tokushima Headquarters serve energy and resources at production facilities, research facili-
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
ties, and offices.
Energy
While other companies typically shift their summer work- conservation
ing hours to an earlier time, we did the reverse and set our practices*1
summer working hours to a later time. By working later in Otsuka Pharmaceutical,
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory,
the day, the peak electricity demand time of 1:00 to 2:30 Taiho Pharmaceutical,
Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Electronics,
p.m. coincides with our lunch break, which reduces de- Cool Biz and JIMRO, EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Eco-friendly
mand during peak hours. Warm Biz Otsuka Techno, Otsuka Foods commuting and
In addition, our employees are increasingly taking ad- Otsuka Pharmaceutical, transportation practices
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory,
vantage of starting work later by using the extra time they Ta Oih to s uP kh aa r Cm ha ec me iu ct aic l,a l, OtsuO kt as u Pk ha a rP mh aa crm eua tc ice au lt i Fc aa cl, t ory,
have in the morning. We refer to the summer working hours Otsuka Electronics, Taiho Pharmaceutical,
Otsuka Techno Otsuka Chemical
as the Reverse Summer Time program. Eco-Cars*2 and
Eco-Driving Practices
Otsuka Pharmaceutical,
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory,
Taiho Pharmaceutical,
Otsuka Electronics, JIMRO,
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Green procurement Food recycling
Cogeneration Systems to Reduce CO2
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical,
Emissions Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory,
Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Foods
Otsuka Electronics, Visual display of
Otsuka Techno electricity consumption
Otsuka Group plants in the Tokushima area employ cogeneration
Otsuka Pharmaceutical,
systems that produce steam from waste heat generated during Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, *1: Air-conditioning and heating
Taiho Pharmaceutical, JIMRO,
Otsuka Foods temperature adjustments,
gas turbine electricity generation. The cogeneration systems pro-
installation of high-efficiency
vide an efficient supply of electricity and steam energy to nearby equipment, and practices to
conserve electricity
Group companies.
*2: Hybrid and low-emission
vehicles
29 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 30
Environment
Installation of Solar Power
Plastics Recycling
Generation Systems
Otsuka Techno pursues In an effort to help Group com-
ongoing, company-wide panies achieve zero emissions
initiatives to reduce elec- of waste, Otsuka Warehouse
tricity consumption. Solar recycles high-quality poly-
power generation sys- ethylene scrap*1 generated
tems have been installed from manufacturing processes
at the company’s Naruto at Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Head Office, Molding Solar power generation systems Factory’s four plants in Japan.
Center, and Wajiki No. 4 Factory, helping to reduce CO2 emissions. The scrap is used to manufac-
Recycled pellets
ture and then sell recycled pel-
lets, which were certified in March 2013 by Tokushima Prefecture
as a high-quality recycled material. Otsuka Pharmaceutical uses the
Reducing CO2 Emissions from Logistics
recycled pellets to manufacture reusable squeeze bottles, illustrat-
ing how Group companies are cooperating to recycle resources.
Under revisions to Japan’s Law on the Rational Use of Energy that
came into effect on April 1, 2006, transportation companies having *1: Excess plastic shaved from the edges of products in manufacturing
more than a certain transport capacity and specified consigners
that transport 30 million tonne-kilometers or more of freight in a
given business year are required to formulate energy-conservation Uniforms Made from Recycled Plastic
plans and submit energy consumption reports. As a specified Bottle Materials
consigner, the Otsuka Group is endeavoring to reduce the en-
vironmental impact of its logistics activities, including through a As part of its sustainability efforts, Otsuka Pharmaceutical uses
transportation modal shift from truck- and trailer-based land trans- uniforms made from recycled plastic bottle materials at the Fukuroi
port to sea and rail transport. The Group is also using Eco Liner Factory, Saga Factory, and Takasaki Factory that manufacture
containers that can be directly transferred from trucks to rail trans- Pocari Sweat and other products in plastic bottles.
port, in an effort to further reduce CO2 emissions. Additionally, the The Fukuroi Factory uses Eco Mark certified uniforms that are
Group is improving delivery efficiencies by using larger transport made from at least 60% recycled material from plastic bottles.
vehicles and unloading at ports that offer more efficient land trans- Employees were consulted on the design of the uniforms and sev-
port. Group companies are utilizing a network to secure cargo eral designs were tested before the company settled on a coverall-
for return trips and using joint deliveries with other companies to style uniform that is suited for food manufacturing operations.
reduce the number of transportation vehicles used, effectively re- The Saga Factory and Takasaki Factory use uniforms made from
ducing the environmental impact of logistics activities. materials that are chemically recycled from plastic bottles, plastic
Otsuka Warehouse has converted its forklift fleet from diesel- films, and fiber products.
powered models to models that run on electricity and liquefied Visitors to the plants are informed about the use of uniforms
petroleum gas (LPG). These comprised 99% of the fleet in 2012. made from recycled ma-
terials, communicating
the fact that the plants
are actively pursuing
sustainability.
Eco Liner containers that can be loaded directly onto rail transport Uniforms made from recycled materials
from plastic bottlesEnvironment
Initiatives for a Resource Recycling Society
In aiming to contribute to a resource recycling society, the Otsuka Group actively pursues initiatives to
achieve zero emissions*1 of waste through waste reduction and to recycle in order to almost eliminate
landfill waste.
Zero Emissions Plants and
Business Locations
The Otsuka Group engages in various initiatives to reduce waste at plants and business locations. At pharmaceutical and chemical manu-
facturing plants, solid and liquid waste generated from manufacturing is recycled for use in cement production and to use for thermal energy.
Food scraps generated at manufacturing plants are recycled for use in livestock feed and fertilizer.
Otsuka Five out of seven plants in Japan have achieved and maintain a zero emissions waste record.
Pharmaceutical The Tokushima Wajiki Factory and Tokushima Itano Factory are certified by Tokushima Prefecture
as 3R (reduce, reuse, and recycle) business locations that implement 3R practices. The Second
Tokushima Factory conducts thermal recycling of organic waste liquid, which recycles some 250
tonnes of waste annually.
Otsuka All four plants in Japan have achieved and maintain a zero emissions waste record. The Naruto
Pharmaceutical Factory and Matsuhige Factory are certified by Tokushima Prefecture as 3R business locations.
Factory The Toyama Factory is certified by Toyama Prefecture as an eco business location, while the
Kushiro Plant is certified by Hokkaido Prefecture as a Green Biz business. Recognition for Otsuka
Pharmaceutical as a 3R business
location by Tokushima Prefecture
Taiho In 2012, the company’s Tsukuba Research Center achieved zero emissions status by actively
Pharmaceutical implementing initiatives to recycle resources and through recycling, joining the Saitama,
Tokushima, and Okayama Plants as zero emissions plants.
Otsuka Techno The company has achieved zero emissions through initiatives to recycle all waste plastics and
by increasing the percentage of recycled materials used in products, to reduce the consumption
of raw materials. The Naruto Head Office, Naruto Factory, and Wajiki Factory are certified by
Tokushima Prefecture as 3R business locations.
Recognition for Otsuka
Otsuka Foods All four plants in Japan have achieved zero emissions of waste. The Tokushima Plant is improv- Pharmaceutical Factory as a 3R
ing its resource recycling by switching from using plastic bands for fuel, to finely shredding the business location by Tokushima
bands for use as recycled plastic material. The Kushiro Plant uses waste syrup generated from Prefecture
manufacturing processes as a biomass energy source.
*1: Recycling rate (The zero-emissions goal is a rate of 99% or more)
= (recycled amount + amount of valuable resources) / (final disposal amount + recycled waste + amount of valuable resources) x 100
*2: Using the heat generated by incinerating waste as energy.
Reducing Waste in Manufacturing
Waste Recycling
Processes
The Otsuka Group endeavors to reduce waste through regu- Otsuka Group companies recycle waste for sale as commodities.
lar evaluation of raw materials and waste processing methods. EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical recycles and sells waste plastics and
Otsuka Chemical changed its processing of waste liquid alcohol to organic solvents generated from manufacturing, in addition to sell-
a method that uses less than half the heavy oil used previously, to ing shredded paper produced from offices.
reduce waste and cut down on fuel consumption. Otsuka Chemical is reducing landfill waste by selling waste
Otsuka Packaging Industries switched to a plate process that as commodities, by revising its regulations for waste separation
eliminates waste developer liquid and the company installed and by processing, and also by training employees to follow the
equipment that generates less waste liquid. As a result of these ef- regulations.
forts, the company reduced the amount of waste liquid generated
by 74.1% in 2010.
31 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 32
Environment
Biodiversity
The Otsuka Group comprehensively pursues initiatives to preserve biodiversity through the conservation
of ecosystem diversity, maintaining the number of species, and genetic diversity. As part of these efforts,
the Group constructs biotopes that provide a harmonious natural living environment for wild organisms.
An Eco-Friendly Plant Integrated with
the Community
The Okayama Factory of Taiho Pharmaceutical uses eco-friendly
wastewater treatment methods to purify cooling water and clean-
ing water generated from manufacturing, enabling the plant to
discharge the treated water in a condition that is closer to its natu-
ral state. The plant features a biotope stream that is fed with the
treated water and which is home to a rich ecosystem that includes
Japanese pupfish and water striders, replicating their natural eco-
system. The biotope provides a soothing oasis for visitors to the
plant, while raising awareness of environmental conservation.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Tokushima Itano Factory was de-
Biotope at Okayama Factory of Taiho Pharmaceutical
signed to be an eco-friendly and community-friendly plant, with
greenery covering some 70% of the grounds. The site features a The Tokushima Wajiki Factory of Otsuka Pharmaceutical was
biotope that offers a natural environment for diverse wildlife and designed to fulfill a “factory-park” concept of a plant that is in-
also encompasses a section of untouched forest with evergreen tegrated with the natural environment and community. The plant
oak trees and other vegetation that is home to different species of pursues various environmental conservation initiatives under this
birds depending on the time of year. To promote further greening, concept, such as raising acorn seedlings on site as part of a com-
employees at the plant raise acorn seedlings and plant them in munity project to increase the number of native acorn trees. The
open lawn areas to increase the number of trees. acorn seedlings are distributed free of charge to the community.
Biodiversity Conservation
The biotope pond at the Tokushima Itano Factory is fed with
treated wastewater from the plant. Endangered freshwater cy-
prinid fish are released into the pond and raised to propagate
the fish for release into natural habitats. Cyprinids are desig-
nated as endangered in the Red Data Book*1 from the Japanese
Ministry of the Environment. The species was first confirmed to
exist in Tokushima Prefecture in 1946 and was since thought
to have become extinct, until the species was rediscovered in
Otsu-cho, Naruto City in 2004. Scientists planned to raise and
propagate the species at the Tokushima government’s Fisheries
Cyprinid fish Students release cyprinids into the
Research Institute, for release into the rivers around Otsu-cho so biotope pond
that the species could become reestablished in natural waters. Otsuka Pharmaceutical and Otsuka Electronics sponsor an an-
Unfortunately, the sustainability of a cyprinid population was put at nual fishing tournament to catch non-native species, in an effort
risk by environmental degradation, so the Tokushima Itano Factory to protect the native ecosystem in Lake Biwa. The tournament en-
offers its biotope pond to conserve and propagate cyprinids in the courages recreation, while helping to remove non-native species
clean water. such as black bass and bluegill, to protect native biodiversity.
*1: The Red Data Book lists endangered species and was first published by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) in 1966. Today, national
and local governments and environmental ministries publish their own Red Data books.Environment
Environmental Performance Data
Combating Climate Change and Conserving Energy
In 2012, the 11 Group companies in Japan used the energy equivalent to 301,124 tons of CO2 emissions through their business activities.
The 18 Group companies outside Japan*1 used the energy equivalent to 129,015 tons of CO2 emissions. Due to the expansion of business
outside Japan and the changes of CO2 emission coefficient in Japan (about 20 percent increased), CO2 emissions increased 7.9% year-
on-year. A large proportion of this energy use is from the extensive use of heat for sterilization processes in pharmaceuticals (I.V. solutions)
and beverage production. Group companies have been striving to reduce their energy consumption in production processes. In the area of
logistics, energy consumption per ton-kilometer*2 in Japan was reduced by 2.2% year-on-year through the implementation of transporta-
tion modal shifts and improvements in delivery efficiency.
*1: There are a total 26 consolidated companies outside Japan which have a production site.
*2: Energy consumption per ton-kilometer = Energy consumption (kiloliters) / ton-kilometers
A ton-kilometer is a unit that expresses freight volume. For example, one ton of cargo transported one kilometer equals one ton-kilometer.
Total CO2 Emissions (Energy-related)* Energy Usage Ratio (Crude-oil equivalent)
(t-CO2) In Japan Outside Japan (kL) In Japan Outside Japan
500,000 250,000
430,139 217,465 217,236 215,527
402,544 398,536 196,787
400,000 370,106 200,000
129,015 58,570 64,631 68,031
92,004 116,816 128,121 46,267
300,000 150,000
200,000 100,000 158,895
285,728 301,124 150,520 152,605 147,496
278,102 270,415
100,000 50,000
0 0
2009 2010 2011 2012(FY) 2009 2010 2011 2012(FY)
* Figures for other countries are calculated using the CO2 emission coefficient used in each country.
CO2 Emissions by Company in FY2012 (in Japan) Otsuka Group CO2 Emissions by Country in FY2012 (Worldwide)
Otsuka Techno
Otsuka Packaging Industries 2%
3% Other (10 companies) 6%
Otsuka Electronics Otsuka Foods 9%
USA (5 companies)
0.2% Otsuka Pharmaceutical
6%
26%
EN Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Total Total
4% emissions: emissions:
JIMRO
0.3% 301,124 430,139
Otsuka Chemical tons tons
11%
Otsuka Warehouse 2% Indonesia (3 companies) Japan (11 companies)
Taiho Pharmaceutical 12% Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory 18% 70%
30%
Energy Consumption per Ton-Kilometer by Five Specified Consigners of the Otsuka Group*
(Thousands ton-kilometers) Thousands ton-kilometers Kiloliter/thousand ton-kilometers (Kiloliter/thousand ton-kilometers)
1,000,000 0.05
0.04010
800,000 0.03628 0.04
0.03396 0.03268 0.03197
600,000 0.03
501,197 499,656
572,009
538,213 527,481
400,000 0.02 * Five Specified Consigners of
Otsuka Group companies
(as defined by Japanese Law):
200,000 0.01
Otsuka Pharmaceutical,
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory,
0 0.00 Taiho Pharmaceutical,
2006 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods.
33 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 34
Environment
Proper Management of
Reducing Waste
Chemical Substances
In 2012, the 11 Group companies in Japan discharged 28,476 tons of waste from business Management of PRTR substances*2 at the
activities, a decrease of 15% year-on-year. The recycling rate*1 was 97.5% as a result of 11 Group companies in Japan are shown in
reuse and recycling initiatives, and the volume of landfilled waste was just 665 tons, down the graph below.
13% year-on-year.
Total Waste Discharge and Recycling Rate and Handling, Release, and
Recycling Final Disposal Amount Transfer of PRTR Substances
(Tons) T w Ao a mt sa otl e ua d nm i ts o ocu fh n oat t r ho g ef e rd waste recyA re cm s leoo duu rn ct e o sf saleable (Tons) F amina ol u d ni tsposal R rae tecycling (%) (Tons) H Tra an nd sl fi en rg (as wasteR a )ne dle was ae te in r atmosphere
40,000 1,500 100 6,000 5,552
33,617 1,262
28,739 31,163 28,476 1,200 97.4 97.5 98 4,491
30,000 96.5
4,000 3,692
11,413 900 95.0 762 96 3,253
20,000 10,325 10,420 10,226 960 665
600 94
2,000
17,284
10,000 13,471 15,695 15,333 300 92 864 1,050 580 377
98 21 18 38
0 0 90 0
2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012
(FY) (FY) (FY)
*1: Recycling rate (%) = (Amount of waste recycled + Amount of saleable resources) / (Final disposal amount + Amount recycled + Amount of saleable resources) ×100
*2: Pollutant release and transfer registers (PRTRs). There are presently 462 substances designated under Japan’s PRTR system.
Preventing Air Pollution
The volume of sulfur oxides (SOx) emissions into the atmosphere for the 11 Group companies in Japan increased in 2011 and 2012 due to
an increase in the sulfur content of certain fuel purchased on the market. Reduction of nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions in those companies
decreased due to the variation of the incinerator operation. The Group will continue to consolidate boiler facilities, switch to cleaner fuels, and
continue to improve its energy efficiency in an effort to minimize emissions of NOx and SOx into the atmosphere.
NOx Emissions SOx Emissions Dust and Soot Emissions
(Tons) (Tons) (Tons)
7.8
250 250 8.0 7.3
206 203 6.9 6.9
197
200 200
6.0
150 154 131 138 150 145
98 4.0
100 100
2.0
50 50
0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012
(FY) (FY) (FY)
Preventing Water Pollution
The total volumes of wastewater and water quality environmental impacts for the 11 Group companies in Japan are as follows.
Total Wastewater Chemical Oxygen Demand Suspended Solid Emissions
(Thousand m3) (Tons) (Tons)
20,000 120 113 80
17,551 17,294 105
16,217 15,947 100 94 90
15,000 60 54 54 52
80
41
10,000 60 40
40
5,000 20
20
0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012
(FY) (FY) (FY)Environment
Initiatives by Group Companies Outside Japan
As a global healthcare company, the Otsuka Group maintains a Group Environmental Policy that
encompasses Group companies outside Japan. These companies implement environmental initiatives
that are rooted in the communities where they do business, while keeping a global perspective.
Manufacturing Eco-Friendly Products
Nutrition & Sante SAS (France)
Nutrition & Sante SAS is based in southern France and true to its switch to 100% Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certi-
name (sante means “health”), makes health and nutritional foods fied oil by 2015. All of the company’s plants in France now use
such as biscuits and chocolate bars as well as soy products and 100% RSPO-certified oil, and the plant in Spain is working toward
powder beverages. These are sold in France and throughout this goal.
Europe as well as in Japan. The company implements its own eco-
design charter to ensure that environmental impact is considered
at all stages from product development and ingredients procure-
ment to manufacturing, packaging materials design, and product
transport. In particular, for palm oil that is used as an ingredient
in biscuits and other products, the company has set a target to
Environmental Initiatives Grounded On Good Manufacturing Practice
Guangdong Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (China)
Guangdong Otsuka Pharmaceutical, which markets I.V. solutions
in southern China, has continued to strengthen its production
control system to meet increasing requirements under Good
Manufacturing Practice (GMP).*1 The company has also imple-
mented initiatives in the environment field, such as switching from
heavy oil fuel to natural gas in order to reduce the impact on air
quality, which was done in February 2013. The company recycles
plastic scraps generated from manufacturing I.V. solution plastic
bottles and has additionally modified its molding process to re-
duce the amount of plastic used in bottles by 16%.
*1: Good Manufacturing Practice standards are set by each country for the manu-
facturing control and quality control of pharmaceuticals.
Official unveiling of new natural gas boiler
Environmental Initiatives through Employee Teamwork
P.T. Amerta Indah Otsuka (Indonesia)
Amerta Indah Otsuka of Indonesia operates two plants in eastern
and western Java that manufacture Pocari Sweat. The plants
employ a positive pressure aseptic filling process that was de-
veloped in Japan, and since 2010 they have been manufacturing
eco-bottles that are 20% lighter than previous bottles. The plants
employ energy-efficient cogeneration systems for power and
steam, ahead of other competitors in a growing market. The
youthful production workforce at these plants actively pursues
environmental conservation initiatives focusing on enhancing pro-
A close-up on the social initiatives of Amerta Indah Otsuka is featured on page 15.
duction efficiencies and reducing environmental impact.
35 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013Quality
The Otsuka Group’s approach to quality extends
beyond safety and security in manufacturing.
We also endeavor to enhance the quality of our
social initiatives across a broad range of activities,
from public information disclosure and
collaboration with our businesses partners to
community initiatives and ensuring compliance.
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 36Quality
Safety and Security
Priority Areas
As a company that is committed to the betterment of life, the Otsuka Group thinks first of the customers
and patients who use its products. We pursue business activities that place the highest priority on safety in
Product
the quality and management of our products.
Quality
We apply stringent quality assurance to supply quality products that offer safety, security, and ease of use,
listening closely to customers and patients in an effort to continuously enhance quality.
Quality Control
The Otsuka Group applies strict quality control to medical devices, pharmaceuticals, foods, and packaging that it manufactures. We adhere to
regulatory requirements and conform to government and industry standards, including Good Laboratory Practice (GLP), Good Manufacturing
Practice (GMP), the Pharmaceutical Inspection Co-operation Scheme (PIC/S), and the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law. We also acquire interna-
tional certifications such as ISO 9001, ISO 13485, and ISO 22000, and formulate internal quality policies and establish our own quality assur-
ance systems that encompass quality policies, quality management systems, codes of conduct, and traceability systems. These efforts are
aimed at securing the safety of our products, while maintaining quality and securing continuous improvement.
Quality Control of the Otsuka Group
Regulatory Compliance,
ISO Certification Otsuka Group Policies and Schemes
Government and Industry Standards
GLP
ISO 9001
Standards for securing the reliability of non- Formulation of quality systems
clinical testing for the safety of pharmaceuticals Standard for establishing and achieving con-
tinuous improvement of quality control systems
GMP for products and services Formulation of codes of conduct
National standards for manufacturing control
ISO 13485
and quality control of pharmaceuticals Establishment of total quality
PIC/S Standard for quality management systems in management systems (TQMS) for
the medical industry, for the safe and effective
pharmaceuticals and medical devices
Joint scheme to promote pharmaceutical qual- continuous manufacturing and supply of medi-
ity systems and global harmonization of GMP cal devices
Establishment of traceability systems
Pharmaceutical Affairs Law ISO 22000
Legislation aimed at securing the quality, effec- Standard for food safety management systems Employee training
tiveness, and safety of pharmaceuticals and (FSMS) to safely supply food to consumers
medical devices
Listening to Customers Sharing Quality Data Internally
The Otsuka Group operates departments organized along product The Otsuka Group suitably manages quality information to im-
lines that are dedicated to fielding and responding to customer prove quality and processes, in order to reduce quality risks and
inquiries. enhance quality.
The Group operates a customer hotline for pharmaceuticals, and Otsuka Chemical uses an internal online database to manage
in April 2011 it launched a separate drug information center for I.V. quality information such as requests and inquiries from custom-
solutions and nutritional products, independent of the customer ers, process data, and materials data, in order to rapidly utilize the
hotline. The Group also operates a customer hotline for nutra- data. The database ensures that managers and all other persons
ceutical and consumer products that fields some 40,000 inquiries involved receive quality information, so that causes can be rapidly
each year and a hotline for cosmetic and quasi-pharmaceutical identified and corrective action can be taken when there is a prob-
products for customers of the related business departments. In lem. The system enables quality information to be shared in real-
addition, the Group operates a hotline that is available from 5:30 time, to facilitate coordination between departments and plants
p.m. to 9:00 a.m., to receive and respond to customer feedback and to rapidly address problems.
and input outside of business hours.
37 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 38
Quality
Safety and Security
Improving Our Products Improvements in Manufacturing
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory developed a formulation that The Otsuka Group endeavors to enhance safety, efficiency, and
incorporates multiple nutrients into one formulation, to eliminate quality in manufacturing by establishing suitable systems and
the work of mixing separate solutions in sterile conditions, and to solutions.
reduce the risk of a medical accident from handling. Otsuka Chemical implements an equipment maintenance sys-
Taiho Pharmaceutical adopted stick packaging for the granule for- tem so that all parts of the company can access equipment main-
mulation of the TS-1 anticancer agent. Stick packaging, which is sel- tenance information for the Tokushima Factory, Naruto Factory,
dom employed for pharmaceuticals, Matsuhige Factory, and a factory in China. The solution makes it
makes it easier for patients to ingest possible to quantitatively assess the results of equipment main-
the medicine. The packaging itself tenance work. Additionally, employees can use portable devices
features universal design 1 princi- such as iPads to access useful graphic information for equipment
ples such as displaying the product maintenance, such as photos and drawings to supplement written
name in bold lettering to clearly instructions. As a result of using the system and systematic im-
identify it as a medicine. It is also provements, the company has achieved lower rates of equipment
the first prescription drug in Japan breakdowns and a reduction in production shutdowns, which has
to incorporate a pictogram so that improved the stability of operations and production.
the product is properly stored out of EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical operates a smart card-based ac-
the reach of children. The company cess management system to ensure the safe use and storage of
1
developed a matching resealable reagents, some of which are toxic. The system prevents unauthor-
TS-1 granule formulation
aluminum storage pouch for keeping ized access and automatically generates access logs to avoid
the medicine separately from other products to prevent accidental oversights that can occur with manual access logs.
ingestion.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical improved the spout on 200 ml bottles
of UL•OS skin lotion 2 , addressing feedback from consumers
about dripping and excess lotion from the spout. The solution was
Our Founder’s Approach to Quality
to enlarge the lip of the spout to prevent dripping and to modify the
inner shape of the spout to better regulate the amount of solution.
For Soysh carbonated soy drink 3 , the company addressed “Quality is the lifeblood of
feedback from consumers who found it difficult to open the pack- the factory.
aging, by adding tear perforations and by marking the wrapping Packaging is a part of quality.
with an arrow and “Open” indication. Always make and sell products
from the standpoint of the
customer.”
Busaburo Otsuka, founder of the Otsuka Group
The history of the Otsuka Group began when Busaburo
Otsuka established the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Kougyo-
bu (now Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory) in Naruto City,
Old version Improved version
Tokushima Prefecture. His unwavering commitment to qual-
2
ity was reflected in the belief that “product quality alone
Improved spout on bottles of UL•OS skin lotion
does not constitute quality—it extends to everything related
to products, including pricing, packaging, and trustworthy
relations.” These words were prominently displayed in offices
and remain central to Otsuka’s approach to quality.
Driven by a commitment to quality that has been perpetu-
ated ever since our company was founded, each of our
employees continues to embrace and stand by the Otsuka
dedication to quality.
Old version Improved version
3
Improved packaging on Soysh bottlesQuality
Management
The Otsuka Group strives to achieve a sound management framework with excellent transparency, in
order to secure the confidence of stakeholders for the stability of corporate activities and for sustainable
growth.
Basic Approach to Corporate Governance
As a global healthcare company that conducts business world- In addition, the Group operates a set of Affiliated Companies
wide, the Otsuka Group operates under a pure holding company Management Rules that sets out the decision-making processes
structure that separates Group management and supervision from within the Group and provides a suitable framework for govern-
business execution, in order to practice sound management with a ance. The rules strengthen coordination within the Group by clari-
high degree of transparency. At the same time, the Group endeav- fying items needing reporting and approval.
ors to strengthen corporate governance and to operate systems
for internal control.
Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board
Otsuka Holdings uses a system of corporate officers that clearly Otsuka Holdings employs Audit & Supervisory Board compris-
separates the roles of directors—who make management deci- ing four Audit & Supervisory Board Members, of whom three
sions and supervise their execution—and corporate officers are Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members (as of August
responsible for executing the business. This system ensures the 1, 2013). Audit & Supervisory Board Members audit the busi-
efficiency and transparency of management together with rapid ness execution by the directors in accordance with the corporate
business execution. The Board of Directors consists of nine direc- auditing strategy and plan, by attending important meetings
tors of whom two are outside directors (as of August 1, 2013). The including Board of Directors’ meetings. They review important
directors meet once a month and whenever necessary to decide documents, and exchange information with internal audit depart-
on matters stipulated under the Companies Act and important ments, audit firms, and other relevant departments and bodies.
matters concerning business direction and strategy, while also Audit & Supervisory Board Members of Group companies meet
supervising business execution. collectively twice a year to enhance information exchange and
cooperation. The Supervisory Board members of Otsuka Holdings,
to conduct field audits at subsidiaries directly as necessary, in
cooperation with the companies’ members, including interviewing
management to grasp the state of business execution.
Shareholders’ Meeting
Elects/dismisses Elects/dismisses Elects/dismisses
Operational audits
Board of Directors
Accounting audits Audit & Supervisory Board
(two outside directors of nine directors)
(3 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members of 4)
Appoints/dismisses
(Cooperates with)
President (Cooperates with)
Instructs Reports Accounting audits
Accounting Auditor
Internal Audit Department (Cooperates with)
Approval of Meetings of the Prior
material matters Group’s boards consultation
Management of corporate Ex post
guidance auditors facto reports
Subsidiaries (Shareholders’ Meeting, Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board, etc.)
39 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 40
Quality
Internal Control
Group companies designate internal managers who are responsi- 2012 were effective. Information technology (IT) controls are also
ble for establishing and operating the internal control system for prioritized as an important part of internal controls, and are imple-
their companies. Otsuka Holdings issued an internal control report mented to provide a common framework for the suitable opera-
dated June 28, 2013 that covers the 85 consolidated companies tion of business systems in collaboration and coordination with
(including equity-method affiliates) of the Otsuka Group, which important business sites in Japan and Group companies outside
concluded that internal controls for financial reporting in fiscal of Japan.
Risk Management System
The Otsuka Group practices risk management in order to secure including establishing partnerships with relevant authorities in an
business continuity and stable growth, and crisis management effort to minimize the damage from a major disaster.
to rapidly respond to emergencies. Group companies engage in Otsuka Pharmaceutical and Otsuka Warehouse operate man-
business continuity planning (BCP) to identify damages that could agement systems to protect personal information belonging to
arise from emergency situations such as large-scale disasters customers, and have designated managers and supervisors
and influenza pandemics, in an effort to prevent losses and mini- responsible for personal information protection management.
mize the impact on the business and to stakeholders. Issues and Additionally, both companies have acquired the right to display the
problems that are shared by Group companies are examined to PrivacyMark, including renewal of their accreditation. Employee
enhance Group-wide risk management and secure a framework training is also conducted to reinforce the importance of personal
for crisis management. information protection.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical has acquired ISO 22301 certification
for business continuity management systems for the manufacture
and stable supply of products for medical-related business, mak-
Hands-On Risk Management
ing it the first pharmaceutical company in Japan to achieve ISO
Training for Managers
22301 certification. The certification signifies that the company is
Minoru Matsumoto
prepared to ensure business continuity during normal business
Associate Director,
and to continue manufacturing and supplying medicines needed Administration Department
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
by medical facilities and patients in an emergency.
The Otsuka Group conducts annual risk management train-
Cooperation with local authorities is a critical element of dis-
ing for managers. In fiscal 2012, the training focused on
aster preparedness efforts at Otsuka Group plants. In Tokushima
dealing with product incidents and claims with the addi-
Prefecture, where much of the Group’s production is located, dis- tional involvement of managers from two Group companies
aster preparedness efforts involve scenarios for dealing with severe outside of Japan, based on the importance of cooperation
earthquakes along the Nankai trough. Otsuka Group plants have with international subsidiaries amid increasing business
globalization. The hands-on training gave the participants
established multiple evacuation centers inside plant premises and
the chance to explore solutions to issues raised by the
keep stockpiles of food supplies and essential necessities, not only
managers themselves, reflecting our unique approach to
for employees but for neighboring residents. Disaster preparedness risk management at the Otsuka Group.
discussions and cooperation are taking place on several fronts,
Partnerships
Recognizing the importance of working with business partners to business partners, to secure their understanding and cooperation
implement sustainability initiatives, the Otsuka Group is commit- with the Otsuka Group’s policy for socially responsible procurement.
ted to socially responsible business throughout the entire value Six Group companies (Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Otsuka
chain, including business partners. Broadly, these initiatives en- Chemical, Otsuka Foods, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Earth Chemical,
compass compliance, information security, environmental initia- and Otsuka Pharmaceutical) recently conducted a survey of busi-
tives, and safety and security initiatives. The Group distributes ness partners on socially responsible procurement, with 151 com-
Otsuka Group’s Guideline for Socially Responsible Procurement to panies out of 256 surveyed having responded as of March 31, 2013.Quality
Compliance
The Otsuka Group expects each employee to behave in a highly ethical manner, by practicing regulatory
compliance and observing bioethics. We endeavor to create an organization and corporate culture
that teaches all employees to understand and continuously uphold our social responsibility and ethical
principles.
Expanding Compliance Training and
Compliance Approaches
Programs
The Otsuka Group operates the Otsuka Group Code of Conduct The Otsuka Group implements compliance training for all em-
and implements compliance programs in line with its corporate ployees, including directors and divisional managers. The training
philosophy, ensuring that all employees are educated on regula- covers a wide range of topics with a practical focus, including
tory compliance. recent examples of inappropriate corporate behavior. Topics cov-
Otsuka Holdings operates a Risk Management Committee that ered include the Act on the Protection of Personal Information, the
is headed by the president and oversees risk management and National Public Service Ethics Act, insider trading, sexual harass-
compliance for Otsuka Group companies. Group companies focus ment, abuse of power, and precautions for use of social media.
on implementing their own compliance programs, in consulta- The compliance training is a comprehensive effort by the Otsuka
tion between senior management and departments that manage Group to foster employees with strong ethical principles.
compliance. Group companies also operate compliance subcommittees that
The Otsuka Group Compliance Task Force meets twice a year serve as a sounding board for employees to supply feedback and
for compliance managers from Group companies to foster coop- request improvements from the company. The committees set out
eration between the companies and implement compliance across to resolve issues grounded on communication and mutual recog-
the Group. The meeting serves as a platform for managers to re- nition with employees.
port on compliance initiatives at their own companies and actively In addition to reporting compliance issues through normal
discuss and examine matters affecting the entire Group. channels, employees can report problems using a confidential
In April 2013, Otsuka Pharmaceutical established the Otsuka employee hotline in the Internal Report Consultation Office, by
Pharmaceutical Code of Practice,*1 developed from the exist- email or in writing. The hotline is also available to contract workers
ing promotion code for prescription drugs that was formulated and temporary staff of the Otsuka Group. The identity of persons
as a code of conduct for medical practitioners by the Japan contacting the hotline and the information they provide are han-
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. The code of practice dled with the strictest confidentially to prevent repercussions from
covers principles that govern how our employees interact with supplying information.
medical practitioners and all stakeholders, including researchers,
patient advocacy groups, and drug distributors. The code instructs
directors and employees to establish trustworthy relations with all
Sounding Board for
stakeholders and cooperate appropriately with stakeholders.
Employee Feedback
*1: In addition to Otsuka Pharmaceutical, codes of practice have been established by Hiroyuki Kondo
Taiho Pharmaceutical and the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory. Section Manager,
Personnel and General Affairs Department
Otsuka Techno Co., Ltd.
At Otsuka Techno, we have a compliance subcommittee
that meets every three months and comprises employees
at every level from different parts of the company. The
participants raise issues and provide feedback on all mat-
ters regardless of how important they are. When an issue
is raised, we try to address it within three months at the
next subcommittee meeting. Many issues have come to
the attention of the Personnel and General Affairs Depart-
ment through these meetings, including basic issues. We
will continue working to be a sounding board for feedback
from employees through the meetings.
Compliance training
41 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013Culture
The Otsuka Group cares for communities and their
cultures. We are helping to develop communities
and educate children, who represent the future of
their communities, through community exchange,
partnerships, and by supporting education.
Otsuka Museum of Art
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 42Culture
Cleanup Activities
Priority Areas
Otsuka Group companies are involved in clean-up activities in partnership with communities. Such activities
Community are carried out at its manufacturing operations, R&D centers, and sales offi ces. Employees and their families
Initiatives are actively involved in these efforts, which help to raise environmental awareness and build community dia-
logue while beautifying the local environment.
Naruto Coast Cleanup Days Coastal Cleanup
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
The Otsuka Pharmaceutical Employees of the Matsuhige Factory
Environmental Club, which was participate in a coastal cleanup
launched in 2012, conducts initiative in partnership with an in-
cleanup days on the Naruto coast dustrial park. In 2012, employees
four times a year. The club also removed trash from an adjacent
participates in cleanup activities street and a beach area next to the local airport. Every year, em-
with communities. ployees of the Naruto Factory help tidy up the Otsuka Sports
Naruto, Tokushima Prefecture Park by collecting plastic bottle waste and raking leaves, using
the collected leaves for composting.
Naruto and Itano, Tokushima Prefecture
Gomi Zero Cleanup Initiative Involvement in Global
Eco Fair
Otsuka Chemical Otsuka Foods
JIMRO
Employees of Otsuka Chemical and
Otsuka Foods participate in the The company is involved in the
Gomi Zero (Zero Trash) cleanup day Global Eco Fair, a community-
organized by the Tokushima gov- sponsored cleanup initiative, as
ernment, removing trash from local part of an ongoing effort to keep
roads and harbor areas. the community free of trash.
Tokushima, Tokushima Prefecture Takasaki, Gunma Prefecture
Community Cleanup
Industrial Park Cleanup Taiho Pharmaceutical
Activities
Every year, employees from
Otsuka Electronics
the various business locations
Employees from the Shiga Factory of Taiho Pharmaceuticals do-
regularly clean up around the plant, nate their time to participate in
and participate in cleanup activities cleanup activities by removing
organized by the industrial park with the backing of the Shiga trash from local roads, parks,
prefectural government. These activities are also raising aware- and beaches. Employees of
ness for beautifying the environment. the Tokushima Plant participate in the Komatsu Kaigan Cleanup
Koga, Shiga Prefecture Campaign, while employees from the Okayama Plant pick up trash
around the plant and in a nature area that is known for fi refl ies.
Employees from the Saitama Plant and Inuyama Plant remove
trash from local industrial parks.
Tokushima, Tokushima Prefecture Bizen, Okayama Prefecture
Kamikawa, Saitama Prefecture Inuyama, Aichi Prefecture
43 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 44
Culture
Community Flower Bed
Maintenance
Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Otsuka Warehouse
Twice a year, employees of
Otsuka Pharmaceutical and
Otsuka Warehouse, working together with non-profi ts and com-
munity groups, design and plant flower beds along municipal
roads and maintain the beds.
Fukuroi, Shizuoka Prefecture
Pocari Sweat Stadium Otsuka Packaging Industries
Employees from Otsuka Packaging Industries participate in
cleanup activities at the nearby Pocari Sweat Stadium. In 2012,
more than 100 people, including employees and members of the
community, removed trash and tidied the grounds.
Naruto, Tokushima Prefecture
Cleanup around Plant
Grounds
Beach Cleanup Amerta Indah Otsuka
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Amerta Indah Otsuka organizes beach cleanup days in three
Employees of the Hanamaki areas, to raise environmental and recycling awareness. A total of
Factory clean up areas 2,145 people, including employees and members of the public,
around their plant grounds, participated in the cleanup events, collecting 4,150 kilograms of
to help beautify the commu- trash. The events featured cleanup games and challenged par-
nity and raise environmental ticipants to collect recyclables. In addition, the company donated
awareness. In 2012, 46 em- trash boxes for communities.
ployees removed 154.9 kilograms of trash and leaves.
Indonesia
Hanamaki, Iwate Prefecture
Beautifying the
Community
Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical
In 2012, a total of 210 em-
ployees of Korea Otsuka
Pharmaceutical participated
in activities to beautify the
community by cleaning up
areas around a local river.
Korea
Adopt-a-River Initiative
Otsuka Techno
Employees of Otsuka Techno
Pocari Sweat Mountain Cleaning Day King Car Otsuka participate in cleanup activi-
ties in areas around plants. The
King Car Otsuka organized a cleanup day at a mountain trail in Wajiki Factory works with Otsuka Pharmaceutical and two other
Taichung, Taiwan, which was attended by 454 people including organizations to organize an adopt-a-river cleanup initiative, in
employees and customers, who picked up trash while walking the which volunteers gather three times a year to clean up the shores
trail. The company plans to continue sponsoring the initiative in of the local Nakagawa River.
future years. Naga Gun, Tokushima Prefecture
TaiwanCulture
Community Initiatives
The Otsuka Group engages in environmental and community initiatives as a good corporate citizen that
is active in communities. We value the culture of these communities and endeavor to make a positive
difference in ways that only we can.
Community Exchange
Otsuka Museum of Art
The Otsuka Museum of Art was created when the Otsuka Group launched the Ceramic
Board Masterpiece Art Museum in 1998, to mark the 75th anniversary of the Group’s
founding and promote art while giving back to the local community. Otsuka Ohmi
Ceramics Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of the Otsuka Group, developed special techniques
to recreate more than 1,000 full-sized Western masterpieces on ceramic boards that
convey the full wonder of these masterpieces. Unlike paper, the ceramic boards do
not fade over time and provide near-permanent reproductions of the originals, while
retaining the artistic value of the originals. These advantages have raised interest in
using ceramic boards as a new medium for preserving masterpieces.
The Otsuka Museum of Art features a Sistine Hall containing full-sized reproduc-
tions of the murals in the Sistine Chapel in the Vatican. Utilizing this unique setting,
the museum has hosted a Sistine Kabuki performance that blends Japanese and
Western culture, held every year since 2009. In 2012, the group gave a performance
Photo courtesy of Shochiku Co., Ltd. of Shutendoji, an original kabuki performance piece based on the historical samurai
figure Amakusa Shiro.
Awa Odori Oronamin C Awa Odori Sound Festival
Every year, employees from the Otsuka On the evening before the Awa Odori
Group organize four ren (dance groups) Festival, Otsuka Chemical sponsors the
that participate in the annual Awa Oronamin C Awa Odori Sound Festival,
Odori Festival in Tokushima Prefecture. a free concert event to support culture
Members of the Otsuka Ren from Otsuka in the community. Featuring artists from
Pharmaceutical must pass a difficult audition before they are ac- different musical genres every year, the event is enjoyed by a wide
cepted into the group. The Otsuka Uzumaki Ren from Otsuka spectrum of age groups. Despite experiencing heavy rain in 2012,
Pharmaceutical Factory carries on the tradition of the Uzumaki the 23rd edition of the event buzzed with its usual energy.
Ren, which is the oldest dance group in Naruto City. The
Tiovita Ren from Taiho Pharmaceutical, and Otsuka Hatsuratsu
Ren formed by Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Foods, and Otsuka
Warehouse, are family participation dance groups.
Tree Planting and Fish Release Fun Run/Run for Life
Otsuka Techno engages in environmen- Employees of Otsuka Pharmaceutical
tal conservation activities as part of a France participated in a running event to
consortium of companies working to raise funds for the Global Fund to Fight
conserve the Nakagawa River nearby its AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Eleven
Wajiki Factory. Every year, employees employees ran approximately 30 minutes
plant trees to regenerate natural forests around the river and they around the Grande Arche de la Défense in Paris. All entry fees for
clean up the shores at the river mouth. In 2012, the participants the race were donated to the Cheer Up alliance.
released flounder fry after the cleanup activities, to help conserve
marine biodiversity.
45 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 46
Culture
Supporting Communities
Otsuka Welfare Clinic
In 2003, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pakistan and 24 other Group companies in
Asia and the Middle East established the Otsuka Welfare Clinic in Peshawar, Pakistan,
to provide free medical care for needy persons. The clinic was established out of a
desire to ease the plight of Afghan refugees living in refugee camps in Peshawar, who
lacked basic food, clothing, and shelter, by leveraging the capabilities of the Otsuka
Group, which operates in Asia and the Middle East and is committed to the betterment
of life. The clinic currently sees some 150 patients every day and has received more
than 700,000 people (as of March 2013) since it opened. During heavy floods in July
2010, the clinic mobilized to set up a temporary relief center in a nearby area that was
severely impacted by flooding, reaching out to the community in a time of need. In
2011, the Japanese Ambassador to Pakistan bestowed a letter of appreciation to the
Otsuka Group in recognition of the clinic’s eight years of medical service.
Teaming Project Table for Two
Employees of Otsuka Phar- Employees of Otsuka Pharmaceutical and JIMRO raise funds to
maceutical, S.A. of Spain have support school meals for children in developing countries, through
been raising funds for children the Table for Two program that donates￥20 (enough for a single
in Haiti since April 2011, to help school meal in a developing country) for every healthy meal choice
needy children who struggle to purchased by employees at company cafeterias.
get even a single meal per day
in the aftermath of the 2010 Ecocap Movement
Haiti earthquake. The funds are The Otsuka Group participates in the
used to support a joint Teaming Ecocap Movement, which collects plastic
Project as part of a food and meals project at the Saint Margaret bottle caps for recycling to raise money
School in Haiti, and directly help to provide meals for 108 needy to purchase polio vaccines for needy chil-
children. dren in developing countries.
Community Exchange at Plants
Free Summer Concerts Asan Walking Festival in Itano
Otsuka Pharmaceutical part- Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s
ners with the local municipality Tokushima Itano Factory
to sponsor the Exciting Summer sponsors the Asan Walking
in Wajiki outdoor concert, which Festival in Itano in partnership
takes place every year on the with local organizations, offer-
grounds of the Tokushima ing an organized walk in the
Wajiki Factory and is the largest Asan Mountains to spotlight
free concert in Japan. The event Tokushima Prefecture’s breath-
is aimed at vitalizing the com- taking natural assets for locals
munity and takes place during the traditional Obon holidays, with and visitors from other prefectures. In 2012, a portion of the pro-
more than 200 employees of Otsuka Pharmaceutical and Otsuka ceeds from the event were donated to assist recovery from the
Techno serving as support staff. In 2012, around 6,000 people, Great East Japan Earthquake.
including families, attended the concert.Culture
Youth Education
The Otsuka Group engages in educational and awareness initiatives for children and youths, to
communicate the importance of conserving nature and protecting communities, and to enhance them for
future generations.
Adopt an Eco-School Program Coloring Books on the Environment
Since 2007, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, and Taiho Otsuka Pharma GmbH of
Pharmaceutical have been working with junior high schools in Germany participates in an an-
Tokushima City to support environmental education. The initiative nual program to distribute col-
is part of an eco-school adoption program that is implemented oring books on environmental
through a public-private and university partnership involving the conservation to all elementary
Tokushima prefectural government. In 2012, students learned schools in Frankfurt, Germany.
Coloring books on the environment
about local water resources and management of household and that were distributed to elementary In 2012, the coloring books
schools in Frankfurt
industrial wastewater, and took field trips to survey water quality covered the topic of energy
in local rivers and visit a factory wastewater treatment facility. The conservation and were enjoyed by students who learned about the
feedback from students reflected a greater awareness of environ- environment and ecosystems.
mental conservation, with students saying that they learned about
the importance of water resources and wished to communicate
this to others.
Bags of Hope
Otsuka (Philippines) Pharma-
ceutical, Inc. donates Bags of
Hope to 205 students of Nayon
Elementary School in Tanay,
Rizal in the Philippines. The
bags contain textbooks and
Handing out Bags of Hope to children
Adopt an Eco-School in the Philippines stationery such as notebooks,
pencils, crayons, and erasers to
provide children with essential tools for learning.
Insights for Students
and Employees Alike
Plant Tours for Students
Shohei Karasutani
Environment Management
General Affairs Department
Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Group companies
proactively receive visitors to
Otsuka Group companies engage in initiatives to increase
tour their plants. The Okayama
students’ interest in water and other environmental issues
Factory of Taiho Pharmaceutical
that are close to home, through environmental education
such as the adopt an eco-school program. These initiatives features a biotope stream for
are in addition to environmental initiatives that Group com- visitors to interface with na-
Students on a field trip to the Okayama
panies pursue as part of their business activities. The edu- Factory of Taiho Pharmaceutical ture, while Otsuka Packaging
cational initiatives also provide our employees with valuable
Industries gives visitors an
new insights from teaching the students. We will continue
opportunity to see how packaging is made. The plant tours are
implementing such educational initiatives in the future.
unique to each plant and contribute to students’ social studies and
environmental education.
47 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013Employees
The creativity of the Otsuka Group stems from a
drive to achieve its corporate philosophy
by breaking out of the mold. We will continue
fostering a corporate culture that drives our diverse
workforce to develop innovative products that are
useful to society.
Ceremony for employees joining the Otsuka Group in 2013
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 48Employees
Development of Human Capital
Priority Areas
Human In conducting its business worldwide, the Otsuka Group embraces diversity and recognizes the need to
Resources leverage employees’ unique talents in order to achieve continued growth and innovation. We endeavor
Philosophy to develop creative human resources that can break out of the mold and lead our corporate activities.
Human Resource Development Institute
The Otsuka Group founded the Human Resource Development will continue to be a richly crea-
Institute 1 in March 1988, with a mission to foster the develop- tive force.
ment of creative human resources who can break out of the mold The adjoining Vega Hall 2 is
and continue to help Otsuka stand out as a company. Located in a multi-purpose hall, which was
Tokushima City, the institute implements employee training pro- named in the spirit of encoun-
grams that leverage its research into the Otsuka corporate culture, tering new worlds, and serves
into creativity, and to the development of future managers. as a place of communication for
2
The institute offers programs that are designed to draw out the employees and the community.
Vega Hall, which is rented out for
creative talents of each employee and realize original ideas that In addition to hosting corporate public events
are unique to Otsuka. The programs continually evolve and in- conferences and events, the
clude workshops to help employees adopt broader perspectives, venue is rented out to the general public for lectures and music
and workshops on diversity management to encourage creativity concerts, in support of the arts and culture.
within organizations. The institute also endeavors to foster the
development of management skills that are needed to lead and run
organizations.
Workshops on Otsuka Corporate Culture
The institute features three monuments that symbolize break-
ing out of the mold, in the form of giant tomato trees, a bent giant
cedar, and floating stones. These serve as visible reminders to em- The Otsuka Group conducts workshops on Otsuka corporate
ployees and customers who visit the institute of the importance of culture 3 , to teach employees about the Group’s corporate prin-
breaking out of the mold. They also send the message that Otsuka ciples, values, and decision-making criteria. The workshops are
designed to change employee perspectives and behavior for the
future growth of the Group by enhancing employee understand-
ing of the Group’s vision and corporate culture through examining
quotes from past and present senior management.
In 2012, more than 5,000 employees of the Otsuka Group at-
tended the workshops in and outside Japan, serving to reinforce
the meaning of the
Otsuka Group and what
it means to employees,
and providing a spring-
board for further ex-
ploration. The Group is
building on the program
by enhancing the work-
shops to further examine
1 the Otsuka Group cor- 3
The Human Resource Development Institute porate culture. Workshop on Otsuka Group corporate culture
49 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 50
Employees
Safety Training Center
Otsuka Chemical implements training and initiatives to enhance to equip employees with the tools they need for their respective
safety awareness among employees, realizing that it is important positions, including basic skills for employees in the early stages of
for employees to take safety in their own hands alongside the pre- their careers, and fostering the management perspective of middle
cautions that the company takes to prevent accidents. management while teaching them to be effective managers. Group
These initiatives include classroom Anzen Dojo (Safety companies also implement specific training for employees who are
Training Center) activities 4 that employees undertake to promoted to managerial positions, in order to facilitate their work
enhance their knowledge of safety and to increase their aware- and enhance their management skills, including communication
ness by simulating hazards. For example, to learn about the risks abilities.
of pinching and rolling accidents, employees first learn in the Accessibility is also a priority through e-learning programs that
classroom about how rotary valves work, then they engage in employees can access remotely or from the home. Training is led
hazard prediction as a group to identify the possible hazards. The by outside instructors and external organizations, in addition to
employees then witness what happens when a piece of wood the regular training conducted outside the company 5 . Group
representing a finger is pinched or rolled in an actual rotary valve, companies also support those employees who desire to upgrade
so that the hazard fully registers with employees. The training ends their skills by acquiring qualifications and skills that are pertinent to
with a group discussion on safety measures to enhance under- their work.
standing. These initiatives are designed to make employees more
sensitive to hazards and to teach them to think and behave in a
preventative manner.
5
Employee training outside the company
Taiho Pharmaceutical supports personal development by of-
fering employees more than 200 different options for distance
learning and subsidized courses, and partially subsidizes costs
associated with acquiring qualifications approved by the company.
These programs are helping to enhance employees’ specialization
and enrich their lives and careers.
The Otsuka Group instituted a global MBA program 6 in 2011
to provide the opportunity to pursue MBA studies in the United
4
States and to foster employees who can make a difference in
Anzen Dojo activities on rolling and pinching hazards
global business. Employees who are accepted into the program
take leave from work to develop their potential as future key man-
agement personnel.
Extensive Training
The Otsuka Group provides extensive training to enhance the
abilities and skills of each employee and to increase safety aware-
ness, offering a wide range of training programs according to the
purpose.
In addition to providing practical on-the-job training, Group
companies implement systematic training by job rank, including
for new employees, second-year employees, and employees in
their fourth and fifth years, in addition to training for section man- 6
agers and other levels of management. The training is designed Global MBA trainingEmployees
Diversity
The Otsuka Group promotes diversity by accepting diverse human capital and endeavors to realize
employees’ individual strengths in order to build a strong yet flexible organization that can cope with
change, believing that this leads to innovation.
Supporting Women in the Workplace Employment of Senior Employees
The Otsuka Group supports women in the workplace, actively pro- The Otsuka Group provides opportunities for motivated employ-
moting women to management positions and offering other means ees to continue working past the age of 60, and a program for sen-
of support, including parenting leave and the option to reduce ior employees to apply their wealth of experience and knowledge
working hours. to transfer skills to other employees by working until the age of 65.
Taiho Pharmaceutical established a working group for women The Group previously had a program in place to continue em-
in the workplace in 2012. The working group conducted a survey ploying persons past 60 under certain conditions, but the option is
on working conditions for women, using the results to identify now available to all employees who wish to continue working. The
four underlying strategies for promoting women in the workplace, change was necessitated by revisions of the Act on Stabilization
which have been implemented in 2013 by changing programs and of Employment of Elderly Persons in Japan in April 2013, and the
enhancing awareness at the company. The four strategies are to lack of public pensions for people who choose to retire at 60. The
eliminate harassment from the workplace, foster a better under- Group is also looking at other changes to support employees who
standing in the workplace and among managers (mainly regarding wish to work past 60, including changing company regulations
employees having children and parenting), measures to address concerning retirement pay and enabling employees to customize
long work hours, and examining diversity and work styles. their retirement pay schedule through life planning.
Otsuka Foods conducted a workshop on diversity in November
2012 for some 90 employees selected by department managers,
in an effort to encourage positive attitudes toward diversity in the
Normalization
workplace. The company also prepared a handbook on diversity
that was distributed to all employees, to encourage acceptance of
diversity. The Otsuka Group embraces normalization to enable persons with
disabilities to live on equal terms with others, and it encourages
the hiring of persons with disabilities.
In October 2011, the Group established Heartful Kawauchi Co.,
Ltd. in Tokushima City, as a special subsidiary company to lever-
age the skills of persons with disabilities. As of March 31, 2013,
the company employed eight persons with physical disabilities
(including seven persons with major disabilities) and nine persons
with mental illnesse. The company will strive to create more jobs in
the future.
Taiho Pharmaceuticals working group on diversity
Percentage of Female Managers Employees with disabilities
As of March 31, 2012 As of March 31, 2013 As of March 31, 2012 As of March 31, 2013
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 6.28% 6.70% Otsuka Pharmaceutical 2.07% 2.11%
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 2.11% 2.38% Otsuka Pharmaceutical 1.90% 2.00%
Factory Factory
Taiho Pharmaceutical 1.83% 2.50% Taiho Pharmaceutical 1.75% 1.95%
Otsuka Chemical 7.80% 7.20% Otsuka Chemical 2.68% 2.34%
Otsuka Warehouse 3.50% 4.88% Otsuka Warehouse 1.18% 1.17%
Otsuka Foods 2.27% 2.85% Otsuka Foods 1.59% 1.69%
51 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 52
Employees
Work-Life Balance
The Otsuka Group respects the diverse lifestyles of its employees and endeavors to offer working
conditions that facilitate a work-life balance.
Supporting Parents
The Otsuka Group endeavors to provide employees with work- No. of employees taking parenting leave
ing conditions that support parenting and the care of relatives
FY2011 FY2012
and to encourage employees to take parenting leave and paid
Male Female Male Female
holidays. Group companies offer employees avenues for in-
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 2 93 2 87
formation exchange while on parenting leave, such as through
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 0 15 4 17
the Otsuka Women’s Workshop con- Factory
ducted by Otsuka Pharmaceutical and Taiho Pharmaceutical 16 12 21 27
a forum for employees returning from Otsuka Chemical 0 2 0 3
parenting leave organized by Taiho Otsuka Warehouse 0 3 0 2
Pharmaceutical. Group companies are Otsuka Foods 0 2 1 2
also acquiring Kurumin mark certifica- Total 18 127 28 138
tion, signifying that they actively support
parenting.
BeanStalk Kids Center Tokushima
Since 2011, the Otsuka Group has been operating the BeanStalk meet regularly with parents to report on the daycare, supporting
Kids Center Tokushima, an on-site daycare facility at the birthplace parents who need to juggle parenting and work.
of the Otsuka Group. The building which houses the daycare The Otsuka Group is also moving forward with plans to con-
center is finished using cedar from Tokushima Prefecture. It is struct a second on-site daycare facility to meet demand from
designed to take advantage of solar heat, as well as natural light, employees, and it is considering other daycare facilities at Group
wind, and the landscape. The design helps to regulate tempera- companies in and outside of Japan.
tures so that heating and air conditioning are only needed on espe-
cially hot or cold days.
The spacious one-story building offers plenty of room for chil- Returning to Full-Time Work
dren to run around in an environment that is designed to foster with the Encouragement of
their talents, creativity, and individuality. Notices and other infor- the Company
mation are continuously posted on the corporate intranet, and staff Akiko Harada
Clinical Research, Kanto
Clinical Research Development Department
Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
I returned to the workplace in the spring of 2013 after taking
parenting leave. Before returning, I wondered if it might be a
burden to my co-workers to come back to work. However,
at a forum organized by the company for returning parents,
I talked with my boss who supported my desire to return
to work. This eased my concerns and helped me to decide
to come back to work on a full-time basis. I am grateful to
the company for adjusting the scope of my responsibilities
so that I can minimize the time I need to take off in case my
daughter gets sick.
BeanStalk Kids Center TokushimaEmployees
Employee Health
As a global healthcare company, the Otsuka Group believes that it is important for employees to be
involved in their own health, and it strives to maintain and enhance their wellbeing. The Group facilitates
these goals through physical activity programs and education concerning health matters.
Occupational Health and
Employee Health
Safety Committees
The Otsuka Group implements diverse health programs and ini- In addition to securing compliance with occupational health and
tiatives to encourage employees to maintain and improve their safety regulations to prevent workplace accidents, the Otsuka
health. Group implements industrial health initiatives in the workplace to
Otsuka Pharmaceutical operates the Pocari/efresh exercise pro- secure optimal working conditions and reduce the risk of accidents.
gram, where instructors go from workplace to workplace and lead Group companies operate occupational health and safety com-
employees through a weekly eight-minute program of invigorating mittees that regularly conduct inspections of all workplaces to se-
exercises. Employees find that the exercises help them to tackle cure compliance. Additionally, Group companies provide avenues
their work. The program, now in its sixth year, has become an inte- for employees to initiate workplace improvements by identifying
gral program to encourage physical activity among employees. issues and developing solutions. Industrial physicians at Group
Additionally, Otsuka Pharmaceutical operates a “Walk-for- companies provide advice on health matters and they follow up on
Health” program for employees and their families, and Taiho employee health checkups. They also conduct education related
Pharmaceutical organizes a health festival organized for employ- to occupational health and safety, in order to raise awareness of
ees at the Okayama Factory and members of the community. health and occupational health and safety among all employees.
Group companies organize the Let’s Enjoy Tokushima Health Club, Group companies conduct emergency first aid training, including
which is designed to encourage employees to live better lifestyles training on the use of automated external defibrillators (AEDs), to
through initiatives such as offering healthy cafeteria menu choices prepare for emergency situations in and outside the company. Drills
and conducting seminars on health topics. Otsuka Foods imple- are conducted to review procedures for confirming employee safety
ments an employee abdominal fat loss program, while Otsuka in an emergency such as a major earthquake or extreme weather,
Techno organizes sports tournaments for the participation of all using automated systems for employee safety verification.
employees. At plants where many employees commute by private vehicle,
Group companies actively disseminate health information to Group companies implement initiatives to prevent driving acci-
employees, including through life planning seminars conducted dents during commuting and work, such as testing driving skills,
by the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory and a newsletter on health organizing traffic safety workshops and safe driving seminars, and
published by Otsuka Foods. Group companies also conduct edu- inspecting vehicle tires.
cation on mental health and stress management to address the The Otsuka Group is committed to continue working to enhance
mental well-being of employees, and offer services such as an out- employee health, improve working conditions, and prevent occu-
side counseling hotline that is available to employees of EN Otsuka pational accidents.
Pharmaceutical.
Let’s Enjoy Tokushima Health Club Workshop on traffic safety
53 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013Third-Party Opinion
Feedback on the Otsuka Group CSR Report 2013
Initiatives to Address Social Issues Eriko Nashioka
Heat stroke has emerged as an important social issue in Certified Public Accountant and
Certified Tax Accountant / President,
Japan, due to energy shortages affecting the nation and a
Institute for Environmental
trend of rising summer temperatures. The Otsuka Group can Management Accounting
Profile
be praised for its commitment to rehydration education and Completed a master’s degree in environmental management at the Graduate School of
Policy and Management of Doshisha University, and taught at the Faculty of Commerce
its efforts to educate the public on the dangers of heat stroke
of the University of Doshisha.
through a dedicated website and other initiatives. As de- Joined Showa Ota & Co. (now Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC), engaging in consulting
on environmental accounting and reporting. Served as a lead researcher for a project
scribed in Highlight 1 and the Health section of this report, the on corporations and the environment by the Kansai Research Center of the Institute
for Global Environmental Strategies (IGES), and was a member of the Committee of
Otsuka Group has sought to address a social issue through Environmental Accounting of the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(JICPA), as well as serving on committees for Japan’s Ministry of the Environment and
the development and marketing of Pocari Sweat, which both
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industries. Joined the management team of the Institute
aids rehydration and is enjoyed as a beverage. Pocari Sweat for Environmental Management Accounting in April 2004, and has authored books on
environmental accounting and environmental reports.
represents a very good example of a company realizing its
corporate philosophy and addressing social issues through and providing information about the Group’s code of conduct
its main business, which is a fundamental part of socially re- and the issues as it perceives them. The Report does a good
sponsible management. In my assessment the Otsuka Group job of describing the Group’s initiatives in 2012, but it needs
is doing an excellent job in this regard. to outline the progress made from the previous year as an
annual report.
Socially Responsible Management and Communication
The Otsuka Group has taken the step of organizing its cor- Global Initiatives
porate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives in the five areas Highlight 2 focuses on the Otsuka Group’s environmental and
of health, environment, quality, culture, and employees. The social initiatives in Indonesia, reflecting the global nature of its
Report outlines the activities in these five areas. Each section business. I appreciate that the Group listens to local commu-
in this report describes “Priority Areas,” which the Otsuka nities and embraces their culture. While the report has been
Group sees as important areas to focus on. On the other improved in terms of disclosing information about the Otsuka
hand, the environment section and other sections contain Group’s social initiatives outside of Japan, there is still less in-
a lot of data. I think it is necessary to provide a summary of formation than is presented for initiatives in Japan. Therefore,
the issues that need to be addressed, and to list the Group’s I hope the Group will disclose more global data encompass-
targets, performance, and levels of achievement, as com- ing information on initiatives outside of Japan. The next step
pared with previous years. Then the Report would be easier to will be for the Group to develop simple and comprehensible
understand. benchmarks to communicate to its global stakeholders. I look
With respect to social topics besides the environment, I forward to the Otsuka Group making continued progress with
think that the CSR Report can be improved by summarizing its CSR initiatives.
Editorial Postscript
The 2012 Otsuka Group CSR Report was our first attempt to initiatives has been
assemble a report that represents the entire Otsuka Group. provided through
This year’s report has been expanded with additional content the websites of
and information covering environmental initiatives and envi- individual Group
ronmental performance data for Group companies outside of companies, but in
Japan, in addition to data for Group companies in Japan. For order to present
the first time, we have organized the initiatives of the Otsuka the information in
Group around the five areas of health, environment, quality, a more accessible way and disclose updated information,
culture, and employees, and described the Group’s direction we are preparing a portal site for the CSR initiatives of the
in each of these areas. We spotlighted the “Priority Areas” in Otsuka Group.
each of these five domains, in an effort to better communicate We will continue working to expand this report, so that we
the initiatives to stakeholders. can convey the Otsuka Group’s initiatives stemming from the
Group companies are involved in a broad range of ini- mutual bonds and trust it has established with stakeholders.
tiatives that cannot be presented in entirety here, due to
Editorial Committee
space limitations. Until now, additional information on these
Otsuka Group CSR Report 2013
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2013 54Otsuka
Group
CSR
Report
2013
Otsuka Group
Head Office: 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi,
Chiyoda-ku Tokyo 101-0048, Japan CSR Report 2013
Tokyo headquarters: Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Konan,
Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan
Publication date of this report: September 2013
Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide
Contact information for inquiries
PR, Investor Relations Department, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Tel : +81 (0)3-6717-1410 (switchboard) Fax : +81 (0)3-6717-1409
This report is also available online. The report is printed using Non-VOC ink, made 100% from aroma-free vegetable oil that
does not contain volatile organic solvents. The report is printed on FSCTM certified paper,
http://www.otsuka.com/en using a waterless printing method that minimises generation of harmful liquid waste.