OtsOutskuak aG Grorouupp
CSR Report 2014
CSR Report 2015
Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide
Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwideEditorial Policy
In keeping with its corporate philosophy to “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide,” the Otsuka Group endeavors to
create new and innovative products in diverse areas related to health, as a global healthcare company devoted to better health worldwide.
The Otsuka Group CSR Report provides an overview of the diverse initiatives that the Otsuka Group engages in: from its relationship with stake-
holders in the course of doing business to realizing its corporate philosophy. We hope that this report promotes a better mutual understanding
with our stakeholders.
In this report, we focus on the three concepts below in addressing the The five areas of CSR at the
five areas of CSR at the Otsuka Group — health, environment, quality, Otsuka Group
culture and employees.
Health p18
Otsuka Group corporate philosophy/
1
priority issues (materiality)
Environment p24
International CSR guidelines Quality p36
2 - ISO 26000 seven core subjects
- GRI
- Environmental Report Guidelines
Culture p42
3 Ease of understanding for stakeholders
Employees p48
Scope of report
This report focuses on Otsuka Holdings and encompasses information for Otsuka Group companies worldwide,
centering on the following 11 Group companies in Japan:
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Techno Corporation
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Otsuka Packaging Industries Co., Ltd.
Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. JIMRO Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Warehouse Co., Ltd. Otsuka Electronics Co., Ltd.
Period covered
The data presented in this report are actual figures from April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014.
The activities reported on include some conducted more recently.
Publication schedule
The next report is scheduled for publication in spring 2015.
Guidelines referenced
This report was compiled with reference to the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 3rd Edition, ISO 26000,
and the Environmental Report Guidelines 2012 Edition issued by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment.
Email hd-pr@otsuka.jp
We welcome your feedback by email. Please do not hesitate to provide us with your feedback or impressions of this report,
including requests about the initiatives of the Otsuka Group.
1 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Corporate Profile Contents
As of March 31, 2014
Company name: Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. About the Otsuka Group 2
Established: July 8, 2008
Corporate Profile ……………………………………… 2
Capital: JPY 81,690 million Otsuka Group across the Globe ………………… 3
Head Office: 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi, Business Overview of the Otsuka Group …… 5
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0048, Japan
Tokyo Headquarters: Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Konan, Top Message 7
Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan
Top Message ……………………………………………… 7
Representative: Tatsuo Higuchi, President and CEO
Corporate Philosophy ………………………………… 10
Employees: 75 (Consolidated: 28,288)
Scope of consolidation: 95 consolidated subsidiaries and Highlight 11
17 equity-method affiliates
Business description: Control, management, and other operational aspects of busi- 1 Spinning Threads to Create Stronger
Ties Among the Otsuka Group,
ness activities related to holding the shares of companies
Employees, and Local Communities
that operate in the fields of pharmaceuticals, nutraceuticals,
– On-Site Day Care Centers Open – ……11
consumer products, and other businesses.
Otsuka Global Development Begins
2
in Asia
– Coexisting with Communities Around
the World – ………………………………………15
Consolidated Net Sales Consolidated Operating Income
Health 18
Net sales Operating income Operating margin
(U 1,n 5it 0:
0
¥ billion) 1,452.8 (U 2n 5i 0t: ¥ billion) ( 1% 8) Addressing Unmet Medical Needs ……………… 19
1,084.3 1,127.6 1,154.6 1,218.1 200 198.7 16 Soylution …………………………………………………… 21
169.7 Advocating the Importance of Hydration ……… 22
1,000 148.7
150 126.3 14 Communicating Health Information ……………… 23
98.5 13.9 13.7
100 12.9 12
500
50 9.1 11.2 10 Environment 24
0 0 8
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Eco-Friendly Plants …………………………………… 25
Environmental Management ……………………… 27
Consolidated Ordinary Income Research and Development Expenses Environmental Performance Data ……………… 28
Ordinary income Ordinary margin R&D expenses Ratio of R&D expenses to net sales Eco-Friendly Products ………………………………… 31
(Unit: ¥ billion) (%) (Unit: ¥ billion) 249.0 (%) Low Carbon Neutral Initiatives …………………… 33
250 215.2 18 250 20 Initiatives for a Resource Recycling Society … 35
200 184.5 16 200 192.4 18
152.1 151.8 164.7 159.2
150 128.4 15.1 14.8 14 150 17.1 16 Quality 36
109.1 15.8
100 13.2 12 100 14
50 11.4 10 50 14.0 14.6 13.8 12 S Ca of re pt oy r I an ti eti a Gti ov ve es r n … an… c… e… … …… …… …… …… …… …… …… …… …… …… …… … 3 37 9
10.1
0 8 0 10 Risk Management ……………………………………… 40
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Compliance ……………………………………………… 41
Consolidated Net Sales Consolidated Net Sales
by Geographical Segment (FY2013) by Business Segment (FY2013) Culture 42
Sales to external customers Sales to external customers
Cleanup Activities ……………………………………… 43
Consumer Products: 43.8
Other: 92.8 Community Initiatives ………………………………… 45
Other: 224.9 Japan: 628.3 6.4% Community Exchange ………………………………… 46
15.5% 3.0% Youth Education ………………………………………… 47
19.4%
43.2%
Employees 48
41.3% 71.2%
Diversity …………………………………………………… 49
Work-Life Balance ……………………………………… 51
North America: 599.6 Nutraceuticals: 281.1 Pharmaceuticals: 1,035.1 Development of Human Capital ………………… 52
(Unit: ¥ billion) (Unit: ¥ billion) Employee Health ……………………………………… 53
Third-Party Opinion/Editorial Postscript ……… 54
About
the
Otsuka
Group
Top
Message
Highlight
Health
Environment
Quality
Culture
Employees
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 2Otsuka Group across the Globe
As of March 31, 2014, net sales from outside Japan accounted for more than 50% of the Group’s
consolidated net sales. There are approximately 28,000 employees in the consolidated Group worldwide,
and 50% of these are outside Japan. Otsuka Group employees are working every day around the world,
for the universal betterment of human health.
Belgium China
Nutrition & Sante Benelux S.A. Otsuka (China) Investment Co., Ltd.
Zhejiang Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Czech Republic
Sichuan Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Interpharma Praha, a.s.
Tianjin Otsuka Beverage Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Sims (Guangdong) Beverage Co., Ltd.
France
Otsuka Pharmaceutical (H.K.) Ltd.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical France SAS
Otsuka Beijing Research Institute
Euriso-Top SAS
Pharmavite (Shanghai) Business Information Consultancy Co., Ltd.
Nardobel SAS
Giant Harvest, Ltd.
Nutrition & Sante SAS
Suzhou Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Nutrition & Nature SAS
Shanghai Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd.
Laboratoires Dietetique et Sante SAS
Zhangjiagang Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd.
ALMA S.A.*
China Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.*
Germany Guangdong Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.*
Otsuka Pharma GmbH VV Food & Beverage Co., Ltd.*
Cambridge Isotope Laboratories (Europe) GmbH Shanghai MicroPort Medical (Group) Co., Ltd.*
Advanced Biochemical Compounds GmbH MicroPort Scientific Corporation*
Euriso-Top GmbH
Egypt
Otsuka Frankfurt Research Institute GmbH
Egypt Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., S.A.E.
Italy
India
Nutrition & Sante Italia SpA
Claris Otsuka Limited
Spain Otsuka Chemical (India) Private Limited
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, S.A.
Indonesia South Korea
Nutrition & Sante Iberia SL
P.T. Otsuka Indonesia Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Hebron S.A.
P.T. Widatra Bhakti Korea OIAA Co., Ltd.
Trocellen Iberica S.A.
P.T. Amerta Indah Otsuka Otsuka Electronics Korea Co., Ltd.
Sweden P.T. Otsuka Jaya Indah KOC Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Pharma Scandinavia AB P.T. Merapi Utama Pharma Dong-A Otsuka Co., Ltd.*
P.T. Lautan Otsuka Chemical
Switzerland Taiwan
Nutrinat AG New Zealand Taiwan Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Diatranz Otsuka Limited* King Car Otsuka Co., Ltd.*
UK
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Europe Ltd. Pakistan Thailand
Otsuka Pharmaceuticals (U.K.) Ltd. Otsuka Pakistan Ltd.* Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.*
Astex Therapeutics, Ltd.
Philippines
Otsuka (Philippines) Pharmaceutical, Inc.
1,800 24 8,055 37
employees companies employees companies
Europe Asia / Oceania / Middle East
3 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014About
the
Otsuka
Group
Consolidated Net Sales in and outside of Japan Consolidated Number of Employees in and outside of Japan
(Unit: ¥ billion) (%) (No. of employees) (%)
1,500 1,452.8 60 30,000 28,288 60
1,218.1 24,589 25,188 24,595 25,330
1,127.6 1,154.6 56.8 14,172
1,084.3
11,598
1,000 51.1 824.4 50 20,000 10,415 11,158 10,787 50
50.2
49.0 50.1
48.4 622.7
45.8
525.5 552.5 579.7 44.3 43.9
500 40 10,000 42.4 40
14,116
558.8 575.1 574.9 595.3 628.3 14,174 14,030 13,808 13,732
0 30 0 30
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Consolidated net sales in Percentage of consolidated net sales Employees outside Japan Percentage of employees outside Japan
international markets from international markets
Employees in Japan
Consolidated net sales in Japan
Japan Canada
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. 2768691 Canada, Inc.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Canada Pharmaceutical, Inc.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc.
USA
Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Otsuka America, Inc.
Otsuka Warehouse Co., Ltd.
Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.
Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development & Commercialization, Inc.
Otsuka Medical Devices Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Maryland Medicinal Laboratories, Inc.
Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd.
Cambridge Isotope Laboratories, Inc.
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
CIL Isotope Separations, LLC
Otsuka Electronics Co., Ltd.
Membrane Receptor Technologies, LLC
Otsuka Techno Corporation
Pharmavite, LLC
Otsuka Packaging Industries Co., Ltd.
Pharmavite Direct LLC
JIMRO Co., Ltd.
Ridge Vineyards, Inc.
Otsuka Ridge Co., Ltd.
Crystal Geyser Water Company
Nippon Pharmaceutical Chemicals Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Global Insurance, Inc.
J.O. Pharma Co., Ltd.
Astex Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Otsuka Naruto Development, Inc.
Soma Beverage Company, LLC
Okayama Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
American Peptide Company, Inc.
Dairin Integrated Transportation Co., Ltd.
Otsuka America Foods, Inc.
HAIESU Service Co., Ltd.
Crystal Geyser Brand Holdings, LLC*
Otsuka Furniture Manufacturing and Sales Co., Ltd.
CG Roxane, LLC*
Otsuka Turftech Co., Ltd.
ILS, Inc.
Brazil
Otsuka Ohmi Ceramics Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Chemical do Brazil Ltda.
Otsuka Chilled Foods Co., Ltd.
Otsuka-MGC Chemical Company, Inc.
KiSCO Co., Ltd.
Earth Chemical Co., Ltd.*
Earth Environmental Service Co., Ltd.*
Nichiban Co., Ltd.*
NEOS Corporation*
List of consolidated companies.
Equity-method affiliates are indicated with an asterisk (*).
14,116 31 4,317 21
employees companies employees companies
Japan North & South America
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 4Business Overview of the Otsuka Group
The Group is dedicated to being a global healthcare company that works for the benefit of people’s
health worldwide. It generates health-outcomes from many angles, while offering original products that
create new markets. The Group pursues a range of businesses in four main segments—pharmaceuticals,
nutraceuticals, consumer products and other businesses.
Flagship products
Pharmaceutical
Business
Pharmaceuticals
ABILIFY, an antipsychotic Mucosta, an antigastritis and Pletaal/Pletal, an antiplatelet agent
antigastric ulcer agent
I.V. solutions
(clinical nutrition)
Diagnostics The pharmaceutical business focuses on
the priority areas of the central nervous
TS-1, an anticancer agent Samsca, an aquaretic agent and treatment for Autosomal
Medical devices system and oncology in order to address dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD)
unmet medical needs. Furthermore, in
order to provide comprehensive health-
care solutions ranging from diagnosis to
treatment of diseases, the Group is en-
gaged in a wide range of fields and busi-
nesses, including the cardiovascular
system, gastroenterology, ophthalmol-
ogy, diagnostics, and I.V. solutions and
medical devices. There is a particular Aloxi, an antiemetic agent Abraxane, an anticancer agent ELNEOPA, a high-calorie TPN solution
focus on these devices.
Flagship products
Nutraceutical
Business
Functional beverages
and foods POCARI SWEAT POCARI SWEAT ORONAMIN C DRINK Tiovita Drink OS-1
ION WATER
Cosmedics
OTC products, The nutraceutical business focuses on
Quasi-drugs functional beverages and foods that help
maintain and promote day-to-day
well-being. In recent years the Group has
been developing a soy-based business
predicated on the concept that the soy- SoyCarat SOYJOY SOYSH Calorie Mate
bean is the “Soylution” (“soy” and “solu-
tion”) to many of humanity’s problems
such as health, and environment issues.
Nutraceuticals = nutrition + pharmaceuticals
Gerblé Nature Made UL・OS Oronine H OINTMENT
5 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014About
the
Otsuka
Group
Flagship products
Consumer
Products
Business
Beverages
Bon Curry Gold Bon Curry Neo My Size
Foods
Alcoholic beverages
In the consumer products business,
the Otsuka Group manufactures and
supplies foods and drinks for everyday
consumption. We have led the way with
Sinvino Java Tea Straight Ridge Monte Bello
the development of products such as
Bon Curry, which was launched in 1968
as the world’s first commercially available
food in a plastic pouch bag, and Sinvino
Java Tea Straight, which was a pioneer in
the unsweetened tea beverage market.
Our mission is to supply foods and bev-
erages that satisfy on all levels: delicious,
Mannan Hikari CRYSTAL GEYSER MATCH MATCH Pink
safe, reassuring, and healthy.
Flagship products
Application of Hydrazine Derivatives Other
Businesses
Functional chemical
products
Terracess Rubber additive
(friction material for brake pads) Fine chemicals
The Otsuka Group also pursues diver- Distribution
sified businesses, such as chemical
materials for the automotive, electri- Packaging
cal, electronic, and building materials
sectors. We operate transport and Electronic equipment
warehousing services that provide eco-
friendly logistics. These are focused on
the movement of Otsuka Group pharma-
ceuticals, foods and beverages, in addi-
tion to supplying electronic equipment to
support cutting-edge advancements in
science and technology.
POCone, a medical device HM series of LED evaluators
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 6Top Message
Tatsuo Higuchi
President and
Representative Director, CEO
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Inspired by and committed to our corporate philosophy,
our communication with its stakeholders shapes
Otsuka Group CSR activities.
Corporate Management in the Current Japanese and Global Economic Climates
Global economic conditions have become increasingly complex over the past several years. The areas in which we
operate are affected by a complex combination of factors. Emerging economies are seeing growth; the planet faces
energy and environmental issues; populations are increasing and ageing; the gap between the wealthy and the
poor is extending; and nationalism is emerging. We operate under conditions in which politics and economics are
increasingly difficult to separate. In addition, the world now demands that corporations’ business activities meet more
rigorous compliance standards, which for the pharmaceuticals industry include Japanese transparency guidelines
and the U.S. Sunshine Act. On a more positive note, Tokyo’s winning bid to host the Olympics in 2020 is expected
to give younger generations the opportunity to show the world through sports what we are doing in the areas of sci-
ence, technology and business. I believe this presents an invaluable opportunity. At the same time, older individuals
are becoming increasingly aware of the importance of staying healthy. Greater awareness in this area has a positive
impact on both the medical economy and the health market, which is expected to have an invigorating impact on
the Japanese economy.
7 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Top
Message
Continuing to Adapt to Change, Doing More to Better the Health of People Worldwide
The Otsuka Group listed its stock publicly in December 2010, and since then we have embarked on the challenges
that come with placing ourselves in an entirely new environment. Having reached the three-year mark as a public
company in 2014, we recognize the need to continue to grow as a corporate group by adapting, as we focus on
moving to the next stage.
Now that we are a public-listed company, a larger group of people across the globe is familiar with the Otsuka
Group businesses, history and philosophy. At the same time, this means there are a larger number of stakeholders
who expect more from our Group. In order to prove ourselves worthy of this trust and to garner a broader and deeper
understanding of our stance across the globe, I believe it is incumbent on us to realize the original and unique ideas
of Otsuka as a total healthcare company working to maintain and better health around the world.
Fulfilling Worldwide Expectations with Global Development that Works for Local Communities
The Otsuka Group currently comprises 166 companies, as well as 181 factories and 44 laboratories, operating in
Japan and 26 other countries and regions. Of these, three-fourths of our companies, two-thirds of our factories, and
40% of our laboratories operate outside Japan. Sales from international markets are larger in scale than those from
the Japanese market. In fact, 56.8% of the total 1.45 trillion yen in consolidated net sales in the fiscal year ended
March 2014 are from markets outside Japan.
Twenty different languages are used throughout the countries and regions in which the Otsuka Group currently
does business. Language systems express a distinct view of the world, and it is through language that cultures,
traditions, and philosophies are conveyed. Accommodating all of these different ways of thinking, we respect the
different cultures and characters represented by these languages and work to promote business activities that share
the basic Otsuka Group concepts and philosophy, while integrating these differences harmoniously. In the Otsuka
Group culture, value does not lie simply with gaining knowledge. Value comes with putting this knowledge into
practice; pursuing achievement to its conclusion to arrive at the essence of the matter; and constantly pursuing new
challenges to create products and services that only Otsuka can provide. We are dedicated to bettering the health of
people around the world, remaining vigilantly aware of the importance of creativity and proof through execution, while
working in harmony with the local community.
Otsuka CSR Shaped by Expanding Stakeholder Cycle
The business activities of the Otsuka Group only come together when there
are customers who use the goods and services that we supply. The con-
struction of a factory, as well, requires cooperation from a large number of
individuals, including the understanding of everyone in the local community,
the suppliers who provide the raw materials, and the construction compa-
nies. And in return for the opportunity to conduct these business compa-
nies, we deliver to the community and our customers the products, services,
and information that we believe will help people lead happy, healthy lives.
This concept of the positive stakeholder cycle is not limited to our busi-
ness activities. Inspired by and committed to our corporate philosophy,
it is our communication with stakeholders that shapes the activities that
comprise the Otsuka Group CSR. This relationship creates any number of
cycles, as well. Our environmental activities, for example, recognize and protect the blessings that come from natural
capital, while our social contribution activities are a channel through which we take part in enhancing and developing
local communities. Concurrently, these activities are reflected directly and indirectly in the manufacture of goods and
the improvement of services, which in turn contributes to the development of business. The Otsuka Group focuses on
CSR activities that are an integral part of business by creating trust-based cycles in which business generates profits
that are then returned to society, which creates an affinity between the Otsuka Group and the community, which in
turn generates profit that will be returned to the community.
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 8Conducting Activities that Only the Otsuka Group Can Provide
For this report, we have organized various Otsuka Group CSR activities, which are fully integrated with our business
activities, into five areas: health, environment, quality, culture, and employees. It is my belief that our CSR activities
need to foster an understanding of the Otsuka Group among as large a segment of society as possible, and at the
same time, raise awareness and understanding of our philosophy and approach among employees. We focus on
creating a positive cycle by developing activities that our employees are proud of, which increases job satisfaction and
in turn boosts employee motivation, improves productivity, and results in breakthrough products.
In fiscal 2013, we focused on raising the Otsuka Group to the next level as a global healthcare company by estab-
lishing a structure to ensure that all Group companies bring the same values to their operations. There is increasing
demand today for companies to implement sound management and transparency practices in full compliance with
laws in all of the countries and regions in which they operate. Companies are also expected to operate in a highly
ethical and moral manner. To meet these expectations, we have instituted the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business
Ethics in order to maintain high moral standards and conscientious business practices. We have also strengthened
our global-level quality controls in the development and production of pharmaceuticals and food products, estab-
lishing a structure that ensures we deliver safe and secure products to our customers. In conducting environmental
activities, we take a global perspective in sharing issues and introducing activities designed to protect the planet.
We thank you for your continued support of the Otsuka Group as we strive for further growth.
9 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Top
Message
Corporate Philosophy of the Otsuka Group
These words embody our commitment to:
Contributing to the lives of
Creating innovative products Improving human health
people worldwide
In keeping with this corporate philosophy and the Otsuka mottos of Jissho (Proof through Execution) and Sozosei (Creativity),
the Otsuka Group strives to utilize its unique assets and skills to develop differentiated scientific solutions which contribute
to the lives of people worldwide in the form of innovative and creative products ranging from pharmaceuticals to consumer
products. We are striving to cultivate a culture and a dynamic corporate climate reflecting our vision as a healthcare company.
As such we are dedicated to achieving global sustainability, to our relationships with local communities and to the protection
of the natural environment.
Monuments embodying the Otsuka Group Philosophy
Giant Tomato Trees / Bent Giant Cedar / Floating Stones
These three monuments embody the Otsuka Group philosophy, reminding all who visit the birthplace of the Otsuka Group in
Tokushima of the importance of being creative and open-minded to new ideas.
Giant Tomato Trees Bent Giant Cedar Floating Stones
The giant tomato trees that cover the entire This piece features the trunk of a giant cedar This water garden features large stones that
ceiling of the hall can produce more than that is deeply bent instead of being typically appear to miraculously float on a wide ex-
10,000 fruit per year, as a result of maximizing straight, with the trunk of a second cedar panse of water, including some that seem to
the fruit-producing potential through hydro- crossing on top of it. The delicately balanced droop. The garden was created to capture
ponics that frees the roots from normal soil. piece—which at first glance appears unsta- and enrich the spirit of the people who look at
The tomato trees are symbolic of employing ble—was strong enough to withstand mag- it, and to free the mind for contemplation. The
new ideas to draw out potential. nitude 5 tremors during the Great Hanshin piece teaches us the importance of switching
Earthquake in 1995. The piece speaks to the ideas and thinking beyond the conventional.
idea that appearances may reveal something
completely different.
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 10Highlight 1
Spinning Threads to Create Stronger Ties Among the
Otsuka Group, Employees, and Local Communities
– On-Site Day Care Centers Open –
Otsuka Group originated, followed by the Sukusuku
Otsuka Opens BeanStalk
Nursery at the Tsukuba Research Center in Ibaraki in
Kids Centers
April 2013 and the BeanStalk Kids Center Osaka in
The Otsuka Group operates on-site day care centers April 2014. The premises of these centers and nurs-
Tsukuba to ensure the future of its creative corporate culture. ery are nature-like environments that stimulate the five
Osaka
The centers also contribute to the development of local senses. This helps to foster healthy children with rich
communities by supporting the diverse lifestyles of emotional and creative development. All of these facili-
employees, and helping them to advance their careers ties are located immediately adjacent to the workplace,
Tokushima while raising children. In April 2011, BeanStalk Kids giving employees who are raising children the ability to
Center Tokushima, an on-site day care center for 0-to work without worrying about childcare.
5-year-olds, was opened in the prefecture where the
11 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Highlight
VOICE Creating Comfortable Working
Environments for Employees
In addition to their on-site day care centers, all Otsuka
Group companies focus on creating an environment
in which employees are able to comfortably balance
parenting and work. Group companies are working to
acquire and retain Kurumin mark certification based
on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support
Daycare with Peace Raising Next-Generation Children. The Group also ac-
of Mind tively promotes its paid leave programs, including ma-
Mitsuyo Shindo ternity and parenting leave, and it works to promote an
Administration Department,
Shikoku Branch environment in which employees can easily take child-
Otsuka Warehouse Co., Ltd.
care leave and easily return to the workplace. When
My second child is less than a year
Male employee picks up his child from daycare.
old and is enrolled at BeanStalk. employees return to work after taking leave, Otsuka
Since the on-site day care center
hadn’t yet opened when I had my Group companies offer a number of options: employ-
first child, his grandmother helped
ees may reduce their work hours until their child finishes
with childcare, so this is my first Flexibility to Support Diverse
experience using daycare. Having third grade of elementary school; they may take on shift
Work Styles
daycare where I work takes away
so much of the worry involved. work from the point the pregnancy is confirmed until
When my baby is not feeling well, BeanStalk Kids Centers enroll new children each month the child enters junior high school; and they can take
I am notified by phone and can
go check on her or take her home to make it possible for employees to return when they advantage of other flexible work schemes designed
right away. She happened to start
feel comfortable to work again. Public day care centers for employees raising children. Thanks to measures at
at BeanStalk in April, and having
childcare whenever I need it helps a in Japan typically allow new admissions only in April of Otsuka Chemical, which provide support for male em-
great deal with my own well being,
and matters at home, too. each year, whereas the flexibility of the Otsuka Group ployees to take parenting leave as part of the Group’s
on-site day care centers provides much-needed sup- efforts to create an environment that encourages men
port for employees’ diverse work styles. It also gives to take part in raising their children, the number of male
male employees the opportunity to participate more employees utilizing these flexible work schemes has
* See p. 51 for number of male
employees taking parenting leave. actively in raising their children. continued to increase.*
In fact, approximately half of the employees who
drop their children off at BeanStalk Kids Center
Tokushima are male, and some employees use these
Advantages for Both Employees
centers to provide daycare for their grandchildren. The
and Group
number of children enrolled at the original BeanStalk in
Tokushima has continually increased since the center Providing corporate support for diverse work styles
first opened. When it became apparent that enrollment through these initiatives is beneficial for employees,
was certain to surpass 100, the center was expanded and the Otsuka Group as well. The knowledge that
2011
to accommodate the enrollment of 150 kids, and the their children are close at hand naturally gives peace
project was completed in April 2014. BeanStalk Kids of mind to employees who are juggling parenting and
On-site day care center opens
Center Tokushima is now prepared for greater numbers work. At the same time, these employees are more
in Tokushima, the birthplace of
the Otsuka Group of children in the future. aware of the importance of effectively using their lim-
ited time and approaching their work in an organized
and efficient manner. Employees whose children attend
day care at the BeanStalk Kids Centers indicate that
having children has made their goals clearer, that they
now concentrate better on their jobs, and approach
their work in a more organized and efficient way. Giving
employees the means to pursue work through diverse
work styles has led to higher productivity and energized
business. Awareness of the effectiveness of this initia-
tive is also spreading.
Children’s rooms are arranged off the
central hall like branches of a beanstalk. Otsuka Group companies have acquired
Kurumin mark certification provided by the
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in
recognition of company efforts to support
child rearing by employees.
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 121 Enjoying lunchtime
2 Practicing the Awa Odori dance
3 Daycare staff
4 Naptime
VOICE
1 2
4 3
Dedicated to Childcare
that Fosters Creativity
Junko Itami
Director
BeanStalk Kids Center Tokushima
Rather than offering standard child-
care, we are dedicated to an imag-
inative and original curriculum that
brings out the limitless creativity of
children. Growing plants at our day
care facility involves not only plant-
ing seeds in soil, but also in water.
Our children not only plant tomato
vines vertically, but also try growing
“unpoppable” bubbles by working out by themselves
them horizontally to see what dis- BeanStalk Kids Centers Support
coveries they can make. The toys the best ratio of water to soap. These lessons nur-
Employees and Local Communities
at BeanStalk are handmade, and
our teachers talk with the children ture children’s interests, curiosity, and ability to think.
to come up with fun ways to play. In keeping with its corporate philosophy, the Otsuka School lunches offer opportunities for the children to
Field trips to the factory next door
are also very popular with the chil- Group continues to seek creativity and innovation from learn about food and nutrition. Parents and guardians
dren. We are dedicated to providing
each of its employees. The BeanStalk Kids Centers are given information on where the ingredients used in
a wide range of experiences that
help build healthy bodies and rich pursue these same goals in childcare by creating the food prepared for children and infants at BeanStalk
hearts and minds.
space to foster a child’s development replete with the are grown and the nutrients the food contains. Food
unique individuality and ideas of the Otsuka Group. The tastings are also held twice a year so that parents and
VOICE
BeanStalk Kids Center Tokushima, which uses cedar guardians can sample the food themselves for taste
from Tokushima Prefecture for its floors and for other and texture. As a company pursuing a soy-based
features, is designed to liberally incorporate natural ele- business, the Otsuka Group day care centers naturally
ments that make full use of the warmth of wood, as well incorporate new ideas and ingenuity such as the inclu-
as seasonal light and breezes. The design keeps the sion of soybeans in a variety of dishes served to the
temperature comfortable so that heating and air condi- children at mealtimes.
tioning are only needed on especially cold or hot days, The architectural design of the BeanStalk Kids
Childcare Tailored to the and the spacious single-story building gives children Center Tokushima features a bean-shaped hall with
Parent and the Child plenty of room to run free barefoot. four classrooms radiating out from the center. This al-
Masayuki Sato The curriculum is also designed to nurture children’s lows the children to run freely around the building. With
Researcher, Third Institute of
New Drug Discovery abundant creativity in a variety of ways. The playground little segregation among the 0-to 5-year-olds, all of the
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
has no man-made equipment. Instead, it features small children are able to interact a great deal with those
I am very confident having my
child in daycare here, because I hills and tree stumps that children use to create their younger and older than themselves, which provides
sense the professional pride that
the teachers bring to their work. own fun, such as sliding downhill on pieces of card- stimulation for development and growth.
We can watch video feed of the
board. From three years old, the children have English The center is also a fine example of initiatives aimed
children having lunch every day,
and even if I can’t make it to pickup classes taught by native English speakers where at revitalizing the Tokushima region. Materials from
on time, my child is still looked after.
These are a couple of the ways that they have fun learning language through songs and Tokushima Prefecture were used to construct the fa-
the childcare here is tailored to the games. From age four, the children take part in soccer cility, and the work was entrusted to local companies.
working parent. Younger children
are able to play together with older classes taught by coaches from the Tokushima Vortis Incorporating a rich array of local color to convey the
children, and I think this helps them
Academy, a club run by the Tokushima J1 professional appeal of the Tokushima area, BeanStalk Kids Center
develop faster. In my son’s case,
he has been at BeanStalk since he soccer team. The five-year-olds plant soybeans and Tokushima is expected to help attract people to the
was six months old, and he began
walking before he was a year old. incorporate science play, for example trying to create area and promote local development.
He also loves going barefoot.
13 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Highlight
INTERVIEW
Katsura Tottori
Senior Operating Officer
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Using the unique strengths of the Otsuka
Group to provide childcare that fosters the
talent, individuality, and creativity of children
2009 The project for the first Otsuka Group on-site day care center began in June 2009. One purpose was to provide
support for the diverse work styles of our employees, including helping male employees who actively participate in
The idea for on-site day care cen- childrearing. Another purpose was to attract people to the community. Initially commissioned to outside contractors,
ters was first introduced in 2009. we took over the administration of our first facility, BeanStalk Kids Center Tokushima, in its third year of operations and
Otsuka spent two years preparing
before the first facility opened. have studied ways to inspire traits that Otsuka also seeks to foster in its workforce such as imaginativeness from a
variety of perspectives. As we expand on our curriculum, our goal is to encourage an education with an emphasis on
emotions, creativity and individuality. Having hired full-time nursing staff, we are now looking into providing childcare
for children who have recovered from illness.
We plan to follow our day care centers in Tokushima, and Osaka with childcare facilities at other Otsuka workplaces
in Japan and around the world. In some regions, we are looking at the possibility of creating consortiums (facilities
serving multiple companies), but whatever the structure, our goal remains to provide childcare that nurtures our chil-
dren’s talents, individuality and creativity.
employees to balance work and parenting, while at the
BeanStalk Kids Center Osaka and
same time helping to alleviate the problem of long wait-
Sukusuku Nursery Open
lists for childcare centers in Osaka.
Otsuka on-site day care centers have had a ripple
effect that has impacted other regions, and Taiho Phar-
maceutical opened Sukusuku Nursery at the Tsukuba
BeanStalk Kids Center Osaka Research Center in April 2013. Children learn and play
opened in April 2014
in small groups so that each child receives the best care
for his or her individual needs, and the nursery offers
flexibility to parents with both monthly and temporary
day care programs. A full-time nursing staff makes it
possible to provide daycare for sick children with a tem-
Taiho Pharmaceutical Sukusuku Nursery perature of 38°C or lower. Feedback from employees
who use the nursery has been positive: “On-site daycare
In April 2014, Otsuka opened BeanStalk Kids Center has been a great help since the municipal day care cen-
Osaka in an area that could be called the second birth- ters reached their capacity;” “We don’t need to worry
place of the Otsuka Group. The architecture, with its about having temporary childcare when we need it;” and
ample use of natural materials such as wood and cork “The teachers tailor the childcare to each child, which is
tiles, was designed to evoke a traditional extended fam- great for their development.”
ily home where children grow free and unfettered. The Providing support to employees who are trying to bal-
goal is to provide an environment that makes it easy for ance childcare and work responsibilities by establishing
on-site day care centers helps them to be happier and
to achieve greater self-actualization. It also leads to a
more dynamic company through the maintenance of a
workforce with greater diversity. The Otsuka Group will
continue to provide full childcare support to contribute
to solutions for falling birthrates and the aging of society.
Furniture stamped with the
BeanStalk logo
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 141
2 3
Highlight 2
Otsuka Global Development Begins in Asia
– Coexisting with Communities Around the World –
1 China Otsuka Pharmaceutical Group companies* employing approximately 44,000
Sustainable Growth for the Otsuka
2 Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical Group and Local Communities Alike individuals. Aiming for sustainable growth worldwide
through the solutions it provides, Otsuka tailors its
3 Basic I.V. plant,
Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical Guided by its commitment to better health worldwide, businesses to the particular needs and conditions in
the Otsuka Group’s expansion beyond Japan began specific countries and regions.
when the Group entered the global market from Asia
40 years ago last year. Today, the Group operates glob-
ally in 26 countries and regions, including all of Asia, as
well as in the Middle East, Europe and the Americas,
* As of March 31, 2014; includes with two core businesses in pharmaceuticals and nu-
non-consolidated companies. traceuticals. The Group has grown to encompass 166
15 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Highlight
Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical: 40th anniversary ceremony China Otsuka Pharmaceutical: I.V. solution exhibition room
pharmaceutical joint venture in the world involving the
Thailand, First Production Base
Chinese government. As one of the few companies in
Outside of Japan
the world to include China in its name, the company’s
Established in 1973, Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical was goal is to help advance medical care in the area, and in
the Otsuka Group’s first production site outside of carrying out this mission, China Otsuka Pharmaceutical
China Otsuka Pharmaceutical Japan. Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical began with the has helped improve the medical infrastructure in China
Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical manufacture of I.V. solutions for the Thai market. At through its I.V. solutions business.
the time, restrictions on imports had been imposed in China Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s initial objectives were
a number of countries due to the global recession. With to convert infusion containers from the glass bottles
the import of I.V. solutions also restricted in Thailand, then in use to safer and more convenient plastic con-
the Otsuka Group changed course to ensure stable tainers; to improve procurement and quality of raw
supplies for this market. Shifting away from exporting materials in China; to establish the manufacturing tech-
products manufactured in Japan, the Otsuka Group nologies needed to produce high-quality products; and
established local production, procuring materials lo- to ensure more stable supplies. The company’s growth
40th
cally and hiring local staff, as well. Although there were has been guided by a clear understanding of its role in
anniversary initially a number of hurdles to be overcome such as society, which has inspired a long-term view of human
obtaining raw materials and negotiating cultural differ- resources development and educational opportunities
1973 Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical
established as the Group’s first ences regarding hygiene and sanitation, the Otsuka through factory tours and student factory training.
production site outside Japan
Group persevered. Communicating closely with local The Otsuka Group subsequently established addi-
medical personnel and Otsuka staff, solutions were tional companies and laboratories in the nutraceutical
found to these issues, and the company ultimately suc- business, and there are currently 33 Otsuka Group
30th ceeded in producing goods on a level of quality on par companies operating in China.*
with Otsuka in Japan.
anniversary
When Thailand was hit with massive flooding in
1984 China Otsuka Pharmaceutical 2011, Otsuka Group companies in Thailand joined to-
begins operations at Tianjin Factory gether to deliver Pocari Sweat and other relief supplies Participating in Local Communities
to hospitals and clinics in severely affected provinces,
while Group companies in Japan and neighboring The purpose of the Otsuka Group expansion outside
countries joined in the efforts to provide relief, as well. Japan is to ensure sustainable development by focus-
ing on localizing business through local procurement
of raw materials, hiring of local human resources, and
local consumption of products, while respecting the
Helping Improve Medical
traditions and cultures of each country and region in
Infrastructure in China
which the Group operates. Toward this end, the Group
* As of March 31, 2014; includes
non-consolidated companies. After initially expanding into Thailand, the Otsuka Group is keenly focused on its role as a leading company in
continued to develop with I.V. solution production in the local community in which it actively participates by
Indonesia, Taiwan, and the Middle East. In 1981, re- maintaining the social infrastructure and helping to find
sponding to a request from China for collaboration solutions to local problems.
with the manufacture of high-quality I.V. solutions,
the Group established China Otsuka Pharmaceutical.
China Otsuka Pharmaceutical was the first foreign
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 16P.T. Amerta Indah Otsuka: Delivered relief supplies to
P.T. Amerta Indah Otsuka: Satu Hati School
a flooding-affected province
Supporting Education/Coexisting
Disaster Relief Activities
with Local Communities
As a member of the community and a company with With the aim of forging ties with local communities
a duty to protect life and improve health, the Otsuka and contributing to the development of Indonesia, P.T.
Group works with local governments, NPOs and other Amerta Indah Otsuka is actively engaged in activities to
entities to provide relief to areas hit by typhoons, earth- educate the children who will be the leaders of tomorrow.
quakes, volcano eruptions, and other natural disas- Satu Hati (One Heart) began as a charity concert.
ters. The Group acts quickly to deliver supplies of I.V. The proceeds from the event and donations have been
solutions, pharmaceuticals, food and drinks that are used to support the education of children through activ-
urgently needed in times of emergency and it contin- ities such as library building and book donation. Since
ues to provide support afterwards through donations 2007 when these events began, the project has built
and fundraising activities. When the Great East Japan 25 libraries and donated more than 110,000 books.
Earthquake struck, Group companies in Asia were The theme of “One Heart for Environment” was
called on to collect contributions from employees, which added, and tree planting was carried out with the aim
were donated to the Japanese Red Cross Society. of regional revitalization and watershed protection in
The Otsuka Welfare Clinic established in Peshawar, mountains near the company’s plant. A soccer field,
* See p. 45 for more detail on the Pakistan for refugees from Afghanistan marked the mosque, and local learning center were set up on the
Otsuka Welfare Clinic.
10th anniversary of its opening in 2013. The clinic has factory grounds, and they are open to local residents
treated more than 700,000 patients since it opened and children. The learning center features a Satu Hati
and continues to provide medical care and pharma- School that is open once a week for children after
ceuticals free of charge.* their school, where employees take turns providing af-
ter-school tutoring in grammar, math, and English.
Health Support
Bettering the Health and Lives of
People Around the World
The Otsuka Group places great importance on provid-
ing information related to health as part of its initiative In addition to activities that provide medical, health,
to help people prevent illness and maintain health. and cultural support, Group companies also focus on
Signing ceremony for selection of The Group conducts educational activities to convey environmental protection, another important topic for
Pocari Sweat as official drink of the
Asian Games (January 2014, Manila) the importance of rehydration in preventing heat dis- ensuring that the Group and local communities de-
History as Official Drink of orders and replenishing the body after sports, tailoring velop together.
Asian Games
these sessions to suit the cultures of individual regions. The Otsuka Group will continue the global expansion
1998 Bangkok (Thailand)
2002 Busan (South Korea) Pocari Sweat is currently marketed in 17 countries and it began in Asia, paying particular attention to meeting
2006 Doha (Qatar)
2014 Incheon (South Korea) regions around the world. Increasingly recognized as the needs of each of the regions in which it operates.
a health drink, Pocari Sweat has been selected as the The Group remains committed to working together
official drink of the Asian Games for 2014 and the last with local communities to better lives and health in
three years. It is the largest sports event in Asia, and ways that ensure sustainable development for society.
this year’s was held in September 2014.
17 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Health
As a comprehensive healthcare company,
the Otsuka Group develops innovative products and disseminates information to
help find cures for diseases and to maintain and promote people’s health.
Heat disorders prevention seminar (Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 18Health
The Otsuka Group is pas- Addressing Unmet Medical Needs
sionate about discovering
first-in-class new drugs and
products that can save or
extend lives and improve the
quality of life for patients.
Electron micrograph of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (stained) [photo
Taiho Pharmaceutical: Anticancer drug research
courtesy of Otsuka SA]
Innovative Drug Development years, and is now being used in 14 countries and ter-
In order to help patients with mental illness return to ritories worldwide. ADPKD*4 is a rare kidney disease
their regular activities, Otsuka Pharmaceutical began with no approved drug treatment in Japan, until now.
R&D into central nervous system therapies in the Through ADPKD-focused R&D that began in 2004,
1970s. By 2002, in the United States, Otsuka America Otsuka researchers found that Samsca inhibits prolif-
Pharmaceutical had introduced the antipsychotic eration and growth of renal cysts. As a result, in March
ABILIFY, the world’s first drug to stabilize dopamine in 2014 the indication for ADPKD was approved in Japan
the nervous system.*1 Now, it has been used to treat as the world’s first treatment for this disease. Otsuka
many patients in 60 countries and regions worldwide. Pharmaceutical will seek approval for this indication in
In order to support continued treatment for patients other countries as well, in order to provide hope for pa-
who struggle with medication compliance,*2 Otsuka tients with ADPKD.
created Abilify Maintena, which only requires a once- In the cancer field, the Otsuka Group continues to
monthly injection. After its launch in the United States take on the challenge of developing new drugs to im-
in March 2013, and in the United Kingdom in January prove patients’ quality of life. In 1974, when I.V.-based
2014, an application for regulatory approval was also treatment was the mainstay of cancer chemotherapy,
filed in Japan in January. Schizophrenia requires long- Taiho Pharmaceutical, a member of the Otsuka Group,
term treatment, and if patients stop taking medication launched Futraful, an oral anticancer agent that pro-
due to forgetfulness or other reasons, they can easily vided a new method of treatment. Since then, Taiho
relapse, making recovery more difficult. By developing Pharmaceutical has launched oncological products
formulations that facilitate long-acting therapy, Otsuka such as UFT in 1984, TS-1 in 1999, and Lonsurf in
is helping patients to maintain their treatment. 2014. In recent years, great progress has been made
Otsuka Pharmaceutical is also conducting research in anticancer drug therapies. However, adequate ther-
into tuberculosis, which is a major public health issue apeutic efficacy cannot always be achieved depending
due to the increasing number of patients around the on the type of cancer, and significant unmet medical
world. As of March 2013, no new anti-tuberculosis needs remain. Therefore, Taiho Pharmaceutical is en-
drug had been released in over 40 years, and there is a gaged in R&D for comprehensive cancer treatment
*1: Dopamine D2 receptor partial particularly strong need for new, effective drugs to treat from the patient perspective. This includes an extensive
agonist
multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). Building range of products from the newest cancer treatments,
*2: Failure to take medication as
prescribed by the patient’s on more than 30 years of research in this field, Otsuka to drugs used for supportive care such as antiemetics
doctor
Pharmaceutical has developed Deltyba (delamanid), a and for pain relief.
*3: A diuretic that causes the
patient to excrete only water drug for treating MDR-TB. The drug was approved for
and not electrolytes
*4: Autosomal Dominant sale in Europe in April 2014, which was followed by Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical
Polycystic Kidney Disease: A regulatory approval in Japan, in July 2014. In this way,
genetic disease in which the
kidneys become enlarged due Otsuka is working to improve the treatment of TB.
to proliferation of fluid-filled Samsca, the world’s first aquaretic,*3 was devel-
cysts, causing renal function
to eventually decline oped by Otsuka Pharmaceutical over a period of 26
19 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Health
a blood purifier used as an extracorporeal circulation
therapy device for inflammatory bowel disease. Otsuka
Electronics developed Adamonitor, a specialized circu-
lation monitoring device that ensures stable blood flow
at a low speed. By shortening the therapy time com-
pared to regular extracorporeal circulation, Adamon-
itor helps in the treatment of patients with intractable
diseases. Its approved uses have expanded to Crohn’s
disease and pustular psoriasis. Otsuka Electronics is
also developing testing equipment with minimal mental
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: “Voluven 6%” plasma substitute and physical burden on patients. The POCone infrared
spectrometer can easily detect H. pylori infection just
Aiming to Solve Medical Problems by sampling the patient’s breath to measure the level
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory seeks to provide better of 13CO2.
products for healthcare settings, based on information
obtained from existing products. JIMRO, Otsuka Electronics
In cases where circulating blood volume is drastically
reduced due to severe bleeding, plasma substitutes
containing hydroxyethyl starch (HES) are used. However,
since these products have a number of limitations, Column
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory developed and released
Voluven 6%. It is Japan’s first preparation containing HES
with a molecular weight of 130kDa, and was released
in October 2013. Until now, preparations with a lower
molecular weight (70kDa) have been used. However,
in cases where more than the maximum dose was re-
quired, it was necessary to consider the use of albumin
preparations, made from human blood. Accordingly,
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory’s new product was de-
Aki Kawagishi
veloped to enable higher dosages than existing HES Drug Discovery & Development I,
Tsukuba Research Center
products, increasing the benefits to patients. Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Otsuka has also been working on measures to re-
Creating New Anticancer Agents
duce the complications of enteral nutrition. In February
Many anticancer agents currently in use place
2014, the company released HINE E-GEL, a concen-
a heavy physical burden on patients, because
trated liquid nutrition product that addresses the is- they act upon normal cells, as well as on can-
sues of susceptibility to diarrhea, through measures cerous cells. Therefore, we are working on
such as viscosity control and the osmotic pressure of the creation of molecular-targeted drugs that
attack only certain molecules involved in the
nutrients, as well as the use of dietary fiber and diges-
growth and metastasis of cancerous cells.
tive conditions.
Through a process of repeated trial and error,
we continue to tirelessly take on this challenge
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory without any compromises, while keeping in
mind patients suffering from cancer and who
are waiting for new drugs. For a researcher
there is no greater joy than seeing their daily
Developing Medical Devices That
hard work turn into a new drug that can save
Advance Treatment
people’s lives.
In the field of medical devices, the Otsuka Group is work-
ing on breakthrough product development useful for
therapeutic advances. JIMRO developed Adacolumn, Taiho Pharmaceutical
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 20Health
The Otsuka Group is using Soylution
soy to help address the
world’s health and environ-
mental problems, through
its Soylution (soy+solution)
concept.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Lecture seminar on the topic of soybeans for Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Soybean education event for parents and
nutritionists and the general public children, “Let’s Experience Soybean Farming!”
Soybeans Can Save the World a healthy soy snack that contains the equivalent of 50
Soybeans contain nutritional benefits that have been soybeans in one bag. Each bite-sized piece makes a
found to help maintain health and improve various delightful rattling sound and is a delicious way to get
medical conditions such as lifestyle-related diseases nutrition from soy.
and obesity. Additionally, soybean production emits Otsuka Pharmaceutical has been holding soy-
only 1/12th the carbon dioxide (CO2) required to pro- themed seminars for nutritionists and members of the
duce beef,*1 so that eating soybeans directly consumes general public. The seminars are held in cooperation
1/50th the amount of water and 1/20th the amount with local governments and regional dietetic associa-
of energy.*2 Furthermore, producing one kilogram of tions to disseminate information on the value and pos-
beef requires 10 kilograms of grain including soy, so sibilities of soybeans. Daylong soy educational events
eating soy directly can alleviate food shortages caused called, “Let’s Experience Soybean Farming!,” were also
by population growth. Despite these benefits, only carried out for parents and children, allowing them to
6% of the soybeans grown are directly eaten by peo- enjoy the work of planting, tending, and harvesting
ple worldwide.*3 Even though Japan has the world’s soybeans. The activities were held in collaboration with
highest soybean consumption, the intake of legumes distribution companies across Japan, and also involved
by Japanese aged 49 and younger is lower than the raising awareness and generating interest in soybeans.
national average.*4 A special website (in Japanese only) was created to in-
Otsuka Group’s Nutraceutical research centers are form people about events across Japan, including the
concentrating on the development of new soy foods, daylong activity schedule, as well as soybean growing
continuing the pursuit of forms and flavors acceptable conditions across the country. The website’s photo gal-
to people around the world. The company wants even lery includes images from past events, including smiling
those unfamiliar with soy to be able to enjoy the nutri- parents and children engaged in soybean cultivation.
tion of whole soybeans with ease. The site is designed to increase visitors’ desire to take
SOYJOY bars are currently available in 11 countries part in the events. Otsuka Pharmaceutical is working to
and regions. In addition to the great taste of fruit and develop a new food culture based on soybeans, through
nuts baked into a bar made from whole soybean flour, active Soylution efforts with a variety of approaches.
SOYJOY is a low-GI (glycemic index) food that slows
*1: Calculated based on
the rate of carbohydrate absorption, making it easier to Otsuka Pharmaceutical
embodied energy and emis-
sion intensity data using achieve a healthy weight. Otsuka Pharmaceutical has
input-output tables for Japan,
from the Center for Global been developing original SOYJOY flavors that fit the
Environmental Research cultures and eating habits of different regions. These
Center of the National Institute
for Environmental Studies. include dark cherry and chocolate for the United States
*2: Professor David Pimentel, and jujube for China. The company has developed
Cornell University, U.S.A.
*3: U.S. Department of Agriculture other innovative soy products as well. Soysh is a car-
*4: From “2010 National Health bonated soy drink that is easy to consume thanks to its
and Nutrition Survey,” Ministry
of Health, Labour and Welfare mild carbonation and refreshing aftertaste. SoyCarat is
21 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Health
Health
Otsuka is engaged in initia- Advocating the Importance of Hydration
tives to make people aware
of the importance of hydra-
tion. It promotes a variety Techno, a heat disorder prevention leaflet prepared by
of activities, including heat the Fire and Disaster Management Agency is distrib-
disorder awareness raising,
uted to employees to promote awareness of heat dis-
targeting audiences from
order prevention measures.
the general public to educa-
tion and healthcare leaders.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Techno
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Committee for Awareness of
Hidden Dehydration
Detailed Information for Everyone
from Children to the Elderly
Since it first released POCARI SWEAT, Otsuka Phar-
maceutical has been telling people of all ages about
the importance of hydration to prevent heat disorders
in various situations, especially junior athletes, those in
their 20s and 30s, as well as seniors. The company has Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Otsuka Academy Open School Seminar
been promoting awareness activities in cooperation
with experts such as industrial physicians, sports train- Initiatives in Medical Settings,
ers and weather forecasters. It also provides lectures Schools, and Workplaces
across Japan to convey the importance of water and The Otsuka Group holds forums across Japan on heat
ions (electrolytes) for the body. In fiscal 2013, Otsuka disorder prevention for industrial physicians, public
Pharmaceutical launched the Protect Yourself From health nurses, nurses, and nutritionists. In fiscal 2013,
Heat Disorders website in cooperation with non-profit Otsuka’s Heat Disorder Prevention TV Forum was
Weather Caster Network. The service automatically de- changed to an online interactive format, enabling par-
livers free information such as the WBGT index, indicat- ticipants to ask each other questions. A total of 911
ing the level of heat disorder risk, for locations selected people participated at 120 locations across Japan.
by users. The Committee for Awareness of Hidden Seminars were also given to promote the appropriate
Dehydration promotes awareness activities concerning use of oral rehydration solutions, and provide knowl-
ways to prevent and deal with hidden dehydration be- edge on dehydration as a contributing factor to heat
fore it worsens. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, which disorders. They were held at the Japan Society for
sells the oral rehydration solution OS-1, supports and Occupational Health, the Japan Pediatric Association,
assists with the activities of this committee. and at a variety of other societies, as well as in drug-
stores, which are readily accessible to customers.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory Otsuka Academy is a program in which employees
visit schools to provide awareness building activities
for children. Otsuka employees also visit workplaces
Raising Awareness among to provide workshops on occupational heat disorder
Otsuka Group Employees prevention, at the invitation of corporate occupational
The Otsuka Group is working to raise awareness health and safety departments.
among its employees concerning heat disorder pre-
vention. It distributes POCARI SWEAT as a measure Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
to promote hydration and prevent heat disorders. The
beverages are supplied to employees working outside,
or in factories where temperature levels are high, and
the drink is made available in break rooms. At Otsuka
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 22Detailed information online concerning other initiatives
Otsuka Group Consolidated CSR website 〉〉http://otsuka.csrportal.jp/en
Providing information on the proper use of infusion products at pharmaceutical-related societies Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
Learn more about inflammatory bowel disease JIMRO
Health
To help people improve their Communicating Health Information
health and quality of life,
the Otsuka Group provides
health information not only to 2013, the company began distributing bottled water
patients fighting disease, but samples along with leaflets offering children and par-
also to their families, medical
ents a fun way to learn about the importance of water.
practitioners, and children.
Over 800 requests were received. Otsuka Foods also
delivered bottled water, leaflets and specially prepared
picture books illustrating the importance of water to ap-
proximately 1,500 kindergartens and daycare centers
across Japan. Positive feedback was received from the
teachers and staff, including comments indicating that
they talked about or are planning to talk about the im-
Taiho Pharmaceutical: 2013 Pink Ribbon Festival in Kobe portance of water with the children.
Understanding Cancer and Other Diseases Otsuka Foods
The Otsuka Group is engaged in activities to pro-
mote the proper understanding of cancer and other
illnesses. Taiho Pharmaceutical endorses the Pink
Ribbon Campaign to raise awareness of the impor-
tance of early detection and treatment of breast can-
cer. Since 2006, it has supported the Pink Ribbon
Festivals organized by the Japan Cancer Society. As
part of awareness-raising efforts, in fiscal 2013, the
company distributed educational pamphlets on breast
cancer and gave out promotional goods to encourage
women to get screened for breast cancer. In 2007,
Taiho Pharmaceutical created SurvivorSHIP.jp, a web- Otsuka Health Comic
site based on joint research with the Shizuoka Cancer
Center. The site shares information from the perspec- Otsuka Health Comic Library
tive of cancer survivors and their families, and provides Since 1989, the Otsuka Group has been producing
them with inspiration to overcome the challenges of the Otsuka Health Comic Library, a collection of comic
life. Otsuka Pharmaceutical maintains a website called, books that help promote the health of children, the next
“Health & Illness,” and distributes health and disease generation. To date, 24 titles have been published, in-
information through the sponsorship of seminars. The cluding a special edition, and every year collections
company also hosts lectures on autism in and outside are donated to elementary and special needs schools
Japan, by experts in the field, and promotes awareness across Japan. In addition to being read by children in-
of schizophrenia as well. dividually, the comics are used as teaching materials
SurvivorSHIP.jp is also available as
an application for iPhone and iPad for self-directed learning and school health committee
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical activities. To further increase interest, starting in fiscal
2013, students are being encouraged to submit ideas
for health-related topics to be covered in future titles, in
My First Water Project the form of illustrations or cartoons. The submissions
Otsuka Foods started the My First Water Project to ex- are then used by the publication’s cartoonists to make
amine the importance of water in parenting, with the collaborative comic books. The effort has created good
belief that parents are responsible for making good opportunities to think about health, not just for the
24 choices about water until their children are old enough children whose submissions are utilized, but for their
titles to make their own decisions. The purpose of the project friends, guardians, and teachers.
(248 editions)
is to provide parents with a range of information about
Number of health-themed comic
books published to date water, including the importance of hydration and how Otsuka Group
to select water that is safe for young children. In fiscal
23 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Environment
Our lives and our communities and business activities are dependent on the
bounty of nature. The Otsuka Group embraces its responsibility to conserve the
natural environment, pursuing sustainability at every stage from manufacturing to
the use of our products.
Biotope at the Tokushima Itano Factory of Otsuka Pharmaceutical
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 24Environment
As part of its biodiversity Eco-Friendly Plants
conservation activities, the
Otsuka Group promotes the
creation of biotopes to pre-
serve natural habitats for
wildlife and to build harmo-
nious relationships with the
natural environment.
Taiho Pharmaceutical: Biotope at Okayama Plant Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Acorn Tree Project
VOICE
Creating Biotopes and Building Harmonious With a park-like setting that combines nature and
Relationships with Wildlife and human activities in a lush hilly area, the Tokushima
the Local Community Wajiki Factory of Otsuka Pharmaceutical carries out
Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Tokushima Itano Factory was eco-friendly production. It also actively participates in
designed to be an eco-friendly and community-friendly local nature conservation activities, and is involved in
plant, with greenery covering some 70% of the grounds. the Acorn Tree Project of the Tokushima Prefecture
The site features a biotope that offers a natural environ- Government South District Administration Bureau.
Facilitating Both Production ment for diverse wildlife. The project involves raising seedlings of acorn-bearing
and Environmental The biotope pond is fed with purified wastewa- trees that are native to the region. Once the seedlings
Conservation
ter from the plant’s cooling system. Once a natural are large enough, they are distributed to local commu-
Kaneto Nagamachi
Manager, Engineering Section, aquatic environment was created in which a wide vari- nities and also planted on the factory grounds.
Tokushima Itano Factory,
Production Headquarters ety of organisms could live, the factory and Tokushima Located in a scenic spot overlooking Kugui Bay in
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Prefecture stocked the pond with cyprinid fish, an en- the city of Bizen, the Okayama Plant of Taiho Pharma-
The biotope at the Tokushima Itano
Factory was recently used for a dangered freshwater species. About a year after the ceutical uses eco-friendly wastewater treatment meth-
project to propagate an endan-
fish were released, the population had increased to ods to purify cooling and cleaning water generated from
gered species of fish, the cyprinid
fish, in a natural environment. Fish between 10,000 and 20,000, which was more than manufacturing. This enables the plant to discharge the
protected and raised by Tokushima
Agriculture, Forestry and Fish- ten times the initial number. However, when fish breed treated water into the sea in a condition that is closer
ers Technology Support Center in the same place over time, there is the potential for to its natural state. In the biotope on the plant grounds,
were introduced into the factory’s
biotope. Despite concerns that lower fertility and less resistance to disease due to in- there are a variety of features such as a babbling brook,
the tank-raised fish would face
breeding. Therefore, we take care to exchange adult a deep pool, and sandbars, creating an environment
many predators in this natural
environment, the population in- fish with those from other breeding sites, in order to in which fish and small animals can thrive. They look
creased significantly. It made me
realize the power of nature and maintain a healthy population. We will continue to par- for food along the water’s edge, and the habitat also
the importance of environmental
ticipate in this project with the ultimate goal of returning attracts insects and birds.
conservation. I will continue to pro-
mote both production and environ- the cyprinid fish to its native habitats. The treated wastewater that flows through this bio-
mental conservation activities, as
part of our factory’s effort to build Another project is also being carried out on the fac- tope is eventually released into the sea, and has the
harmonious relationships with the tory grounds. Each year we raise 300 beetles using same qualities as natural stream water, rich in organic
natural environment.
deciduous tree leaves, in order to ensure a healthy material. This helps to increase the plants and animals
population here. The adult beetles emerge in a location in the tidal flats of Kugui Bay. The biotope is contribut-
on one side of the pond, and this is a popular spot for ing to regional biodiversity conservation. The Okayama
children who come here during factory tours. Plant has been recognized for its efforts with the Fiscal
In recognition of these nature conservation activities, 2013 Bizen General Service Bureau Director’s Award
in 2010, Otsuka Pharmaceutical was chosen as one of for Regional Environmental Protection. The plant was
the top 100 green companies for biodiversity conser- also selected as a Fiscal 2014 Okayama Prefecture
vation by the Organization for Landscape and Urban Eco Tour Learning Facility.
Green Infrastructure.
Cyprinid fish Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical
25 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Environment
Lesser emperor and
Common kingfisher Japanese white-eye Japanese brown frog Water scorpion pygmy water lily Red dragonfly
Biotope Visitors and Inhabitants
The annual concert has been held since 1990, and
Maintaining Factory Grounds as Parks 2013 marked the 24th year. Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s
There is no fence surrounding the Tokushima Wajiki Tokushima Itano Factory also strengthens ties with the
Factory of Otsuka Pharmaceutical, and its grounds are local community through a charity walking event and a
open to the local community. When the weather is nice, marathon, under the theme of environment and health.
children can be seen running around the plant’s large Meanwhile, the Kitajima Plant of Taiho Pharmaceuti-
lawn while local residents walk the grounds. It is also a cal created a promenade lined with cherry trees in its
popular place for enjoying weeping cherry blossoms in grounds, which is open during plant operating hours
spring. In order to protect this abundant green space, to local residents, as a place for relaxation and con-
Taiho Pharmaceutical: Promenade the factory refrains from using pesticides and herbi- templation. In the event of a natural disaster such as
at the Kitajima Plant is open to the
community cides as far as possible. an earthquake, a part of the grounds is designated as
Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Fukuroi Factory is also com- a temporary shelter for local residents, and a disaster
mitted to maintaining and managing its green spaces management agreement has been signed with the lo-
in an environmentally friendly way, and the employees cal government.
regularly weed the beautiful lawn in order to protect it.
The factory also actively participates in community en- Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Techno
vironmental conservation activities, such as a project
to regenerate a pine forest in the city of Fukuroi, and
one to fill planters on the city streets. In recognition of Column
its environmental conservation activities and in coop-
eration with the local community, the Fukuroi Factory
received the Fiscal 2011 METI Minister Awards for
Factories Making an Outstanding Contribution to the
Sculpture in the garden of Environment—Toward factories beautified with greenery.
Tokushima Wajiki Factory
Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Building constructed with rice straw in the walls
Rice Straw Building Construction
at Ridge Vineyards
Ridge Vineyards is a prestigious winery in the
United States and a member of the Otsuka
Group. The company used rice straw for the
construction of its warehouse and office, with
the aim of creating a winery that is friendly with
the global environment. Rice straw can be re-
cycled as fertilizer, but it does not break down
quickly in the soil and leaves residual mate-
rial. However, when rice straw is formed into
“Exciting Summer in Wajiki 2013” concert
rectangular bales, it can be used as a building
material. Thanks to the natural insulating prop-
Participating in the Community
erties of rice straw, the winery’s warehouse
With the cooperation of local residents, the factories of maintains the optimal temperature for wine
the Otsuka Group hold various events for community storage, and the company was able to reuse
revitalization. Every year, together with Otsuka Techno a waste material. The winery also installed 400
solar panels on the roof, and intends to save
and the local government, the Tokushima Wajiki Fac-
energy by using the panels to supply about
tory of Otsuka Pharmaceutical plans and holds an out-
40% of its electrical needs.
door concert, “Exciting Summer in Wajiki,” to coincide
with the popular Awa Dance Festival in Tokushima. Ridge Vineyards
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 26Detailed information online concerning other initiatives
Otsuka Group Consolidated CSR website 〉〉http://otsuka.csrportal.jp/en
ISO 14001 Certified Business Locations Otsuka Group
Environment
An information exchange Environmental Management
meeting for environmental
managers from Group pro-
duction facilities is growing
into a global system to pro-
Otsuka Group Environmental Policy
mote Group-wide environ-
mental activities. As a global healthcare company and a responsible corporate citizen, the Otsuka Group will always
take account of the global environment when it pursues its business activities. The Group will work
on environmental issues with its trademark qualities of independence, proactiveness and creativity.
Guidelines
1 Provide products and services that are friendly to the environment
2 Contribute to a low-carbon society
3 Contribute to a sound material-cycle society
4 Conserve biodiversity
5 Compliance
6 Actively engage in social initiatives
7 Enhance risk management
Otsuka Group Environmental Promotion Council East Asia Environmental Council Meeting
Otsuka Group Environmental Promotion Council Environmental Communication Outside Japan
In 2003, the Otsuka Group held a meeting to exchange Otsuka Pharmaceutical held its East Asia Environmental
information on environmental conservation initiatives. Council meeting at the Tianjin Factory China Otsuka
It was attended by environmental and ISO managers Pharmaceutical. It was attended by 13 Group produc-
from Group companies in the Tokushima area, where tion companies in the East Asia region. A lecture was
much of the production takes place. Today, the Otsuka given by a guest speaker, and case studies were pre-
Group Environmental Promotion Council, involving en- sented by the participating companies. In addition to
vironmental managers from 13 Group companies in exchanging practical information on the topics of waste
Japan, meets to advance Group-wide environmental management and energy conservation, the council was
conservation initiatives. The council confirms trends able to confirm the overall direction of the Group’s envi-
concerning environmental regulations and technology, ronmental activities in East Asia. At its global production
as well as the overall direction of the Group’s environ- meetings, Otsuka Chemical also creates opportunities
mental activities. In addition to this discussion and in- to share information relating to environmental conser-
formation exchange, the council works to improve the vation as well as health and safety.
skills of environmental managers and other personnel.
This is done through subcommittee activities and work- Otsuka Group
shops by outside guest lecturers.
Otsuka Group
27 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Environment
Environment
Each Group company sets Environmental Performance Data
annual, as well as medium-
and long-term targets, for
combating climate change, processes for the reaction, distillation, and drying of
conserving energy, and man- Combating Climate Change and chemicals, as well as for sterilization processes used in
aging waste. The results of
Conserving Energy making beverages and pharmaceuticals (I.V. solutions).
efforts by Group companies
In 2013, the 11 Group companies in Japan used the Therefore, the Otsuka Group is working to reduce en-
worldwide have been com-
energy equivalent of 333,732 tons of CO2 emissions ergy consumption in these areas, which accounts for
piled and reported here.
through their business activities. The 25 Group com- a large portion of energy use, through manufacturing
panies outside Japan*1 used the energy equivalent of process innovation at each Group company. For lo-
327,117 tons of CO2 emissions. Due to the expansion gistics operations in Japan, the number of specified
of business outside Japan and changes in the CO2 consigners*2 within the Group was reduced from five to
emission coefficient of electricity in Japan (about 10 four, due to the transfer of Oronamin C business within
percent increased), CO2 emissions increased 10.8% the Group, starting in 2013. As a result of efforts to
year-on-year. improve delivery efficiency using transportation modal
The startup of a new factory in the United States shift measures and joint delivery, energy consumption
(Pharmavite’s factory in Opelika, Alabama), and a new per ton-kilometer*3 fell by 3.1% year-on-year.
Taiho Pharmaceutical factory in Japan also made a
big impact. A lot of heat is required in production
Total CO2 Emissions (Energy-related) Energy Usage (Crude-oil equivalent)
(t-CO2) In Japan Outside Japan (kL) In Japan Outside Japan
700,000 660,849 300,000 279,038
596,699 261,459 260,531 263,500
600,000 554,153 548,466 250,000 223,969
500,000 463,850 327,117 200,000 102,564 107,926 116,004 129,371
400,000 268,425 278,051 295,575 73,449
185,748 150,000
300,000
100,000
200,000 333,732 150,520 158,895 152,605 147,496 149,667
100,000 278,102 285,728 270,415 301,124 50,000
0 0
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
(FY) (FY)
CO2 Emissions by Company in FY2013 (in Japan) FO Yts 2u 0k 1a
3
G (Wro ou rlp
d
wCO id2
e
E )missions by Country in
Otsuka Techno 3% Otsuka Packaging Industries 2% Europe (6 companies) 1% Other (4 companies) 2%
Otsuka Electronics 3% Otsuka Foods 8% China (5 companies) 2%
PharmEN a cO et us tu ick aa l Otsuka Pharmaceutical India (1 company) 6% Japan (11 compa 5n 1ie %s )
4% 26%
Total Total
JIMRO 0.3%
emissions: emissions:
Otsuka Chemical 333,732 660,849
9%
tons tons
Otsuka Warehouse 2% Otsuka USA (5 companies)
*1: sT oh le idre a ta er de ca o t mot pa al n2 i6 e sc o on u- tside Taiho Pharmaceutical 13% Pharmaceutical Fac 3t 0o %ry 7%
Japan which have a produc- Indonesia (4 companies) 31%
tion site. Energy Consumption per Ton-Kilometer by
*2: Four Specified Consigners Four Specified Consigners of the Otsuka Group
of Otsuka Group companies
(as defined by Japanese Thousands ton-kilometers Kiloliter/thousand ton-kilometers
Law): Otsuka Pharmaceutical,
(Thousands ton-kilometers) (Kiloliter/thousand ton-kilometers)
Otsuka Pharmaceutical
1,000,000 0.05
Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical,
and Otsuka Foods.
800,000 0.03628 0.04
*3: Energy consumption per ton- 0.03396 0.03268 0.03197 0.03098
kilometer = Energy consump-
600,000 0.03
tion (kiloliters) / ton-kilometers
A ton-kilometer is a unit that
400,000 0.02
e Fx op r r ee xs as mes p lf ere , i og nh et v to ol nu m ofe c. argo 499,656538,213 572,009 527,481517,605
200,000 0.01
transported one kilometer
equals one ton-kilometer.
0 0.00
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
(FY)
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 28Environment
Environmental Performance Data
2013 recycling rate for 20 Group
Total Waste Discharge and Recycling
companies outside Japan
Reducing Waste
79.6 Total amount of Amount of saleable
In 2013, the 11 Group companies in Japan discharged waste discharged resources
% (Tons)
Amount of other waste recycled
32,565 tons of waste from business activities, an in- 40,000
The Otsuka Group has begun as-
certaining the waste management crease of 14.4% year-on-year. This was due to the re- 31,163 33,617 32,565
situation at its companies outside 30,000 28,739 28,476
placement of equipment required to handle increases
Japan. In 2013, 20 consolidated
s 1u 6b ,3s 5id 7ia tr oie ns s o ou ft s wid ae s tJ ea . p Ta hn e ye m hait dte d a in production volume and trial products. The recycling 20,000 10,325 10,420 11,413 10,226 10,795
rate was 96.7%, as a result of reuse and recycling ini-
recycling rate of 79.6%, and a final
disposal amount of 1,590 tons. tiatives. However, the final disposal amount was 999 10,000 13,471 15,695 17,284 15,333 18,312
tons, up 50.2% year-on-year. Each factory will continue
0
robust 3R (reduce, reuse, and recycle) initiatives with 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
(FY)
the aim of achieving zero emissions.
Recycling Rate and Final Disposal Amount
(Tons) Final disposal amount Recycling rate (%)
1,500 100
Amount of Amount of 1,262
other waste saleable 1,200 97.4 97.5 98
recycled resources 96.5 96.7
Recycling 100 900 95.0 762 96
rate (%) 960 665 999
Final Amount of Amount of
disposal other waste saleable 600 94
amount recycled resources
300 92
0 90
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
(FY)
* Pollutant release and transfer
registers (PRTRs). There are PRTR Substances Water Usage
presently 462 substances
designated under Japan’s Management of PRTR substances* at the 11 Group In 2013, the 11 Group companies in Japan used 17.823
PRTR system. companies in Japan are shown in the graph below. million m3 of water in business activities. Outside Japan,
25 Group companies used 5.224 million m3 of water,
resulting in worldwide use of 23.047 million m3. The
Otsuka Group will strive to reduce its consumption of
finite resources, based on usage analysis and compar-
isons between Group companies.
Handling, Release, and Transfer of PRTR Substances Water Usage by Group Companies
Handling Release in atmosphere and water
(Tons) Transfer (as waste) (Thousand m3) In Japan Outside Japan
6,000 5,552 25,000 23,047
22,057 22,206 22,288
4,491 20,000 4,467 5,105 5,230 5,224
4,000 3,692
3,253 3,220 15,000
10,000
2,000 18,296 17,590 17,101 17,058 17,823
864 1,050 580 377 410 5,000
98 21 18 38 21
0 0
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
(FY) (FY)
29 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Environment
SOx Emissions
Preventing Air Pollution
Through efforts to switch from heavy oil to natural gas, (Tons)
the volume of dust and soot as well as sulfur oxides 250
(SOx) emitted into the atmosphere decreased signifi- 197 206 203
200
cantly for the 11 Group companies in Japan. The decline
145
150
in nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions for these companies
was due to changes in incinerator operation. 100
49
50
0
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
(FY)
NOx Emissions Dust and Soot Emissions
(Tons) (Tons)
7.8
250 8.0 7.3
6.9 6.9
200
6.0
154
150 131 138
100 98 89 4.0 3.3
2.0
50
0 0
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
(FY) (FY)
Chemical Oxygen Demand
2013 total wastewater volume for
Preventing Water Pollution
20 Group companies outside Japan
(Tons)
The total volumes of wastewater, chemical oxygen
2.526
million m3 demand, and suspended solid emissions for the 11
120
105
113
100
100 94 90
The Otsuka Group has begun Group companies in Japan are shown here.
ascertaining the wastewater man- 80
agement situation at its compa-
60
nies outside Japan. In 2013, the
total wastewater volume for 20 40
consolidated subsidiaries outside
Japan was 2.526 million m3. 20
0
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
(FY)
Total Wastewater Suspended Solid Emissions
(Thousand m3) (Tons)
20,000 80
17,551 17,294 17,160
16,217 15,947
15,000 60 54 54 52
48
41
10,000 40
5,000 20
0 0
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
(FY) (FY)
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 30Environment
The Otsuka Group is striving Eco-Friendly Products
for environmental conser-
vation through its products.
It is working to develop can be reused to showcase different products, thereby
eco-friendly products that employing resources more effectively and reducing
reduce the environmen-
waste. Since the new POP display can hold multiple
tal impact throughout the
products by simply adjusting the internal partitions, it
product life cycle, includ-
eliminates the need to fabricate customized counter
ing measures for environ-
displays for each new product or package design,
ment-friendly disposal.
while also improving efficiency in the stores.
Otsuka Group
Lighter Bottles
The Otsuka Group has been making lighter containers
for many of its products. When they were launched in
2007, Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s 500 ml plastic bottles
of Pocari Sweat were the lightest in Japan. The weight
of the bottles was reduced by introducing a method
called “positive pressure aseptic filling” to the bottling
lines, a first for Japan. Now the bottle washing and ster-
ilizing process has been eliminated, as the company
Manufacturing preforms that are produces preforms in-house from raw PET plastic ma-
inflated to make plastic bottles
terial. The preforms are then inflated to make the bot-
tles. Otsuka Foods also reduced the weight of bottles
for its carbonated vitamin beverage, MATCH. The com- Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Products that result in less waste
pany is working to reduce raw material consumption
and CO2 emissions from manufacturing and disposal. Product Development that Improves
The Otsuka Group is striving to cut the amount of Customer Convenience and Reduces Waste
energy used in production processes, along with fuel In order to reduce medical waste, Otsuka Pharma-
used for transportation. In addition to reducing the ceutical Factory has developed ELNEOPA No. 1 and
thickness of its labels, the company adopted a wrap- ELNEOPA No. 2 injection solutions featuring the first-
around label process that does not require heat. Taiho ever quad-chamber kit formulation bags containing
Pharmaceutical has introduced lighter glass bottles glucose, electrolytes, and amino acids with vitamins
over the years for its Tiovita Drink, through the use of and trace elements. Compared to conventional injec-
technology to strengthen the bottles and compensate tion solutions that require a combination of products,
for the reduced weight. Through innovation in shape the new quad-chamber bags help reduce waste such
design to make plastic products thinner, Otsuka Techno as containers and needles, while lessening the environ-
is also promoting efforts to reduce product weight. mental impact.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical has developed an inhaler for
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Foods, Taiho Pharmaceutical and respiratory therapy that is more compact and does not
Otsuka Techno
contain propellants that are harmful to the environment.
This has reduced the amount of disposal waste, while
Lighter and Smaller Packaging also being more convenient for patients.
In addition to lighter products, the Otsuka Group is In the area of in-vitro diagnostic kits, the company
working to reduce packaging material such as card- has developed products with improved usability to re-
Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Meptin
Swinghaler (top) and WT1 mRNA board. Starting in April 2013, lightweight paper was ad- duce the workload in medical labs. By also reducing kit
Assay Kit II ‘Otsuka’ (bottom)
opted to make cardboard cases for beverage bottles contents, medical waste has been reduced, and the
and cans. By making the cases smaller to fit the shape shorter testing time means a reduction in energy use.
of the products, the Group is helping to reduce paper
consumption and lessen environmental impact. Otsuka Otsuka Group
Packaging Industries developed a pop display unit that
31 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Environment
Detailed information online concerning other initiatives
Otsuka Group Consolidated CSR website 〉〉http://otsuka.csrportal.jp/en
Chemcatch Otsuka Chemical
These are sold in France and throughout Europe as
VOICE
well as in Japan. The company implements its own
eco-design charter to ensure that environmental im-
pact is considered at all stages, from product develop-
ment and ingredients procurement, to manufacturing,
packaging materials design, and product transport. As
palm oil is used as an ingredient in biscuits and other
products, the company participates in the Roundtable
Aiming to Reduce CO2
on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). The company is seek-
Emissions
ing to ensure that its own fa-
Kwon Sung-Won
Quality Management Office, Campaign to encourage the removal of labels from plastic bottles cilities and those of suppliers
Production Division for recycling
Dong-A Otsuka Co., Ltd. use RSPO-certified oil for
I was in charge of obtaining low
Carbon Footprint Reduction for Nutrition & Sante products.
CO2 emissions certification for
Pocari Sweat, as the first of its Pocari Sweat in Korea and a Campaign
kind for an ion beverage in South
Korea. The project reminded me to Sort Waste for Recycling Nutrition & Sante
of the importance of reducing the Dong-A Otsuka, which manufactures and sells bever-
use of electricity, fuel, and water in
production processes, while main- ages such as Pocari Sweat in South Korea, is reducing
taining cooperative relationships
with ingredient manufacturers for
and labeling CO2 emissions generated by its prod-
CO2 emissions reduction. I would ucts, based on life cycle assessment (LCA).*1 When
like to continue looking for system-
atic ways to reduce energy use and the company reduced the weight of its 500 ml plastic
help protect the environment.
bottles used for Pocari Sweat in South Korea in 2010,
it decided to indicate the carbon footprint (CFP*2)
level on the product labels. It then obtained a Carbon
Emissions Certificate for CO2 emissions reduction for
its 500 ml and 1.5 liter bottles and added the Low-
Otsuka Packaging Industries: Packaging that does not require extra
Carbon Product Certificate logo to the labels, creating
cushioning material
Korea’s first certified low-carbon ion beverage.
In 2013, the company launched a campaign to en- Developing Environmental Packaging
courage customers to remove the labels from its plas- Otsuka Packaging Industries is reducing the consump-
tic beverage bottles for recycling. The information was tion of raw materials while also developing recyclable
printed on the inside of a label with a perforated line packaging materials. Packaging is being created that
for easy removal, a first in South Korea. In 2014, the provides sufficient protection without using cushioning
effort was greatly expanded with the launch of a Blue materials. It has developed cardboard shipping boxes
Recycling campaign information
inside the label Label Campaign for global environmental protection. that are self-sealing and do not require additional items
Compared to the same period in the previous year, the such as wrapping paper, sealing stickers, shrink wrap
number of participants increased by a factor of 13 or film or tape. The new packaging solutions also simplify
more. Dong-A Otsuka will continue to promote the en- separation for disposal, by using a single material.
vironmental awareness of consumers, while striving to The company is reducing paper consumption by
reduce product CO2 emissions. redesigning paper and cardboard shipping boxes so
that the contents are protected without needing to use
*1: Life cycle assessment:
An environmental impact Dong-A Otsuka additional internal partition pieces. Moreover, it is ac-
assessment for products that
tively making food trays and paper trays made from
covers all processes from
manufacturing and distribu- biomass materials.
tion, to use and disposal.
*2: Carbon footprint of products: Ecodesign and Sustainable Ingredients
Indicator, often displayed on Nutrition & Sante SAS is based in southern France and Otsuka Packaging Industries
the product label, of the CO2
emitted throughout the life true to its name (“sante” means “health”), makes health
cycle of a product, from the and nutritional foods such as biscuits and chocolate
extraction of natural resources
to disposal and recycling. bars as well as soy products and powdered beverages.
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 32Environment
By recognizing the finite na- Low Carbon Neutral Initiatives
ture of the earth’s resources,
the Otsuka Group is work-
ing to help realize a car- Group employees to become eco-commuters by walk-
bon-neutral society. This in- ing or cycling have also been successful.
cludes initiatives to minimize
carbon dioxide emissions Otsuka Group
through energy conserva-
tion and better productivity.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Kushiro Factory
Initiatives on the Production Floor
VOICE
In Tokushima Prefecture, where many of the Otsuka
Group production facilities are located, electricity is
produced using cogeneration systems, in order to op-
erate facilities with a low environmental impact. The Ridge Vineyards: Lytton Springs
Tokushima Factory of Otsuka Chemical has a gas tur-
bine cogeneration system that uses municipal natural
Eco-Friendly Production gas. The Matsushige Factory of Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Nanang Sugiantoro Factory has a cogeneration system using liquefied nat-
Engineering Manufacturing,
Sukabumi Factory, ural gas (LNG). By supplying half the power needed by
P.T. Amerta Indah Otsuka
We decided to produce Pocari
these facilities, the systems have reduced CO2 emis-
Sweat with an aseptic filling sys- sions by about 20%. Amerta Indah Otsuka, maker of
tem. Because the grid has frequent
power cuts, we decided to install Pocari Sweat in Indonesia, has also introduced cogen-
a cogeneration system. It also has
eration systems at two of its plants in Java, in order to
environmental benefits because it Otsuka Warehouse: Imagire No. 5 EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical:
can provide steam from its waste save energy and secure a stable supply of electricity. Warehouse Hanamaki Factory
heat recovery boiler. Initially we had
problems with the breaker trip- Efforts to reduce CO2 emissions are also under-
ping frequently, but we have now way through fuel conversion. At the Kushiro Factory
optimized the system and greatly
reduced this problem. at Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, the old water-tube
boiler was replaced and updated with a once-through
boiler in December 2013, by converting from C heavy
oil to LNG. China Otsuka Pharmaceutical, which manu-
factures and sells I.V. solutions in the northern Chinese
province of Tianjin, converted its coal boiler to natural
gas in order to reduce its impact on the atmosphere. This
Otsuka Techno: Naruto Head Office
significantly reduced CO2 and air pollutant emissions.
Guangdong Otsuka Pharmaceutical, which makes I.V. Clean Energy Use
solutions in southern China, switched from heavy oil to Through the installation of solar power generation sys-
natural gas, while Otsuka Sims (Guangdong) Beverage, tems and the use of clean energy, the Otsuka Group is
a maker of Pocari Sweat, converted from heavy oil to working to reduce CO2 emissions.
light oil. Both plants have reduced their impact on the
atmosphere as a result. Otsuka Group
From July to September, the factories and research
centers of the Otsuka Group in Japan adopt “reverse
summer time” and start work one hour later than usual
to reduce electrical consumption during peak demand
Amerta Indah Otsuka: Kejayan Plant hours. Other environmental ideas such as encouraging
33 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Environment
Detailed information online concerning other initiatives
Otsuka Group Consolidated CSR website 〉〉http://otsuka.csrportal.jp/en
Combining electricity from the public grid and private generators Otsuka Foods
Upgrading the transformer of the factory to high-efficiency models Otsuka Foods
Goya shade curtains and energy conservation measures Taiho Pharmaceutical
Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Eco-car Otsuka Warehouse: Choosing ocean transport
Initiatives in the Office Reducing CO2 Emissions from Logistics
The Otsuka Group’s office energy-saving activities are The Otsuka Group is endeavoring to reduce the en-
focused on energy efficiency improvement and sav- vironmental impact of its logistics activities, through
ing fuel in vehicles used for business activities. Group a modal shift from trucking to sea and rail transport.
companies that use business vehicles are actively con- Otsuka Pharmaceutical, which distributes beverages
verting them to eco-cars such as hybrid and other fu- and other products across Japan, is promoting a modal
el-efficient vehicles. The fiscal 2013 eco-car usage rate shift from road to rail and ocean transport, which allows
was 67% at Otsuka Pharmaceutical, 74% at Otsuka large quantities to be shipped while generating less
Pharmaceutical Factory, 75% at Taiho Pharmaceutical, CO2 emissions. In 2013, the company began using Eco
and 92% at EN Otsuka pharmaceutical. With thor- Liner containers that can be directly transferred from
ough participation in the national Cool Biz and Warm trucks to rail transport, while also increasing its use of
Biz campaigns for season-appropriate work attire, and marine transport. Future plans include greater use of
by enabling the monitoring of electrical consumption in rail transport for medium as well as long distances.
real time, the Otsuka Group is striving to improve the The Otsuka Group is also improving efficiency for
energy-saving awareness of employees. The Group is short-range deliveries by conducting joint distribution of
actively implementing other measures such as energy goods with other companies, while expanding delivery
audits by third parties, in order to identify issues and vehicle capacity in order to reduce the number of ve-
promote appropriate energy-saving measures. Otsuka hicles on the road. The Group is working to convert its
Pharmaceutical has expanded the scope of its ISO forklifts from high-emission diesel-powered models to
14001 certification, which had been limited primarily to those that run on electricity or liquefied petroleum gas
production departments. It aims to expand the scope to (LPG). At Otsuka Warehouse, which operates many
offices certified by 2015. The company has also started forklifts, low-emission models comprised 99% of the
using FSC-certified paper* to print company profiles fleet in 2013.
and product pamphlets, in addition to using green Moreover, when sending packages to suppliers or
purchasing for office supplies. Otsuka Pharmaceutical transferring documents between offices, the Otsuka
has implemented a variety of other environmental ac- Group is switching to delivery companies that use
tivities including conversion to LED lighting, updating eco-vehicles such as bicycles or electric cars. Through
heat sources for air conditioning systems, and reducing these kinds of daily initiatives the Group is striving to
energy consumption by establishing no-overtime days reduce its environmental impact.
once a week.
Otsuka Group
Otsuka Group
* Paper made from wood that
has been harvested in a
sustainable manner and certi-
fied by the Forest Stewardship
Council (FSC), an independent
international organization.
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 34Detailed information online concerning other initiatives
Otsuka Group Consolidated CSR website 〉〉http://otsuka.csrportal.jp/en
Improving Wastewater Treatment and Equipment Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
Collaborating in Recycling Used Cooking Oil Otsuka Techno/Taiho Pharmaceutical
Environment
With the aim of helping to Initiatives for a Resource Recycling Society
create a recycling society,
the Otsuka Group is active-
ly striving to achieve zero
waste for final disposal,
through recycling and re-
duction of waste.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Fukuroi Factory Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Recycled pellets
Zero Emission Initiatives Aiming to Recycle Resources Based
VOICE
The Otsuka Group is promoting a range of efforts to on the Three Rs
reduce waste in its factories and offices. In the phar- Through efforts to reduce, reuse, and recycle (3R), the
maceuticals and chemicals businesses, the Otsuka Otsuka Group is helping to build a recycling-oriented
Group recycles solid and liquid waste generated during society. As part of measures to reduce waste, the
manufacturing as raw materials for making cement, Otsuka Group has developed an eco-bottle that cuts
while also using waste heat to generate electricity. At the amount of raw materials needed to make plastic
Working on Waste Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Second Tokushima Factory, beverage bottles. It has also switched to equipment
Reduction
about 250 tons of liquid waste was being generated that minimizes developer waste in the printing process
Kazuhiro Onishi
Environment Management, annually from the manufacture of active pharmaceuti- for packaging, thereby reducing the volume of alkaline
Plant General Affairs,
Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. cal ingredients. This material is now being utilized to waste liquids produced. In addition, printers with re-
At Taiho Pharmaceutical, we con- make electricity using thermal recycling.*1 Meanwhile, duced emissions have been installed.
tinue to promote active efforts for
Otsuka Techno is working to reduce its raw material As part of initiatives to reuse resources, the Group
environmental conservation and
impact reduction in all our business consumption through the use of recycled materials and has devised ways to reuse cooling water, wastewater,
activities. Last year, in order to
make effective use of resources the complete recycling of waste plastic. These efforts and waste heat at its plants. In Group offices, office
and reduce waste, the Environment
began with a move to become certified by Tokushima supplies are actively being reused.
Management Section established
a system for collecting, sorting, Prefecture as 3R (reduce, reuse, and recycle) business In the area of recycling, the Group is promoting ef-
and reusing approximately 1,000
document binders, which were locations that implement 3R practices. The certifica- forts to recycle its high-quality polyethylene scrap.*2
previously thrown out. We are also tion was obtained by Otsuka Group plants in this pre- The scrap is used to manufacture and then sell recy-
recycling waste, and the Tokushima
Plant has achieved zero emissions fecture, specifically those of Otsuka Pharmaceutical, cled pellets, which were certified in March 2013 by
status.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Otsuka Chemical, and Tokushima Prefecture as a high-quality recycled mate-
Otsuka Techno. rial. Efforts are also being made to use the pellets within
In the food business, the Otsuka Group makes effec- the Group, such as a material to make squeeze bottles.
tive use of food waste as animal feed and fertilizer. The Moreover, waste cooking oil is collected from Group
waste syrup generated from manufacturing processes cafeterias and brought in by employees from home for
is used as a biomass energy source, which helps to recycling into biodiesel, a fuel for trucks.
reduce waste and save energy. Plastic bands from The Group is promoting a variety of other resource
packaging were previously used in thermal recycling. recycling initiatives, such as using recycled plastic bot-
Now a system has been created that utilizes them to tles to make factory uniforms and mats.
make recycled plastic, a more efficient way to recycle
this resource. Otsuka Group
By actively advancing these initiatives, 22 out of the 32
*1: Recovering and utilizing the
energy generated during the factories belonging to the 11 Group companies in Japan
incineration of waste
achieved zero emissions, a rate of 69%. The Group will
*2: Excess plastic shaved from
the edges of products in remain united in the promotion of these efforts.
manufacturing
Otsuka Group
35 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Quality
The Otsuka Group’s approach to quality extends beyond safety and security
in manufacturing. We also endeavor to enhance the quality of our social
initiatives across a broad range of activities, from public information disclosure
and collaboration with our businesses partners to community initiatives and
ensuring compliance.
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 36Quality
As the duty of a company Safety Initiatives
that is committed to the bet-
terment of life, the Otsuka
Group thinks first of the of our focus on improving product quality and working
customers and patients Quality and Safety Control to earn the trust of customers across the globe.
who use its products. We
The Otsuka Group applies strict quality control to the
pursue business activities
medical devices, pharmaceuticals, foods, and pack-
that place the highest prior-
aging that it produces. We adhere to regulatory re-
ity on the safety and quality
quirements and conform to government and industry Listening to Customers
of our products.
standards such as the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law and The Otsuka Group operates departments organized
the Food Sanitation Act. We have also acquired inter- along product lines that are dedicated to fielding and
national certifications such as ISO 9001, ISO 13485, responding to customer inquiries.
and ISO 22000, and we formulate internal quality poli- Otsuka Pharmaceutical has established the Drug
cies and establish our own quality assurance systems Information Center to respond to questions from pa-
that encompass quality policies, quality management tients and medical practitioners about pharmaceuticals
systems, codes of conduct, and traceability systems. and provide information on proper use.
These efforts are aimed at securing the safety of our The Customer Relations Desk, Planning and Reli-
products, while maintaining quality and securing con- ability Promotion Office responds to customer inquiries
tinuous improvement. about OTC, quasi drugs, and cosmetics. The Cus-
In order to thoroughly control product quality, the tomer Relations Desk responds to inquiries about func-
Otsuka Group has established a product maintenance tional foods and beverages. Desk staff provide careful
and service system to provide after-sales follow-up. and detailed instructions that are easy for customers
At the Otsuka Group, managers and staff involved to understand.
with production and quality assurance meet once a Information regarding the safety and quality of any
year to discuss ways to further strengthen the quality product is immediately reported to the relevant de-
assurance structure as part of our focus on delivering partments, which monitor risks, take steps to provide
reliable products that customers can trust are safe. the necessary information to ensure proper use, and
The meeting held in 2014 examined specific examples work to develop and improve products. To ensure that
of quality control in the past and addressed the best someone is available at all times to answer inquiries and
responses and the most appropriate controls in these concerns, even outside of business hours or during the
cases in order to formulate better practices for the night, the Otsuka Group has established a Telephone
future. Standardizing quality assurance at all Otsuka Service Center as part of a structure that allows us to
Group companies around the world in this way is part respond whenever necessary to customer feedback.
Quality Control at the Otsuka Group
Regulatory Compliance,
Certification Otsuka Group Policies and Schemes
Government and Industry Standards
Pharmaceutical Affairs Law ISO 9001 Formulation of quality systems
Legislation aimed at securing the quality, Standard for establishing and achieving
effectiveness, and safety of pharmaceuticals, continuous improvement of quality control
quasi drugs, cosmetics and medical devices systems for products and services Formulation of codes of conduct
GLP ISO 13485 Establishment of total quality
Standards for securing the reliability of non- Standard for quality management systems in management systems (TQMS) for
clinical testing for safety the medical industry, for the safe and effective
GMP continuous manufacturing and supply of medical pharmaceuticals and medical devices
National standards for manufacturing control devices
and quality control of pharmaceuticals and Establishment of traceability systems
quasi drugs ISO 22000
Standard for food safety management systems
QMS (FSMS) to safely supply food to consumers Employee training
National standards for manufacturing control
and quality control of medical devices and Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point
external-use diagnostic pharmaceutical (HACCP)
products International standards formulated by Codex
GQP Alimentarius for methods of managing hygiene
National standards for quality control and sanitation to ensure food safety
GVP
National standards for post-manufacture,
post-marketing safety management
Food Sanitation Act
Law to ensure safety by establishing principles
for standards, labels, and inspections for food,
additives, and other substances
37 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Quality
also reduced, which helps increase patient safety and
Improvements in Manufacturing makes it more convenient for medical practitioners to
The Otsuka Group endeavors to enhance safety, ef- administer the solution.
ficiency, and quality in manufacturing by establishing Taiho Pharmaceutical adopted stick packaging and
suitable systems and solutions. a universal design rarely used in pharmaceuticals to
Otsuka Chemical and Zhangjiagang Otsuka Chemical make it easier for patients to ingest the TS-1 anticancer
(factory in China) implement an equipment maintenance agent granule formulation. In addition, the product fea-
system that allows for the sharing of equipment main- tures enlarged letters to prevent ingestion by mistake
tenance information (number of failures, maintenance and is the first prescription drug in Japan to incorpo-
expenditure, operations outage hours, total production rate a pictogram to make it clear that the agent must
opportunity losses, etc.) and quantitative assessment of be stored out of the reach of children. The company
the results of maintenance work. Additionally, employ- also developed a resealable aluminum storage pouch
ees are able to use iPads and other portable devices for separating the medicine from other products as one
to access both written instructions and graphic infor- more way of preventing accidental ingestion by mixing.
mation such as photos and illustrations, significantly
clarifying the methods that are to be used. The use of
this system and structural improvements have helped
the Otsuka Group to lower the rate of equipment break-
downs and to reduce production shutdowns, which has
improved operational and production stability.
The Otsuka Group stores reagents, some of which
are toxic, in locked storage areas strictly managed
under a key control system in order to ensure the safe
use and storage of these substances. The system
prevents unauthorized access and automatically gen-
erates access logs to avoid oversights and omissions
that can occur with manual access logs.
Otsuka Chemical: Building a structure for global quality assurance
Sharing Quality Data Internally
The Otsuka Group suitably manages quality information
to improve quality and processes, in order to reduce
quality risks and enhance quality. In order to accelerate
response time and facilitate internal development, the
Otsuka Group uses an internal network database to
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory:
Separate chambers created by consolidate the management of customer information,
partitions are filled with multiple
solutions. This design allows multi- including requests and inquiries from customers, and
ple solutions to be easily and safely
mixed when the outside of the soft Taiho Pharmaceutical: TS-1 granule formulation information on quality, including information related to
bag is pressed to open the parti-
tions. (Photo of quad-chamber bag process and materials. The Group addresses customer
for 1500 ml ELNEOPA Solution No. 2)
Improving Our Products complaints and procedural abnormalities and trouble
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory developed a formula- using tools to investigate the source of the problem and
tion that incorporates multiple nutrients into a single then it takes corrective and preventive action (CAPA).
product. The mixing and processing of these solutions This information is shared immediately with the staff re-
in the hospital or doctor’s office have in the past re- sponsible and those involved in the procedures in ques-
quired sterile conditions, and this formulation elimi- tion in order to ensure smooth coordination with other
nates the need to sterilize the environment. The risk of departments and factories and a faster Group response.
medical accidents caused by misidentification of solu-
tions and failure to properly sterilize the environment is
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 38Detailed information online concerning other initiatives
Otsuka Group Consolidated CSR website 〉〉http://otsuka.csrportal.jp/en
Framework for Supporting Global Marketing Activities Taiho Pharmaceutical
Organizational Structure Based on Pharmaceutical Affairs Law Otsuka Electronics
Quality
In order to achieve stable Corporate Governance
business activities and sus-
tainable growth, the Otsuka
Group aims to be a compa-
ny trusted by all of its stake- Basic Approach to Corporate Governance Board of Directors
holders. Toward that end, it
As a global healthcare company that conducts busi- Otsuka Holdings uses a system of corporate officers
works to build a sound and
ness worldwide, the Otsuka Group operates under a that clearly separates the roles of directors—who make
highly transparent manage-
pure holding company structure that separates Group management decisions and supervise their execu-
ment structure.
management and supervision from business execution, tion—and corporate officers responsible for executing
in order to practice sound management with a high the business. This system ensures the efficiency and
degree of transparency. At the same time, the Group transparency of management together with rapid busi-
endeavors to strengthen corporate governance and to ness execution. The holding company structure and
operate systems for internal control. system of corporate officers allows the Otsuka Group
Board of Directors to concentrate on discussing and
formulating management policy, strategies, and other
priority issues that concern the management of the
Internal Control Group as a whole.
To facilitate internal control over financial reporting, In order to further enhance its corporate governance
the Otsuka Group has established an Internal Control structure, Otsuka Holdings appointed two outside di-
Department at each of its group companies. These rectors in June 2013 and an additional new outside
departments prepare specified procedures and man- director in June 2014. Outside directors strive to in-
uals related to internal control and inform and educate crease the transparency of corporate management,
employees on rules of operation. At the same time, ensure appropriate decision-making, and boost busi-
Internal Control Departments also work with Internal ness performance by offering impartial and objective
Audit Departments to continuously monitor operational advice based on their respective views and experience.
and develop systems to accurately assess manage-
ment working in internal control.
Audit Frameworks of Otsuka Holdings
Shareholders’ Meeting
Elects/dismisses
Elects/dismisses Elects/dismisses
Board of Directors Operational audits
Accounting audits Audit and Supervisory Board
(3 outside directors of 10 directors)
(2 outside Audit and Supervisory Board Members of 4)
Appoints/dismisses
(Cooperates with)
President (Cooperates with)
Instructs Reports Accounting audits
Accounting Auditor
Internal Audit Department (Cooperates with)
Approval of Meetings of the Prior
material matters / Group’s boards consultation /
Management of corporate Ex post
guidance auditors facto reports
Subsidiaries (Shareholders’ Meeting, Board of Directors, Audit and Supervisory Board, etc.)
39 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Quality
Quality
In order to fulfill its social Risk Management
responsibilities as a compa-
ny that is involved in the life
sciences, the Otsuka Group with local communities to strengthen disaster preven-
works to manage risks un- tion initiatives and conducting drills, including joint drills
der normal conditions and
between the Head Office and Disaster Countermeasure
prepare to continue safe
Headquarters. The Group conducts drills of its safety
operations even at times of
verification system, as well. This system is designed to
disaster or emergency.
confirm that employees and their families are safe after
disaster strikes so that the Group can respond immedi-
ately with the appropriate action.
The Otsuka Group also stores supplies of water, food,
blankets and other necessities at Otsuka offices, and the
Otsuka Foods: Emergency supplies for disasters Group regularly reviews lists of nearby hospitals.
Business Continuity Plans for Disasters
and Emergencies
The Otsuka Group has business continuity plans (BCP/ Information Management System
BCM) in place to ensure that we are able to continue The Otsuka Group has acquired PrivacyMark System*1
to operate as much as possible and maintain stable accreditation and Information Security Management
supplies of the necessary items when large-scale System (ISMS) certification*2 for the protection of its
earthquakes and disasters strike. In addition, Otsuka customers’ valuable personal information. In addition,
Pharmaceutical has acquired ISO 22301 certification we have designated persons in charge, managers, and
*1: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, (the international standard for business continuity man- responsible officials to manage personal information
Otsuka Warehouse, and agement systems). This certification verifies the effec- under the Group’s information protection management
Heartful Kawauchi
*2: Otsuka Warehouse tiveness of the Otsuka framework for ensuring that the system. In order to formulate and implement compre-
production and supply of pharmaceutical-related prod- hensive information security measures for the entire
ucts continue uninterrupted or are quickly restored in Otsuka Group, information system managers and in-
emergency circumstances. In April 2014, this certifica- formation security department managers meet once
tion was expanded to cover the production and supply every three months to address the issue of systematic
of nutraceuticals, as well. protection of confidentiality.
Partnerships
Recognizing the importance of working with business
partners to implement sustainability initiatives, the
Otsuka Group is committed to socially responsible
business throughout the entire value chain, including
business partners. Broadly, these initiatives encompass
compliance, information security, environmental initia-
tives, and safety and security initiatives.
The selection of business partners is based on care-
ful investigation and inspection by the Otsuka Group to
Otsuka Techno: Disaster Prevention Training/Earthquake Training verify the quality of the candidate’s products and the
stability of raw material supplies. As security export
Risk Management Drills/ control becomes increasingly important, the Otsuka
Disaster Prevention Training Group works to ensure total legal compliance in all
The Otsuka Group conducts regular drills and disaster matters and comprehensive education on compliance
prevention training. In fiscal 2013, the Group prepared issues among employees.
for the predicted Tonankai earthquake, while working
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 40Quality
The Otsuka Group maintains Compliance
an organizational frame-
work within a corporate cli-
mate that is both designed
to ensure that all employees
have a comprehensive under-
standing of, and act in strict
compliance with, the highest
ethical standards, including
compliance with laws, regula-
tions and bioethics.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Ethics forum Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Compliance education tools
Compliance Approaches Expanding Compliance Training and Programs
VOICE
We implement the Otsuka Group Global Code of The Otsuka Group implements compliance training for
Business Ethics in line with our corporate philosophy. all employees, including directors and divisional man-
Our Group companies each have their own compliance agers. The training covers a wide range of topics with
programs based on this code of ethics, utilizing man- a practical focus, including recent examples of inap-
agement frameworks, consultation desks, forums, and propriate corporate behavior. Topics covered include
conferences to ensure that all employees are thoroughly the Act on the Protection of Personal Information, the
Creating a Global Legal educated on regulatory and ethical compliance. In ad- National Public Service Ethics Act, insider trading, sex-
Affairs Structure dition, Group companies that work with pharmaceu- ual harassment, abuse of power, and precautions for
Chen Yingying ticals*1 follow the Prescription Drug Promotion Code, use of social media.
Manager, Legal Department
Otsuka (China) Investment Co., Ltd. which is a code of behavior for healthcare profession- The Group actively incorporates e-learning systems,
In February 2014, in Shanghai we als, and have formulated their own Code of Practice. satellite broadcasts, social media and other training
held a meeting of Chinese legal
affairs officers from the business Otsuka Group companies work to forge relationships of tools to make content interesting and find ingenuous
departments of Otsuka Group mutual trust with medical practitioners, as well as with ways to impart this information so that employees fully
companies in China hosted by Ot-
suka (China) Investment. One goal all of our stakeholders, to foster appropriate collabora- understand the implications and practice compliance
of this meeting was to accelerate
tion on compliance issues. in matters that are not directly linked with day-to-day
the development of a legal affairs
support structure in China. I ex- Since 2009, the Otsuka Group has held region-spe- duties. Departmental schemes include the distribution
pect that the mutually supportive
relationships forged among legal cific international meetings of legal officers at Group of online materials and email magazines that support
affairs officers from these different
companies worldwide to address the Group’s global training, so that employees across the entire Group are
companies will help to raise the
professional expertise of legal legal affairs framework. In fiscal 2013, meetings were trained to the highest ethical standards.
affairs officers and increase the
quality of our daily activities. held in Europe and China. In addition, the Otsuka The Otsuka Group has established the Internal
Group responded to the change in the U.S. on August Report Consultation Office for the purpose of strength-
1, 2013 (the U.S. Sunshine Act*2) requiring disclosure ening compliance management. This office allows em-
by pharmaceutical companies of such information as fi- ployees to report issues related to compliance through
nancial payments to medical institutions and other enti- a route other than the normal channels. In fiscal 2013,
*1 Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho
ties by updating the Group framework to ensure proper Taiho Pharmaceutical also established the Power and
Pharmaceutical and Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Factory legal compliance in the U.S. Sexual Harassment Hotline to provide an external
*2 Formulated as part of the
channel for documenting problems and investigat-
Affordable Care Act, this U.S.
law requires pharmaceutical ing intent for those employees who may be hesitant
manufacturers to report to
to report problems. The hotline is available not only to
relevant authorities financial
payments, items of value and full-time employees, but to contract workers and tem-
benefits provided to physi-
cians and teaching hospitals in porary staff. The identity of persons filing the report and
the U.S. The Act strengthens the information they provide are handled in the strictest
U.S. law in this area and
includes punitive damages confidentiality to prevent repercussions from having
for omissions in reports and filed a report.
intentional concealment.
(Enacted on August 1, 2013)
41 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Culture
Expanding Compliance Training and Programs
The Otsuka Group cares for communities and their cultures. We are helping
to develop communities and educate children, who represent the future of
their communities, through community exchange, partnerships, and by
supporting education.
Otsuka Museum of Art
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 42Culture
Otsuka Group companies Cleanup Activities
are involved in clean-up ac-
tivities in partnership with
local communities. Activi-
ties are carried out by staff
in its manufacturing oper-
ations, R&D centers, and
sales offices.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Volunteer cleanup activity Taiho Pharmaceutical: Komatsu Beach cleanup
Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Green campaign Otsuka Techno: Releasing juvenile flounder after a beach cleanup
Contributing to Local Communities
VOICE
The Otsuka Group is actively involved in efforts that were also carried out by employees from four plants
contribute to local communities, including cleanup of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory (Naruto, Kushiro,
activities. The Otsuka Pharmaceutical Environmental Matsushige, and Toyama). After putting up posters with
Club was formed by interested employees. It conducts photos to encourage as many volunteers as possible,
cleanup activities with local governments and resi- 67 employees of the Toyama Plant performed a beach
dents four times a year, mainly on the Naruto coast of cleanup near the plant before the 2013 summer tourist
Tokushima Prefecture, the region where Otsuka orig- season. Through these activities, the Otsuka Group is
inated. Volunteer employees from the Tokushima site actively supporting environmental conservation activi-
Annual Environmental
of Taiho Pharmaceutical participated in the Komatsu ties while cooperating closely with local communities.
Conservation Campaign
Beach Cleanup Campaign, organized by the city of Outside Japan, 199 employees of Korea Otsuka
Chea Bong Ae
CP Deputy Manager, Tokushima. Employees of Otsuka Group companies Pharmaceutical participated in a cleanup event in April
Management Support Department,
Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. also participated in a cleanup campaign held each year 2014, while hiking on Mt. Gwanak, in Seoul. The event
Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical as part of a Global Eco Fair sponsored by the city of not only reminded the participating employees of the
participates in local beautification
activities once a year, as part of Takasaki in Gunma Prefecture. The employees picked importance of environmental conservation as they re-
an environmental conservation up litter around Takasaki Station. stored the natural beauty of the trail, but also helped to
campaign. In 2013, we carried out
a cleanup in a mountain forest near At the Inuyama Plant of Taiho Pharmaceutical in Aichi boost their physical and mental well-being.
the company. Along with being a
Prefecture, employees joined local residents in May
good opportunity to think about
environmental conservation, it was 2013 for the Gomi Zero (Zero Trash) Cleanup Campaign, Otsuka Group
a meaningful experience that also
provided some healthy exercise. organized by the Gakuden Community Association in
We will continue to help protect the
Inuyama City. In July and October 2013, employees
local environment through this kind
of activity. from the Okayama Plant of Taiho Pharmaceutical, and
members of their families participated in beach clean-
ups near the plant, followed by litter collection at a local
sports complex in November. Volunteer cleanup efforts
43 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Culture
Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Enshu Fireworks cleanup Otsuka Techno: Adopt-a-River activity
Otsuka Packaging Industries: Otsuka Sports Park Pocari Sweat Stadium
Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Gomi Zero cleanup day
cleanup in Naruto
Supporting Local Events Environmental Beautification Near Factories
The Fukuroi Factory of Otsuka Pharmaceutical is lo- The Otsuka Group is promoting neighborhood beautifi-
cated next to Haranoya River Park, where one of the cation activities near its plants, with the aim of building
largest fireworks displays in Japan is held. After the good relationships with local communities. In the Wajiki
event, employees participate in a cleanup. In 2013, district of Tokushima Prefecture, each year the Group
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Clean- together with several thousand volunteers including engages in three environmental events for conserva-
up campaign around the Hanamaki
Factory local residents and staff of other local companies, the tion of the nearby Naka River, including its basin and
Fukuroi Factory employees cleaned up the park and coastal estuary. In the Kawauchi district of Tokushima
the neighborhood near the plant. In addition, 45 em- Prefecture, where many Group companies are located,
ployee volunteers from Otsuka Packaging Industries employees and their families participate with local res-
took part in a cleanup at the Otsuka Sports Park Pocari idents in the Gomi Zero (Zero Trash) Day, organized
Sweat Stadium in Naruto, which is the home field of by the prefecture. Each year Group employees clean
the Tokushima Vortis, a J1 League professional soccer the streets near their workplaces, and new hires also
team. The company also supports other community participate as part of their training. The Group com-
events such as firework displays. panies also actively participate in cleanup activities in
the industrial parks where they are located, together
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Packaging Industries with neighboring companies. In China, about 100
employees at the Lin’an Factory of Zhejiang Otsuka
Pharmaceutical performed a cleanup in April 2014.
They collected 600 kilograms of litter in and around the
plant grounds.
Otsuka Group
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 44Detailed information online concerning other initiatives
Otsuka Group Consolidated CSR website 〉〉http://otsuka.csrportal.jp/en
Disaster Prevention Otsuka Group
Donating Blood Otsuka Group
Ecocap Movement Otsuka Group
Table for Two Otsuka Pharmaceutical/JIMRO
Culture
The Otsuka Group provides Community Initiatives
relief to disaster victims of
natural disasters around the
world through the provision
of goods and medical sup-
port. Employees also make
donations and volunteer to
help disadvantaged children.
Otsuka Welfare Clinic Taiho Oncology: Participating in Toys for Tots
Healthcare Support Activities: Donation and Disaster Relief Activities
Otsuka Welfare Clinic Employees of Taiho Oncology in the United States par-
In 2003, the Otsuka Group established the Otsuka ticipate in the Toys for Tots* charity program. A collec-
Welfare Clinic in Peshawar, Pakistan, to provide med- tion box is set up in the office toward year-end, for the
ical treatment to Afghan refugees. Treatment is pro- employees to make toy donations.
vided free of charge to those who need it. In December Through a foundation, Otsuka Pharma of Germany
2013, on the 10th anniversary of the clinic’s establish- distributes food and donates hygiene products to
ment, a local commemoration ceremony was held. those in need, and also participates in a Christmas
Since the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 in campaign that provides gifts to sick children, as well
the United States, and the subsequent operation in as to orphans and street children in Eastern Europe. In
Afghanistan, 1.8 million Afghan refugees have poured addition, employees participate in a charity race, and
into Pakistan. However, many of them were unable to carry out community support activities such as operat-
Tofu for Africa partnership to help receive satisfactory medical treatment. With a strong ing a beach soccer stadium for kindergarten students
the people of Burkina Faso pro-
desire to contribute to the health of local people as a in Frankfurt.
duce tofu
healthcare company in Asian and Arab countries, the The Otsuka Group is also working to help victims
Otsuka Group decided to provide free medical treat- of natural disasters worldwide. In Indonesia, after re-
ment to refugees in need. The Otsuka Welfare Clinic cent disasters including the Aceh earthquake and the
* Toys for Tots is a nationwide pro- was jointly set up by Otsuka Pharmaceutical and the eruption of Mt. Sinabung on the island of Sumatra, the
gram run by the United States
23 Group companies that operate in Asian and Arab eruption of Mt. Kelud in East Java, as well as flooding
Marine Corps. It collects new
toys in local communities and countries. With the ongoing fighting in the region, ap- in Manado, North Sulawesi and in Jakarta, the Group
distributes them as Christmas
proximately 150 people visit the clinic each day, and the donated masks, blankets, nutritional supplements,
gifts to underprivileged children.
total number has risen to more than 700,000 people and Pocari Sweat to victims. After the 2013 Bohol
over 10 years. During heavy floods in 2010, the clinic earthquake in the Philippines, Otsuka (Philippines)
mobilized to set up a temporary relief center in a nearby Pharmaceutical delivered Pocari Sweat to victims in
area that was severely impacted. Ubojan, Tubigon.
The activities of the Otsuka Welfare Clinic have been Nutrition & Sante of France is aiming to help solve
highly praised. In 2011, Otsuka received a letter of ap- the food problems and improve the nutrition of people
preciation from the Ambassador of Japan to Pakistan. in Burkina Faso, Africa through access to good-quality
The Otsuka Group will continue to provide support ac- soy protein. The company has formed partnerships to
tivities rooted in local communities in order to contrib- provide financial assistance and expertise for produc-
ute to the health of people around the world. ing soy foods such as tofu.
Otsuka Group Otsuka Group
45 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Culture
Culture
As a good corporate citi- Community Exchange
zen, the Otsuka Group val-
ues the natural environment
and local communities and
places importance on com- Participating in Community Events
munity-rooted culture. The
Every year, employees from the Otsuka Group contrib-
Group is contributing to so-
ute to the development of local culture by organizing
ciety in its own unique way.
four ren (dance groups) that participate in the annual
Awa Odori Festival in Tokushima Prefecture. Members
of the ren from Otsuka Pharmaceutical must pass a
difficult audition before they are accepted into the
group. The ren from Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
carries on the tradition of the oldest dance group in
Tokushima Vortis Naruto City. The ren from Taiho Pharmaceutical, and
the ren formed by Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Foods,
Tokushima Vortis (J1 League soccer team) and Otsuka Warehouse are family-participation dance
The Tokushima Vortis professional soccer team was groups. Meanwhile, in Iwate Prefecture, the Hanamaki
founded in 2004 by the Otsuka Group and the local Festival has been held since 1593. Employees from EN
Tokushima government with the aim of revitalizing the Otsuka Pharmaceutical participate in the festival’s pa-
region. With a core group of members from the Otsuka rade carrying their own portable shrine.
In April 2013, the Otsuka Pharma- Pharmaceutical soccer team, Tokushima Vortis is in
ceutical Awa Odori dance team
(Otsuka Ren) performed at the 6th J. League Division 1. In cooperation with the prefec- Otsuka Group
Copenhagen Sakura Festival held
in Denmark. tural board of education, the team developed a book
for local physical education and a food education pro-
gram, the first such initiatives for a J. League team. The
team is thus contributing to the healthy development of
children in Tokushima.
The Otsuka Group provides special meals for the
Tokushima Vortis athletes at the restaurant in the
Tokushima Itano Factory of Otsuka Pharmaceutical.
This is the Group’s support for the health and nutrition
of the team. The Group carries out other activities to
help develop Tokushima through soccer, including sup-
port for events at the team’s home stadium.
Recreated El Greco altar panels
(photo of the replicas on display at the Otsuka Museum of Art)
Otsuka Group
The Otsuka Museum of Art
The Otsuka Museum of Art was established in 1998,
Tree Planting to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the founding
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory and Taiho Pharma- of the Otsuka Group and to promote art and culture in
ceutical are supporting forest maintenance through the Tokushima area. The museum features more than
agreements with the Tokushima Cooperative Forestry 1,000 replicas of masterpieces of art, from ancient mu-
Project, based on Tokushima’s Ordinance on Promo- rals to modern paintings. The replicas have been pro-
tion of Global Warming Countermeasures. In 2013, the duced as ceramic boards and are faithful reproductions
companies held an event, which allowed employees of the originals that people can view without leaving
and their families to experience the importance of for- Japan. The museum offers creative exhibits, including
est management through undergrowth thinning. Group a set of six altar panels by El Greco, all in one location.
companies in Indonesia are planting trees near their Workshops and events are held for local children to
factories for the purpose of water conservation. learn about art.
Otsuka Group Otsuka Group
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 46Culture
The Otsuka Group engages Youth Education
in educational and aware-
ness initiatives to ensure
young people understand
the importance of conserv-
ing nature and protecting
communities, and enhancing
them for future generations.
Amerta Indah Otsuka: Children browsing books in the library Otsuka (Philippines) Pharmaceutical: Binyag Aral program
Support Through Education Plant Tours for Students
VOICE
Since 2007, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Group companies proactively welcome visi-
and Taiho Pharmaceutical have been working with ju- tors to tour their plants. The Okayama Plant of Taiho
nior high schools and high schools in Tokushima City Pharmaceutical maintains a biotope on its grounds for
to support environmental education. The initiative is visitors to experience nature. They are able to learn
part of an eco-school adoption program that is imple- about the regeneration of the rich tidal flats of Kugui
mented through a public-private and university partner- Bay, which is home to unique flora and fauna species,
ship involving the Tokushima prefectural government. such as Suaeda maritima, an endangered species of
Plant Biotope Attracts
In fiscal 2013, the Otsuka Group worked with a salt marsh plant.
Many Visitors
high school in Tokushima, to provide students with Otsuka Packaging Industries manufactures product
Nobuyuki Abe
Manager, Okayama Office, environmental field trips under the title, “The Future of packages for the Otsuka Group. Every year since 2008,
Plant General Affairs
Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Agriculture Starting from the Fukuroi Irrigation Channel.” the company has hosted social studies field trips for
We decided to create a biotope
The students learned about the water quality of the local elementary school students, showing them how
based on a desire to utilize the
plant’s treated wastewater in a way Fukuroi Irrigation Channel and received a tour of an packaging is made. In 2013, 67 inquisitive students
that does not adversely affect the
environment. With very few exam- Otsuka Group agricultural facility that uses hydroponic toured the plant and reported that they were happy to
ples to follow, the initial hurdles cultivation, as well as a plant biotope, and wastewater get answers to all their questions, and to learn how a
were high. However, with the help
of local experts we have created treatment facilities. Through these learning activities, the variety of boxes are made.
a habitat for various organisms,
students developed a stronger interest in the environ- The Otsuka Group also provides workplace tours
and many visitors come to tour the
biotope. The benefits of the project ment and their local community. The Group will continue for older students to help their career planning. In
are also becoming apparent, such
as an increase in fiddler crabs, a to support environmental learning for students. 2013, EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical provided tours to
rare species. I am glad that the
The Otsuka Group is also committed to nurturing 123 high school, college, and university students, who
biotope is generating an interest in
the environment for many people. the next generation in countries outside Japan, mainly were impressed by the company’s methods of phar-
through donation activities. Otsuka (Philippines) Phar- maceutical manufacturing and quality control. Taiho
maceutical provided school supplies and hygiene Pharmaceutical hosted tours for students from a junior
products to 200 local street children. In Indonesia, the high school and a high school, who learned about the
Kejayan Plant of Amerta Indah Otsuka provides addi- current healthcare environment and the mission and
tional tutoring for elementary school students in math, role of a pharmaceutical company.
Indonesian, and English. It also constructed a library for Outside Japan, the Hyang-nam Plant of Korea Otsuka
a local public school and donated 1,547 books. Otsuka Pharmaceutical provides factory tours and opportunities
Pharma of Germany participates in an annual program for recreation near the plant to people with mental ill-
to distribute coloring books on environmental conser- nesses. The aim is to support the rehabilitation of these
vation to all elementary schools in Frankfurt, Germany. patients who find everyday outdoor activities difficult. In
2013, 17 visitors toured the company’s plant.
Otsuka Group
Otsuka Group
47 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Employees
The creativity of the Otsuka Group stems from a drive to achieve its corporate
philosophy by breaking out of the mold. We will continue fostering a corporate
culture that drives our diverse workforce to develop innovative products that are
useful to society.
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 48Employees
The Otsuka Group is pro- Diversity
moting diversity in its work-
force based on the idea that
utilizing the strengths of a
wide variety of human re-
sources leads to innovation
and a flexible organization
that is better able to adapt
to a changing environment.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Female corporate officers Heartful Kawauchi: Magokoro Farm “Cosmos”
Supporting Women in the Workplace Normalization
While actively promoting women to management po- The Otsuka Group embraces normalization to enable
sitions, the Otsuka Group has developed support persons with disabilities to live on equal terms with oth-
programs, such as parenting leave and the option to ers, and not to suffer any discrimination or inappropriate
reduce working hours, for employees balancing home treatment. Therefore, the Group actively encourages the
and work responsibilities. The Group is striving to ex- hiring of persons with disabilities. It participates in job
pand career opportunities and create supportive work fairs for persons with disabilities organized by regional
environments. Otsuka Pharmaceutical has five female labor bureaus, and conducts mid-career recruitment
corporate officers, which brings the rate of women in through the government’s employment service center
these positions to 11.4%*, as of March 31, 2014. They (HelloWork) and the Group’s own website. It strives for
oversee a wide range of areas from management to the appropriate work placement of persons with dis-
business divisions, and the Group is actively expanding abilities in meaningful jobs, according to the abilities of
opportunities for female employees. each new hire. The Group currently employs people
Taiho Pharmaceutical established a working group with disabilities in various departments including human
for women in the workplace in 2012. The working group resources, accounting, production, and research.
conducted a survey on working conditions for women, In October 2011, the Group established Heartful
using the results to identify four underlying strategies Kawauchi Co., Ltd. in Tokushima City. As of July 1,
for promoting women in the workplace, which have 2014, the company employed 14 persons with men-
been implemented in 2013 by changing programs and tal disabilities, 7 persons with physical disabilities, and
enhancing awareness at the company. The strategies 3 persons with intellectual disabilities. The company
include the elimination of harassment in the workplace. mainly performs office and production line support
In May 2014, JIMRO established a general em- services, by utilizing the abilities of its employees and
ployer action plan based on the Act on Advancement providing them with a sense of job satisfaction. It strives
of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation to create a workplace environment where people can
Children. While reviewing employee work styles, the work regardless of their abilities without any form of
company is supporting female employees through discrimination. In July 2014, Heartful Kawauchi set out
the establishment of a consultation service to assist to create new employment opportunities in agriculture.
employees with work matters when they become With the full cooperation of Agribest, a member of the
pregnant, give birth, and return to work. The aim is to Otsuka Group, the company launched an agribusiness
enable women to feel comfortable balancing their work for the cultivation of greenhouse tomatoes. This is the
and home responsibilities. first initiative for employees with disabilities carried out
In October 2013, Otsuka Foods held a workshop on with another Group company, and Heartful Kawauchi is
diversity in management to raise diversity awareness. It planning to further increase employment in the future.
* 1.2% is the average figure for
listed companies in Japan was attended by about 90 employees.
according to the “Cabinet Otsuka Group
Office White Paper on Gender
Equality 2011” Otsuka Group
49 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Employees
Employment of Senior Employees
The Otsuka Group provides opportunities for motivated
employees to continue working past the retirement age
of 60, and the Group has developed a program for
senior employees to apply their wealth of experience
and knowledge to transfer skills to other employees by
working until the age of 65. The Group previously had
a program in place to continue employing persons past
Award Ceremony for Diversity Management Selection 100
60 under certain conditions, but the option is now avail-
able to all employees who wish to continue working.
Recognition by Diversity Management The change was necessitated by revisions of the Act
VOICE
Selection 100 on Stabilization of Employment of Elderly Persons in
The Otsuka Group is actively promoting workplace Japan in April 2013, and the lack of public pensions for
diversity based on the idea that diverse human re- people who choose to retire at 60. The Group is also
sources facilitate innovation and internationalization, looking at other changes to support employees who
through differing perspectives stemming from nation- wish to work past 60, including changing company
ality or gender. In recognition of its efforts, Otsuka regulations concerning retirement pay and enabling
Pharmaceutical has been selected for inclusion in employees to customize their retirement pay schedule
In-house Programs to
Encourage Diversity “Diversity Management Selection 100,” an award pro- through life planning.
ZhiWen Zhou gram launched by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade
Accounting Section (Tokushima) and Industry. It is the first pharmaceutical company to Otsuka Group
Financial Dept.
Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd.
be recognized by the program.
I am originally from Shandong
Province in China. When I was first Since the 1980s, when there was little notion of the Column
assigned to the accounting depart-
concept of diversity in Japan, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
ment, I was uneasy about my lack
of accounting knowledge. Thanks has been actively promoting diversity among its top
to the support of colleagues and
superiors, I was able to improve my management, based on the idea that utilizing diverse
skills, and I now perform a special- human resources of both genders provides a driving
ized position on my own. I feel very
fortunate to work in an environment force for the company’s growth. Today, the results of Diversity Management Selection 100
where my needs as a foreigner are
always taken into consideration, the company’s various measures for improving the par- With the aim of raising awareness of the importance
including special measures for hu- enting leave program and actively hiring female manag- of diversity and expanding the horizons of enter-
man resource development.
ers are being publically recognized. prises, this award program recognizes companies
that have improved their corporate value through
diversity in management. A total of 100 companies
Otsuka Pharmaceutical
will be selected to receive the awards over three
years starting in fiscal 2012.
Percentage of female managers Employees with disabilities
As of March 31, As of March 31, As of March 31, As of March 31,
2013 2014 2013 2014
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 6.70% 7.11% Otsuka Pharmaceutical 2.11% 2.32%
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 2.38% 3.01% Otsuka Pharmaceutical 2.00% 1.82%
Factory Factory
Taiho Pharmaceutical 2.50% 3.16% Taiho Pharmaceutical 1.95% 1.69%
Otsuka Chemical 7.20% 6.87% Otsuka Chemical 2.34% 2.39%
Otsuka Warehouse 4.88% 4.82% Otsuka Warehouse 1.17% 1.12%
Otsuka Foods 2.85% 3.16% Otsuka Foods 1.69% 1.95%
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 50Employees
The Otsuka Group respects Work-Life Balance
the diverse values and life-
styles of its employees. It en-
deavors to create workplace
environments that allow all
employees to realize their full
potential while maintaining a
work-life balance.
VOICE
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Life planning seminars Otsuka Chemical: No Overtime Days poster
Caregiver Leave and Retirement Planning Supportive Workplaces
Understanding the
Caregiver Leave Program The Otsuka Group provides programs to support em- Otsuka Group companies provide support to employ-
Is Most Important ployees with home care responsibilities. For employees ees through an extended eligibility period for shorter
Masako Doi approaching the age of retirement, the Group offers working hours, flextime, half-day paid leave, and an ac-
Director, Naruto Research Institute,
Research and Development Center work schedules tailored to fit each lifestyle along with cumulated paid leave system. There is also an I-Work
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc.
opportunities for planning a fulfilling retirement life. program for telecommuting. These programs enable
Although I thought that providing
home care for my parents was still Employees with family members that require care at employees to realize their desired lifestyles and allow
a long way off, I took part in the
home are encouraged to utilize the caregiver leave pro- them to balance their work and family lives, even when
caregiver seminar for the first time.
It provided me with easy-to-un- gram. At Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, an employee life cycle events occur such as parenting and home
derstand information on what
kind of support the organization questionnaire is conducted each year. Due to an in- care. In order to further promote work-life balance, the
can provide in case I or one of my
crease in the number of comments concerning care- Group holds regular No Overtime Days, with the aim
subordinates needs to stay home
to provide home care for a family giver leave, the company decided to offer a seminar of improving work efficiency and reducing work hours.
member. Since it is a problem that
can happen to anyone, it is import- on the subject. The information provided includes the This can also give employees time for personal devel-
ant to know in advance about the company’s leave program, the environment for home opment. Through these programs, male employees are
current home care environment and
the various support programs. I care, and basic knowledge on the public long-term actively encouraged to participate in the care of their
hope we can increase opportunities
care insurance system. children, and some of them have taken parenting leave.
for employees to learn more about
home care options. The Group holds life planning seminars for employ- In addition, Taiho Pharmaceutical employees can take
VOICE ees who have reached the age of 57, three years before off five days per year to volunteer for disaster relief ac-
the early retirement age of 60, as an opportunity to think tivities, utilizing their accumulated paid leave time.
about future goals, work styles, and retirement. The
main purpose of the seminar is to encourage employ- Otsuka Group
ees to continue working to the age of 65, when eligibil-
ity for the public pension begins, as long as they have
the desire and ability to do so. Seminar topics for life No. of employees taking parenting leave
Taking Parenting Leave planning after the early retirement age of 60 include the
Increased My Efficiency FY2012 FY2013
Group’s re-employment system for retirees (New Senior
at Work Male Female Male Female
Employee System), basic knowledge about taxes, and
Takashi Yoshikawa Otsuka 2 87 0 94
Tokushima Factory Residence, lectures on pensions and employment insurance. Pharmaceutical
Quality Control Section,
Quality Assurance Department Two years ago, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory Otsuka 4 17 1 11
Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Pharmaceutical
began holding health classes for its employees, which
I took parenting leave when my Factory
eldest daughter was born. Unfortu- include tests to check brain health and measure phys-
Taiho 21 27 33 30
nately, she was born with a congen-
ical fitness. Pharmaceutical
ital disease, and required numerous
visits to the hospital, which was very Otsuka Chemical 0 3 2 3
difficult. However, I made new dis-
coveries every day and the episode Otsuka Group Otsuka Warehouse 0 2 0 3
became a valuable experience for Otsuka Foods 1 2 0 7
me. I would like to remain actively
involved in childcare and other Total 28 138 36 148
activities at home. Now that the
purpose of work is clearer to me, I
have greater motivation in my job.
51 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Employees
Employees
In conducting its business Development of Human Capital
worldwide, the Otsuka Group
is committed to develop-
ing creative human resourc- moving parts of a forklift. The participants also discuss
es that can break out of the prohibited behavior and near-miss incidents. By hav-
mold and lead our corpo-
ing all employees reaffirm their safety knowledge and
rate activities for continued
reconsider the importance of safety rules through this
growth and innovation.
kind of training, the company is further improving haz-
ard sensitivity while enabling employees to anticipate
and prevent accidents before they happen.
Otsuka Chemical
Human Resource Development Institute: In-house training
Extensive Training
VOICE
The Otsuka Group provides extensive training to en-
hance the abilities and skills of each employee and to
increase safety awareness, offering a wide range of
training programs according to their purpose. In ad-
dition to providing practical on-the-job training, Group
companies implement systematic training by job rank
Overseas Volunteer and job duties in order to develop professional human
Training
resources. They also provide overseas volunteer train-
Kyungtak Kwak
Microbiological Research Institute ing for Japanese employees to improve their skills for The Human Resource Development Institute
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
communicating with people from other cultures. The
As part of an initiative for Diversity
& Inclusion, I took part in the volun- companies have devised many other ways for employ- Human Resource Development Institute
teer training program and was sent
ees to improve their skills. Through e-learning, employ- The Otsuka Group founded the Human Resource
to an orphanage in Ghana, Africa.
The purpose was for me to witness ees can study at home or at other locations. There is Development Institute, with a mission to foster the de-
the reality of malaria, my research
topic. When I saw the smiles of also training by outside instructors and organizations, velopment of creative human resources who can break
children who live in an impover- personal development support, and opportunities out of the mold and continue to help Otsuka stand out
ished environment where malaria is
prevalent and there is not enough for post-graduate management studies in the United as a company. Located in Tokushima City, the institute
to eat, it renewed my determination
States as part of training for global leaders. The Otsuka implements employee training programs that leverage
to help solve the problem of malaria
as quickly as possible. Group is also working to provide environmental edu- its research into the Otsuka corporate culture, into cre-
cation to employees for fulfillment of the Group’s en- ativity, and to the development of future managers.
vironmental and social responsibilities, as a company The institute promotes dynamic thinking through
dedicated to caring for human life. classes that explore the importance of diverse per-
spectives, as well as workshops on Otsuka corporate
Otsuka Group culture to teach the Group’s Corporate Philosophy,
values, and decision-making criteria. The programs are
continually updated in order to demonstrate the Otsuka
Safety Training Center approach to creativity. In addition, the institute provides
Based on a belief in safety first, Otsuka Chemical classes to train next-generation leaders who can lead
opened its Anzen Dojo (Safety Training Center) in 2012. a unique company. The three monuments installed at
The center trains the company’s own employees, as the institute (see page 10) express the importance of
well as those from affiliates outside Japan. It holds dynamic thinking. The adjoining Vega Hall was built to
classes and provides hands-on training to improve provide opportunities for generating new ideas through
The Otsuka Chemical was recog- safety awareness through hazard simulations. For ex- communication. It is also available for local events, as a
nized at the 8th Responsible Care
Awards sponsored by the Japan ample, to learn about the risks of pinching and rolling way to contribute to the community.
Chemical Industry Association, for
“improving health and safety educa- accidents, trainees experience the hazards created
tion through the establishment of the
Anzen Dojo (Safety Training Center)” when cardboard or a piece of wood gets caught in the Otsuka Group
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 52Employees
As a global healthcare com- Employee Health
pany, the Otsuka Group be-
lieves that it is important for
employees to be involved
in their own health, and the
Group strives to maintain
and enhance employees’
well-being. The Group facil-
itates these goals through
physical activity programs
and education concerning
health matters.
POCARI/efresh CPR training
Employee Health Health and Safety Initiatives
VOICE
The Otsuka Group implements diverse health pro- In addition to securing compliance with occupational
grams and initiatives to encourage employees to health and safety regulations to prevent workplace ac-
maintain and improve their health. Every year, each cidents, the Otsuka Group implements industrial health
Group company holds exercise events for employees initiatives in the workplace to secure optimal working
to provide them with opportunities for physical activity conditions and reduce the risk of accidents. Group
and fellowship. Otsuka Pharmaceutical operates the companies operate occupational health and safety
POCARI/efresh exercise program, where instructors go committees that regularly conduct inspections of all
POCARI/efresh Exercise
from workplace to workplace and they lead employees workplaces to secure compliance. Additionally, Group
Program Promotes
Awareness of Our through a weekly eight-minute program of invigorating companies provide avenues for employees to initiate
Corporate Philosophy exercises. Other companies encourage exercise during workplace improvements by identifying issues and de-
Byunghoon Lee the lunch break to get employees into the habit of exer- veloping solutions. Industrial physicians at Group com-
Manager, Human Resource
Development Institute cising. Taiho Pharmaceutical has an Active Workplace panies provide advice on health matters and they follow
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Project that provides employees with comprehensive up on employee health checkups. They also conduct
Last year, I came here to Japan from
Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical, and health management support, including ways to deal education related to occupational health and safety, in
participated in the POCARI/efresh
exercise program for the first time. with metabolic syndrome (a disorder of energy utili- order to raise awareness of health and occupational
Every week, we work out with the zation and storage). Other companies issue a health health and safety among all employees. Group com-
instructor, who gives us valuable
health information, and it really newsletter, provide stress management training, or panies conduct emergency first aid training, including
boosts my energy level at work. I
think it is a good example of how offer mental health training for managers. In this way, training on the use of cardiopulmonary resuscitation
Otsuka combines business and the Otsuka Group is actively promoting physical and (CPR) and automated external defibrillators* (AEDs),
CSR activities as a total healthcare
company. Since POCARI/efresh mental health management throughout its workforce. to prepare for emergency situations in and outside the
also reminds us that the Otsuka
There are health counseling and consultation services, company. In 2013, Otsuka Techno distributed informa-
Group philosophy is to work “for
better health,” I think it is a good where employees can share their healthcare and home tion cards from the Japan Medical Association to all
way to put the philosophy into
practice. care concerns, and the Group is also working to pre- employees, outlining the use of CPR. The company
vent excessive overtime working. is raising employees’ awareness of how to deal with
Outside Japan, Otsuka Pharmaceutical France has medical emergencies.
implemented a program that pays 50% of employee At plants where many employees commute by pri-
exercise activity costs, up to 200 euro per person an- vate vehicle, Group companies implement initiatives to
nually. This initiative is helping employees to maintain prevent driving accidents during commuting and work,
and manage their health. such as testing driving skills, organizing traffic safety
workshops and safe driving seminars, and inspecting
Otsuka Group vehicle tires. The Otsuka Group is committed to continue
working to enhance employee health, improve working
* A medical device that uses conditions, and prevent occupational accidents.
electrical shock to restore
normal heart function in some-
one experiencing cardiac arrest Otsuka Group
53 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014Third-Party Opinion
Feedback on the Otsuka Group CSR Report 2014
Easy, Comfortable Working Environments
Eriko Nashioka
The Otsuka Group organizes its CSR initiatives into the five areas
Certified Public Accountant and
of health, environment, quality, culture, and employees. Highlight 1,
Certified Tax Accountant / President,
which describes the BeanStalk Kids Centers operated by the Otsuka Institute for Environmental
Management Accounting
Group in several of their workplaces, is one of the sections in this re-
port that identified for me the Group’s objectives in the areas of culture Profile
Completed a master’s degree in environmental management at the Graduate School of Policy
and employees, specifically. On-site kids’ centers are an outstanding and Management of Doshisha University, and taught at the Faculty of Commerce of the
Doshisha University.
CSR initiative. Having taken over the administration of these facilities
Joined Showa Ota & Co. (now Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC), engaging in consulting
in their third year of operation, the Group is now focused on providing on environmental accounting and reporting. Served as a lead researcher for a project on
corporations and the environment by the Kansai Research Center of the Institute for Global
childcare that not only makes it easier for female employees to work, Environmental Strategies (IGES), and was a member of the Committee of Environmental
Accounting of the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (JICPA), as well as
but also recognizes the need for work-life balance for all employees.
serving on committees for Japan’s Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of Economy, Trade
The Otsuka Group provides kids’ centers that incorporate both local and Industries. Joined the management team of the Institute for Environmental Management
Accounting in April 2004, and has authored books on environmental accounting and
culture and the Group’s basic CSR philosophy to create a fine child- environmental reports.
care environment that embodies the Otsuka approach. I think that the
evidence for how effective this initiative is will be in the rate of female expressed in its code of business ethics. I find that these new stipu-
employees working in management positions. Companies that make lations and the report’s organization of CSR activities into five areas
it easy for women to work are also easier working environments for make the Otsuka Group’s approach easier for those outside of the
men. The Otsuka Group corporate culture —one that responds flexi- Group to understand. Group companies are introduced in detail at
bly to the specific circumstances of individual employees and creates the beginning of this report, which gives a clear view of the Otsuka
a work environment that enables each employee to make the most Group organization as a whole. The section titled Highlight 2 then
of his or her talents—is extremely impressive. In my assessment, the covers the specific CSR activities that Group companies implement.
Otsuka Group serves as a model for how corporate entities can help Having expanded beyond Asia to other countries around the world,
resolve social issues affecting the Japanese labor market. the Otsuka Group marks its 40th year of global development, and
having laid the foundation for a global structure, we can expect to
Laying the Foundation for Global CSR see even more growth for the Group in the future. Based on the pur-
For the Otsuka Group, 2013 was a year focused on building a basic poses and targets for corporate conduct shaped by its Global Code
global CSR structure. The Otsuka Group Global Code of Business of Business Ethics, it is my assessment that the Otsuka Group is
Ethics was introduced to ensure that all 166 companies operating capable of global-level operations once indexes that focus on glob-
in 26 countries and regions around the world conducted business al-level activities are in place. Companies operating in the medical
activities based on a shared set of common values. Otsuka Group sector generally demonstrate a high level of CSR performance, and
CSR initiatives are integrated into its main businesses, and I expect I expect that Otsuka Group’s global activities will measure up to this
the Group’s CSR approach to be guided by the same values as those global standard.
Editorial Postscript
Otsuka Group CSR activities are shaped by communication with site contains detailed in-
stakeholders, which is inspired by and committed to its corporate formation on the diverse
philosophy. In an effort to convey our unique CSR approach to read- activities of Group com-
ers, we have organized these activities into the five areas of health, panies that cannot be pre-
environment, quality, culture, and employees. We hope that this sented here due to space
framework gives a better understanding of our approach. limitations. By contrast,
The number of our stakeholders has naturally increased as our this report focuses on pre-
business has become more global in nature. In an effort to effectively senting a broad cross-section of Group-wide activities.
disseminate information to this large group of individuals, we have We will continue to work earnestly with all of our stakeholders to
developed the Otsuka Group Consolidated CSR Site, which offers develop activities that fulfill their expectations.
a high level of browsing performance from a variety of devices, an
Editorial Committee
advanced search function and improved search performance. This Otsuka Group CSR Report 2014
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 54Head Office: 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi,
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0048, Japan
Tokyo headquarters: Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Konan,
Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan
Publication date of this report: October 2014
Contact information for inquiries
PR, Investor Relations Department, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Tel : +81 (0)3-6717-1410 (switchboard) Fax : +81 (0)3-6717-1409
This report is also available online. The report is printed using Non-VOC ink, made 100% from aroma-free vegetable oil that
does not contain volatile organic solvents. The report is printed on FSCTM certified paper,
http://www.otsuka.com/en using a waterless printing method that minimizes generation of harmful liquid waste.