Otsuka Group
CSR Report 2016
Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwideEditorial Policy
In keeping with its corporate philosophy, “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide,” the Otsuka group endeavors to cre-
ate new and innovative products in diverse areas related to health, as a global, total healthcare company devoted to advancing health worldwide.
The Otsuka Group CSR Report provides an overview of the diverse initiatives that Otsuka engages in, from its relationships with stakehold-
ers in the course of its business to the fulfillment of its corporate commitments. We hope that this report can deepen mutual understanding with
our stakeholders.
In this report, we focus on the three concepts below in
addressing the five areas of CSR at the Otsuka group The five areas of CSR at the
—health, environment, quality, culture and employees. Otsuka group
Otsuka group corporate philosophy/
Health p 12
1 material aspects (materiality)
(For more detail see page 8)
Environment p 18
International CSR guidelines
2 - ISO 26000 seven core subjects Quality p 28
- GRI
- Environmental Report Guidelines
Culture p 34
3 Communication with stakeholders
Employees p 40
Scope
This report focuses on Otsuka Holdings and Otsuka group companies worldwide, including the following 14 companies in Japan:
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Medical Devices Co., Ltd. J.O. Pharma Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Okayama Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Electronics Co., Ltd. Otsuka Packaging Industries Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Warehouse Co., Ltd. EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. JIMRO Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Techno Corporation
Period covered
The results cover the period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016. Certain activities reported on occurred in 2017.
Future publication schedule
The next report is scheduled for publication in the summer of 2018.
Guidelines referenced
This report was compiled with reference to the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4th Edition, ISO 26000,
and the Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 Edition issued by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment.
1Corporate Profile Contents
As of December 31, 2016
Company Name: Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. About the Otsuka Group 2
Established: July 8, 2008
Corporate Profile 2
Capital: JPY 81.69 billion Otsuka Group Across the Globe 3
Stakeholder Engagement 4
Head Office: 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi,
Business Overview of the Otsuka Group 5
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0048, Japan
Otsuka Group’s CSR Vision 7
Tokyo Headquarters: Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Konan, Identification of the Otsuka Group’s Materiality 8
Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan
Representative: Tatsuo Higuchi, President and CEO
Message from the President 9
Employees: 87 (Consolidated: 31,787)
Message from the President 9
Scope of consolidation: 147 consolidated subsidiaries and
Corporate Philosophy 11
32 equity-method affiliates
Business description: Control, management, and other operational aspects of busi-
ness activities related to holding the shares of companies
Health 12
that operate in the fields of pharmaceuticals, nutraceuticals,
consumer products, and other businesses. Addressing Unmet Needs 13
Raising Awareness of Health 15
Communicating Health Information 17
From fiscal 2016, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are applied.
Environment 18
Consolidated Net Sales Consolidated Operating Profit
Environmental Management 19
Net sales Operating profit Operating profit/Net sales
(Un 1i ,t 5: 0¥ 0 billion) 1,452.8 1,445.2 1,427.4 (Un 2it 0: 0¥ billion) 198.7 196.5 ( 2% 0) C Ecli om -a Ft re ie C ndh la yn Pg re o R due cs tp so nse 2 20 3
1,218.1 1,224.3 1,195.5 169.7
151.8 148.9 Waste Reduction 24
150 15
1,000 16.1 Protecting Biodiversity 25
13.9 13.7 101.1
100 10
10.5 10.4
500 8.5
50 5
Quality 28
0 0 0
2013.3 2014.3 2014.12*12015.12 2015.12 2016.12 2013.3 2014.3 2014.12*12015.12 2015.12 2016.12
Safety Initiatives 29
J-GAAP *2 IFRS J-GAAP IFRS Corporate Governance 30
Research and Development Expenses Compliance 31
R&D expenses R&D expense/Net sales Risk Management 32
(Unit: ¥ billion) 249.0 (%)
250 25
192.4 201.0 202.7
200 172.9 168.820
150 17.1 15
15.8 Culture 34
100 14.1 13.9 14.2 14.1 10
Contributing to Communities 35
50 5
Contributions to Communities outside Japan 37
0 2013.3 2014.3 2014.12*12015.12 2015.12 2016.120 Youth Education 39
J-GAAP IFRS
Sales by Geographical Segment (FY2016) Sales by Business Segment (FY2016)
Consumer Products: Others:
Others: Japan: 35.1 8.9% 106.5 Employees 40
262.3 21.9% 624.0 2.9%
Diversity 41
Sales to Sales to Work-Life Balance 42
external customers external customers
1,195.5 52.2% 25.2% 1,195.5 Employee Health 44
Development of Human Capital 45
63.0%
25.9%
North America: Nutraceuticals: Pharmaceuticals:
309.2 300.9 753.0
(Unit: ¥ billion) (Unit: ¥ billion) Third-Party Opinion 46
*1 Due to a change in the fiscal year-end to December, fiscal 2014 covers
the nine-month period from April 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014.
*2 J-GAAP (Japanese Generally Accepted Accounting Principles)
2About
the
Otsuka
Group
Otsuka Group Across the Globe
The Otsuka group consists of 180 companies in 28 countries and regions worldwide.
Approximately 45,000 employees are working every day for the universal betterment of human health.
Japan:
49
companies
Europe:
35
companies
North America:
29
Asia/
Middle East companies
and others:
63
companies
South America:
2
companies
Oceania:
2
companies
Number of operations and employees of the Otsuka group
Worldwide Japan Outside Japan
180 49 131
Number of companies
174 55 119
Number of factories
46 24 22
Number of research institutes
Approx. 45,000 Approx. 18,000 Approx. 27,000
Number of employees
Number of countries 28 countries and regions worldwide
and regions
(As of December 31, 2016)
Highlights of Otsuka’s global expansion
1973 1977 1979 1981 2006 2007 2008 2012 2015
US
(first North America) Egypt Spain China India Brazil Czech Republic Turkey Australia
Thailand (first Africa ) (first Western Europe) (first South America) (first Eastern Europe)
(first Asia)
3Stakeholder Engagement
Over the years, the Otsuka group has received the support of many stakeholders, including consumers, patients, inves-
tors, local residents, collaborators, and employees. In order to fulfill corporate social responsibilities such as human
rights protection and environmental conservation, the group realizes that one effective way to help solve social issues is
collaborating with stakeholders worldwide.
The Otsuka group aims to maintain and enhance relationships of trust with stakeholders in various ways, and is work-
ing to strengthen communication and cooperation with them.
Japan:
49
companies Stakeholder Engagement
Europe:
35
companies
Stakeholders Forms of Engagement Main Responsibilities and Issues
Patients, onsumers and ● Provision of information on pharmaceutical products ● Research and development into products to address
North America: healthcare professionals through medical representatives unmet medical needs
29 ● Health-related, awareness-raising activities ● Support for disease prevention, treatment, and health
Asia/ ● Solicitation of customer feedback maintenance/promotion, while helping to extend
Middle East companies healthy life expectancy and quality of life
and others: ● Organization of seminars for healthcare professionals
63 and events to support patient associations
companies
South America:
2
Investors and shareholders ● Formulation and communication of medium-term ● Sustainable growth and improvement of corporate
management plans value
companies
Oceania:
● IR activities such as regular company briefings for ● Return on dividends
2 analysts and institutional investors ● Timely and appropriate information disclosure
companies ● E mn ah tea rn iac le sm ine n Et n o gf l isin hf o form r oat vi eo rn s ed ais sc il no ss tu itr ue t it oh nro au l gh ● Measures to attract socially responsible investment
investors
● Organization of shareholder meetings that are easy to
understand for individual shareholders
Worldwide Japan Outside Japan Communities and society ● Implementation and operation of environmental ● Environmental conservation
protection procedures at factories ● Contribution to local communities
● Development and deployment of eco-friendly ● Support for raising the next generation of young
products people
180 49 131 ● Interaction and collaboration with local communities
Number of companies ● Disaster relief activities
● Educational support activities
174 55 119
Number of factories
46 24 22 Collaborators ● Holding company briefings and facility tours ● Ensuring quality assurance and stable product supply
Number of research institutes
● Meeting and exchanging opinions with collaborators ● Enhancement of product information provision
Approx. 45,000 Approx. 18,000 Approx. 27,000 ● W pro or ck uin reg m w ei nth t qsu up esp tl ii oe nrs n ato ir eim s,p ele tcm . ent CSR ● P soro ct iee tc at li o cn o no cf eh ru nm s a an c rr oig sh st s th, eth se u e pn pv lyir o cn hm ainent and
Number of employees
● Joint research and development for products, ● Fair and equitable transactions
technologies and systems, and cooperation through ● Sustainable growth and development with
co-promotion and co-marketing collaborators
Number of countries 28 countries and regions worldwide
and regions
Employees ● Human resource development programs and training ● Human resources development
systems ● Respect for diversity
● Self-assessment system ● Work-life balance initiatives
● Conducting personnel interviews/questionnaires, etc. ● Parenting and family home care support
● Provision of whistleblower hotlines for compliance/ ● Ensuring occupational health and safety
1973 1977 1979 1981 2006 2007 2008 2012 2015 harassment, etc.
US
(first North America) Egypt Spain China India Brazil Czech Republic Turkey Australia
Thailand (first Africa ) (first Western Europe) (first South America) (first Eastern Europe)
(first Asia)
4About
the
Otsuka
Group
Business Overview of the Otsuka Group
The group is a global healthcare company dedicated to the maintenance and improvement of people’s health worldwide.
It generates positive health outcomes from many angles, while offering original products that create new markets.
The group pursues a range of businesses in four main segments.
Major products
Pharmaceutical
Business
Antipsychotic drug, Antipsychotic drug, V2-receptor antagonist Antituberculosis drug,
REXULTI ABILIFY MAINTENA (Aquaretic・ADPKD) drug, DELTYBA
Samsca/JINARC
Pharmaceuticals
IV solutions The pharmaceutical business has
(clinical nutrition) long been engaged in discovering
and developing therapies for dis-
eases of the central nervous system
Diagnostics
and is also deeply engaged in the
area of oncology, another area of Anticancer agent, Anticancer agent, Drug for Pseudobulbar Affect Therapeutic agent for glaucoma
Medical devices significant unmet medical need. Im- TS-1 LONSURF (PBA), and ocular hypertension,
NUEDEXTA Mikeluna combination ophthalmic solution
portantly, in order to provide com-
prehensive healthcare solutions, the
group’s healthcare-related activities
extend much further—from the di-
agnosis to the treatment of a num-
ber of other medical conditions.
These activities encompass the car-
diovascular system, gastroenterol-
ogy, ophthalmology, diagnostics, IV
solutions and medical devices. Antiemetic agent, Anticancer agent, High-calorie TPN solution, Enteral formula RACOL-NF
Aloxi Abraxane ELNEOPA NF semi-solid for enteral use
Major products
Nutraceutical
Business
POCARI SWEAT POCARI SWEAT ORONAMIN C Amino-Value Tiovita Drink OS-1
Functional beverages ION WATER DRINK
and foods
The nutraceutical business focuses
Cosmedics on functional foods and beverages
that help maintain and promote
day-to-day health. The group lever-
OTC products,
ages the expertise gained in its
Quasi-drugs pharmaceutical business to de-
velop original products based on
scientific evidence.
BODYMAINTÉ Fibe-Mini Calorie Mate SOYJOY EQUELLE
SOYJOY Crispy
Nutraceuticals = nutrition + pharmaceuticals
Cosmedics = cosmetics + medicine
Kenjya-no-shokutaku Nature Made UL・OS Oronine H Ointment
Double Support
5Major products
Consumer
Products
Business
Bon Curry Gold Bon Curry Neo My Size
Beverages
Since launching the first-ever com- Foods
mercially available curry in a pouch,
Bon Curry in 1968, Otsuka has Alcoholic beverages
continued to be a pioneer in prod-
uct development. The company
delivers foods and beverages to
consumers, which taste delicious
Sinvino Java Tea Straight MATCH MATCH Pink CRYSTAL GEYSER
and also give the consumer peace
of mind.
Ridge Monte Bello Mannan Hikari
Major products
Other
Businesses
Functional chemical
Terracess TERPLUS application products
(friction material for brake pads) Pigment dispersants for color filters
The Otsuka group engages in other
diversified businesses such as Fine chemicals
chemical materials for the automo-
tive, electrical, electronic, and build-
Distribution
ing materials sectors. It operates
transport and warehousing services
that provide eco-friendly logistics. Packaging
These are focused on the movement
of Otsuka group pharmaceuticals, Electronic equipment
foods and beverages. In addition,
an electronic equipment business
supports cutting-edge advance-
ments in science and technology.
POCone, HM (HalfMoon) series of
a medical device LED evaluators
6About
the
Otsuka
Group
Otsuka Group’s CSR Vision
Otsuka’s approach to social responsibility is driven by its commitment to environment. These initiatives directly and indirectly help Otsuka to im-
live up to its corporate philosophy, “Otsuka-people creating new prod- prove its manufacturing and services. However, delivering products and
ucts for better health worldwide.” Otsuka’s CSR initiatives evolve as services valued by customers does more than help develop the group’s
stakeholders become increasingly engaged. This is only natural, since business. With this approach, Otsuka also creates virtuous cycles of
Otsuka’s business activities require the understanding, cooperation and trust, loyalty and support through emphasis on areas such as commu-
support of many external and internal stakeholders. nity partnerships. By pursuing CSR as an integral part of its business,
Otsuka contributes to society in various ways, including initiatives Otsuka can continue as a valued, necessary partner for society.
to benefit the local communities where it operates and protect the
Health
Employees
Local
communities
Culture
Environment
Quality
Employees
Natural
environment
Otsuka Group
Philosophy
Otsuka-people
creating new products
for better health
worldwide
Business
collaborators
Shareholders
Investors
Patients Suppliers
Consumers
The Otsuka group CSR vision draws inspiration from the forward and backward flows of the
famous eddies in the Naruto Straits, near the city of Tokushima, Japan where Otsuka was found-
ed. In a way analogous to these two-way currents, the Otsuka group contributes profits back to
society in one direction, while in the other direction it pursues commercial activities rooted in its
corporate philosophy that reinforce social goodwill.
Five Areas of Otsuka Group CSR
Health Environment Quality Culture Employees
p 12 p 18 p 28 p 34 p 40
As a total healthcare company, the Our lives, communities and business Otsuka’s approach to quality extends Otsuka respects local communities The spirit of Sozosei (creativity)
Otsuka group is focused on develop- activities are inextricably linked to the beyond safety and security of product and their time-honored cultures. instilled in every employee of the Ot-
ing innovative products and seeking environment. Otsuka group embrac- manufacturing. Striving to enhance The group contributes to commu- suka group stems from their desire
ways to maintain and promote better es its responsibility to care for the the quality of its social initiatives, the nity development and in particular to emulate the corporate philosophy.
health for all. environment and pursue sustainability group engages on a broad range of to the education of children who The group fosters a culture that
at every stage, from the manufactur- activities, from information transpar- represent the future of their com- encourages a diverse workforce
ing of products through to their use. ency and disclosure to collaboration munities, through community to break out of the conventional,
with other businesses, respect for exchanges, partnerships, and sup- broaden their perspectives, and
local communities, and ensuring port for education. pursue personal development. This
compliance with regulations. collective creativity, in turn, enables
the group to continue to develop in-
novative products that enrich society.
7A vital part of the Otsuka group’s corporate philosophy recognizes the pursue this process, promote CSR as an integral part of our business
importance of contributing to the promotion of sustainability in terms of activities, and strive for sustainable development in its business opera-
both social and environmental issues. The group actively engages in a tions and society at large.
diverse set of initiatives to uphold this responsibility.
Using the methodology described below the Otsuka group identi-
fied material aspects that it should emphasize. The group continues to
Five CSR Areas Material Aspects
Health
Material Aspects
Environment
Quality
Culture
Impact on the Otsuka group
Employees
Assessing Impact
on Stakeholders
Listing Potential and Management Creating
Material Aspects Each potential material aspect is an- a Materiality Map
alyzed in relation to its impact on
To identify and list potential materi- various stakeholders and the man- Indices used in the assessment
al aspects, the group employs an agement of the Otsuka group. were weighted by importance and
integrated analysis that incorpo- Third-party opinions are also inte- used to create a materiality map
rates the group's corporate philos- grated into the analysis to implement that reflects the CSR policy of the
ophy, CSR vision and policy, cur- a quantitative assessment. Otsuka group.
rent CSR initiatives, international
CSR guidelines, and socially re-
sponsible investment (SRI).
Process to Identify Materiality
Materiality Review Identifying Materiality
The group regularly evaluates initia- Specifying Five Areas Aspects determined to have an im-
tives implemented in the five CSR of CSR pact on both Otsuka group manage-
areas, and reviews materiality and ment and stakeholders within a cer-
policies as necessary. The Otsuka group organizes CSR tain criteria are defined as material.
activities into the five areas of
health, environment, quality, culture,
and employees, each with its own
specific action policies.
Impact
on
stakeholders
Identification of the Otsuka Group’s Materiality
● Creation of new drugs and health-related products
● Technical innovation
● Global deployment
● Expansion of health information provision
● Development of eco-friendly products
● Proactiveness toward climate change
● Promotion of waste reduction and recycling
● Measures to help protect biodiversity
● Product quality assurance and traceability
● Ensuring compliance
● Supply chain management
● Communication with local communities
● Health and safety
● Human resource development
● Promotion of diversity
8Message from the President
Supporting Sustainability
by Addressing Social Issues
through Health and Creativity
The Global Movement toward Sustainability
A current world population at over 7 billion, estimated to rise to
nearly 10 billion in 2050, will continue to have significant global
impacts, such as the environmental effects of increased carbon
dioxide and waste levels, as well as growing wealth inequality. Anal-
ogously, addressing environmental, social and economic sustain-
ability issues are critical responsibilities now and in the future for
global companies.
Otsuka Holdings signed the United Nations Global Compact in
2016. By declaring our support for the Global Compact and commit-
ment to contribute toward achieving the Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs)*, we underscored the Otsuka group’s commitment
to achieve sustainable development in collaboration with all sec-
tors of society. Under the corporate philosophy of “Otsuka-people
creating new products for better health worldwide,” innovation is
at the core of our business. We leverage this know-how through
our work on a variety of sustainability issues for the betterment of
all in society.
Sustainability of Our Business
In recent years, amid rising concerns about soaring healthcare
costs, interest in disease prevention is growing rapidly. Otsuka fore-
saw growing social recognition of the importance of disease pre-
vention and established its current business model, which focuses
mainly on pharmaceuticals and nutraceuticals in functional foods
and beverages.
In pharmaceuticals, treatments for disorders of the central ner-
vous system (CNS) are one of our priorities. The underlying causes
of many CNS-related disorders have yet to be precisely elucidated,
making the research and development of treatments challenging.
Our flagship, in-house-originated products include REXULTI, a new
At Otsuka Pharmaceutical Tokushima Itano Factory antipsychotic with a unique mechanism of action, and the antipsy-
chotic, ABILIFY, with the world’s first dopamine partial antagonist.
In other fields, we have undertaken research and development
aimed at creating first-in-class products to treat unmet medical
needs. Examples of these products include Samsca, an aquaretic
* Sustainable Development Goals: Shared objectives for the international community that
include both developed and developing countries, and that address sustainable devel-
opment in social, economic, and environmental dimensions.
9with the first-ever mechanism that promotes the excretion of water
without electrolyte loss, for treating heart failure and cirrhosis of the
liver with edema, and DELTYBA, one of the world’s first new drugs
in approximately 50 years for tuberculosis.
In nutraceuticals, we leveraged the knowledge gained in our IV
solutions business to create the ion supply drink market by intro-
ducing POCARI SWEAT, which was conceptualized as a drinkable
IV solution. By similarly leveraging our knowledge of liquid food
concentrates used in medical settings, we created a new cate-
gory of nutritionally balanced food products with Calorie Mate. This
product has been incorporated into disaster relief supplies. In our
focus to strengthen our business foundation, we are strategically
concentrating on accelerating the global development of product
lines to promote healthy life expectancy.
We believe that we can develop further confidence and exceed
the expectations of our stakeholders by helping to address social
issues through responsible business activities. Our CSR activities
are also driven by our sense of fulfillment in recognizing the needs
of others and delivering social benefit returns to the communities Becoming an Indispensable Contributor to
where we operate. This includes our community support related to People’s Health Worldwide
culture and health. Our relationship with stakeholders is a vital force
that drives our business development. Going forward, we aim to Stakeholders, including investors, are closely watching corporate
promote sustainability in our business, while at the same time iden- governance reforms triggered by a series of scandals at large com-
tifying the unmet needs of patients and providing them with unique, panies in recent years. Consequently, at Otsuka Holdings, we are
innovative products. reinforcing already sound management practices by further strength-
ening our governing structure, promoting growth from a long-term
perspective, and strengthening our international competitiveness.
Perpetuating Otsuka “DNA” We recognize that respect for universal social principles such as
human rights, freedom, and equality are essential for conducting
The Otsuka group has inherited its corporate “DNA” from gener- business globally.
ations of company leaders. It comprises three guiding principles: We strive to cultivate a corporate culture where employees can
(1) Ryukan-godo (by sweat we recognize the way), which means express their individuality and values by promoting diversity in na-
discovering the core substance of matters not only through knowl- tionality, race, age, and gender.
edge, but also through hard work and repeated practical applica- Furthermore, productive workdays require that employees be
tion; (2) Jissho (actualization), which is defined as self-actualization mentally and physically healthy; therefore we continuously work on
through execution, completion and the discovery of truth; and (3) measures to promote employee health. In April 2017, Otsuka Hold-
Sozosei (creativity), which means resisting the urge to copy and ings established the Otsuka Group Health Declaration to further
pursuing that which only Otsuka is capable of delivering. These promote health management. As a healthcare company, we widely
principles are the driving force behind Otsuka’s growth. They serve advocate health as an important piece of social sustainability inside
both as our corporate foundation and as the basis for the fu- and outside the company.
ture growth of the Otsuka group and its employees. It is this core I and my 45,000 colleagues deeply appreciate your ongoing
Otsuka “DNA” that provides resilience in overcoming challenges. support for the Otsuka group as we aim to become an indispens-
The foundation of the company’s success relies on the develop- able contributor to people’s health worldwide.
ment of employees cognizant of the company’s heritage. In order
to nurture talented people who can succeed on a global level, we
have launched a new group-wide human resource development
program that will continue over the medium and long term, steadily
evolving to include more content.
President and CEO
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
10Corporate Philosophy of the Otsuka Group
These words embody our commitment to:
Contributing to
Creating innovative
Improving human health the lives of
products
people worldwide
In keeping with this corporate philosophy and Otsuka’s guiding principles of Jissho (actualization) and Sozosei (creativity), the
Otsuka group strives to utilize its unique assets and skills to develop differentiated scientific solutions which contribute to the
lives of people worldwide in the form of innovative and creative products ranging from pharmaceuticals to consumer products.
We are striving to cultivate a culture and a dynamic corporate climate reflecting our vision as a healthcare company. As such we
are dedicated to achieving global sustainability, relationships with local communities, and protection of the natural environment.
Monuments embodying the Otsuka Group Philosophy
Giant Tomato Trees / Bent Giant Cedar / Floating Stones
“Our mission is the development of creative human resources who can break the mold”
The Otsuka group established the “Human Resource Development Institute”, an employee training center in Tokushima City,
Japan, in March 1988. The institute’s mission is to foster the development of creative employees who can break the mold of
conventional thinking and contribute to Otsuka’s ongoing success as a “big venture” company. The institute features three
monuments that symbolize the Otsuka group philosophy, conveying the message that Otsuka will continue to be a richly
creative force.
Giant Tomato Trees Bent Giant Cedar Floating Stones
The giant tomato tree that covers the en- Here a giant cedar trunk bends sharply in the In this water garden, which gives a nod to the
tire ceiling of the hall can produce more than middle as a second cedar trunk balances on rock gardens of Japan, large stones seem to
10,000 fruit per year, as a result of maximizing top. Although the formation appears unstable defy the laws of nature and float above the sur-
the fruit-producing potential through hydro- at first glance, it is actually perfectly balanced face of a large pool, while others seem to oddly
ponics that frees the roots from normal soil. and even withstood powerful tremors during bend. The garden was created to capture peo-
The tomato tree is symbolic of employing new the Great Hanshin Earthquake of 1995. It ple’s interest, enrich their hearts and give them
ideas to draw out potential. speaks to the importance of not being limited the ability to think about things. It encourages
by preconceived ideas. us to change our perceptions, and break free
of conventional thinking.
11Health
As a total healthcare enterprise, the Otsuka group of companies creates
innovative products and seeks ways to maintain and promote better health
for all.
14.1
Monuments embodying the Otsuka Group Philosophy
%
Giant Tomato Trees / Bent Giant Cedar / Floating Stones
“Our mission is the development of creative human resources who can break the mold”
O
H
N O
NH
F
O
Otsuka group R&D expenses as
a percentage of net sales
3 40
years More than years
O O
H H
N O N O
F N FH NH
O O
Number of consecutive years honored Number of years the company has conducted
with Hitosuzumi Award R&D on oral anticancer agents
1122Health Addressing Unmet Needs
The Otsuka group is passionate about its philosophy to contribute to better health for people worldwide,
and it does by striving to create groundbreaking new products of a kind that only Otsuka can conceive.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Taiho Pharmaceutical Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
Addressing Unmet Medical Needs
Otsuka group medical-related businesses de- launch of ICLUSIG to treat chronic myeloid leu- 1984), TS-1 (in 1999), and LONSURF (in 2014).
velop revolutionary new medications in fields kemia. Samsca was discovered and developed Additionally, Taiho Pharmaceutical developed and
wherever unmet medical needs exist and deliver by Otsuka as the first-ever treatment to slow launched in Japan in 2015, Yondelis, a treatment
them worldwide. the progression of autosomal dominant polycys- for soft tissue sarcoma recommended in Euro-
The central nervous system diseases and their tic kidney disease (ADPKD), an acute, chronic, pean and North American medical guidelines.
treatments are often accompanied by adher- and progressive kidney disease (outside Japan, In addition to its extensive involvement in clin-
ence issues: patients may lack an understanding Samsca is marketed to treat ADPKD under the ical nutrition, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
of their condition, dislike the side effects of their brand name JINARC). In 2014, the company manufactures surgical products, such as the new
medication and stop taking it, or forget to take it. launched the antituberculosis drug DELTYBA in topical antiseptic solution Olanedine, that treat
This often leads to disease relapses. For bet- Europe and Japan as part of its work in treating and prevent infectious diseases and post-sur-
ter patient outcomes and improved adherence, infectious diseases. gery complications. The company has acceler-
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, in 2013, launched In the area of oncology, Taiho Pharmaceutical ated research and development in the field of
ABILIFY MAINTENA, a prolonged-release ver- continues to take on the challenge of developing regenerative disease with bioartificial pancreas
sion of ABILIFY. Additionally, in 2015, the com- revolutionary new drugs. In 1974, before use of islets, an area that holds promise as a more ef-
pany first launched the antipsychotic REXULTI in oral formulations became widespread, the com- fective method of type 1 diabetes treatment.
the US. In the area of oncology, Otsuka’s involve- pany introduced the oral anticancer agent Fu- Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical,
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
ment in blood cancer treatments has led to the traful, and has since brought to market UFT (in
Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Otsu Nutraceuticals Research Institute Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute
Addressing Yet-to-be-imagined Consumer Needs
In the area of nutraceuticals, Otsuka Pharma- In 1980, the company launched POCARI prone to illness due to rigorous daily training.
ceuticals leverages its medical-related expertise SWEAT, a health drink that replenishes water The company added lactic acid bacteria B240,
to develop original functional foods, bever- and electrolytes. Otsuka Pharmaceutical has a unique Otsuka Pharmaceutical ingredient for
ages and other scientifically-based products invested in 30-plus years of research on elec- maintaining physical functioning, to develop the
to maintain and promote the health of people trolyte and fluid replacement, and educational special formula.
around the world. The company’s perseverance activities since then. Educational events at With regard to women’s health, Otsuka Phar-
in communicating the value of these functional sports venues have helped ensure that proper maceutical launched EQUELLE in 2014 to help
products has created new markets. hydration is an essential component of athletes’ women stay healthy and beautiful during and af-
Today, Japan and many other developed training regimens. ter the midlife transitional period, when they ex-
countries face a number of issues, including In 2016, the company launched POCARI perience various physical and mental changes.
extending healthy life expectancy, aging pop- SWEAT JELLY, an edible form of hydration, to ap- Otsuka Pharmaceutical
ulations, declining birthrates, and the increas- peal to those who are unable to hydrate despite
ing burden of medical expenses, which lead understanding the need to sufficiently hydrate.
the company to focus on yet-to-be-imagined In 2017, the company launched BODYMAINTÉ
needs in the areas of exercise and nutrition, and JELLY, which is formulated specifically to support
women’s health. the physical condition of athletes who may be
VOICE It has long been said that it is important to prevent illness. This is called preventive
medicine. As part of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory’s contribution to preventive med-
Advancing Preventive icine, we created the first new antiseptic in Japan in 50 years, Olanedine, which was
Medicine launched in September 2015. Confirmed as extremely effective in sterilizing against
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infections, which are resistant to
Yasuhide Inoue conventional antiseptics, and against vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE), this
Perioperative Medicine Research Office, agent is expected to help prevent new in-hospital infections.
Naruto Research Institute
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc.
13FIGHTBACK* Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Medical Foods Research Institute Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: HINE E-GEL, one of the concentrated
liquid nutrition series, and ENGELEAD, for people who experience difficulty
swallowing
Global Initiatives for Public Health Medical Food Research
Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB)*1 is from a Global Perspective advocated by the WHO (World Health Organ-
an increasing public health threat. After a long Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, a pharmaceuti- ization) and is the first special use food for di-
period of research and development, DELYTBA cal company with a strong foundation in clinical etary uses approved in Japan for people with
(delamanid), a treatment for adult pulmonary nutrition, leverages this expertise in its mission mild to moderate dehydration. Another prod-
MDR-TB, was approved initially in the EU, Ja- to develop original, scientifically-backed food uct approved as a food for special dietary use,
pan, and South Korea in 2014. In 2016, Otsuka products. These medical food products find ENGELEAD, was developed specifically for
entered into an agreement with the Stop TB applications in healthcare and nursing care sit- those who experience difficulty swallowing. The
Partnership’s*2 Global Drug Facility (GDF), ena- uations. With our social responsibilities as a company has also expanded its HINE series of
bling distribution of DELYTBA to over 100 low- pharmaceutical company in a super-aging so- concentrated liquid nutrition, adding products
and middle-income countries. In addition to drug ciety in mind, we have accelerated product such as HINE E-GEL, a digestive type with a
access, training and technical support is pro- development in Japan based on three areas: new consistency. The company is actively work-
vided to ensure the drug is used correctly and dehydration, malnutrition, and dysphagia (diffi- ing to expand its line of medical foods and bring
effectively incorporated into existing TB treat- culty swallowing). these revolutionary products to markets in other
ment programs. For example, OS-1, an oral rehydration countries in Asia and elsewhere.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical solution, addresses oral rehydration therapy Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
* To raise awareness, Otsuka Pharmaceutical worked with antituber-
culosis-related organizations in a number of countries to compile
books of portraits of people who have lived with tuberculosis.
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical: iEat eating recovery assisting food series Otsuka Foods: “My Size: Iine! Plus”
Support Ranging from IV Solutions to Eating Solid Food
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory develops prod- difficulty in eating regular food as they age, and kilocalories per serving. In 2016, the company
ucts that comprehensively support the nutri- are dependent on purees and finely chopped launched its My Size: Iine! Plus series of prod-
tional management of patients throughout their foods. The company’s iEat series of eating re- ucts sold exclusively in Japanese pharmacies.
convalescence from the acute to the recovery covery assisting food products provide nutri- The series is designed for people concerned
phase. These range from the company’s core IV tious foods that retain the look and taste of the not only about calories, but also about intake
solution products and enteral nutrition products food patients are used to eating, yet are soft of salt, proteins, and sugars. As opportunities
to medical foods to make patients more com- enough to be broken down in the mouth with for health management and nutrition guidance
fortable. In IV solutions, the company strives to just the tongue. campaigns increase at regular prescription drug
develop revolutionary products that meet the In 2010, Otsuka Foods launched its My Size pharmacies in Japan, and the Japanese gov-
needs of patients and healthcare profession- series of retort food products prepared to be ernment moves to create a system of Health
als, such as the first-ever IV solution quad bag, just the right size. Carefully prepared curry in- Support Pharmacies, the My Size: Iine! Plus se-
which provides greater convenience and helps gredients and rice bowl toppings, packaged ries is gaining the attention of consumers look-
prevent mistakes in preparation. rice, and portion control are features that en- ing for products to support a healthy diet.
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical has responded sure these popular products provide delicious Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical,
Otsuka Foods
to the increasing number of elderly who have meals with an easy-to-understand 100 or 150
VOICE An oral cavity or poor nutrition can cause various illnesses and degrading of bodily functions. For *1: When TB bacteria become resistant to at least the
example, maintaining good oral hygiene can be effective in preventing aspiration pneumonia. Pro- two most commonly used first-line medicines, iso-
Providing Information moting greater collaboration between the medical and dental fields is therefore a matter of some niazid and rifampicin, the infection is called multid-
rug-resistant (MDR).
and Expanding Product urgency. EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical has developed and launched oral care products. It also man-
Lines based on the ufactures and markets iEat, a series of eating recovery assisting food products. The company also *2: Established in 2001 with the aim of eradicating
Interrelationships between manufactures and markets enteral nutrition products. These are prescription drug enteral nutrition t au teb de r ac su l ao s sis u. b sT idhe ia rG y l oo rb ga al nD izr au tg io nF a oc f il tit hy e w Sa tos p c Tre B-
formulas that can be administered directly into the stomach or intestine in a relatively short period
Medical and Dental Care Partnership to increase access to high-quality and
Kenichi Ogasawara o tof t ti hm ise , l ig ni ev in ag n dp a rt aie isn et s a m wao rr ee n t eim sse f ao tr are ch aa db ei mlita ict io cn o. n T feh re e nc co em sp , a pn roy vw idil el c ao pn pti rn ou pe r it ao t ea d ind f on re mw a tp ioro nd , u ac nt ds affordable TB treatments and diagnostics.
Chief of a Product Planning Division, manufacture products that meet healthcare needs. 14
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.Health Raising Awareness of Health
The Otsuka group engages in a variety of activities to raise awareness among
stakeholders on the importance of staying healthy.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Raising awareness of heat disorder prevention Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Committee for Awareness of Hidden
Dehydration activities
Building Awareness of Prevention of Heat Disorders
Ever since the launch of POCARI SWEAT, elderly, and other people at risk of heat disor- year, the company also received in 2016 a Top
Otsuka Pharmaceutical has been carrying out ders. Moreover, in 2016, Otsuka Pharmaceuti- Runner Award (Private Sector), presented to the
educational events for all ages, children to sen- cal and Otsuka Foods support COOL CHOICE, organization that implemented the most effec-
iors, which advocate the importance of hydra- a national movement sponsored by the Japa- tive heat disorder prevention initiatives among
tion and electrolytes for various types of daily nese government to encourage wise decisions all award-winning organizations.
activity. The company has also engaged in ef- in light of global warming concerns. The compa- Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory supports and
forts to prevent and treat heat disorders for over ny’s employee-led on-site seminars on heat dis- cooperates with the Committee for Awareness
25 years. Company employees visit sites to give orders provide a channel for raising awareness of Hidden Dehydration, which works to raise
seminars on the importance of hydration and among a wide range of people. In recognition awareness of ways to prevent and treat dehy-
electrolyte replenishment based on scientific re- of these diverse activities, Otsuka Pharmaceu- dration before it becomes critical. Heatstroke
search at Otsuka Pharmaceutical research in- tical was honored with a Heat Illness Preven- occurs when heat is not released and builds up
stitutes and elsewhere. These activities have tion Communication Project Hitosuzumi Award in the body. This phenomenon is closely tied to
been expanded to include educating athletes, in 2016* for its outstanding heat disorder pre- a lack of proper hydration. In the past, dehy-
coaches, construction workers, factory work- vention initiatives. In addition to being named dration was commonly treated by administering
ers, staff employed in hot environments, the Best Communicator for the third consecutive liquids, but today it is increasingly common to
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Committee for Awareness of Otsuka Pharmaceutical (H.K.): Running program
Hidden Dehydration activities
treat mild to moderate dehydration with an oral prevention of heat disorders and works on rais- organization that provides support to those with
rehydration solution early on to prevent milder ing awareness and understanding of heat disor- mental illness. EPISO members include psychi-
cases from becoming serious. Efforts to raise der prevention. atrists from university hospitals, professors at
awareness of oral rehydration solutions have in- The EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Hanamaki the University of Hong Kong, social workers,
creased recognition and understanding of heat and Kitakami factories in Japan communicate volunteers and others. The organization oper-
disorders, and the Japanese Association for the dangers of heat disorders to employees, as ates yoga and running programs with the aspi-
Acute Medicine has included OS-1 as a recom- well as to outside vendors working at the fac- ration to promote better health through exercise.
mended oral rehydration solution in their treat- tories, frequently reminding workers to rehy- To support these activities and ensure that the
ment guideline. drate. Between June and September, POCARI EPISO program is beneficial to all, Otsuka Phar-
At Otsuka Techno, forklift operators work out- SWEAT servers are installed at both factories so maceutical (H.K.) educates the doctors and
doors moving products, and warehouse man- that employees can hydrate as needed during volunteers on the importance of hydration and
agers are in charge of heat disorder prevention the hottest months of the year. ways of hydrating and replenishing electrolytes.
efforts. The company distributes Japan Indus- Otsuka Pharmaceutical (H.K.) works with
trial Safety & Health Association pamphlets on the Early Psychosis Foundation (EPISO), an
VOICE In response to a request from a designated Super Nutrition Education School * As part of the Heatstroke Prevention Com-
under a project introduced by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Sci- munication Project, a public/private initi-
Cooperation with Super ence and Technology, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory held a seminar focused ative under the auspices of the Ministry
of the Environment, the Hitosuzumi (Cool
Nutrition Education School on issues related to nutrition, diet, and health management and the relationship Break) Awards are given to recognize out-
between food and sports. standing initiatives to prevent heatstroke.
Tasuku Maeda
Registered Dietician
Company Cafeteria
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc.
15Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Seminar on women’s health Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute Lactococcus 20-92, equol-producing lactic acid bacteria
Raising Awareness of Women’s Health
The average lifespan in Japan, which is over 80 rhythm and physical condition as they age. Ac- to lighten this transformational period that are
years old for both men and women is the high- cording to a survey, for example, respondents suitable for each individual, so that women can
est in the world. By contrast, the average for felt less positive about being promoted. The lead full and active lives.
healthy life expectancy, during which the elderly care received during and after the midlife tran- In 2016, the company released the results of
are not bedridden or require home nursing care, sitional period, a time of significant physical its joint research on equol with Kindai University
is approximately nine years lower for men and and mental changes, has an impact on wom- Research Institute of Oriental Medicine and con-
12 years lower for women than their respective en’s healthy life expectancy. To help women tinues to focus on ways of improving women’s
life expectancies*1. Extending healthy life expec- stay healthy and beautiful during and after the quality of life.
tancy is a matter of great importance in Japan. midlife transitional period, Otsuka Pharmaceu- In addition to information on women’s nutri-
Similarly, Japan also faces the issue of creating tical developed EQUELLE, a supplement con- tion available to the general public on its web-
an environment in which women can be active taining equol made by lactic-aid bacteria from site, Otsuka Pharmaceutical provides support
and involved in society while raising children, fermented soybeans. for Otsuka group employees such as seminars
caring for aging parents, and maintaining their The company also conducts seminars across on women’s health to help female employees
own health. Japan on women’s health that focus on the consider and manage their own health needs.
For many women, their professional and per- physical and mental changes that take place at Otsuka Pharmaceutical
sonal lives are disrupted along with their bodily each stage of life. The seminars also cover ways
Taiho Pharmaceutical: Pink ribbon illumination at Kitajima Plant Taiho Pharmaceutical: Booth at Pink Ribbon Symposium Taiho Pharmaceutical: Raising awareness with Pink Ribbon activities
Supporting the Pink Ribbon Campaign
Taiho Pharmaceutical supports the Pink Ribbon the audience who expressed even more interest early detection and lead to more people receiv-
campaign, a worldwide effort to raise awareness in breast cancer than in past years. ing treatment.
on, distribute accurate information about, and Visitors to the Taiho Pharmaceutical booth re- Today, it is estimated that one in 11 women*2
promote early detection and treatment of breast ceived pink ribbon stickers and a leaflet entitled in Japan will develop breast cancer. Taiho Phar-
cancer. Taiho Pharmaceutical participated once Don’t Miss these Signs of Cancer! with infor- maceutical will continue to widely support the
again in 2016 in the Pink Ribbon Symposium in mation on detecting breast cancer and variety Pink Ribbon campaign to help ensure that as
Tokyo (sponsored by the Japan Cancer Society of other cancerous tumors, as well as a laun- many women as possible receive support when
and the Asahi Shimbun) with a booth. dry bag designed to raise awareness. The laun- they need it.
The 2016 theme was “Together we can over- dry bag was selected in an employee survey Taiho Pharmaceutical
come—The latest breast cancer treatment and as the most appropriate item for raising aware-
mental health care.” The symposium featured ness since the nearly daily chore of doing laun-
talks by specialists and actress Kaho Minami for dry would maximize people’s exposure to the
people living with breast cancer and their fami- message. The company hopes that the laundry
lies. The speakers fielded many questions from bag will motivate more women to think about
*1: Source: Reference materials related to Health Japan 21
(the second term)
*2: Source: Center for Cancer Control and Information Services
16Health Communicating Health Information
To help people improve their health and quality of life, the Otsuka group provides health
information to patients and their families, medical practitioners, and school children.
Taiho Pharmaceutical: SURVIVORSHIP.jp website Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Health & Illness site Otsuka Foods: My First Water Project
Health Information Online My First Water Project
The Otsuka group is involved in awareness-build- The Health and Illness page of the Otsuka Otsuka Foods has been running the My First
ing activities to promote proper understanding of Pharmaceutical website presents information Water Project, which aims to disseminate in-
cancer and other diseases. Taiho Pharmaceuti- on illness and health issues in a manner that is formation about safe and healthy water, since
cal shares information on a wide range of dis- easy for the layperson to follow. 2012. This program is based on the premise
eases and illnesses, including cancer, allergies, Taiho Pharmaceutical and Otsuka Pharmaceutical that parents are responsible for making choices
and lifestyle-related diseases. In 2007, Taiho about water until their children are old enough
Pharmaceutical launched SURVIVORSHIP.jp, a to make their own decisions. In 2016, the com-
website based on joint research with the Shi- pany continued to work with Bean Stalk Snow
zuoka Cancer Center. To address the concerns Co., Ltd. to distribute samples of CRYSTAL
of cancer survivors and their families, this web- GEYSER to 300,000 expectant and nursing
site provides cancer patients with inspiration to mothers across Japan. Employees visited train-
overcome the challenges of life. The sections of ing sessions on bottle-feeding to show mothers
the website that cover anticancer agents, radi- how soft water with fewer minerals is suited for
ation therapy, and diet proved so popular that infant formula.
the company developed a free smartphone app. Otsuka Foods
Otsuka Health Comic Library 20 – TWENTY Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Schizophrenia Forum
Otsuka Health Comic Library 20 – TWENTY Raising Awareness about Illness
The Otsuka group has been publishing the Taiho Pharmaceutical provides support for the Since 2009, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has pro-
Otsuka Health Comic Library since 1989 as part National Cancer Center Hospital’s Orange Clo- vided support for forums on schizophrenia* held
of its efforts to contribute to better children’s ver activities. This project is designed to help each year in two cities in Japan. In 2016, the
health. A new volume is issued each year, and patients undergoing medical treatment to live forums were held in Matsuyama and Shizuoka.
these comics have been donated to elementary full and active lives. Receiving the supervision of Aiming to convey to the general public the im-
and special needs schools throughout Japan. the program, Taiho Pharmaceutical distributed portance of acknowledging schizophrenia as
They are used in classes and student com- its 20—TWENTY booklet in 2016. The book- the first step to recovery, Otsuka Pharmaceu-
mittee activities as a tool for teaching children let was compiled for cancer patients in the AYA tical joined Silver Ribbon Japan to organize a
about health in a fun way. generation (adolescents and young adults), their photo exhibition entitled Facing it Begins the
In collaboration with the Japan Society of families, friends, and others close to them. Change on October 10, World Mental Health
School Health, Otsuka Holdings has held health The booklet does not just focus exclusively Day. The exhibition has been held twice, wel-
education workshops for elementary school on issues of external appearance, but also ad- coming a total of 2,000 visitors and bringing
nurses and other school officials since 2015 dresses topics related to overcoming obstacles hope that awareness and attitudes toward the
to promote health education using the Otsuka in daily life, dealing with negative emotions, and mentally ill can change. These activities have
Health Comic Library. developing a positive attitude. The company dis- been recognized by the international advertising
tributes these to healthcare professionals in the awards Clio and by Cannes Lions.
hope that they will help patients undergoing can- Additionally, US-based Avanir Pharmaceuticals
cer treatment and deal with the issues they face. created a documentary film to raise awareness of
Taiho Pharmaceutical pseudobulbar affect (PBA) and, in collaboration
with the Brain Injury Association of America, has
screened the film to healthcare professionals,
support groups, and reporters, during the Amer-
* Sponsored by NHK Enterprises with support from Otsuka ican Psychiatric Association annual meeting.
Pharmaceutical
17 Otsuka PharmaceuticalEnvironment
The Otsuka group embraces its responsibility to care for the environment
and pursue sustainability at every stage, from the manufacturing of products
through to their use.
795
thousand
tons-CO
2
Total CO2 emissions in FY2016
(Otsuka group)
98.5 100
% %
Waste recycling rate in Japan in FY2016 Environmental e-learning program participation rate
(Otsuka group) since FY2014
(Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
18Environment Environmental Management
An information exchange meeting for environmental managers from group production facilities is
growing into a global system to promote group-wide environmental activities.
Otsuka Group Environmental Policy
As a global healthcare company and a responsible corporate citizen, the Otsuka group will always take account of the global
environment when it pursues its business activities. The group will work on environmental issues with its trademark qualities
of independence, proactiveness, and creativity.
Guidelines
1 Provide products and services that are friendly to the environment
2 Contribute to a low-carbon society
3 Contribute to a sound material-cycle society
4 Conserve biodiversity
5 Ensure compliance
6 Actively engage in social initiatives
7 Enhance risk management
Otsuka group: Global Environmental Council Otsuka Pharmaceutical: “Otsuka Academy of the Environment” Taiho Pharmaceutical: Environmental education e-learning
educational tool
Otsuka Group Environmental Environmental Education
Promotion Council Otsuka Pharmaceutical has provided an on- begun in 2014, now offers two courses com-
The Otsuka Group Global Environmental Council going environmental e-learning program, the prising twenty topics; the two courses are En-
has been established to promote environmental Otsuka Academy of the Environment, for all em- vironmental Studies (fundamental knowledge,
action based on the Otsuka Group Environmen- ployees since its launch in 2011. This program such as basics of global warming) and Envi-
tal Policy and Guidelines. The council comprises has fostered an awareness and understanding ronmental Law. Taiho Pharmaceutical also pro-
group-wide coordinators, environmental man- of environmental issues for employees engaged vides environmental e-learning to all employees.
agers from group companies, and a secretariat. in environmental activities in and out of the com- Course topics are based on the latest issues;
The council is actively engaged in enhancing the pany. Comprehension tests have been used to appropriate waste disposal was the topic in
group’s green initiatives through discerning en- reinforce learning. Since 2014, the program par- 2016. Environmental education for corporate
vironmental issues, setting common goals and ticipation rate has been 100% and the program officers and board members has also been im-
establishing subcommittees to exchange infor- ensures employees knowledgeable of environ- plemented to enhance environmental manage-
mation on each environmental issue. The coun- mental considerations. ment capabilities.
cil will develop its environmental activities in Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory is developing
Japan and outside Japan going forward. an environmental e-learning program to support
self-directed learning. The ongoing program,
19Climate Change Response
By recognizing that the earth’s resources are finite, the Otsuka group is working to help realize
a carbon-neutral society. This includes initiatives to minimize carbon dioxide emissions through
energy conservation and better productivity.
Combating Climate Change and Conserving Energy
In 2016, the 13 Otsuka group companies in medium-term target to reduce fiscal 2018 CO2 emission reduction efforts. Heat is required for
Japan*1 used the energy equivalent of 333 emissions*2 by 10% compared to fiscal 2010. sterilization processes used in producing phar-
thousand tons of CO2 emissions through their The group is striving to control emissions by maceuticals (IV solutions) and beverages, as
business activities. The 34 group companies promoting fuel conversion and higher energy ef- well as for the reaction, distillation, and drying
outside Japan*1 used the energy equivalent of ficiency, and achieved a 7.3% reduction in fis- of chemicals. Therefore, each group company
462 thousand tons of CO2 emissions, result- cal 2016. In addition, by calculating the Scope is working on innovative production processes
ing in total emissions of 795 thousand tons of 3 emissions of four group companies,*3 which that will reduce energy consumption for these
CO2. The increase in CO2 emissions outside account for about 80% of group emissions in energy-intensive uses.
Japan was due to expansion of business ac- Japan, and by ascertaining emissions for each
tivities. The Otsuka group in Japan has set a product category, the group will devise further
(thousand tons-CO2) In Japan Outside Japan
795
(thousand kL) In Japan Outside Japan
( (t th ho o8 68u u0 00s s0 00a an n(dt dh to to 8 6ouTn 0 0nsso 0 0sa- -(tnC Cta hd8
6
4O Ool 0
0 036
8
6t 2 u2o0
0
0C 0)
77 )
7sn
0
06 a
6Os n- 2C
d
OE
to
362m n)
77 s
06i -s Cs 36 OI I7 4ni 6777 n2o 4
0
)
7406J Jn 2 0a 62asp pa a(n nEI 7 4nn 4 0Je 2 0arpga7 4Iny 7 474
0n
7- 1 442
0
1Jr 5 725aOe Oplu ua at tns sti 7 4e id d1 4ed
e
5
7
O)J Ja au7 4p pt 7 4s 7a1 47ain 4 0d
n
15 74e 8
558O
J ua tp s7 4ia dn 4 0e8
5
Ja7 4p7
47
74 0a9
6n 9
48 55
285
7 49 65
2476925
En( (t teh hor o4 3gu 4u0 0s 0sya 0
0a
0
n nU(dt dhs ko kaL 4 3Lu)g 0 0)sa 0 0e (n
t
hd(4
3
2C
o
k0
0
0
13
4
3uLr0
0
00
50s
0u)
a
0
77
7d ndeI
I
n nk- Lo 13J J)a
a
50ilp
p 77
ae an nq 13In
3
13350u J
2
70277iav
2
072paal Ine
n
n
3
1Jat
2
7O O)
p2
0u uat tns s3 1i id
2d
32
7
2e
e 9
22
0
9
OJ
5 2J
5a aup ptsa aind
n
2e
9O
J 5ua tp
s2
1ia
3 1d 29
83n
e2 795
22
3 6J 53apan3 12 73
6
3
13
13
32
74
94
23
62
432
3 14 92
43
1
34
9
42
4
2
4 26 40 00 00 00 0 4 20 00 0 20 36 43 00 0 0 070 0 60 306 3 334 0 470 6 200 342 3 24 44 60 24 80 7 * 268*26344 8440 *375 343 3 34 44 36 03 352 33334 36 32 2 13 20 00 00 00 0 2 10 00 0 10 13 21 000 0 550 0 07 150 1 1115 5570 270 152 1 11 15 1 18 72 8 32 0 2 * 11 18 32 *11 111 3 487 * 826 148 1 11 14 49 78 864 14811 49 84
2000 0 22 300 010 62 20122 20 33 01 04 12 62 3 20132 20 23 01 64 13 82 4* 20142 20 23 01 64 14 83 5* 20152 2033 0134 153 3 6 20162031363 (FY) 1000 0 21 100 510 02 20122 20 1101 5512 023 20132 20 1101 1513 324* 20142 20 1101 1414 385* 20152 20 1101 4415 886 201620 11 46 8 (FY)
(FY) (FY) (FY) (FY)
0 0 0 0
2012 22001123 22001134 22001145 22001156 2016 2012 22001123 22001134 22001145 22001156 2016
(FY) (FY) (FY) (FY)
Otsuka Group CO2 Emissions by Country in FY2016 CO2 Emissions by Company in FY2016 (in Japan)
Other (2 companies) 1.8% Otsuka Packaging Industries 2.4%
Europe (8 comOpathneier s(2)O ctohmerp (a2n cieosm) 1p.a8n%ies) 1.8% OtsuJk.Oa .PO Pathcsaukrakmag iaPn g2a .cI3nk%dagusintgri eIns d2u.4s%tries 2.4% JIMRO 0.3%
Europe (E8u croopmep (a8n cieosm)panies)1.9% J.O.O PtshuaJkr.maO Ta. e P2ch.h3an%roma 2.3% JIMRO 0J.I3M%RO 0.3%
Ch1i.n9a% (7 c1o.m9%panies) Japan (13 companies) Otsuka TOetcshunkoa Techno2.9%
EC u Crh hoi in p na e
a
(( ( (27 78C S cc cc oh oo oo uin mm mm ta h pp E pp (( aa Ku aa 27 C4 1 nn So nnr . h. cc o ii 6 ii r9 o ee ee ioo ep n% % ss u ss a mm e a( )) t )) 2 h pp ( (S 78 c aa Ko 4 o cc nn ou. m oo ii 6 r ee t e mmh% ss pO a )) aK ppt 84h n aao .. 1e i 06 nnr e.er T%% ii 9s eea( o%) ss2 t)) aco
l
em mTp oaO isn tt asihe ile
o
Ts er o)
n
m(1 t s2 a. i:8 sc l % 7seo im m o9J Jp na i as 5a sp psna :aiin oe
n
s n( (1 1) sJ 3 31a : . cp8 coa o%mn
m
p( Jp41a a1 a3n p.
n
9ci aie e%o ns sm ) )(1p 4 3a 1 cn .9 oie % ms4 ) p1. a9 n%
ie s)
EN OtsuEkNa PO OhtE tsa sN ur umk kO aa a t c Ps Teu h eu O2 4k 2a cJ t. .a .r. thi9 4 9O cm s n% %P %ua. oa h kl OP ca ah e t r sEam u2 4ur lt. .ea m i9 k4O c cc a% %at a t es rl T ou 2u 04 ent .k .. 2cJ3i 24ca i .. hc%% %9Oa snP %l . oa TPc ohk taa arg lmO i ent a mgs
T
2 u oI in .k st3da as% u ilP
o
Ts ea o nt mrc t siek a i:as sl
3
g se2i J im.n o34 Ig M n% O i s 3I sRn t ss :Od iu ou k0 ns a.t s3 r POi :%e hts sa 2 urJm. k4 IO aMa% t cPRs e 2u hOu 5k a t .a r0i 9cm . %P a3ah l%ca e 2rm u 5t .a i 9cc %ae 2 lu 5t .i 9c %al
((92 S cco oou mmth pp (aaK 9 98 84 nU n .o. 1.. ci0 i 06 erS e %oe% %% ssA ma( ))9 Ip(
n
2c a d9S 8 o cnU .io. 1am oi0 eSu
%
m% (sptA 2h )a p 9 cn aKU .1
8
o4 i noeS % .. mi 06 Tsr eA te o p%% ) hsa o at)au nsl
i
7 ea 7en sm9 d )9t htio5 s 5onsussi o7 Cat Tnnh O9 doo s2 u tt:o5s ana l sn 7e d Cm 9t Oo i2n s 5s s C ioO n2 s: 41.9% 41.9% EN OtsuO Okt a ts s Pu uOk h kta a asE r uEO EmN kl let eaas Oc c cu FOt t terk s ro 7o 0 t ou 04a u .os O4n . Ont
.
.k2 udiE 24i %tc iac tc% k ss% %l saOe s sa uP ulc kth F kst ar a aou 7o 0 .r Cok E4n .m2a d hi %lc e %a s eFs cc mo 87 te . ro .i4 1ou 04 cd %% nt .. ais 24c ilc% %a sTl tohotausl3 a 3enm3 d 3t htio3 s 3onsussi o3 Cat Tnnh O3 doo s2 u tt:o3s ana l sn 3e d Cm 3t OO o i2nt s 3s s su C ik oOa n2 P sh :armaOcte 2su 5ut .ki 9ca %a Plharmace 2u 5t .i 9c %al
USA USA9.2% Otsuka COhtseumkiac aClhemical
(9I In
n
cd doi ia am ( (p2
2
a 9cI cnn .o 1 oid em % mi sap p) (a ( a2 I9 9 9nn
In n
. .c di c 2
i
2e deo oo % %s sim anm)
)
ep (p 2sa a
I
i9 9
an
cn n . . d1 oi 2i (e e 4%
o
m%ts sh nc) po) I eonu
as
9ms d nia .ao
i
2pn
e2
n
(
%d
a
s34e
n
).t s 4o ciein %oa ss
m
( )C 4
p
2O t c
a
3h2 o no .4mu
ie
%s sp 2a )n a 3d n
.4
it e %o sn )s CO2
Ot Osu
tskO
ua
kt s
WO
au
ta
Ck sra
u he k
ehFO
a
2m8 oo 87 .t. . uo
.W
41s i4
1cs
Od% %u %% aaesk
tlr
sa eO
u
hW kt 28 os a.a. uu 41 Tr Csk% %e aea hh
ih
2 eoF o. mou 874 . Pso .% i4 1ced h%%
Ta
as
al
rimhth oao
T
cu Pas eha
i uh
an
O to
rd
icm
t
Pst ao
auh
ln ckas
ea
rC
m
u
POO tt
a
ih
h
c2 tco
1sa
au
e 4ur
ls
mu .k
1a O
ta
%an
ic
td cPs
*a
eu 4t hlo uk an ta rs
icm
PC aaO h
l
cFa2
e
2arm
uc 9tt
.a
i
7occ %raye
l
u Ft 2aic
c
9a
t
.7ol %F ry2ac 9t .7o %ry
Otsuka WarehoOutsseuka Warehouse 14.1O%t*s4u1k4a. 1P%h*a4rmaOctesuutkicaa Pl hFaacrmtoarcyeutical Factory
Indonesia (4 coInmdpoanneiessia) (4 companies) 2.4% 2.4% 29.7% 29.7%
23.4% 23.4% Taiho PharmacTeauithicoa Plharmaceutical
Supply Chain Emissions in FY2016 at Which of the four should be specified 14.1%*4 14.1%*4
Four Group Companies in Japan*3
S(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:81)(cid:70) (cid:20) Scope 1
9.0%
S(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:81)(cid:70)S (cid:68)(cid:20)(cid:80)(cid:81)7(cid:70)6 (cid:20).9% 10S1c toh 9po .0eu
%
s1Sancdo
9
p .t 0oe %n 1s-CO2
7 8 7S 86 6(cid:68)6 66 6(cid:80) t t. (cid:81) .h h9 9o(cid:70) o7 8u u 6% %(cid:20)s6 s6a a P atn8. nh nu7S 89 d6 d do r 6c6 (cid:68) ut st6 h% o 6 o(cid:80) est an h n ra st(cid:81) . vs hP ao sen i9 cn(cid:70)- uodu -dC edCr u s g c s %(cid:20)tO sa sOh oo e4P a aan o2n 2rnu sdnd v9s d er s id c c - dt .shC e o 8e tga son O r s o %v ns e oi2 c- sd dC e - sg s C O o Oo2 d 2s Capital gCoaopditsaC 6l a g.p 0oit oa %dl sgoodF a is ncu Ste ivl c- i o ta i pen s eF a id n cu n 1 e Ste o in ovl ct- e ri o it nF a i 2ar i Sn pegcu cn cs e.ySt le d u o i 6-v nl c 1r- d pei e oo t %ea n eoi l tpe a dn e r2is e t n d r Se g cn 1d ce y lo u on -ot r d p e rei en er Slg a dc c 2ty l eu o- dr d pe e ela d 2t ed 11 1 50 0 91 1 tt t hh h oo o uu 1u1 ss 5s0 aa 9a1 nn n tdtd d hh 1 o tot 5t oo 1S uo Su 9S n0n sncs c c s11s t asoa oh -o 4- 9 n-pn Ct poC p C.h. d1d e0 eu OeO o O% t% s 2t 2u 2o12o S 2as nn nc a s1s do n -4- p CdC t .o 1e S OO t%n o Sc 2S 2s2 1 no cc -4 sp oCo .9 -1e pp OC.% 0 ee2 O2 % 21 2
49.8%49.8% 6.0%6.0% 2Fu.e6l- %an2d .e6ne%rgFyu-erel-l aatnedd energy-related 14.1% 14.1%
Purchased gooPdusr chased goods activities not inacclutdiveitdie s not included 159 thousand t1o5nS9sc -otChpoOeu2sand tons-CO2
and services Traannds psoerrtvaictieosn Capital goodsUCsea poift aslo gldo odins Scope 1 or ESnincd oS-pocefo- lp2ifee 1tr eoar tSmceonpt e 2 Calculating emissions under the
T4ra9ns.p8o%Trtraatniosnpa n o4d rt9 ad t.i is o8t nri% bution U6s.e0 o%f sUolsde op f r s6o od.ld0u c%ts E2n.d6-o%f-lEifen dtr-eoao f-tf2 mlis fe.o e6 l ntd rt e% p ar to md eu nc tt s Greenhouse Gas Protocol (international
and distarinbdu tdio4isnt.r3ibu%tion productsprodu6ct.s5% of sold porfo sdoulcd2t sp.r3od%ucts emissions calculation standards).
4.3%4.3% 6.5%6.5% 2.3%2.3% Under the Greenhouse Gas Protocol,
Transportation Transportation Use of sold Use of sold End-of-life treaEtmnden-ot f-life treatment "Scope 1" indicates direct emissions from
and distributionand distribution products products of sold productosf sold products business activities; "Scope 2" indicates
4.3% 4.3% 6.5% 6.5% 2.3% 2.3% indirect emissions such as electricity use;
and, "Scope 3" indicates other indirect
emissions such as from supplier and
customer activities.
(Tons) Final disposal amount Recycling rate (%)
(Tons) (Tons)1,500 Final dispFoinsaal l daismpoousnatl amountRecyclinRg eractyecling rate (%) (%) 100
98.5
1,500 1,500 * The “In Japan” res9ul8ts. 2are for the nin1e0 0 100
VOICE T tuh re
in
gd e dp ea prt am rte mn et nis
t
e ton g ca og ne vd
e
ri tn ra en
c
oin vn eo rev da t hiv ee a, t1c( T fo ,r2o oo 0n mp 0se )r ha i1gtiv ,h2e
-0t
ee
0mf1 fo, p(92
rTt
e0
7o
rw0
n a.5is tt uh)F
r
eitnh 9a wel7 amd. s5isa
tepn9 wou7
sf
a.
aa
t5
c el - ra Fminoauln dtis99p67o..s76al
aRm9em reo7cso u.yun 6nclt ttlh s99 ins 87
ag
rA.. er26p afr ot– erD t9e hRc8 ee, .ct2b wyu9 ect
ll
vi8 nt eh g. e m5 r“ oaO nteu9 thts8 si d J.e5
a
nJ –a Dp ea
c
9n
(%.
8”
)
98
98
(%)
G P t Yh arl e so e u vb W je ia Sn hl at oW i ko l aea n m r F m E oa tfi ocfn o tg or t rs y by F pg ve ae ror cn s dte i oo ur ra n cyt t,e sp ad ,r o l wl i cn e he m it s lh es p e wl h om oa y resa k en ir nseu g df aa u trc oect eu pddr ri en e C dg vi eO cp na2r tt o ee gc dm le o s bi ts os as lii e on wnnto ass u r 1 1 mu b r, ,is 69y n 95 2 ina 00 g0 0 06 gb 00 0 0 07 .l ae 0 s e t tn o a 69e n b 00r s lg e 00 y i n s f1 1u6 39o 29 6, ,p0 00r 0 95 27 6 p0 00 10 0 0b . 2l56 y0 0 0o .il oe A fr ts 6h . t i 6h gT e 2hh -1i N 1s q9 96 , ,a u90c6 066r ao 70u. 0.2 l7 in 7t.0 t 0o y5- 19 ,06 0.7 01 9 5 1,0 97 4 ,00 6. 66 00 .7 0* * *1 2 35: : : 4C d C O c6 euo a ts uc ln c9 55 u tts ii u9 k co8 84o l a aan 7l . 06i lt2d P. es 6a Fhi dtt ae a e u c. rd m5s
t
oic n 8 a ro g yc0 ,m e 2 u Tp9 405 ata 1 i98 6c8 in h0 a8i 0. o5e l5 c ,. s 2 o O
P
t eh t hf sa fi a4ut c
r
k6 mh ie aa 5n
a
v P cte h e4 aa u9 6 r tp m8 ic5r 99 ao. a 91 95 l46 -- ,60 8 0 99 46 9 99 4 26 91 9 60 80
F Na ac ruili tt oie Fs aM cta oin ryte nance and Engineering,
300 300
662 662
546
and5 O 58t 4s0u 6ka Foods.580
92 92
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. 600 6 000
2012 2013
*4: I Cn oc 2.lu
,0
d L1i tn 4dg
.*
Okayama 24 T 06a 1ih5 5o Pharmac 2e 04u 1t6ic 695a4l
(F2Y0)
9094
0 0 90 90
300 2031002 20122013 20132014*2014*2015 20152016 2016(FY) 92(FY) 92
0 0 90 90
2012 22001132 2021041*3 22001154* 22001165 (FY2)016 (FY)
(Tons) Handling Release in atmosphere and water Transfer (as waste)
(Tons) (Tons)4,00H0andlingHandlingRelease Rine aletamsoes ipnh aetrme oasnpdh weraet earnd waterTransfer T(arasn wsfaesrt e(a)s waste)
4,000 4,000 3,258 3,228 3,371
(Tons) 33,2,(0T50o8H0nas)3nd,2lin5g83,228HRa3ned,le2lain2sg8e in atmoRseplehaesree a3 inn, 3 da t7 wm1 aotse3 pr, h3 e7 re1 anTdr awnastfeerr (as wasTtrea)nsfer (as waste)
2,420
34,,000000 3,000 4,000
32,2,05080 33,,222588 23 ,, 02 32 88
2,0382,30,33871 23,,4327012,420
23,,000000 2,000 3,000
2,420 2,420
1,000 2,038 2,038
12,,000000 1,000 2,000 377 410 308 375 427
30 8377 3837 237 028 112410 2141 202 021 163308 263 20 082 416 423 *75 4237 254 022 155427 2542 227 05
16 (FY)
1,0000 0 1,000
2013277201220143317072013201434* 01802014*201335078520152014632775201(6FY) 4(2F7Y)
38 2318 2261 2462 2452 25
0 0
2012 22001132 22001143* 22001145* 22001165 (FY2)016 (FY)
(Thousand m3) In Japan Outside Japan
(Thousan(Tdh mou3s)a3n0d, 0m030) In JapanIn Japan Outside OJauptsainde Japan
30,000 30,000 23,788 24,913 23,487
(T 2h 3 0o 0 ,u , 00s 00a 00nd
2
m 0,3 0) 0( 2 0T 0h 3,o 00u ,00s 00a 0nd mI2n 263 3 3)J ,, 6a ,7 7p 98 8a 38n 82 63 ,, 67 98 36I8n 2, 36Ja ,92
2
7p 7O 34
4
8a ,u, 0n
,
89 t 9s 41 1i 8d3 3e2 7J4 a ,, 0p9 4a1 n 873 2O , 40u ,4 1t 9s 8 9 1id , 3e 9 4Ja 0p 1a 9n ,941 609 ,8,9 72 24 653 30 ,6, ,4 428 807 72 63 ,6,4 28 067 2, 36 1 ,2 40 8 8, 766318,61 6 68 3 ,4,6 46 13
6,875 6,875 6,4416,441
20,000 102,00,00000 6,693 176,,069795,3048 177,,801 649 58,940 19,9 64 ,60 20 166,,861 628 70,663 18,663
10,000 10,000 17,09517,095 17,86517,865 6,875 136,0,8617565* ,86716,867 6,441 12 6, ,2 42 42 1
13,0651*3,065* 12,22212,222
10,000 10,0000 17,095 21 07 1,10 279,5865 21 07 1, 3865 201146,867 21061,8567 2016 (FY)
0 0 2012 2012 2013 2013 1230,01645* 201413,026051* 5 2015 1220,21622201612,222(FY) (FY)
0 0
2012 20122013 20123014 20124015 20125016 2016 (FY) (FY)
(Million ton-kilometers) (Thousand kiloliter/million ton-kilometers)
(Million to(Mn-ilklioilon1m ,t0oe0nte0-krsil)ometers) (Thousan(Tdh koiulosliatenrd/m kiilloliolitne rt/omn-ilklioilonm toente-krsil)ometers)(cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:22)
1,000 1,000 Transport volume Energy consumption per ton-k(cid:17)ilo(cid:15)(cid:17)m(cid:22)eter(cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:22)
( 1M ,8 0il 0l 0io 0 0n ton 8-k 0i 0lom( 1M 68 0e
,
00 0.itl 0le 00 0Tior 30rsna 2) nt 0os 0pn .-o 0krTit 3lr ov 0a 2m0on .00.lseu 0p 3tme3o 1re 2rs 0t 0 )v 0o .0lu 3m 010e .00.0 3E 3n 11e 3r 0 0gy
.0
c 3Eo(n 10Tn 0e 3hs ..r 00uog 3mu 3ys
1
1pca 53tonio 0ndns
. 0
kupi 3mleo 10rp 0li (t 5ttT . .eoi 0 0ohrn/n 3o 3m- u 1kp 2isil 5leloi 2ao 0rmn nt .do e 0t ntok 3e-nilkr 0o 2-ilkl.oi 2ti0lemor3m/em2t (cid:17)e (cid:17)ei2 (cid:15)tl (cid:15)r (cid:17)l (cid:17)eio (cid:21)r (cid:22)sn) ton (cid:17)- (cid:15)(cid:17)ki (cid:21)lom (cid:17)(cid:17) (cid:15)(cid:15)e
(cid:17)
(cid:17)(cid:17)t
(cid:15)
(cid:20)(cid:21) (cid:17)er (cid:22)s)
Transport volumTeransport voElunmeregy consumEpntieorng yp ecro tnosnu-mkilpotmioent eprer ton-kilometer
46 68 00 00 00 00 46 00 00 240 00 68 . 50 00 00 200 3 720 5270. 500 5 1.3 20 81 73020 510 8.00 53. 101 83310 00. 50 3. 303 8831 7153 5380 40.5 90 .30 23832 12 5 49240 9.0 23 (cid:17)(cid:17) (cid:17)(cid:17) 2 (cid:15)(cid:15) (cid:15)(cid:15) (cid:17)(cid:17) (cid:17)(cid:17) 2 (cid:19)(cid:20) (cid:20)(cid:21) (cid:17)(cid:17) (cid:15)(cid:15) (cid:17)(cid:17) (cid:19)(cid:20) (cid:17)(cid:17) (cid:15)(cid:15) (cid:17)(cid:17) (cid:17)(cid:17) (cid:15)(cid:15) 1(cid:19) (cid:17)(cid:17) (cid:20)(cid:21)
2 240 00 00 00 20 00 224 50 000 2 00 17
2
201222
5
00 15 11 82 327 201323 2 308 0 1857 1 4713
*8
23 08 17 4*225 003 3118 854 7* 2015242 0095 112 63 58 2016(2 F04 Y19 )62(cid:17)(cid:17) (cid:17)(cid:17) (cid:15)(cid:15) (cid:15)(cid:15) (cid:17)(cid:17) (cid:17)(cid:17) (1
(cid:17)
F1(cid:19)
Y)
( (cid:17)(cid:17) F (cid:15)(cid:15) (cid:17)(cid:17) Y1 (cid:17)) (cid:17)(cid:15) (cid:17)(cid:17) (cid:17) (cid:15)(cid:15) (cid:17) (cid:17)(cid:17) 1(cid:19)
0 200 12 20210312 2021041*3 22001154* 20210615 (F2Y0)16(cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:17) (FY) (cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:17)Environment
(thousand tons-CO2) In Japan Outside Japan
795
(thousand kL) In Japan Outside Japan
800 742 715 748 400
676 322 323 342
307 295
600 370 400 405 462 300 194
447 157 170 176
400 200 182
343
200 306 342 268* 333 100 150 152 113* 148 148
0 0
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
(FY) (FY)
Other (2 companies) 1.8% Otsuka Packaging Industries 2.4%
Europe (8 companies) J.O. Pharma 2.3% JIMRO 0.3%
1.9% Otsuka Techno
China (7 companies) Japan (13 companies) 2.9%
4.6% 41.9% EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Otsuka Pharmaceutical
South Korea 4.4% 25.9%
(2 companies) Total emissions: Total emissions:
Otsuka Electronics
8.0% 795 0.2% 333
USA
(9 companies) thousand tons CO2 Otsuka Foods thousand tons CO2
9.1% 7.4%
Otsuka Chemical
India (2 companies) 8.1%
9.2%
Otsuka Warehouse Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
Indonesia (4 companies) 2.4% 29.7%
23.4% Taiho Pharmaceutical
14.1%*4
S(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:81)(cid:70) (cid:20) Scope 1
9.0%
76.9% 101 thousand tons-CO2
866 thousand tons-CO2
Scope 2
Fuel- and energy-related 14.1%
Purchased goods activities not included 159 thousand tons-CO2
and services Capital goods in Scope 1 or Scope 2
49.8% 6.0% 2.6%
Transportation Use of sold End-of-life treatment
and distribution products of sold products
4.3% 6.5% 2.3%
(Tons) Final disposal amount Recycling rate (%)
1,500 100
98.5
98.2
1,200 97.5 97.6 98
96.7
900 1,000 96
662
546 580
600 465 94
Otsuka Chemical: Cogeneration system at the Tokushima Factory Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Boiler room at the3 0To0yama Factory Otsuka Sims (Guangdong) Beverage: Gas boiler 92
Initiatives on the Production Floor 0 90
2012 2013 2014* 2015 2016 (FY)
The Otsuka group aims to help prevent global Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory has a com- operating units, shortening operating hours,
warming by promoting both tangible energy- mittee operating at each of its production sites and adjusting settings.
saving activities, such as equipment updat- comprised of members from all departments In Indonesia, Amerta Indah Otsuka, which
ing, and intangible activities, including opera- and headed by the plant manager and energy manufactures and sells POCARI SWEAT, ac-
tional improvements. In Tokushima, where most managers in order to prom( oTo tens ) energy coHnansdelinr-g quRireeledas eIS inO a t1m4os0p0h1er ec aenrdt iwficataertion anTdra nIsSfeOr (a5s0 w0a0st1e),
4,000
of the group’s production facilities are located, vation activities. Otsuka Techno seeks
3
t ,o
2
5t 8ighten 3,22a
8
certification that fo3c,3u7s1es on energy manage-
the Tokushima Factory of Otsuka Chemical has control of peak power use through the instal- ment and implements energy-saving activities.
3,000
installed a gas turbine cogeneration system, lation of demand monitoring systems at the China Otsuka Pharmaceutical 2an,4d2 0Guangdong
2,038
which supplies power and steam to various Naruto and Wajiki Factorie2,s0.0 0The Hanamaki Otsuka Pharmaceutical, which manufacture IV
group companies in the same district. In addi- Factory of EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical aims to solutions, Otsuka Sims (Guangdong) Beverage,
tion, the Fukuroi Factory of Otsuka Pharmaceu- reduce power consumption1 ,0t0h0rough progres- a maker of POCARI SWEAT in China, and Egypt
377 410 308 375 427
tical has introduced a system that uses energy sively switching to LED lighting and high3e8r ef- O2t1suka Phar2m6aceutical,4 2which ma2k5es IV solu-
0
from hot wastewater generated by sterilization ficiency cooling equipment. Otsuka Chem20ic1a2l is t2io01n3s, have 2r0e1d4u*ced the20ir1 e5nvironm2e0n16tal imp(FaYc)t
processes during manufacturing to provide air reducing power through smarter use of power by converting fuel sources from coal and heavy
conditioning for low-humidity rooms. equipment such as controlling the number of oil to natural gas and diesel.
(Thousand m3) In Japan Outside Japan
30,000
24,913
23,788 23,487
20,000 6,693 7,048 19,940 6,620 18,663
6,875 6,441
10,000 17,095 17,865 16,867
13,065* 12,222
0
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY)
Otsuka Warehouse: Modal shift to ocean transport
Reducing CO2 Emissions from Logistics Energy Consumption per Ton-Kilometer by Four Specified Consigners of
the Otsuka group*1
The Otsuka group is promoting modal shifting as part of Otsuka’s efforts
to address the environmental impact of its logistics operations. Ship- (Million ton-kilometers) (Thousand kiloliter/million ton-kilometers)
1,000 (cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:22)
ping of drinks and other products is being shifted from trucks to ocean
Transport volume Energy consumption per ton-kilometer
or railway transport, both of which are more environmentally friendly and 800 (cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:21)
0.0320 0.0310 0.0313 0.0315 0.0322
better suited for mass transport. When trucks are necessary for medium
600 (cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:20)
and long distance transport, Otsuka Warehouse uses shared logistics
platforms that enable it to decrease the number of necessary delivery 400 538 (cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:19)
527
vehicles; this innovation has effectively reduced CO2 emissions. 200 518 387 492 (cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)1
0 2012 2013 2014* 2015 2016 (FY) (cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:17)
* Results are for the nine months Apr–Dec.
*1: Otsuka Pharmaceutical,
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory,
Taiho Pharmaceutical, and Otsuka Foods.
21Climate Change Response
Taiho Pharmaceutical: Cool Biz poster Taiho Pharmaceutical: LED lighting at the Discovery and Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Hybrid vehicle
Preclinical Research Division (Tsukuba area)
Initiatives in the Office
The Otsuka group is focused on improving en- introduced. Actions taken to reduce paper use updated lighting, humidification, and air condi-
ergy use efficiency in buildings and fuel efficiency in printers have raised awareness about paper tioning equipment in its rented office space. In
in business vehicles. Environmental managers and energy conservation. Transition to hybrid addition to these updates, the branch contin-
from across the Otsuka group gather together and fuel-efficient business vehicles is in effect. ues to take comprehensive measures such as
to share information on energy-saving activities In fiscal 2016, the green vehicle usage rates implementing plan-do-check-act cycles to find
in offices to promote each company’s initiatives. for Otsuka Foods, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, new and improved ways to save energy. The
In addition to working to optimize daily en- Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, and Taiho Kobe Branch received a 2016 Kansai Eco Office
ergy use, the Otsuka group strives for effi- Pharmaceutical were 92%, 87%, 84%, and Award from the Union of Kansai Governments
cient lighting and air conditioning use in offices. 69%, respectively. Additionally the group pro- for their innovations. Based on the coopera-
Employees participate in Warm Biz and Cool motes eco-friendly driving habits with attention tion of seven Kansai prefectures, the Union of
Biz campaigns that encourage appropriate sea- on safe driving and accident prevention. Kansai Governments promotes disaster preven-
sonal office attire. The group has supported The Kobe Branch of Otsuka Pharmaceutical tion, tourism, culture, industry, healthcare, and
declaring no-overtime days and use of air cir- has cooperated with internal and external par- environmental conservation.
culators. LED lighting is also being progressively ties to reduce its energy consumption; it has
Ridge Vineyards: Lytton Springs Otsuka Techno: Naruto Head Office Taiho Pharmaceutical: Green curtain planting at Okayama Plant
Clean Energy Use Green Curtains
The Otsuka group is actively pursuing clean display serves to raise the environmental aware- Every year offices and factories in the Otsuka
energy. It is working to reduce CO2 emis- ness of employees and communicates ener- group grow bitter gourd, morning glory, and
sions by installing solar power generation sys- gy-saving efforts to visitors at the center. Ridge other vine plants to cover sunny windows in or-
tems. Otsuka Techno has introduced solar Vineyards—the group's winery in the United der to create green curtains that lower the in-
power generation at the Naruto head office, States—has installed 400 rooftop solar panels, door temperatures and save energy. Large
Mold Center, and the Wajiki No. 4 Factory. EN which supply 40% of the facility’s electricity. mature leaves help block the strong sunlight in
Otsuka Pharmaceutical has installed photovol- summer, and drop room temperatures by three
taic solar panels at its Hanamaki Factory, which degrees. Produce harvested from these window
partially power the employee cafeteria. Solar plantings is featured on lunch menus in em-
panels were installed for the IV solutions infor- ployee cafeterias. This initiative raises conserva-
mation center at the Naruto Factory of Otsuka tion awareness, and encourages employees to
Pharmaceutical Factory. The amount of electric- growing other edible vines such as passion fruit.
ity generated and the level of CO2 emissions re-
duction are displayed on an indoor monitor. This
VOICE The Kobe Branch values close communication with the building management com-
pany; we continue to propose improvements found in daily environmental activities.
Energy-saving Recent improvements and renovation of the building facilities resulted from the envi-
Activities through ronmental awareness of our entire branch. We will continue to work on energy-saving
Local Collaboration activities in cooperation with the local community.
Kiyoto Oshima
Finance and Accounting Department
(Kobe Branch)
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
22Environment Eco-Friendly Products
The Otsuka group strives for environmental conservation through its products.
It is working to develop eco-friendly products that reduce the environmental impact throughout
the product life cycle, including measures for environmentally friendly disposal.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: OS-1, an oral rehydration solution Otsuka Foods: Short flap box for 500-ml Match bottles
Lighter Bottles Lighter and Smaller Packaging
The Otsuka group has introduced lighter con- rehydration solution plastic bottles; introducing The Otsuka group is taking measures to reduce
tainers that conserve resources and reduce thinner microwave pouches (reducing weight by the weight of cardboard and other product
CO2 emissions. When they were launched in 7%) for Bon Curry Gold; reducing the weight of packaging materials. Otsuka Foods is reducing
2007, Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s 500 ml plastic glass bottles while still maintaining break resist- the weight of outer cardboard boxes used for
bottles of POCARI SWEAT were the lightest in ance for Tiovita Drink; lowering packaging film its carbonated beverage, Match. A shorter box
Japan. The weight of the bottles was reduced weight for SOYJOY; and redesigning containers flap design for the 500-ml Berry Match released
by introducing a method called “positive pres- to reduce overall resin usage for jelly-type prod- in March 2016 reduced cardboard use by 16%.
sure aseptic filling” to the bottling lines, a first for ucts such as Calorie Mate. Otsuka Techno has The new box design is being adopted for other
Japan. Now the bottle washing and sterilizing also achieved weight savings through innovative Match products starting March 2017.
processes have been eliminated, as the com- plastic packaging redesign.
pany produces preforms in-house from raw PET
plastic material. The group has taken a number
of actions to reduce the weight of product pack-
aging including: changing the bottle design in
2016 from square to round design for OS-1 oral
Otsuka Pharmaceutical: ABILIFY MAINTENA Otsuka Packaging Industries: Packaging that eliminates the need of Nutrition & Santé products
cushioning material through the use of film wrap
Product Development Targeting Both User Convenience and Waste Reduction Sustainable Product Design
Innovative packaging for the antipsychotic with improved material quality and packaging Nutrition & Santé SAS, based in southern France,
ABILIFY MAINTENA features improved impact formats. Innovations in packaging containers implements its own eco-design charter to en-
resistance during distribution, ease of package include food-product biomass trays, which are sure that environmental impact is considered at
removal and disposal by medical staff. Otsuka made from plant-derived (sugar cane) polyethyl- all stages, from product development and ingre-
received an award in the pharmaceutical divi- ene, tapeless interlocking boxes, and innovative dients procurement, to manufacturing, packag-
sion from the 2016 Japan Packaging Competi- cushioned boxes that prevent bottle breakage. ing material design, and product transport.
tion for the extensive and creative design of this The results of these initiatives are also being
package. Regarding Adacolumn, a blood cell publicized through environmental exhibitions.
purification device, a panel used for treatment
was eliminated, which reduced packaging size
and user medical waste. Additionally, shipping
volume and shipping weight were reduced.
Otsuka Packaging Industries proposes and
manufactures eco-friendly packaging materials
23(thousand tons-CO2) In Japan Outside Japan
795
(thousand kL) In Japan Outside Japan
800 742 715 748 400
(thousand tons-CO6 2)76 In Japan Outside Japan 795 (thousand kL) 307 In Japan322 Outsid 2e 9 J 5apan 323 342
680000
367706
47 04 02 47 41 75 47 04 58 462 340000
135077
13 72 02
295
13 72 63 139442
460000 370 400 405 462 230000 182 194
447 343 157 170 176
240000 306 342 268* 333 120000 150 152 11 18 32 * 148 148
343
2000 2300162 23 04 12 3 2 20 61 84* 2015 23 03 13 6 1000 2105102 2105123 2 10 11 34
*
2104185 2104186
(FY) (FY)
0 0
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
(FY) (FY)
Other (2 companies) 1.8% Otsuka Packaging Industries 2.4%
Europe (8 companies) J.O. Pharma 2.3% JIMRO 0.3%
1.9% Otsuka Techno
China (7 companies) Other (2 companies) 1.8% Japan (13 companies) 2.9% Otsuka Packaging Industries 2.4%
Europe (8 compa4n.i6e%s) 41.9% EN Otsuka PharmaceuJ t. iO ca. lPharma 2.3% JIMORtsOu 0ka.3 P%harmaceutical
South K1o.9re%a Otsuka Te4c.h4n%o 25.9%
China ((27
S
cc ooo umm thpp aa K84nn Uo..ii 06 ree Se%%ss Aa)) Total 7em 9is 5sions: Japan (13 comp 4a 1n .9ie %s ) EN OtsuO kats Pu hk aa rE mle ac ct ero u02 4n t. . .i9 2 4cic% %%as l Total 3em 3is 3sions: Otsuka Pharmace 2u 5t .i 9c %al
((29 ccoommppaa 98nn ..1ii 0ee %%ss )) Ttohotausl 7aenm 9d tiso 5nssio CnOs2: OtsuO kt as u Ek lea
c
F tro
7o
0.o
4n
.2d
i%c
%s
s
Ttohotausl 3aenm 3d tiso 3nssio CnOs2:
(9In cd oia m ( p2 a 9c nU .1o ieS %m sA p )a 9n .i 2e %s) thousand tons CO2 OtO suts kOu ak t s Wa u C ak rah
e
e F hm o8
7
o.o. ui 41c d s% %a esl thousan Od tt so un ks aC PO2
harmaceutical Factory
India (2 compaI 9n n .d i 2eo %sn )esia (4 comp 2a 3n .4ie %s ) Otsuka Chem2 8. .i4 1c %%al
Taiho Pharmaceutical
29.7%
Otsuka Warehouse 14.1 O% ts* u4 ka Pharmaceutical Factory
Indonesia (4 companies) 2.4% 29.7%
23.4% Taiho Pharmaceutical
14.1%*4
S(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:81)(cid:70) (cid:20) Scope 1
9.0%
76.9% 101 thousand tons-CO2
8S6(cid:68)6(cid:80) t(cid:81)h(cid:70)ou (cid:20)sand tons-CO2 SS cc oo 9pp .0ee
%
21
76.9% Fuel- and energy-related 101 thousand ton1s4-C.1O%2
Purchased goods activities not included 159 thousand tons-CO2
866 thousaanndd tsoenrvsic-CesO 2 Capital goods in Scope 1 or Scope 2 Scope 2
49.8% 6.0% F2u.e6l- %and energy-related 14.1%
Purchased goods activities not included 159 thousand tons-CO2
and services Capital goods in Scope 1 or Scope 2
Waste Reduction
4Tra9n.s8po%rtation U6s.e0 o%f sold E2n.d6-o%f-life treatment
and distribution products of sold products
Th4e .O3t%suka group aims to6 h.5e%lp create a rec2yc.3lin%g-oriented society. By curbing waste generation
Transportation Use of sold End-of-life treatment
anadn dp driostmribuottioinng recycling, ptrhodeu cgtsroup strives toof s oaldtt pariond ufictnsal disposal amounts close to zero in its
eff4o.r3t t%o achieve zero emi6ss.5io%ns. 2.3%
Reducing Waste Recycling Rate and Final Disposal Amount
In 2016, the 13 group companies in Japan discharged 336 thousand
(Tons) Final disposal amount Recycling rate (%)
tons of waste from business activities. While the amount of waste dis- 1,500 100
98.5
charged fluctuates with changes in production output, the group strives 1(T ,o 2n 0s 0) 97.5Final disposal amount 97.6 Recycli9 n8 g . r2 ate 9(% 8)
to recover resources and to reduce its final disposal amount through re- 1,500 96.7 100
98.5
98.2
u anse
d
a thn ed fire nc ay
l
c dl ii sn pg
o
i sn ait li a at mive os u.
n
In
t
wfis ac sa 4l 62 50 1 t6 o,
n
i sts
.
Ere ac cy hc l fi an cg
t
ora ryte
w
w illa cs
o
9 n8 ti. n5 u%
e
1,9 200 00 9 67 6. 25 1 9,0 60 .70 9 57 4. 66
580
9 96 8
600 465 94
robust 3R (reduce, reuse, and recycle) initiatives with the aim of achiev- 900 1,000 96
662
ing zero emissions. 3 60 00 0 546 580 465 9 92 4
A wm ao stu en rt eo cf y o ct lh ee dr (cid:12) saleaA bm leo u ren st o o uf rces 300 0 2012 2013 2014* 2015 2016 (FY) 9 90 2
Recycling rate (%)(cid:30) (cid:695)100
Final disposal Amount of other Amount of
amount (cid:12) waste recycled (cid:12) saleable resources 0 2012 2013 2014* 2015 2016 (FY) 90
(Tons) Handling Release in atmosphere and water Transfer (as waste)
PRTR Substances Handling, Release, and Transfer of PRTR Substances
4,000
Management of PRTR substances*1 at the 13 group companies in Ja- (Tons) 3,25H8andling3,228Release in atmosphere a3 n, d3 7 w1 ater Transfer (as waste)
pan are shown in the graph at right. 34,,000000
3,258 3,228 3,371 2,420
2,038
23,,000000
2,420
2,038
12,,000000
377 410 308 375 427
38 21 26 42 25
1,0000
2013277 2014310 201 34*
08
2013575 2014627 (FY)
38 21 26 42 25
0
2012 2013 2014* 2015 2016 (FY)
(Thousand m3) In Japan Outside Japan
30,000
24,913
(Thousand m3) In2 3Ja,7p8an8 Outside Japan 23,487
23 00 ,, 00 00 00 6,693 27 4, ,0 94 18 3 19,940 6,620 18,663
23,788 23,487
6,875 6,441
20,000 6,693 7,048 19,940 6,620 18,663
10,000 17,095 17,865 16 3, ,8 07 65 5* 16,867 16 2, ,4 24 21 2
10,000 17,095 17,865 16,867
0 2012 2013 132,001645* 2015 1220,21262 (FY)
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Canister reuse Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: “Tokushima Prefectu0re Certified 3R Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Tokushima Wajiki Factory
Model Site” certification for the Naruto Factory 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY)
Waste Reduction and 3R Promotion
Through 3R (reduce, reuse, and recycle) promo- received environmental cer(tMifiilclioant itoonn-,k iloinmceltuerds)ing containers; and co(Trhruougsaatnedd k ilcolaiterrd/mbiollioanr dto na-nkidlo mpeotel-rs)
tion efforts, the Otsuka group of companies is model site status, from relev1,a0n00t municipalities. yethylene bags to recyclers as valuable was(cid:17)t(cid:15)e(cid:17)(cid:22).
Transport volume Energy consumption per ton-kilometer
helping to build a recycling-oriented society and Otsuka Foods also achieve(Md8i,ll 0 io 0an ntodn -khiloams etmersa)in- Otsuka Techno als(Toh ocuosnantdin kuileolsite tr/om imllioani ntotna-kinilo am e (cid:17)rte (cid:15)(cid:17)e-r (cid:21)s)
working to achieve the goal of zero emissions. tained, zero emissions statu1 s,0 0 f0 or all its0 p.0 l3 a2 n0 ts 0. c0 y3 c1 l0 ing r0a.t0e3 1o3f 99%0. 0o3r1 m5ore,0 t. h0 r3 o2 u2 gh initiativ(cid:17) e(cid:15)(cid:17) s(cid:22)
Transport volume Energy consumption per ton-kilometer
600 (cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:20)
Otsuka Pharmaceutical is working on mate- since 2010. The Tokushima Fa80c0tory sorts man- to improve the recycling rate based on th(cid:17)o(cid:15)(cid:17)r-(cid:21)
0.0320 0.0310 0.0313 0.0315 0.0322
rial*2 and thermal*3 recycling, wherever possible, ufacturing waste into 39 type4s0 0and processes ough waste sorting as it strives to achieve ze(cid:17)(cid:15)r(cid:17)o(cid:19)
600 527 538 (cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:20)
for waste emitted from its manufacturing pro- and recycles it into 13 kinds of products. In rec- e51m8issions at the plant. The Na4r9u2to head office,
cesses. All its production plants achieved—and ognition of these efforts, the p2 4l0 0a0 0nt was certified Naruto Fa3 c8 t7 ory and5 3W8ajiki Factory have be(cid:17) (cid:17)e(cid:15) (cid:15)(cid:17) (cid:17)n1 (cid:19)
527
continue to maintain—a zero emission status as a Tokushima Prefecture 2300 0R Implem2e01n2ta- 2a5 01p18p3roved2 30a 81s 74 T*okush2i0m1a5 Prefe24c0t9u12 6re Certi(fiFeYd) (cid:17) (cid:17)3(cid:15) (cid:15)(cid:17) (cid:17)R 1(cid:17)
with a recycling rate of 99% or more. In 2009, tion Site. The recycling efforts of the Hanamaki Model Sites.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory achieved—and Factory of EN Otsuka Pharmac0 eutical in2c0lu1d2e: 2013 2014* 2015 2016 (FY) (cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:17)
continues to maintain—a zero emission status providing empty canisters that previously con-
at all its production plants. The Naruto, Matsu- tained raw-material fats and oils to an enter-
shige, Toyama, and Kushiro Factories have also prise for reuse as agricultural product transport
* Results are for the nine months Apr–Dec.
*1: Pollutant Release and Transfer Registers (PRTRs). There are presently 462 substances designated under Japan’s PRTR system.
*2: Reusing waste as raw materials for products
*3: Recovering and utilizing the energy generated during the incineration of waste
24Environment
(thousand tons-CO2) In Japan Outside Japan
795
(thousand kL) In Japan Outside Japan
800 742 715 748 400
676 322 323 342
307 295
600 370 400 405 462 300 194
447 157 170 176
400 200 182
343
200 306 342 268* 333 100 150 152 113* 148 148
0 0
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
(FY) (FY)
Other (2 companies) 1.8% Otsuka Packaging Industries 2.4%
Europe (8 companies) J.O. Pharma 2.3% JIMRO 0.3%
1.9% Otsuka Techno
China (7 companies) Japan (13 companies) 2.9%
South
K4 o.6 re%
a
Protecting Bio41 d.9% i versity EN Otsuka Pharmaceu 4t .i 4c %al Otsuka Pharmace 2u 5t .i 9c %al
(2 companies) Total emissions: Total emissions:
Otsuka Electronics
8.0% Th7e9 O5tsuka group endeavors to maintain and preserve biod0iv.2e%rsity. Through 3a 3gr3owing understanding
(9
companU ieS sA
)
thooufs atnhd eto nism COp2act of its business activities on ecosystemsO,t stuhkea Fgoroodsup strives toth omusianndi mtonisz CeO 2this impact and
9.1% promote a society where humans and the natural environme7. n4% t are mutually beneficial.
Otsuka Chemical
India (2 companies) 8.1%
9.2%
Otsuka Warehouse Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
Indonesia (4 companies) 2.4% 29.7%
23.4% Taiho Pharmaceutical
14.1%*4
Basic Approach
The Otsuka group recognizes the invaluable benefits provided by the global environment, and thus deeply values the wonder
of life. It understands that nature’s gifts are the key to our future, and is consequently committed to protecting biodiversity
S(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:81)(cid:70) (cid:20) Scope 1
76.9% worldwide. 101 thousand tons9 -C.0 O% 2
866 thousand tons-CO2
Guidelines Scope 2
Fuel- and energy-related 14.1%
Purchased goods activities not included 159 thousand tons-CO2
and services Capital goods in Scope 1 or Scope 2
49.8% 6.0% 1 The gr2o.u6p% will deepen its understanding of the relationship between business activities and biodiversity.
Transportation Use of sold 2 The gr Eo nu d-p of -w lifei l tl r es at tr miv ene t to reduce the environmental impact of business activities that impact biodiversity.
and distribution products of sold products
4.3% 6.5% 2.3%
3 The group will strive for sustainable use of resources (including ecosystem services),
and for fair and equitable distribution of genetic resources in accordance with international arrangements.
4 The group will work on conservation of biodiversity by communicating,
cooperating and collaborating with stakeholders worldwide.
(Tons) Final disposal amount Recycling rate (%)
5 The group will help foster public a 1,w 50a 0reness of biodiversity. 100
98.5
98.2
1,200 97.5 97.6 98
96.7
900 1,000 96
662
546 580
600 465 94
Relationship between Biodiversity 300 92
Supply Adjustment Cultural
and Business Activities
0 Plants Animals Freshwater Air quality 90 Recreation
2012 Fuel 2W0o1o3d 2014* 2015Water pur2ifi0c1at6ion (FY) Emotional value
The Otsuka group manufactures and sells a Medicinal resources Waste disassembly Environmental education
wide range of products such as pharmaceuti- Biochemical resources Natural disaster protection
cals, IV solutions, beverages, foods, and chemi- Ecosystem benefits
cals. Biodiversity is integral to all group activity in
these business domains; biodiversity supports (Tons) Handling Release in atmos Cph oe rre p a on rd a tw ea t aer ctivitieT sransfer (as waste)
business activities and is, at the same time, im- 4,000
3,258 R&D3,228Procurement Manufa3 c, t3 u7 ri1 ng Land Transport Sales Consumption/
pacted by them. Thus an accurate understand- use use
3,000
ing of this interrelationship is necessary as the 2,420
2,038
group seeks to promote initiatives aimed at re-
2,000 Impact on biodiversity
ducing impacts on biodiversity.
1,000 Climate change
377Changes in 410 Depl 3e 0tio 8n of resourc3e7s5 42 A7
ir pollution
Non-native species
38 habitats21 (anima2ls6, plants, and f4re2shwater) 25
Water pollution
introduction
0
2012 2013 2014* 2015 2016 (FY)
Water Resource Initiatives Water Usage by Group Companies
In fiscal 2016, the 13 group companies in Ja-
(Thousand m3) In Japan Outside Japan
pan used 12.222 million m3 of water in business 30,000
activities. Outside Japan, 34 group companies 23,788 24,913 23,487
used 6.441 million m3 of water, resulting in to- 20,000 6,693 7,048 19,940 6,620 18,663
tal use of 18.663 million m3. Water resources
6,875 6,441
play a major role in the group’s business. Wa-
ter usage amounts are analyzed and compared 10,000 17,095 17,865 16,867
13,065* 12,222
among group companies as part of Otsuka’s ef-
forts to reduce environmental impact and use 0
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY)
limited resources wisely.
* The “In Japan” results are for the nine
(Million ton-kilometers) (Thousand kiloliter/million ton-kilometmerosn)ths Apr–Dec, but the “Outside Japan”
1,000 (cid:17)r(cid:15)(cid:17)e(cid:22)sults are for the twelve months Jan–Dec
Transport volume Energy consumption per ton-kilometer
800 (cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:21)
0.0320 0.0310 0.0313 0.0315 0.0322
600 (cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:20)
25 400 538 (cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:19)
527
518 492
200 387 (cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)1
0 2012 2013 2014* 2015 2016 (FY) (cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:17)Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Biotope at Tokushima Itano Factory Taiho Pharmaceutical: Biotope at Okayama Plant Emerging rhinoceros beetle
Creating Biotopes
Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Tokushima Itano Fac- flourish, including dragonfly larva, water scor-
tory has created facilities that are friendly to pions, and pygmy water lilies. A spot near the
people and the environment on the basis of biotope pond was created where rhinoceros
building harmonious relationships with the natu- beetles can thrive. Every year leaves from de-
ral environment. The design of the factory com- ciduous trees on the plant grounds are used to
plex includes incorporating the pre-construction raise several hundred beetles, which are popu- natural state. Fish and small animals thrive in the
landscape, and reintroducing native plants in an lar with children who come to tour the plant. Lo- biotope that features a babbling brook, a deep
effort to preserve the original biological habitats. cated in a scenic spot overlooking Kugui Bay in pool, and sandbars. Insects and birds are at-
A natural forest area was left intact on the fac- the city of Bizen, Taiho Pharmaceutical’s Okay- tracted to food sources that flourish along the
tory grounds. The forest has various species of ama Plant has implemented an eco-friendly water’s edges. The wastewater that is filtered
oak that attract a wide range of seasonal wild wastewater treatment system for discharging through this 300-meter long biotope is eventu-
birds, and provide a relaxing recreational space the cooling and cleaning water generated in the ally released into the sea as organically rich as
for employees and visitors. The biotope pond, manufacture of the Tiovita Drink series. The sys- natural stream water. The biotope thus contrib-
fed by cooling water from the plant, provides tem enables the plant to discharge the treated utes to regional biodiversity conservation.
an environment for diverse aquatic creatures to water into the sea in a condition closer to its
Ridge Vineyards Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Cyprinid fish exchange meeting
Initiatives to Protect Water Resources Initiatives for Protecting and Reintroducing Endangered Species
Ridge Vineyards uses technology in an innova- Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Tokushima Itano Fac- adult fish with those
tive way to reduce the quantity of water used to tory is working to protect and breed a small from other breeding
irrigate their vines. The technology, which meas- freshwater cyprinid fish, designated as an en- ponds in the region
ures how much water is lost by a grapevine and dangered species. The fish are raised in a biot- to reduce inbreed-
whether it is under water stress, enables the ope pond on the factory grounds before being ing. Once breeding
vineyard to gather information on when and reintroduced into their natural environment. The reached the point
where it is appropriate to irrigate. Judicious wa- cyprinid was thought to be extinct in Tokush- where some fish could be returned to the nat-
ter management has helped cut the water used ima Prefecture, but was rediscovered in this re- ural environment, a trial release of 2,000 fish,
to irrigate by 50% without affecting the quality gion in 2004. The factory then decided to get including 140 from the factory pond, was con-
of the wine. involved in a collaborative project launched ducted in 2015. In 2016, the prefecture, along
In Indonesia, Otsuka Indonesia and P.T. by the prefecture involving industry, govern- with participating local high schools and com-
Amerta Indah Otsuka are donating trees and ment, and academia to bring back the endan- panies, conducted individual fish exchanges to
planting them around their factories and nearby gered fish. In 2012, the factory began to raise reduce inbreeding, and also held a meeting to
mountain slopes to provide forestation for wa- 1,000 fish provided by the prefecture in its biot- share data on breeding individuals and environ-
tershed protection. ope pond, and is careful to exchange individual ment water quality.
26Environment Protecting Biodiversity
Participants in the fishing tournament Otsuka Pharmaceutical Environmental Club Nutrition & Santé products
Otsuka Group Non-Native Otsuka Pharmaceutical Sustainable Ingredients
Fishing Tournament Environmental Club As palm oil is used as an ingredient in biscuits
Lake Biwa is well known as Japan’s largest lake Many Otsuka group employees living in Tok- and other products, Nutrition & Santé SAS partic-
and has been a local source of drinking wa- ushima participate as volunteers in the Otsuka ipates in the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil
ter in the region. However, the propagation of Pharmaceutical Environment Club. This club col- (RSPO*2). The company seeks to ensure that its
non-native fish such as the bluegill has caused laborates with local government and other or- facilities and those of suppliers use RSPO-certified
a decline in native and primitive fish species in ganizations by promoting and participating in oil for Nutrition & Santé products.
Lake Biwa; this has put the local ecosystem in activities such as collecting shoreline rubbish
danger. The Otsuka group has 12 sites in Shiga and gathering data for the International Coastal
Prefecture near the lake. As part of a project Cleanup initiative hosted by JEAN. In recognition
promoted by the prefecture to eliminate inva- of these efforts, the club received a Tokushima
sive species, the group has been holding an Environmental Prefectural Assembly*1 Award.
annual fishing tournament since 2009 to catch
non-native fish.
Exciting Summer in Wajiki Taiho Pharmaceutical: Illuminated display at the Kitajima Plant Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Tree workshop
Factory Grounds Open to the Community
Factories of the Otsuka group carry out regular over Japan. Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Tokushima in spring and an LED illuminated display in win-
cleanup activities on areas around their grounds Itano Factory holds an event for the local commu- ter. Furthermore, disaster prevention agreements
With a policy of openness toward local commu- nity under the theme of health and environmen- have been signed with Kitajima Town, Tokushima
nities, some factories open their grounds to the tal protection. The event is called Asan Walking City, and Tokushima Prefecture. In the event of a
public for cherry blossom viewing in the spring. Festival in Itano. Elsewhere, in cooperation with large-scale disaster, part of the factory site will be
Group sites also collaborate on various commu- the town of Yoshinogari, the Saga Factory pro- opened as a temporary evacuation site. A sys-
nity events for regional revitalization. Together vides a tree workshop for children and local tem for disaster preparedness has also been cre-
with Otsuka Techno, the local government, and residents to better understand the natural envi- ated with the local community.
chamber of commerce, Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s ronment. The grounds of Taiho Pharmaceutical’s
Tokushima Wajiki Factory holds a free outdoor Kitajima Plant include walking paths and rows of
concert every year, called Exciting Summer in cherry blossom trees. In addition to providing a
Wajiki. The concert is staged on a grassy area on peaceful, relaxing space for local residents during
the factory grounds during the Awa Odori Festival. plant operating hours, the plant also hosts spe-
In 2016, the concert drew 5,000 people from all cial events such as illuminated cherry blossoms
*1: Established in 2000 under the basic philosophy of the Tokush- *2: Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil: An NPO seeking to secure
ima Prefecture Environmental Principal Ordinance. The assembly sustainable sources of palm oil while protecting the environment.
makes recommendations, conducts research, and raises public It was established in 2004 in response to rising concerns world-
awareness through cooperating and collaborating with the cit- wide, and unites stakeholders such as the WWF, from all seven
izens of Tokushima, businesses, and government agencies. In sectors of the palm oil industry.
conjunction with their roles, the assembly also engages in proac-
tive and independent activities to reduce environmental impacts.
The foremost objective—as outlined by the Tokusima environ-
mental charter—is a prefecture where people and nature flourish
harmoniously together.
27Quality
Striving also to enhance the quality of its social initiatives, the group is
focused on a broad range of activities, from information transparency and
disclosure to working with suppliers and other collaborators, respecting
local communities, and ensuring compliance with regulations.
24
hours/day
Telephone Service Center availability
(Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
46 4
%
Percentage of directors from outside company Number of languages available for group training materials related to
Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics
28Q
uality
Safety Initiatives
As the duty of a company that is committed to the betterment of life, the Otsuka group thinks
first of the customers and patients who use its products. The group pursues business
activities that place the highest priority on the quality and safety of our products.
Quality and Safety Control Quality Control in the Otsuka Group
The Otsuka group has established rigorous Compliance with Regulatory,
Otsuka Group Policies and
quality control systems suited to the character- Government and Industry Certification Schemes
Standards
istics of each of its businesses, including phar-
Pharmaceutical and Medical Device ISO 9001 Formulation of quality systems
maceuticals, medical devices, cosmetics, and Act Standard for establishing and achieving
Legislation aimed at securing the continuous improvement of quality control
foods, in pursuit of product quality and safety. quality, effectiveness, and safety systems for products and services Formulation of codes of conduct
of pharmaceuticals, quasi drugs,
The Otsuka group’s quality and safety control cosmetics, and medical devices ISO 13485 Establishment of total quality
systems comply with regulatory requirements, GLP S int a thn ed a mrd e dfo icr a q l u ina dli uty s tm rya fn oa r g ce om nte inn ut os uys st ems management systems (TQMS)
Standards for securing the reliability manufacturing and supply of safe and for pharmaceuticals and medical
government and industry standards, includ- of nonclinical testing for safety effective medical devices devices
i an ng d J Oa tp ha en r’ s T hP eh ra ar pm eua tc ice u Pti rc oa dls u, c tM s e Ad cic t a al sD we evi lc l e as s G N m coaM a nt ni toP u ron fa la c ol ts fu t pa ri hnn agd r a mcr od ans ct ef ro o ur l t ia cn ad ls q au na dl ity I S sS yta sO tn e d2 ma2 sr0 d (0 Ffo0 Sr M fo So ) d to s a sufe pty p lm y fa on oa dg e tom ent E sys sta teb mlis shment of traceability
Japan’s Food Sanitation Act. The group is also quasi drugs consumers safely
Employee training
QMS Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point
promoting the acquisition of international certifi- National standards for (HACCP)
manufacturing control and International standards formulated by Codex
cations such as ISO 9001 for quality, ISO 13485 quality control of medical devices Alimentarius for methods of managing
and external-use diagnostic hygiene and sanitation to ensure food safety
for medical devices, and ISO 22000 for food pharmaceutical products
safety. Furthermore, in order to ensure thor- G NaQ tiP onal standards for quality F BS enS cC hm 2 a2 r0 k 0 c0 ertification standard
ough quality control, it has adopted traceability control e Ins itt ia ab til vis eh (e Gd F b Sy I) t sh ce h G emlo eb ,a wl F ho ico hd i nS ta ef ge rt ay t es
GVP ISO 22000 (international standard for food
systems covering all processes, from raw ma- National standards for safety safety management systems, FSMS), and
management in the post-marketing ISO/TS22002-1 (and/or ISO/TS22002-4)
terial procurement to production, distribution, based on the ISO22000 requirements
and sales. Meanwhile, its major operating com- Food Sanitation Act ISO17025
Law to ensure safety by establishing General requirements prescribed for
panies conducting global business have estab- principles for standards, labels, and research institutes and research review
inspections for food, additives, and other agencies working to acquire certification as
lished global quality assurance systems. substances bodies qualified to carry out specific tests or
calibrations
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Quality tests Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: IV Drug Information (DI) Center Taiho Pharmaceutical: Tiovita Drink packaging designed to prevent cuts
Global Quality Assurance System Listening to Customers
for IV Solutions In order to field and respond to customer inquir- professionals at the center listen carefully to cus-
As a leading manufacturer of IV solutions, Otsuka ies appropriately, the Otsuka group operates de- tomers and do their best to answer questions
Pharmaceutical Factory technically cooperates partments that are organized along product lines. conscientiously, honestly and in a manner that is
with and manages the 15 Otsuka companies (in At Otsuka Pharmaceutical, the Drug Information easily understood.
10 countries) involved in the IV solutions busi- Center fields inquiries about pharmaceuticals; Taiho Pharmaceutical has incorporated cus-
ness outside Japan. In this leading role, the the Customer Relation Desk in the Planning and tomer feedback to improve a variety of prod-
company has voluntarily developed and imple- Reliability Promotion Office fields inquiries about ucts. In 2015, for example, the company
mented a strict global quality assurance system. OTC products, quasi drugs, and cosmetics; and introduced new specifications to reduce paper
In addition to sharing safety information and en- the Customer Relations Office responds to in- cuts for the 10-bottle inner cases and 50-bot-
suring compliance with laws, regulations and in- quiries about functional foods and beverages. tle exterior cardboard packaging for its Tiovita
dustry standards in each country in which the The company has also established the Tele- Drink series. Since conventional packaging with
group operates, the company works with other phone Service Center to respond to all inquir- sharp edges can leave unexpected paper cuts,
group companies to continuously maintain and ies made after office hours and on holidays and the company added tiny waves to the paper to
improve product quality and develop a shared weekends, which often involve a level of urgency. reduce the sharpness of the box edges, making
philosophy regarding quality assurance. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory has estab- the products more comfortable for consumers.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory lished an IV Drug Information (DI) Center. The
VOICE Taiho Pharmaceutical markets the well-known Tiovita Drink series and Solmack se-
ries, as well as a large number of over-the-counter drugs. At the Customer Service,
Helping People with OTC Medication we receive a diverse range of inquiries and feedback on our products from customers.
Every day, we focus on understanding precisely what our customers want to know
Hideki Yamamoto and what they are hoping we will do, and then we respond quickly. We share informa-
Director, Customer Service, tion among all of the relevant departments in the company and serve as the contact
Consumer Healthcare Administration
Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. point for helping these departments to incorporate customer feedback into their work.
29Corporate Governance
In order to achieve stable business activities and sustainable growth, the Otsuka group aims to
be a company trusted by all of its stakeholders. Toward that end, it has worked to build a sound
and highly transparent management structure.
Basic Position on Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Structure
The corporate governance of the Otsuka group, listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. These At Otsuka Holdings, the Board of Directors,
which seeks to promote the increase of its sus- guidelines were established to indicate the which includes outside directors, supervises the
tainable corporate value over the medium- to group’s basic approach to corporate govern- execution of management plans to ensure sus-
long-term by realizing the corporate philoso- ance in light of the Otsuka Group philosophy tainable growth and raise corporate value over
phy, is committed to the basic policy of mak- and business operations. the medium- to long-term, and fulfills its roles
ing transparent, fair and timely decisions and In April of each year following the annual and responsibilities regarding improving profita-
fulfilling social responsibility by living up to the general shareholders meetings, Otsuka Hold- bility and capital efficiency. At Otsuka Holdings,
expectations of all stakeholders including cus- ings reports on the current status of group cor- a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board,
tomers, suppliers and other collaborators, porate governance initiatives in a Corporate the Audit & Supervisory Board members, who
employees, local communities as well as share- Governance Report filed with the Tokyo Stock are independent from the Board of Directors,
holders, through dialogue with them. Exchange. The Corporate Governance Code take the lead in monitoring the execution of op-
Otsuka Holdings has formulated Corpo- and Corporate Governance Reports are also erations by the Board of Directors, while coordi-
rate Governance Guidelines based on Japan’s posted on the Otsuka Holdings website. nating with accounting auditors and the Internal
Corporate Governance Code for companies Audit Department. This ensures the Company’s
health and maintains a solid corporate govern-
ance system that can satisfy society’s trust.
Standards for the Selection of Outside
Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory
Board Members Corporate Governance Committee Evaluating Board of Director Effectiveness
With respect to outside directors and outside Otsuka Holdings established a Corporate Gov- Japan’s Corporate Governance Code calls for
Audit & Supervisory Board members, the com- ernance Committee in February 2017. As an ensuring that boards of directors operate effec-
pany has set standards to appoint talented advisory council to the Board of Directors, the tively, and this is a matter of increasing interest
persons who have extensive knowledge and Committee discusses the nomination of direc- to stakeholders.
experience, and are able to exert their abili- tors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, To analyze and evaluate the effectiveness
ties adequately for oversight to the Directors director remuneration, and other corporate gov- of its board of directors in fiscal 2016, Otsuka
by supervising, monitoring or auditing Direc- ernance issues, and then reports to the Board Holdings distributed a survey drafted on the
tors’ performance of their duties fairly and ob- of Directors. The Committee consists of the advice of outside expert agencies to all direc-
jectively from a neutral and objective viewpoint. CEO, the director in charge of administration, tors and Audit & Supervisory Board members
The Company realizes that one criterion for en- as well as outside directors. The CEO becomes in January and February 2017. Following review
suring neutrality and objectivity of outside di- the chair of the Committee. by the corporate lawyers, the matter was dis-
rectors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board cussed by the Board of Directors in March.
members is independence from the manage- The survey found that the Otsuka Holdings
ment team. Otsuka Holdings has established Board of Directors is functioning in a sufficiently
standards of independence for outside direc- effective and productive manner with regard to
tors in order to ensure their independence in the the current state of operation and its delibera-
Corporate Governance Guidelines of the Com- tions. Building on these positive findings, the
pany. The Company also determines the inde- group is taking steps to further improve the
pendency of outside Audit & Supervisory Board quality of the Board of Directors, going forward.
members in accordance with the standards.
Otsuka Holdings Corporate Governance Structure
Shareholders Meetings
Elects/Dismisses
Elects/Dismisses Elects/Dismisses
Inquiries Board of Directors O Acp ce ora ut nio tin na gl aa uu dd ii tt ss Audit & Supervisory Board
Corporate Governance (4 auditors including 3 outside Audit &
(9 Directors including 3 outside directors)
Committee Supervisory Board members)
Responses
Appoints/Dismisses
(Cooperates with) (Cooperates with)
President and Representative Director, CEO
Instructs Reports Accounting audits
Accounting Auditor
Internal Audit Department (Cooperates with)
Approval of material matters / Meetings of the group’s Audit & Prior consultation /
Management guidance Supervisory Board Ex post facto reports
Subsidiaries (Shareholders' Meeting, Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board, etc.)
30Q
uality
Compliance
The Otsuka group has maintained an organization and corporate climate which enable all
employees to behave with extremely high ethical standards, including compliance with laws,
regulations, and bioethics.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Ethics Forum
Promoting Compliance Expanding the Internal
The Otsuka group of companies formulates their and healthcare-related organizations is re- Whistle-blowing System
own individual programs to promote compli- quired, it is striving to ensure adherence to Japan’s Corporate Governance Code calls for
ance based on the Otsuka Group Global Code standards in order to fulfill its responsibility as a establishing a whistle-blowing system that is in-
of Business Ethics. The group companies that pharmaceutical company and ensure the prac- dependent from management and for manage-
handle pharmaceuticals follow the Prescription tice of proper medical care based on ethics and ment oversight of the operational status of the
Drug Promotion Code, which is a code of be- a patient-centered commitment. system. This independence and oversight is ex-
havior for healthcare professionals, and have tremely important for a whistle-blowing system to
formulated their own Code of Practice. The function in the quick detection of illegal and inap-
Otsuka group works to forge relationships of propriate conduct and/or information disclosure.
mutual trust with medical practitioners, as well Accordingly, the Otsuka group has established
as with all of its stakeholders, to foster appro- a whistle-blowing system that is independent
priate collaboration on compliance issues. As from management to ensure that whistleblow-
the social responsibility to clearly specify the re- ers can use the system without concerns about
lationship between pharmaceutical companies potential repercussions. Major group compa-
nies also report regularly to the Otsuka Holdings
Board of Directors on the status and condition
of their internal whistle-blowing systems.
Implementing Otsuka Group-wide Training—Global Code of Business Ethics and a Global Anti-Corruption Policy
In order to promote and achieve group-wide from President, Representative Director, and companies. Training materials are provided not
compliance under the banner of its corporate CEO Tatsuo Higuchi. only in Japanese but also in English, Chinese,
philosophy, the Otsuka group established the The Otsuka group distributes a universal set and Indonesian. Group companies regularly re-
Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Eth- of training materials worldwide to address its port to the Otsuka Holdings Board of Directors
ics. The commitment to this Code of Conduct Global Anti-Corruption Policy; this ensures that on the status of training implementation.
is publicly posted on its website as a message training is uniform and consistent for all group
President's Message Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics
United under the banner of our corporate philosophy, “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide,” we are working tirelessly
toward a shared vision—improving global health through innovative products and services. As a “big venture company,” we keep moving forward,
constantly asking ourselves the following questions: Is our work innovative? Are we meeting the needs of our patients and consumers globally? Do
our pharmaceutical products bring something innovative to healthcare? Can our nutraceutical products create new markets?
As we strengthen our presence in the international marketplace, we have a heightened duty to continue fulfilling our ethical and legal obligations as
a responsible global corporate citizen. To earn and secure the trust and confidence of our stakeholders including patients and consumers, we operate
our business ethically, and with integrity.
The Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics embodies and reiterates our commitment to integrity, which remains steadfast across the
Otsuka group worldwide. I strongly hope that our adherence to the principles set forth in this Code promotes a fair and open workplace inspiring
creativity, empowering us to reach our fullest potential, and enabling us to enhance the quality of life worldwide.
Tatsuo Higuchi
President and Representative Director, CEO
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
VOICE At Otsuka Pharmaceutical, we are reinforcing our efforts to ensure compliance at our
approximately 30 subsidiaries in Asian and Arab countries. We have provided many dif-
Compliance Initiatives ferent types of support, including setting rules and implementing group training for all
officers in charge of compliance. These subsidiaries differ greatly in terms of their size and
Maki Toyooka the products they sell, and the regulations in each of these countries also differ. These
Manager, Compliance Department differences can make it difficult to address the issue of compliance. To address this, we
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
are working hard to gain a greater understanding of the business customs and cultures
of each country.
31Risk Management
In order to fulfill its social responsibilities as a healthcare company, the Otsuka group
works to manage risks under normal conditions and prepares to continue operations
safely even at times of disaster or emergency.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Full-circumference seawall Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Emergency LED lights along Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Comprehensive disaster drill
installed at Matsushige Factory evacuation routes and at evacuation sites automatically turn on during
a power outage.
BCP and BCM Establishment
The Otsuka group has business continuity plans and beverages in both ordinary and emergency management strategy. The company has en-
(BCP) in place to ensure that the group contin- conditions. In 2016, major Otsuka group com- acted basic BCM rules and implements a va-
ues to operate as effectively as possible and is panies conducted joint desktop exercises sim- riety of measures to preempt risk factors and
able to maintain a stable supply of its products, ulating a severe earthquake along the Nankai limit damage should an unavoidable crisis oc-
even when large-scale earthquakes and disas- Trough. Company offices in Tokushima, Tokyo, cur. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory does not
ters strike. and Osaka communicated via video conferenc- focus exclusively on its own BCM. The meas-
Major Otsuka group companies such as ing to test the group’s collaborative structure for ures the company implements encompass the
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical ensuring a stable supply of products under sim- entire group to forge a united front on risk man-
Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, and Otsuka ulated conditions, and results were extremely agement. The company works with companies
Warehouse have jointly acquired ISO 22301 close to projected scenarios. in the Otsuka group that distribute and sell its
certification (the international standard for busi- As a manufacturer of the IV solutions that products, holding regular BCP meetings to ad-
ness continuity management systems). This would be especially required for initial treatment dress risks associated with Otsuka Pharmaceu-
certification verifies that the Otsuka group pro- when an emergency situation occurs, Otsuka tical Factory business activities.
vides a framework capable of ensuring the sta- Pharmaceutical Factory has designated busi-
ble supply of pharmaceuticals, food products, ness continuity management (BCM) as a key
Otsuka Pharmaceutical: PrivacyMark
Information Security Initiatives
The Otsuka group has formed the Otsuka related to targeted email attacks, and monitoring Each Otsuka group company focuses on
Group Information Security Committee for the the content of social media messages, with out- training to raise awareness of information secu-
purpose of sharing the latest information on in- side security companies. In addition, the group rity and protection of personal information.
formation security and reviewing specific secu- conducts regular emergency drills focusing on
rity measures. Otsuka focuses on boosting the systems that are vital to database management.
level of comprehensive security throughout the The Otsuka group has established a privacy
entire group and continuously improving the in- protection management system to protect cus-
formation security process. tomers’ valuable personal information and has
In order to counter the risk of cyber-attack, acquired PrivacyMark certification and Informa-
the Otsuka group has a number of measures, tion Security Management System (ISMS) cer-
such as inspecting security of systems, diag- tification in businesses where this certification
nosing website vulnerabilities, conducting drills is relevant.
32Q
uality
Risk Management
CSR Procurement/Green Procurement
Recognizing the importance of working with for purchased goods, as well, to ensure that lighter packaging materials; and promotes effi-
suppliers to implement sustainability initiatives, the goods procured have the most impact on ciency in truck shipment schedules in order to
the Otsuka group is committed to socially re- reducing the company’s environmental impact conserve energy and reduce CO2 emissions.
sponsible business throughout the entire value and to promote green procurement under a Otsuka Electronics, a company that manu-
chain, including all of the companies it collabo- comprehensive framework. factures and markets electronic devices globally,
rates with. Broadly, these initiatives encompass EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical complies with strives to maintain product quality and prevent
compliance, environmental initiatives, and safety Japan’s Subcontract Act and related laws and defects globally. The company first signs a basic
and security initiatives. When initiating business regulations when procuring raw materials. Com- transaction agreement and evaluates the sub-
with a new company, the group conducts inves- pany policy is to purposefully purchase from contractor (reviewing capacity and conducting
tigations and verifications to ensure the quality multiple sources in order to ensure stable and other surveys), then fully verifies quality via spec
of raw materials and stable procurement. In ad- continuous procurement and effective BCP im- sheets, approval diagrams and prototypes. The
dition, it signs a basic transaction agreement in plementation. With regard to raw materials and company procures and manufactures products
advance in an effort to prevent risk. packaging materials for pharmaceuticals, the compliant with EU standards (RoHS and WEEE
The company asks suppliers for their under- company reuses the boxes in which raw mate- directives, etc.) according to the regulations in
standing and cooperation on CSR procurement rials are shipped; reduces packaging and uses place in the area to which they are exported.
Initiatives with Suppliers
The Otsuka group is committed to working and procurement questionnaire to evaluate CSR ac- In order to ensure a stable supply of safe,
growing with suppliers whose operations are tivities within the supply chain. Working together quality products, each group company works
rooted in corporate social responsibility. It fo- with suppliers, the Otsuka group is determined with its suppliers to maintain and improve prod-
cuses on providing solutions for the issues that to build relationships of even greater mutual uct quality, regularly monitoring the companies
communities face through its suppliers and trust by upholding its social responsibilities. This that supply raw materials to the Otsuka group.
making sure that transactions do not cause so- effort is based on ensuring a clear understand- These companies are careful to maintain good
cial issues. ing throughout the supply chain of the current business relations by communicating and shar-
The Otsuka group enacted a group-wide pro- status of human rights, labor, environmental cir- ing information on a daily basis.
curement policy in 2016 and distributes a CSR cumstances, and corruption prevention.
Procurement Policy
1 Building Relationships of Trust 5 Environmental Measures, Human Rights, and Labor
We respect all suppliers equally as valuable collaborators; conduct We actively pursue initiatives that address corporate social respon-
procurement transactions fairly, justly and transparently; and pursue sibility and environmental issues, aiming to help build a sustainable
mutually sustainable development as we build positive relationships society. At the same time, we support internationally recognized
of trust. norms within the scope of our impact on respect for basic human
rights, the elimination of forced labor, and the prevention of child
2 Stable Supply labor, and we pursue initiatives toward these goals.
We ensure the reliable level of quality that our customers expect;
provide fair and honest opportunities for bidding by suppliers 6 Protecting Confidentiality
around the world that provide safe, quality, environmentally friendly, We do not use confidential information from suppliers obtained in
and cost competitive raw materials; and select the bid winners the course of doing business for any purpose other than the original
based on rational and fair criteria. purpose for which it was provided. We do not leak confidential infor-
mation to third parties.
3 Product Development Ideas
We actively evaluate proposals for new materials, new technologies, 7 Promoting Compliance
and revolutionary ideas that will lead to new products. We conduct our operations in accordance with socially accepted
norms, complying with all relevant laws, rules, and regulations and
4 Boosting Competitiveness upholding high ethical standards.
We aim for products that are optimal in every respect, not only op-
timal in certain respects. We evaluate all economically rational ideas 8 Risk Diversification
for boosting competitiveness. As a basic rule, we purchase major items from multiple companies
to reduce risk and ensure that we deliver a stable supply of prod-
ucts to our customers regardless of weather, natural disasters, or
other conditions.
33Culture
Otsuka respects local communities and their traditional cultures. The group
contributes to community development and in particular to the education of
children, who represent the future of their communities, through community
exchanges, partnerships, and support for education.
800,000
Over
people
Number of patients treated at Otsuka Welfare
Clinic since its inception
124,000 10,000
Over Over
volumes people
Books contributed through SATU HATI Participants in the class,
social contribution activities in Indonesia Life Studies Through Cancer
34Culture Contributing to Communities
As a good corporate citizen, the Otsuka group cares about the natural environment
and local communities. It places importance on a community-based culture,
and companies across the group are undertaking social contribution activities.
Otsuka Welfare Clinic
Healthcare Support Activities: Otsuka Welfare Clinic
In 2003, the Otsuka group established the Otsuka free medical treatment to refugees and others in The Otsuka group including Otsuka Pakistan
Welfare Clinic in Peshawar, Pakistan, to provide need. Otsuka Pharmaceutical and the 23 group will continue to engage in community-based
medical treatment to Afghan refugees and oth- companies that operate in Asian and Arab coun- support activities in order to contribute to peo-
ers in need. tries jointly set up the Otsuka Welfare Clinic. To ple’s health.
In recent history, millions of Afghan refugees date, more than 800,000 people have benefited
have entered Pakistan, where many of them from the care and treatments provided.
have been unable to receive adequate medical Following the clinic’s tenth year of operations,
care. In the early 2000s Otsuka Pakistan was Otsuka Pharmaceutical was awarded the Japa-
providing IV solution products through the Red nese Foreign Minister’s Commendation in 2014.
Cross. Driven by a desire to further contribute The honor is given to individuals and groups that
to the health of all in the community, Otsuka es- have had great success in promoting friendly re-
tablished a clinic and for 14 years has provided lations between Japan and other countries.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Sub-rural health center
Sub-Rural Health Center in Myanmar
In Myanmar, births typically occur at home with in addition to childbirth assistance, basic treat- products to assist victims of flooding in Cambo-
a midwife in attendance, and provision of health ment and ongoing health education are pro- dia and of auto rickshaws (tuk-tuks) to transport
services for infants and expectant and nursing vided to expectant women and other villagers. expectant women in emergencies.
mothers can be a significant challenge. Through The result has led to an increased understand- Otsuka Pharmaceutical
the non-governmental organization, People's ing about birth and childcare, and more stable
Hope Japan (PHJ), Otsuka Pharmaceutical do- support for maternal and child health. Otsuka
nated a sub-rural health center to Allel Kyum, a Pharmaceutical is dedicated to the health and
rural village in the northern part of Myanmar's well-being of people the world over and there-
capital city, Nay Pyi Taw, in 2016. Allel Kyum fore supports the activities of PHJ to provide ed-
was chosen as the site for the new center at the ucation on health and medical care, with a focus
request of the Myanmar Ministry of Health due on maternal and child healthcare. Throughout
to the lack of nearby hospital facilities for child- Asia, Otsuka has provided support for various
birth. Midwives are stationed at the clinic, and PHJ projects in the past, including donations of
VOICE I feel fortunate to be the part of Otsuka Welfare Clinic since its inauguration in June 2003. This clinic was set up in Peshawar by Otsuka Pharma-
ceutical Co., Ltd. jointly with its 23 affiliates with the aim to contribute to the health of Afghan Refugees and patients from the surrounding areas. My
Community-Based responsibilities are: the support of the clinic’s staff, including 3 doctors; procurement of medicine; and, the compilation and forwarding of reports to
Medical Support the head office of Otsuka Pakistan and the Pakistani Health Department. It’s a matter of great pride for me to be able to actively contribute to society
in such a way. On average, some 162 patients visit our Welfare Clinic each day and receive free medical treatment and medicine. It’s an honor to
Syed Sabir Ullah be able to provide healthcare facilities to more than 885,000 patients to-date.
Public Relations Officer Otsuka is committed to continuing the provision of healthcare to the patients at Otsuka Welfare Clinic; we are determined to actively contribute to
Otsuka Welfare Clinic the ongoing needs of society. We believe that contributing to patient’s needs is the right thing to do, and we are determined to continue this effort.
35Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Partnership Agreement with Kumamoto Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Emergency drill together with Relief work for the Kumamoto earthquake
Prefecture Signing Ceremony the community
Health Promotion, Disaster Prevention and Relief Activities
The Otsuka group of companies works with building (located near the coast) as a tempo- with 19 local governments in Japan to provide
communities to engage in health awareness, dis- rary tsunami evacuation site for local residents. relief supplies in the event of a disaster.
aster preparedness, and disaster relief programs. Emergency goods are also stockpiled on-site. The Otsuka group also provides relief sup-
Otsuka Pharmaceutical uses the knowl- Additionally, the factory holds briefing sessions plies such as POCARI SWEAT and Calorie Mate
edge gained through product research and on company business continuity plan initiatives, to areas affected by natural disasters. Shortly
development and awareness-raising activities facility tours, and joint tsunami evacuation drills. after the Kumamoto earthquake in April 2016,
related to health to promote activities for the A disaster relief agreement has been concluded the group provided aid in the form of approx-
treatment of heat disorders, prevention of life- with the local government concerning the assis- imately 620,000 meals (food and beverages)
style-related diseases, improvement of health tance the company will provide in the event of and approximately 15,000 hygiene products.
through sports, nutritional education, women’s a disaster. Such initiatives in collaboration with Group companies outside Japan also provide
health and establishment of disaster prepared- local governments and companies have been relief supplies to areas affected by natural disas-
ness and relief measures. The company is also commended, and have received mention in the ters. At the end of 2016, when heavy rain and
working collaboratively with local communities 2016 White Paper on Disaster Management flooding caused damage in southern Thailand,
to help address social issues. produced by Cabinet Office of the Government Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical donated 8,000
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory in Japan has of Japan. IV solution packs and about 34,000 bottles of
designated the roof of the head office factory Otsuka Foods has concluded agreements POCARI SWEAT.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Otsuka ren dance groups EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Volunteers participating in the National Sports Taiho Pharmaceutical: Tokushima Cooperative Forestry Project
Festival held in Iwate
Participation in Community Events Forest Conservation Activities such as
The Otsuka group, with its origins in Tokushima With its head office in Hanamaki City, EN Tree Planting and Thinning
Prefecture, is proud to participate in maintaining Otsuka Pharmaceutical has participated in the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory and Taiho
exemplary, local cultural activities, such as the spectacular Hanamaki Festival, an event dat- Pharmaceutical have supported the Tokush-
Awa Odori, one of the Japan’s largest dance fes- ing back four centuries. In 2016, 90 employees ima Cooperative Forestry Project since 2010
tivals, which has a 400-year tradition. Every year, participated in this festival with Mikoshi, porta- through partnership agreements with the
employees from the Otsuka group participate ble Shinto shrines. The company actively partic- Tokushima Prefecture.
in the festival by organizing four dance groups, ipates in other events in Iwate Prefecture, such As part of the project, a forest conservation
called ren, made up of employees from six group as the 2016 Hope Iwate National Sports Festi- event was held at a Cooperative Forestry site
companies. Otsuka employees help promote val, where employees work as volunteers. in the village of Sanagouchi, Tokushima Pre-
this traditional festival by participating as both fecture, in November 2016. Approximately 250
dancers and spectators in this exciting dance. employees, family members and others partici-
pated in forest thinning and tree planting. As of
2016, the total amount of CO2 absorption re-
sulting from these activities was 397 tons.
Otsuka Techno participates in environmental
conservation activities and tree planting activities
in the nearby Naka River basin and its coastal es-
tuary, which are organized by local councils.
36Culture
Contributions to Communities outside Japan
To promote sustainable development overseas, the Otsuka group engages
in activities with local communities.
Support for Cancer Patients Participation in Charity Events
Every year since 2000, Astex employees and their families have taken Taiho Oncology participates in charity events and other fundraising for
part in the Light The Night of East Bay event in Walnut Creek in Cali- patient support, disease awareness, and research support. The com-
fornia to raise awareness and much-needed funds to support the Leu- pany participates in various activities throughout the year, especially
kemia and Lymphoma Society (LLS). The LLS is the largest voluntary raising awareness for colorectal cancer. The activities include sponsor-
organization in the US dedicated to research, finding cures, and en- ship and participation in a charity organized by a local colorectal cancer
suring access to treatment for blood cancer patients. Light The Night patient group, as well as raising donations for colorectal cancer preven-
draws nearly one million participants throughout the year in over 160 tion, research and development, and patient support.
evening events across the US. To date, Astex and its employees have
contributed over $465,000 to the LLS.
P(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:80) Astex: Employees and their families participating in a charity event P(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:80) Taiho Oncology: Taking part in the Undy Run/Walk campaign held by the Colon Cancer
Alliance to raise awareness of colon cancer.
Delivering Vitamins to
Mothers and Children
Since 2006, Pharmavite in the
United States has supported the
nonprofit Vitamin Angels, which
delivers vitamins to children and
mothers in developing countries.
Thanks to Pharmavite’s product
donations, the organization has Improving School Facilities
helped tens of millions of children Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical in collaboration with ARS Chemical (Thai-
and mothers obtain many of the © Matt Dayka/Vitamin Angels MX16 land) Co., Ltd. and local organizations provided support for the con-
essential nutrients they need. In struction of facilities at Watthanon Kaphrao primary school in Rayong
2016, Pharmavite organized a project that involved three Pharmavite Province, with 110 participants in 2016. The project involved construc-
employees visiting Mexico to directly participate in the activities of Vi- tion and renovation work for the creation of a music room with Thai tra-
tamin Angels. In rural Mexico, there are many impoverished families, ditional musical instruments, a bakery, a play room, and a nurse’s office,
and it is estimated that 30% of children are anemic due to a lack of as well as painting the school walls and planting trees. Upon comple-
vitamin A. tion, a donation presentation ceremony was held for school personnel,
as well as invited guests that included local educators and administra-
tive officials.
P(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:80) Pharmavite: Vitamin Angel P(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:80) Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Music room at Watthanon Kaphrao primary school
Culture
37Providing Hope to SATU HATI Programs
Cambodian Children in Indonesia
At Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical, income generated by its employee In Indonesia, PT Amerta Indah Otsuka (AIO) has held SATU HATI (One
cafeteria is donated to projects in developing countries, such as edu- Heart) charity events since 2007. These events to date have funded the
cational support and drilling water wells. The latest education support construction of 28 libraries and the donation of 124,000 books.
project covered everything from choosing a recipient elementary school At the Kejayan Plant production site for POCARI SWEAT in East Java,
to its remodeling. The old classrooms of Prum elementary school in the company has sponsored the SATU HATI School, a program at the
Cambodia’s Prey Veng Province had wooden posts and old tile roofs. Kejayan Factory to tutor children in science and math.
They were completely replaced, and furniture such as chairs and desks AIO is committed to making a positive contribution through their
was also replaced. In March 2017, a completion ceremony was held for SATU HATI CSR programs. AIO has taken a leading role in support-
the newly renovated school. ing efforts to collect and reduce trash in the local community surround-
ing the factory in the Sukabumi Area, West Java. This project is called
SATU HATI Sehatkan Bangsa, which translates as ‘One Heart to a
P(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:80) Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Prum elementary school completion ceremony Healthier Nation.’ In the AIO-supported effort, the refuse previously left
on the streets is collected in specially provided bins; this effort educates
residents on the importance to the environment of waste separation
and recycling. In Indonesia, the impact on the environment from litter-
ing has become an increasingly critical issue. In 2016, in recognition of
this issue, AIO started this project. Roughly 300 families in the commu-
nity around the Sukabumi factory attended environmental awareness
lectures that year.
Monthly Volunteer Activities on “ION Day”
VOICE
Since July 2009, Dong-A Otsuka in South Korea has marked the 25th
Supporting the People of Indonesia in Education,
of every month as ION Day. The approximately 100 employees who Environment and Health
work at the company headquarters take turns performing volunteer ac- Pratiwi Juniarsih
Corporate Affairs Director
tivities and distributing products. Employees visit local educational in- P.T. Amerta Indah Otsuka
stitutions and provide teacher assistance in after-school learning and
AIO through its three pillars of CSR—SATU HATI Cerdaskan Bangsa (One Heart to Edu-
club activities, such as sports or cooking classes. By establishing ION cate the Nation), SATU HATI Peduli Lingkungan (One Heart Cares for the Environment),
and SATU HATI Sehatkan Bangsa (One Heart to a Healthier Nation)—is committed to
Day as part of its company culture, the company continues to promote making a positive contribution to Indonesia.
SATU HATI Cerdaskan Bangsa has already built 28 libraries, donated more than
individual volunteer activities in communities. 124,000 books, and operates a learning center in Kejayan Factory.
SATU HATI Peduli Lingkungan adopted trees (25,000 trees in the Sukabumi Facto-
ry; and 12,500 trees in the Kejayan Factory), cleans beaches, and works to revitalize
urban forests.
SATU HATI Sehatkan Bangsa supports to maintain and develop the Mom & Child
Clinic to improve people’s health in the community.
Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Music room at Watthanon Kaphrao primary school P(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:80) Dong-A Otsuka: ION Day activity
38Culture Youth Education
The Otsuka group engages in educational and awareness-building initiatives to ensure
children understand the importance of conserving nature, and protecting
and enhancing communities for future generations.
Eco-School Adoption Program Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Life Studies Through Cancer
Support Through Education
Since 2007, in Japan, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, school emissions. The event provided an op- life. By 2016, more than 10,000 students and
Otsuka Chemical, and Taiho Pharmaceutical portunity for students to learn about garbage their parents from 29 different schools took part
have participated in Eco-School Adoption Pro- and related issues. The Eco-School Adoption in the class.
gram activities through agreements with local Program is expected to become a catalyst for
schools. As indicated by the program name, the students to examine environmental problems
three group companies support environmen- close to home.
tal learning activities in their “adopted” school. Since 2011, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has spon-
Under a three-year plan for 2016 to 2018, the sored a class for junior high school students,
companies are supporting the activities of Ou- Life Studies Through Cancer, organized by LO-
jin Junior High School in Tokushima City. In fis- HAS Medical Japan. A doctor and a cancer pa-
cal 2016, an Environmental Study Meeting was tient teach classes of students and their par-
held as part of year-one efforts to achieve zero ents, and reflect on the meaning and ways of
Taiho Pharmaceutical: Factory tour of the Okayama Plant Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Takasaki Factory
Plant Tours
Otsuka group companies proactively welcome Since its completion in 2013, Taiho Pharma- from Iwate Prefecture as well as to students
visitors to tour their plants. Otsuka Pharmaceu- ceutical’s Kitajima Plant has actively worked throughout Japan. An increasing number of
tical plants have prepared informative displays with elementary and junior high schools to pro- these visitors subsequently express an interest in
and exhibits for visitors to learn not only about vide factory tours that help students to learn the company and a desire to one day work at
manufacturing processes for Otsuka products, outside school walls. the company.
but also about health and the environment. Otsuka Foods’ Shiga Factory hosts work Otsuka Sims (Guangdong) Beverage pro-
Otsuka Pharmaceutical's Takasaki Factory— experience opportunities for local junior high vides factory tours to so-called left-behind chil-
manufacturer of POCARI SWEAT, Amino-Value school students every year. The students get to dren* in collaboration with the Mental Hygiene
and other products in plastic bottles—has experience the joys and difficulties of working, Association of the Third People's Hospital of Ji-
worked to make its factory open and friendly to which is a useful part of their education. angmen, which provides educational support to
visitors, for example, by creating an accessible EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical's Hanamaki Fac- the children. The company also provides factory
visitor route by installing an elevator. In 2016, tory provides many factory tours to local high tours and conducts health education for the
the total number of visitors exceeded 100,000. school, technical college and university students prevention of heat disorders.
* Children whose parents have left to work in urban areas and are
being raised by grandparents or other relatives in their hometown.
Some left-behind children do not receive adequate education,
which has become a social issue.
39Employees
The spirit of Sozosei (creativity) in all employees in the Otsuka group of
companies stems from their desire to fulfill the corporate philosophy. The
group fosters a corporate culture that encourages a diverse workforce to
break out of the conventional, broaden their perspectives, and pursue their
personal development. This collective creativity, in turn, enables the group
companies to continue developing innovative products that enrich society.
60.1
%
Employees
outside Japan
2.84 162
points people
Increase in the percentage of female managers Number of children enrolled in Otsuka group of
2012: 4.81% 2016: 7.65% companies’ workplace day care centers
(Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory,
Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Foods)
40Employees Diversity
The Otsuka group maintains workplaces where human rights are highly respected.
At the same time, the group understands the importance of promoting
and capitalizing on employee diversity to build a strong and flexible organization.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical: WING, a voluntary leadership study group Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Diversity Management Selection 100
Supporting Women in the Workplace
The Otsuka group believes that a diverse pool of Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in their Percentage of female managers
workers is indispensable for corporate growth, Diversity Management Selection 100 in 2014.
2015* 2016*
maximum creativity, and the ability to rapidly re- Otsuka Foods holds information exchange
spond to societal needs. Thus, the group com- meetings on women’s work life, and also endeav- Otsuka Pharmaceutical 8.56% 9.04%
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 4.10% 4.64%
panies actively promote the advancement of ors to strengthen support networks for female Factory
female employees. employees who are expectant or already raising Taiho Pharmaceutical 5.23% 6.15%
Otsuka Pharmaceutical initiated Women's children. Other group companies also focus on Otsuka Chemical 8.15% 8.63%
Forums (now known as the Diversity Forum) in helping female employees balance their careers Otsuka Warehouse 9.38% 10.39%
Otsuka Foods 5.14% 6.95%
1990 when the concept of diversity was still un- with their other commitments.
familiar in Japan. The company has since been * As of December 31
recognized for its advancement efforts, in par-
ticular by actively appointing female leaders.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical was recognized for
its achievements in promoting diversity by the
Heartful Kawauchi: Excellent
Company Employing People
with Mental Disabilities, etc.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Life Planning Seminar Heartful Kawauchi: Tokushima “Challenged” Award ceremony
Support for Employment of Seniors Integration of Employees with Disabilities
The Otsuka group has initiated a program Under the principle of integrating people with Percentage of employees with disabilities
aimed at giving employees aged 60 and older special needs into the workforce, Otsuka group
2015* 2016*
who have reached mandatory retirement age companies work diligently to create a work en-
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 2.48% 2.45%
the opportunity to continue working and pass vironment that provides an active role for peo-
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 1.86% 1.98%
on their experiences, knowledge and skills to ple with disabilities. Heartful Kawauchi Co., Ltd., Factory
younger employees. All employees of the req- a special subsidiary of Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical 1.89% 2.11%
uisite age become eligible for this program. Ad- hires persons with mental disabilities and strives Otsuka Chemical 2.43% 2.50%
Otsuka Warehouse 1.57% 1.16%
ditionally, senior talent outside the company is to create a supportive working environment. Ef-
Otsuka Foods 2.16% 2.39%
also hired to provide new perspectives, and to forts such as appointment of counselors and
revitalize the organization by helping to develop application of flexible employment rules have * As of December 31
younger employees. been well received. In recognition of these ef-
The group additionally supports employees forts, the company was certified as an Excel-
approaching retirement by offering life planning lent Company Employing People with Mental
seminars focused on transitioning into a healthy Disabilities etc, in April 2015. One employee re-
and fulfilling retirement. ceived the Tokushima Prefecture “Challenged”
Award in 2016.
VOICE My job involves interacting with employees in other departments and affil-
iates outside Japan, which affords me many opportunities to interact with
Participating in WING many different types of people. This is why I decided to participate in a vol-
study groups untary cross-organizational study group called WING. Here we learn about
work-life balance, and how to communicate based on an understanding
Yuna Sugimoto of the different nuances between male and female ways of thinking. We
Section Chief, Medical Safety Office, also share our childcare and nursing care experiences and explore ways to
Pharmacovigilance Department share this learning companywide. Appreciating these new ways of thinking
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
is helping me improve both my work and life on the whole.
41Work-Life Balance
The Otsuka group respects the diverse values and lifestyles of its employees.
It endeavors to create workplace environments that allow all employees to realize
their full potential while maintaining a healthy work-life balance.
Taiho Pharmaceutical: seminar to help employees balance work and
home care responsibilities
Caregiver Support
Otsuka group companies promote various ini- caregiver leave. The company encourages the that would otherwise expire unused. This leave
tiatives enabling employees to remain at work use of these programs and publicizes program can be used if an employee gets sick, and also if
while still fulfilling home care responsibilities. information on the company intranet. This in- the employee needs time off to care for a family
The group programs include caregiver leave, cludes programs available to employees with member. Together with legally mandated nurs-
shorter working hours for caregiving (for up to home care responsibilities and the respective ing care leave, this system provides additional
one year) and caregiver flextime (for up to one program contact information. The company support for employees to balance their work
year). Employees who need to support or pro- also holds regular seminars to raise employee and family responsibilities.
vide home care to a relative are encouraged to awareness and understanding related to bal-
use these programs. ancing work and home care responsibilities,
Otsuka Pharmaceutical offers caregiver leave and to provide employees with valuable infor-
periods that exceed statutory requirements, mation on caregiving.
while Taiho Pharmaceutical is also working to EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical has set up a sys-
enhance its programs, such as paying the so- tem that allows employees to save up to 100
cial insurance premiums for employees on annual paid leave days as accumulated leave
Taiho Pharmaceutical: Acquires Platinum Kurumin certification Otsuka Pharmaceutical: Member of “Ikuboss*”
*Ikuboss means “childcare (ikuji) boss”
Parenting Support
Otsuka group companies in Japan have been employees with flexible work hours, and raise Employees taking parenting leave
accredited with the Kurumin mark,*1 which rec- awareness of childcare issues in male employees
FY2015 FY2016
ognizes enterprises that support raising the through participation in the Ikuboss Project*2.
next generation of children by creating work- At Taiho Pharmaceutical, systems have been Male Female Male Female
place environments that support employees established that exceed the legal requirements O Phts au rmka a ceutical 0 116 5 130
with childcare responsibilities. The group offers for shortened working hours and child sick care Otsuka 0 25 0 34
Pharmaceutical
a parenting leave system, shorter work hours leave. Furthermore, the company promotes in- Factory
for childcare reasons, and a parenting flextime itiatives such as allowing sales employees to Taiho 39 30 57 28
Pharmaceutical*
work program. In addition to maternity leave as drive their preschool children to and from day- Otsuka Chemical 0 1 0 1
prescribed by law, a consultation service has care in their sales vehicles. The company ob- Otsuka Warehouse 0 5 1 2
been set up to help female employees return to tained Platinum Kurumin certification*1 from the Otsuka Foods 0 5 0 7
work after parenting leave. Otsuka also has day- Japanese Minister of Health, Labour and Wel- Total 39 182 63 202
care centers inside some workplaces. fare in January 2017.
* At Taiho Pharmaceutical, male employees are encouraged to use the
Otsuka Pharmaceutical has established sup- program, even for short periods.
port systems which provide expectant female
*1: Under the Kurumin program, the Japanese Minister of Health, *2: A corporate network consisting of the NPO, Fathering Japan,
Labour and Welfare certifies companies that meet certain crite- and member companies. Its aim is to foster awareness in cor-
ria, such as creation of an action plan and achievement of goals porate managers to consider the importance of work-life balance
based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Rais- for themselves as well as their subordinates, and raise awareness
ing Next-Generation Children. Companies that have already among other managers (Ikuboss = “childcare (ikuji) boss”).
received Kurumin certification are eligible for Platinum Kurumin
certification once they have achieved an even higher level of
child-rearing support initiatives.
42Employees Work-Life Balance
Otsuka Pharmaceutical: BeanStalk Kids Center TOKUSHIMA Taiho Pharmaceutical: Sukusuku Nursery in Ibaraki Prefecture
Workplace Childcare
In the Otsuka group companies, Otsuka Phar- emphasizes the nurturing of creativity, and has Percentage of employees taking paid leave
maceutical operates the BeanStalk Kids Centers no manufactured playground equipment. Ini- (including full-time plus contract employees /
Tokushima and Osaka, while Taiho Pharmaceu- tially, the enrollment was set at 100 children, carryover days)
tical operates the Sukusuku Nursery in Ibaraki. which expanded to 150 in 2014, and is in-
FY2015 FY2016
By establishing daycares with flexible services— creasing to 210 children in 2017. The aim is to
Otsuka 63.8% 66.6 %
such as accepting new children each month, continue supporting the varied lifestyles of em- Pharmaceutical
and offering temporary and extended-hour child- ployees while also energizing the organization Otsuka 52.9% 53.8%
Pharmaceutical
care—the Otsuka group helps female employ- by attracting a diversity of employees. Factory
Taiho 69.5% 71.0%
ees advance their careers, and encourages male Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical Pharmaceutical
employees to more actively participate child- Otsuka Chemical 56.6% 67.1%
care. In particular, the BeanStalk Kids Center Otsuka Warehouse 57.1% 61.4 %
Tokushima has been well received by parents Otsuka Foods 53.5% 56.2%
and children. It is managed by Otsuka Pharma-
ceutical and offers a remarkable program that
Otsuka Warehouse: delivery reservation system using smartphones Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: plant tour for employee family members
Initiatives to Prevent Long Work Hours Workplace Tours
As part of efforts to reduce overtime hours, shortened excessive driving hours. Drivers now The Otsuka group conducts workplace tours for
Otsuka Warehouse uses its intranet to post book their delivery times in advance, can un- employee family members that promote family
the name and clock-out time of the last team load upon arrival, and thus have reduced driver understanding of employee work lives. A variety
to leave each night for each floor of the office wait times by 65%. From warehouse receiving of tour programs are provided to create a mem-
building. The result of this effort has raised em- to shipment, logistics is a relay operation involv- orable learning experience, especially for chil-
ployee awareness of their time-use productivity, ing external companies. Otsuka Warehouse will dren. In addition to learning out about Otsuka's
reduced overtime hours in fiscal 2016 by 18% continue to implement various initiatives aimed products, corporate philosophy and history, vis-
from the previous year, and has increased the at improving the way employees function within itors can tour a beverage or pharmaceutical
use of paid time off each year. the supply chain. plant, eat in the employee cafeteria, and experi-
The problem of long working hours has Otsuka Warehouse ence the video conferencing system.
worsened among drivers in the logistics sec- Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory,
Otsuka Warehouse
tor. In 2015, Otsuka Warehouse developed
and introduced a smartphone app as part of
a delivery time reservation system, which has
VOICE In October 2015, I noticed a line of trucks waiting to unload at the logistics center, and
knew it was an opportunity for system development. The cause of the problem was the
Development of a Delivery conventional operating method. Other businesses, such as hairdressers, have improved
Time Reservation System efficiency thanks to the proliferation of smartphones. The reservation system we introduced
is based on the same model. By providing visible unloading and schedule times, we cre-
Toshihiro Murata ated a highly efficient process for truck drivers and our warehouse. Logistics is similar to
Section Chief, Logistics Department passing the baton in a relay race. Otsuka Warehouse acts as the intermediary between
Otsuka Warehouse Co., Ltd. producers and our customers, and we will continue to promote activities that improve this
dynamic relationship.
43Employee Health
As a global healthcare company, the Otsuka group believes that it is important for employees to be
involved in their own health, and the group strives to maintain and enhance employees’ wellbeing.
The group facilitates these goals through physical activity and health education programs.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical: 2017 certified Health and Productivity Taiho Pharmaceutical: TOKYO WORK CIRCLE PROJECT*2
Management Organization (large enterprise category: White 500)
Certification as a Health and Productivity Management Organization Employment Support for Cancer Patients
Otsuka Pharmaceutical believes that each and 2017, top management issued an Otsuka Phar- As a company committed to developing treat-
every Otsuka employee should be able to work maceutical Health Declaration to further pro- ments for cancer, Taiho Pharmaceutical aims to
enthusiastically and be in the best of health. mote employee health improvement activities. create a workplace where employees can con-
The company encourages employees to take In recognition of its diverse efforts to sup- tinue working even during treatment for cancer
charge of their own health. port employee health, Otsuka Pharmaceutical and other diseases. The company provides em-
To promote the maintenance and improvement was recognized in February 2017 as a Certified ployees with the necessary assistance through
of health of everyone, and to organize their work- Health and Productivity Management Organiza- the Cancer Patient Employment Support Team
places, transforming them into worker-friendly tion (large enterprise category: White 500)*1. formed by the Human Resources Department
environments Specifically, employees 30 and Otsuka Pharmaceutical and industrial nursing staff. Additional meas-
older receive free medical checkups, and em- ures include extended leave periods for employ-
ployees and their families have access to health ees with cancer, and a reemployment (return to
seminars and programs augmented by the work) system.
company’s healthcare knowledge. In January Taiho Pharmaceutical
Taiho Pharmaceutical: Lunchtime seminar on cancer screening Otsuka Techno: Automated External Defibrillator course Otsuka Pharmaceutical : POCARI/fresh
Employee Health and Safety POCARI/fresh
Each company in the Otsuka group implements The aim of these efforts is to create more sup- Otsuka Pharmaceutical carries out various
safety measures, consultation services, and di- portive work environments that encourage health education and physical fitness programs
verse health programs to ensure that all em- working women to understand and monitor aimed at raising employee health awareness,
ployees are able to work in a safe environment their health, especially to be mindful of changes and maintaining and promoting health. The
and live a healthy lifestyle. The group offers in hormonal balance. POCARI/fresh exercise program was begun in
health consultation by telephone, and distrib- Taiho Pharmaceutical conducts educational 2007. An instructor visits each office once a
utes health newsletters. It also provides mental activities for employees such as organizing week and leads the employees in an invigor-
health counseling, stress management training, lunchtime seminars on cancer screening, and ating eight-minute workout they perform near
and training for managers on recognizing and distributing related booklets to all employees. their desks.
managing mental health issues in employees. Each group company also provides train- The theme of the workout changes each
Mental and physical health management is ac- ing related to traffic safety and preparation for time, and can include things such as shoulder
tively promoted for employees and their families. emergencies and natural disasters. This helps stretches and brain-stimulation exercises.
Otsuka Holdings holds health seminars for to create environments where employees can Otsuka Pharmaceutical
employees and their families, which draw on work with peace of mind.
knowledge gained from its business activities.
*1: Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition *2: An award program of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government that
Program organized by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Indus- recognizes companies with outstanding initiatives to help employ-
try in Japan and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi (Japan Health Coun- ees with cancer to keep a good balance between treatment and
cil ) that identifies large corporations and small to medium enter- work. Taiho Pharmaceutical received an excellence award in Feb-
prises that are practicing a high level of health and productivity ruary 2016.
management. Five hundred companies expect to be certified by
2020.
44Employees Development of Human Capital
In conducting its business worldwide, the Otsuka group is committed to developing
creative human resources that can break out of the mold and lead our corporate activities
for continued growth and innovation.
Otsuka Holdings: Otsuka Global Academy Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory: Training based on job rank
Human Resources Development Program: Otsuka Global Academy Personal Development
A key component of enhancing corporate value program in 2016 called the Otsuka Global The Otsuka group offers a wide variety of per-
for the Otsuka group is nurturing the next gener- Academy. Its aim is to readily identify and cul- sonal development opportunities aimed at en-
ation of executives. Creative growth depends on tivate human resources that will support vital ergizing the organization through employee
executive managers and overall organizational next-generation development. The academy growth. Personal development opportunities
business management that can respond to launched a Senior Leadership Program and a include: new employee on-the-job training;
evolving needs. Executive management must be Middle Leadership Program the first year, and training based on job rank and job content; vol-
adept at responding to the ever-increasing com- expects that the contents of these two pro- untary study groups to cultivate problem solv-
plexities of business operations as the group ex- grams will progressively expand going forward. ing skills; and language training. Notably, there
pands into new fields. These complexities arise These two programs will also work in conjunc- is a focus on personal development in the area
due to accelerating global expansion, and from tion with other individual human resource devel- of the environment to develop employees who
increased social concerns and responsibilities opment programs that comprise each Otsuka can effectively contribute to environmental and
induced by stakeholders. group company. social activities.
Otsuka Holdings launched a mid- to long-
term executive human resource development
Otsuka Chemical: Hands-on training for rotary valve accident prevention Taiho Pharmaceutical: Personal Career Counseling Office
Safety Training Center Career Planning
Otsuka Chemical has established the Anzen Otsuka group companies provide support for In cooperation with an outside employee as-
Dojo (Safety Training Center) to improve the individual career planning, so that all employees sistance program provider, EN Otsuka Pharma-
safety awareness of employees, including those can enjoy active and rewarding careers. ceutical has created a system where counselors
at affiliates outside Japan and their suppliers. Taiho Pharmaceutical has set up a Personal with specialized training provide career plan-
Through classroom instruction and simulations Career Counseling Office that provides con- ning assistance. The company is supporting
of past accidents, the Anzen Dojo heightens sultation on a wide range of topics from ca- and encouraging its employees to take on new
awareness of safety hazards and sensitivity to reer planning, transfers, and promotions, to job challenges and plan their careers from a long-
danger, boosts safety knowledge, and culti- descriptions, workplace stress, and personal term perspective.
vates the ability to anticipate one step ahead. development. Consultations are provided by ac- Otsuka Electronics has introduced an on-
In recognition of its activities for improvement credited industrial counselors and career con- line self-assessment system where employees
of safety and health education and creation of sultants. The activities of the Personal Career can provide information concerning their career
a culture of safety, Otsuka Chemical received Counseling Office were covered in the journal plans and desired work locations. The company
the Responsible Care Excellence Award from of the Japan Industrial Counselors Association uses this online assessment to try and under-
the Japan Chemical Industry Association in in 2016, which was widely read and received by stand the goals and health conditions of indi-
2014, and the Tokushima Labor Bureau Direc- the larger business community. vidual employees to better provide support for
tor Encouragement Award for Safety Assurance career planning and the futures of employees.
Measures in 2015.
Otsuka Chemical
45Third-Party Opinion
Comments on the Otsuka Group
CSR Report 2016
Value Provided to Society by the Otsuka Group
In my view, the three monuments representing Sozosei Eriko Nashioka
(Creativity) shown on page 11 (Corporate Philosophy) are
Certified Public Accountant and Certified
emblematic of the Otsuka group philosophy. By linking Tax Accountant / President, Institute for
Environmental Management Accounting
efforts to maintain and promote people’s health with its
main business activities, the group is uniquely making a Profile
significant contribution to society. These efforts include Completed a master’s degree in environmental management at the Graduate
activities such as pioneering drug discovery and aware- School of Policy and Management of Doshisha University, and taught at the
Faculty of Commerce of Doshisha University. Joined Showa Ota & Co. (now
ness raising activities to prevent heat disorders. It is clear Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC) and engaged in consulting on environmental
accounting and reporting. Served as a lead researcher for a project on
to me that these activities embody the group’s philosophy
corporations and the environment by the Kansai Research Center of the
and have been well evaluated. Institute for Global Environmental Strategies (IGES), and was a member of the
Committee of Environmental Accounting of the Japanese Institute of Certified
Going forward, by further clarifying the significance of
Public Accountants (JICPA), as well as serving on committees for Japan’s
each and every business activity in terms of systematic Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry.
Joined the management team of the Institute for Environmental Management
CSR management, the group can further enhance its stat-
Accounting in April 2004, and has authored books on environmental
ure in society and generate even greater social goodwill. accounting and environmental reports.
I look forward to seeing an increased social contribu-
tion from the Otsuka group through creative and uncon-
ventional thinking.
Relation between Otsuka Group Materiality and Performance in the Five CSR Areas
the Five CSR Areas
Concerning the five CSR areas, the Otsuka group should
The 2016 report essentially follows the same format as provide various types of information, which include how
the 2015 edition, but with greater detail in the information activities are related to management strategy, explana-
provided. Last year, the materiality selection process was tions of value provided by the Otsuka group, as well as
disclosed for the first time; this year, further explanation of numerical data and indicators for understanding year-to-
the five CSR areas is given. The report begins with a Con- year changes. Since the numerical information in the re-
tents page that provides data related to Otsuka’s mate- port increased significantly compared to last year, it would
riality for each of the five CSR areas. Moreover, I strongly be good to provide more of the above-listed information.
believe the addition of the stakeholder engagement sec- As a global enterprise, the Otsuka group is strongly
tion is a good idea; it specifies the engagement details, as committed to CSR activities, as shown by its signing of
well as the responsibilities and issues concerning the five the United Nations Global Compact.
stakeholder groups. The Otsuka group has established target issues and
Concerning target issues, the selection process and activity directions that conform to international guidelines
evaluation indicators illustrated by the “Process to Iden- and standards, such as Sustainable Development Goals,
tify Materiality” diagram on page 8 need to be clearly indi- ISO 26000, and GRI guidelines. Therefore, the group
cated. The stakeholder engagement items, as well as the needs to widely disseminate information on how its activi-
content on the introductory pages for each area, including ties are specifically responding to these target issues, and
content details, should also be presented systematically. the value the group contributes to society.
These modifications would make it easier to understand
the significance of each issue, what changed from the
previous year, the status of activities, and the extent of
progress made.
46Otsuka Group Consolidated CSR Site
This report is also available online.
http://otsuka.csrportal.jp/en
We welcome your feedback by email. Please do not hesitate to provide us with your
feedback or impressions of this report, including requests about the initiatives of the
Otsuka group.
Email: hd-pr@otsuka.jp
Head Office: 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi,
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0048, Japan
Tokyo Headquarters: Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Konan,
Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan
Publication date of this report: July 2017
Contact information
PR Department, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Tel : +81 (0)3-6717-1410 (switchboard) Fax : +81 (0)3-6717-1409