• Otsuka
Otsuka Group
Sustainability Report 2022Sustainability Report 2022
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Our Approach to Sustainability 1
Message from the Director in Charge of Sustainability 2
Approach to Sustainability 5
Materiality 6
Stakeholder Engagement 9
Initiatives and Commitments 11
Sustainability Management Structure 15
External Recognition 16
Society 19
Health 20
Pharmaceuticals 21
Access to Treatment: Fight against Tuberculosis -
An Ancient Disease with a Contemporary Face 28
Nutraceuticals 35
A 40-Year History and
the Future of POCARI SWEAT 37
Otsuka Health Comic Library 42
Support in Disasters and Emergencies 43
People 44
Human Resource Development 45
Diversity & Inclusion 49
Health and Productivity Management 56
Occupational Health and Safety 63
Fair Employment and Working Conditions 67
Human Rights Initiatives 69Sustainability Report 2022
Quality in All We Do 77
Research and Development 79
Procurement 82
Production 87
Quality Control and Patient/Customer Safety 90
Logistics 98
Sales and Marketing 102
Customer Service 106
Governance 116
Corporate Governance 117
Governance Structure 119
Remuneration for Directors and
Audit & Supervisory Board 127
Compliance 132
Approach to Compliance 133
Tax Policy 137
Risk Management 139
Contribution to Communities 143
Sustainability Data 150
ESG control chart 155
GRI Content Index 159Sustainability Report 2022
Environmental Report 2021
Corporate Profile
Message from the Director in Charge
Policy and Management
Carbon Neutrality
Circular Economy
Water Neutrality
Biodiversity
Management of Chemical Substances
Supply Chains
Engagement
Environmental Data and Third-Party VerificationSustainability Report 2022
■Content
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. publishes an integrated report and an environmental
report each year to provide stakeholders with a better understanding of the Otsuka
group’s efforts as a global healthcare enterprise seeking to become an
indispensable contributor to people’s health. Meanwhile, the company provides
more detailed updates on sustainability via its website. In 2022, however, the
company decided to enhance transparency even further by publishing a
sustainability report in PDF format on its website, and that report will be available in
the archives there as well, going forward. This report is a PDF version of the
sustainability information posted on the Otsuka Holdings website and is current as
of September 2023. Please check the website for the most up-to-date information.
■Reporting Period
Fiscal 2022 (January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022); Note that certain information
from January 2023 onward is also included.
■Scope of Reporting
In principle, this report covers Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries.
Where the scope of activities or data is narrower, details are noted.
■Precautions Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This integrated report summarizes the operating and financial results of the Otsuka
group (Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries) for fiscal 2022 (January 1,
2022 to December 31, 2022). The report contains forward-looking statements and
forecast pertaining to plans, projections, strategies, and performance for the Otsuka
group of companies. These statements are based upon current analysis and beliefs
in light of the information available on the issuing date of the report. Actual results
may therefore differ due to the risks and uncertainties that may affect Otsuka group
operations.
■Medical Information
In this integrated report, for the sake of readability a unified brand name is used
when a product has different brand names in different countries or regions.
Therefore, these products may not be available in all countries, or may be available
under different brand names, for different indications, in different dosages and
strengths. Please note that the information regarding pharmaceutical products
(including products under development) is not intended for advertising or
promotional purposes, or as medical advice.Our Approach to Sustainability
HOME Sustainability Our Approach to Sustainability
Guided by its corporate philosophy, the Otsuka group strives to address social issues.
I
Corporate Philosophy
Otsuka-people creating new products
for better health worldwide
I
Otsuka's Goal
To become an indispensable contributor
to people's health worldwide
I
Sustainability Mission
Address social issues such as the evolution toward a healthier and more sustainable society, while simultaneously achieving
growth. These activities are all supported by a comprehensive governance system.
Contribution to a More Sustainable Society
a
Otsuka's business is fully synchronized with our efforts to address social issues
Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide
~ Society (Healthier Society) ~\4;;Jteit.d ) Environment (Healthier Planet)
P.M Health People Quality ,n all we do Carbon Neutrality Circular Economy
Water Neutrality
~ Governance
Id,!I d Corporate governance Compliance Risk management
1Message from the Director in Charge of Sustainability
HOME Sustainability Our Approach to Sustainability Message from the Director in Charge of Sustainability
We are making cohesive,
group-wide efforts to help
realize a sustainable society.
~~
Yoshiro Matsuo
Executive Deputy President and Director
1n charge of Otsuka group sustainability
promotion
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
I
Resolving Social Issues through Our Business
The Otsuka group of companies, in accordance with its corporate philosophy, "Otsuka-people creating new products for
better health worldwide;• seeks to be an indispensable contributor to people's health worldwide through a wide range of
innovative and creative products including pharmaceuticals, functional beverages, and foods. We believe that by making our
philosophy a reality we will effectively achieve sustainability.
As such, our basic stance is to grow sustainably and help resolve social issues through our business, in accordance with that
philosophy.
In 2019, when we unveiled the Third Medium-Term Management Plan, we also announced our Sustainability Mission and
Materiality (the initiatives that Otsuka is focused on) to further clarify the group's commitment to sustainable growth. The
material issues were selected with consideration of social issues and based on the characteristics and strengths of the Otsuka
group in conducting broad-ranging businesses, and we are working together to achieve the goals we have set for each
material issue.
2I
In Search of Solutions for Unmet Needs
One of the Otsuka group's important missions is to contribute to the resolution of unmet needs. We work every day to help in
the prevention and treatment of illness around the world, and to maintain and improve peoples' health. Daunting challenges
remain, including the threat of prolonged pandemics, insufficient medical infrastructure, lack of effective treatments for some
conditions, and undernutrition. We approach these issues by considering what only Otsuka can do and setting about
addressing the related unmet medical needs.
For example, in the Pharmaceutical Business, we seek to eradicate tuberculosis-one of the "big three" infectious diseases.
Tuberculosis is a serious public health challenge, and like COVI D-19, accounts for a high number of deaths every year. In fact,
tuberculosis kills 1.5 million people annually, 1.2 and is particularly prevalent in the developing world. We continue to work
with various partners around the world to deliver drugs and address the disparity in access to medicines due to economic
factors.
In the Nutraceutical Business, we develop innovative science-based products that leverage the know-how that the
Pharmaceutical Business has accumulated over many years, and conduct ongoing health education programs aimed at
tackling challenges involved in access to nutrition.
1: Global Tuberculosis Report 2021, World Health Organization
2: WHO Coronavirus (COVID-19) Dashboard. World Health Organization
I
People and Quality in All We Do Are Essential for Sustained Corporate Growth
Nurturing successive generations of talent is essential for the sustainable growth of a company. At the Otsuka group, we
know that the diversity of our people is key to innovation, globalization, and the development of revolutionary products. That
is why we always seek to hire a broad range of people, encourage effective personnel exchanges within the group, and
conduct training that further invigorates and develops our workforce. The Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics, a
code of conduct for business activities in global markets, includes topics on human rights and diversity. Furthermore, we are
signatories to the United Nations Global Compact (as of 2016), which stipulates ten principles on human rights, labor, the
environment, and anti-corruption, as well as to the Women's Empowerment Principles (as of 2017), thus further underlining
our commitment to social responsibility. In addition, we released the Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy in 2021, and are
engaged in group-wide initiatives to ensure respect for human rights.
Commitment to quality has been an important part of the Otsuka spirit since the company's inception. "Quality in all we do"
signifies not only our product quality, but quality at all stages of the value chain, from R&D and production through to
distribution and accountability to customers, as well as quality in management. We will continue with our group-wide efforts
to achieve higher levels of quality.
I
Our 2050 Environmental Vision, "Net Zero"
The Otsuka group aims to help resolve social issues through its business activities. In 2021, amid the increasing seriousness of
climate change and various other environmental issues, we adopted the 2050 Environmental Vision, "Net Zero;' which calls
for us to reduce the total environmental impacts of our business activities to zero. Under this vision, we identified three
environmental material issues: carbon neutrality, circular economy, and water neutrality, set new medium-term targets that
include reducing 50% in CO emissions compared to 2017 levels by 2028; and raised the target of the Otsuka Group Plastic
2
Policy to 100% use of recycled and plant-derived raw materials in our PET bottles by 2030. The group will work as one to
achieve its 2050 Environmental Vision, "Net Zero;· by pursuing unique initiatives to realize a sustainable society that can be
passed on to future generations.
3I
Further Strengthening Group Corporate Governance
For the Otsuka group to remain relevant to all stakeholders, a strong governance structure is necessary. Based on realizing its
corporate philosophy, Otsuka Holdings is committed to maximizing corporate value sustainably over the medium to long
term. To meet this commitment, its basic policy is to make transparent, fair, and timely decisions, and to fulfil its corporate
social responsibility by living up to the expectations of all stakeholders and engaging in ongoing dialogue. Governance has
been a key focus since the establishment of Otsuka Holdings. We continue working to strengthen governance, as illustrated
by the introduction of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) in July 2020.
I
Sustainability Management Structure
We believe that sustainability initiatives are an integral part of our business and should be undertaken by each and every
employee. To this end, the Otsuka group has established the Otsuka Group Sustainability Promotion Committee.
The committee was formed in 2018 to discuss and determine the direction and plans for the group's sustainability efforts.
Committee members comprise managers of departments related to sustainability-relevant areas such as the supply chain, the
environment, human resources, general affairs, compliance and risk management, public relations, and, from 2021,
production and quality.
For those in charge of the supply chain, the environment, human rights, and other relevant areas, the committee provides a
forum for sharing their initiatives and progress on sustainability issues. Amid rapid day-to-day change in the external
environment and societal demands related to sustainability, opportunities to participate in lectures and discussions by
outside experts on the latest trends are also provided.
We at the Otsuka group are committed to growing sustainably in accordance with our corporate philosophy and resolving
social issues through our business.
4Approach to Sustainability
HOME Sustainability Our Approach to Sustainability Approach to Sustainability
I
The Otsuka Group's Approach to Sustainability
Guided by its corporate philosophy, the Otsuka group works to solve social issues through its businesses and aims to grow
while contributing to the creation of a healthy and sustainable society. We define "business activities," "social contribution
related to business activities;' and "foundational activities" as three core areas to achieve sustainability, and are proactively
advancing these initiatives.
Contribution to a More Sustainable Society
Examples of Our Activities
• Promotion of R&D for unmet needs • Support and awareness activities for
people's health maintenance/
• R&D of antituberculosis drugs and improvement mainly on exercise and
improvement of drug access nutrition etc.
• Sustainable procurement and product • Promotion of problem solving by
design , .
strengthening partnerships
• Thorough quality control and stable supply
• Reduce CO emissions throughout the
2
value chain
Business
Activities • Responsible promotional activities and • Reduce environmental impact by improving
information provision • .
resource efficiency
• Deepening communication with
§Md-JifM-1\i • Promotion of business activities aimed at a
Activities stakeholders sustainable state in both society and the
for • Promotion of •customer-centric earth
fMhf-iif@-ffj
Achieving managementH • Understanding water resource risk
Sustain • Management and effective use of water
resources
ability
Social B
• Activities to explain the importance of • Dietary education app SketchCook
Contribution
hydrationm:111
Related to • SATU HAll ("One Heart") programs•
Business • Otsuka Health Comic Library m:111 Bllml
Activities
IZ!I
• Human resource development • Strengthening corporate governance
IZ!I l+ii·l::1·:lh
• Diversity promotion
Foundational H::/ :ii•
IZ!I • Thorough compliance;+,
Activities • Health management
• Risk identification, evaluation and
;+;:B,,i·,;;;
management
To give back to the local community in Indonesia, POCARI SWEAT manufacturer and distributor P.T. Amerta lndah Otsuka has implemented a social action program
based on three core pillars: SATU HATI Cerdaskan Bangsa ("One Heart for Education"), SATU HATI Peduli Lingkungan ("One Heart for Environment"), and SATU
HATI Sehatkan Bangsa ("One Heart for Health").
5Materiality
HOME Sustainability Our Approach to Sustainability Materiality
I
Process for Determining Materiality (Material Issues)
Materiality is initiatives that Otsuka is focused on. To determine the Otsuka group's material issues, we first compiled a list of
social issues, referencing a range of international guidelines and frameworks, including ISO 26000, GRI, and the U.N. SDGs.
We narrowed down the list of issues by evaluating them in terms of their importance, taking into account our ability to
contribute to a solution, their impact on business, and our strengths. Issues were then discussed by the Sustainability
Promotion Committee1 and approved at the Otsuka Holdings Board of Directors meeting. As a result, the material issues of
the Otsuka group were determined to be: society(health, people, quality in all we do), environment( Carbon Neutrality,
Circular Economy, Water Neutrality), and governance.
*1 The Sustainability Promotion Committee promotes sustainability throughout the Otsuka group. The committee's responsibilities include discussing and deciding
on the direction and plans for sustainability activities. The Otsuka Holdings director in charge of sustainability promotion serves as the committee chair.
Committee members comprise group managers of departments relating to sustainability and the sustainability officers of each company.
'
Identification of social issues with reference to respective international guidelines
' Assessment of social issues that our business activities
can contribute to solving and their importance
' Determination of material issues by the Sustainability Promotion Committee from
the viewpoint of their impact on both society and the Otsuka group
■ Approval at the Otsuka Holdings Board of Directors meeting
6Map of Social Issues
We compiled a list of the social issues relevant to the Otsuka group's businesses, and created a map of social issues
considering their importance in terms of sustainability and their degree of impact on business activities.
High 3.00
Increasing aging issues
2.50
-~
15
"'
C 2.00
~ Consumption and production
.~.. that impairs sustainability
0
'E Environmental
"' 1.50 load incn,ase Fragile
~ governance system
..c
·j Presenteeism'
~
C 1.00
~
a0 .
_§
0.50
0
0 0.50 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00
Degree of impact on business activities High
*2 The situation where productivity does not go up due to the poor condition of the mind and body despite coming to work
I
The Otsuka Group's Materiality (Material Issues) and
Related SDGs
7Materiality Social Issues Our Goals Our Activities Related SDGs
. .
Society Contribute to Promotion of R&D for unmet
(Healthier • Unmet medical unmet needs needs
Society) solutions
and health needs • R&D of antituberculosis drugs
• • Eradication of and improvement of drug access l!I ■
Spread of
infectious tuberculosis • Support and awareness activities
Health diseases • Creation of a for people's health
• Nutritional needs system for the maintenance/improvement m ■ •••
realization of mainly on exercise and nutrition
• Increasing aging healthy lifestyles etc.
issues • •
Healthy life Promotion of problem solving by
extension strengthening partnerships
• Creation of a
• Presenteeism corporate culture • Human resource development ■ II
that stimulates • Diversity promotion
People • Unprepared for creativity
diversification • • Health and productivity It ■
Enhance employee management
engagement
+ I
• Sustainable procurement and
• Gaining product design
stakeholder trust •
Thorough quality control and
• Pursuing stable supply
• Consumption and sustainability at all • Responsible promotional l' . I
Quality in All production that levels of the value
activities and information
We Do impairs chain
provision
sustainability •
Establishing a • Deepening communication with
quality assurance
stakeholders
system for safety
and security • Promotion of "consumer-oriented
management"
+
Environment • 2028 targets :
(Healthier Carbon • Global warming Reduce 50% in • Reduce CO 2 emissions
Planet) Neutrality* 1 CO2 emissions throughout the value chain
compared to 2017
• 2028 targets :
Reduce 50% in
simple incineration
and landfill • Reduce environmental impact by
disposal compared improving resource efficiency
Circular • Environmental to2019 1111
Economy*2 load increase • Promotion of business activities
• 2030 targets : aimed at sustainability for both
100% content of society and the earth
recycled and plant-
■ m
based materials in
our PET bottles
+ t- 1111
•
2028 targets:
Expand the plant
water
management
•
program to all Understanding water resources
• Reducing locations globally risk
Water
freshwater
Neutrality* 3 availability • 2028 targets: • Management and effective use of
Develop a water water resources
use strategy for l
business locations
in water-stressed
areas
•
Governance Strengthening corporate
•
Fragile governance II
governance • Long-term '
system improvement of • Thorough compliance
corporate value
• Social change risk • Risk identification, evaluation and
management
*
1 Sustainable energy use, %:2 Sustainable use of raw materials, %: 3 Sustainable use of water resources
8Stakeholder Engagement
HOME Sustainability Our Approach to Sustainability Stakeholder Engagement
The Otsuka group has been, and continues to be, supported by many stakeholders, including consumers, patients, healthcare
professionals, business collaborators, and local communities.
Based on the understanding that collaboration with stakeholders is essential to fulfilling our corporate social responsibility,
we aim to build relationships of trust with our stakeholders by enhancing various channels of communication.
Stakeholders Approach Main Responsibilities and Issues
• Providing information on pharmaceutical products through • R&D of products that address unmet medical
medical representatives and collecting safety information needs
Patients, Consumers, • Conducting awareness-raising activities related to health Support for disease prevention, treatment,
and Healthcare health maintenance while helping to extend
Professionals • Paying attention to and acting on customer feedback healthy lifespans and quality of life (QOL)
• Holding seminars for healthcare professionals and events to
support patient associations
• Conducting human resource development programs and Development of human resources
training sessions [:
Respect for diversity
• Implementing a self-assessment system
Employees • Work-life balance initiatives
• Conducting human resource interviews, questionnaires, etc.
• Childcare and nursing care support
• Operating helplines for whistleblowing and harassment
• Occupational safety and health
complaints, etc.
• Holding company information sessions, facility tours, and • Quality assurance and stable product supply
factory visits
• Better provision of product information
• Meeting and exchanging opinions with partners
• Consideration for human rights, environmental,
• Collaborating with suppliers to implement social sustainability social, and other issues throughout the supply
Collaborators
measures chain
• Conducting joint R&D of products, technologies, and systems • Fair and honest business dealings
and cooperation through co-promotion and co-marketing
• Sustainable growth and development with
collaborators
• Drawing up and disclosing medium-term management plans • Sustainable growth and improvement of
corporate value
• Engaging in investor relations activities, such as regular
company information sessions for analysts and institutional • Returns on dividends
Investors and
investors
Shareholders • Timely and appropriate information disclosure
• Expanding information disclosure in English for international
• Measures to attract socially responsible
institutional investors and holding shareholder meetings that
investment
are easy to understand for individual shareholders
• Operating factories in harmony with the environment and the • Environmental conservation
community
• Contribution to local communities
• Developing and launching eco-friendly products
Local Communities and • Support for the next generation
Society • Interacting and collaborating with local communities
• Engaging in disaster relief
• Conducting educational support activities
9Examples of Engagement
Reflecting Stakeholders' Views in Company Activities
Customer-facing departments of Otsuka group companies receive a broad variety of feedback from patients, healthcare
professionals, and consumers, and we make sure that feedback is shared appropriately with the relevant departments. We
also strive to share this feedback throughout the value chain with the right executives and departments, so that it can be
properly reflected in our company activities.
Value Chain Communication with Stakeholders
The cross-group Otsuka Sustainable Procurement
Procurement Task Force communicates closely with suppliers to
promote sustainable procurement.
.. Otsuka Pharmaceutical's Tokushima ltano Facto,y
. ·., .. and Human Resource Development Institute, and
Production
~- Otsuka Foods' Tokushima Facto,y hold onl1ne
factory tours as part of community outreach.
Quality In addition to collecting feedback through the
Control and Consumer-Relations Office, Otsuka
Patient/ Pharmaceutical collects and analyzes consumer
i
Customer comments from social media, and incorporates
- Safety these comments in product improvements.
.
. . . O grt os uu pk 'a s W loga ir se th ico su os pe, e rw ath ii oc nh s ,h a hn od ldle s s m th ee e tO int gs su k wa i th
transport partners as necessary to share policies
Logistics
and initiatives, and also engages in mutual
~-~ employee exchanges aimed at promotong d1g1tal
transformation and operational improvements.
Swift dissemination of informabon using online
Sales and tools enabled us to provide information about
Marketing pharmaceuticals and nutritional products without
compromising strict COVI0-19 countermeasures.
10Initiatives and Commitments
HOME About Our Group Initiatives and Commitments
I
Key Initiatives and Organizations
In support of
WOMEN'S
EMPOWERMENT
PRINCIPLES
Established by UN Women and the
UN Global Compact Office
Read more - close Read more - close
The United Nations Global Compact The Women's Empowerment
(UNGC) is a voluntary initiative in Principles (WEPs) are a set of
which signatory companies and voluntary principles offering guidance
organizations commit to a global for corporate practices to promote
framework embodying 10 principles equality and women's empowerment.
on the protection of human rights, Otsuka Holdings became a signatory
humane and non-discriminatory to the WEPs in 2017.
labour practices, environmentally
sound practices, and prevention of
corruption. Otsuka Holdings became a
signatory to the UNGC in 2016.
11Tc RE100
Fi) TASK FORCE
CLIMATE-RELATED
I FINANCIAL °CLIMATE GROUP I ~CDP
DISCLOSURES
Read more - close Read more - close
The Task Force on Climate-related The international RE100 initiative
Financial Disclosure (TCFD) created asks companies to commit to using
by the Financial Stability Board 100% renewable energy in their
encourages recognition and disclosure business activities. The Otsuka group
of climate-related financial risks and joined the initiative n 2022.
opportunities. In 2017, the TCFD
released climate-related financial
disclosure recommendations to help
companies provide better information
for informed capital allocation. The
Otsuka group announced its support
for recommendations issued by the
TCFD in 2021.
JAPAN
CLIMATE
INITIATIVE
Read more - close
The Japan Climate Initiative is a
network of companies, local
governments, NGOs, and other groups
engaged in climate action that work to
strengthen information distribution
and exchange opinions on this
important topic.
Also, to work for the development of the various group industries and to solve common issues, Otsuka group companies are
affiliated with several organizations such as the Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, The Intravenous Solutions
Society, and the Japan Soft Drink Association.
12I
Commitment
Declaration on Health
The major Otsuka group companies have issued a declaration on health to advance a variety of initiatives related to employee
health. The goal is to create comfortable workplace environments where each and every employee can enjoy physical and
mental health.
Declaration of Consumer-oriented Commitment
The Otsuka group established its Declaration of Consumer-oriented Commitment to further promote business activities
focused on customers.
Otsuka Group Procurement Policy
With the goal of achieving mutually sustainable development through fair, equitable, and transparent procurement and the
establishment of healthy relationships, we have formulated and share with our business collaborators the Otsuka Group
Procurement Policy.
We have also formulated the Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines that expand on the Otsuka Group
Procurement Policy in more practical detail, which makes them more directly applicable to our business collaborators.
Otsuka Group Intellectual Property Statement
The statement outlines Otsuka group's basic policy in regard to intellectual property.
Otsuka Group Environmental Policy
The Otsuka group established the Otsuka Group Environmental Policy to ensure that its business activities take the global
environment into account throughout the value chain.
Otsuka Group Plastic Policy
The Otsuka group formulated the Otsuka Group Plastic Policy as an initiative to help resolve the issue of plastic waste and
contribute to the sustainable recycling of resources. 13Support Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosure (TCFD)
The Otsuka group is actively engaged in analysis of climate-related business risks and opportunities and development of
appropriate responses.
Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy
The Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy embodies and reiterates our steadfast commitment to conducting business
with integrity and in compliance with all relevant anti-corruption laws. This Policy outlines how to prevent, detect and deter
violations of anti-corruption laws.
Otsuka Group Global Conflict of Interest Policy
The Otsuka group considers conflicts of interest between the company and individual employees to be relevant to
organizational integrity, and that addressing such conflicts is of particular importance for the group's future growth. Based on
that thinking, the Otsuka group established this policy, and is working to promote it globally.
Otsuka Group Global Privacy Policy
In recent years, numerous countries have been establishing privacy protection laws, such as the EU's General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR) enacted in May 2018. The Otsuka group is also working to strengthen privacy protection. In addition to
formulating the Otsuka Group Global Privacy Policy to define our stance and guiding principles on privacy protection, we
establish related rules and review management systems in accordance with the laws and regulations related to privacy
protection in each country.
Otsuka Group Global Speak-Up Policy
The Otsuka group has established the Otsuka Group Global Speak-Up Policy with the aim of clarifying the basic principles of
the internal reporting system and enhancing its effectiveness so that employees can speak up when they become aware of
fraud, inappropriate behavior, or any other action that goes against the group's values, policies or processes, or any other
suspect behavior.
14Sustainability Management Structure
HOME Sustainability Our Approach to Sustainability Sustainability Management Structure
The Otsuka Group Sustainability Promotion Committee was established in 2018 and is chaired by the director in charge of
sustainability promotion at Otsuka Holdings. The committee promotes sustainability for the entire Otsuka Group, acting as
an engine for discussions and decision-making regarding the direction of sustainability-related activities, plans, and other
measures. Committee meetings are held regularly to discuss direction and evaluate activities, develop systems in each area of
sustainability promotion, and update promotion plans, as necessary. Committee members comprise group officers in charge
of areas relating to sustainability, such as supply chain, environment, human resources, corporate governance, compliance risk
management, and public relations, with the Sustainability Promotion, IR and Corporate Planning Departments of Otsuka
Holdings functioning as the secretariat.
■ Sustainability Management Structure
Otsuka Holdlngs Board of Otsuka Group Sus1alnablllty Promo11on Leader
Directors (Otsuka Holdings Exetutlve Deputy President)
Approval t l t
Proposal Appfoval Promot,on
Group Companies' Executive
Otsuka Group Sustainability Promotion Committee
In Charge of Sus1ainability
t
Promotion
Examination In
Promotion Report Promotion
eath area'
t
Promotion
Group Companies and Divisions
1. Activities are promoted through various conference bodies, WGs, TFs, and others (including time-limited PJ)
2. £onsumer .!!elations. Activities to build trust between companies and consumers
15External Recognition
HOME Sustainability Our Approach to Sustainability External Recognition
I
Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Indices
MSCI Japan Empowering Women (WIN) Select Index
An index developed by MSCI of the U.S. Companies are selected based on their promotion of women's empowerment and
high scores for gender diversity, from among companies in the MSCI Japan IMI Top 500 Index. Otsuka Holdings has been
included since 2018.
FTSE Blossom Japan Sector Relative Index
An index constructed by global index provider FTSE Russell is designed to be sector-neutral, reflecting the performance of
Japanese companies with relatively superior environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices. Otsuka Holdings has
been included since 2022.
S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index
An index for ESG investment drawn from TOP IX-listed stocks, with portfolio weight determined by the disclosure status of
environmental data and level of carbon efficiency (carbon emissions per unit of revenue). Japan's Government Pension
Investment Fund (GPIF)-one of the world's largest pension funds-has selected this index for investment. Otsuka Holdings
has been included since 2018.
I
External Recognition
CDP
An international NGO based in the U.K. that works on climate change and other environmental issues. It asks the world's
major companies and cities to disclose information on how they address issues such as climate change and water
management, and conducts surveys and evaluations. In 2022, Otsuka Holdings received an evaluation of A for climate change,
and B for water resources.
16Nadeshiko Brand
9 NADE
A selection jointly determined by Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry
ee SHI; ~
and the Tokyo Stock Exchange of listed companies with an outstanding record in
empowering women in the workplace. Otsuka Holdings was selected as a Semi eee KO~ ~
Nadeshiko Brand in 2019 and as a Nadeshiko Brand in 2020 and 2023:
* Scope of survey: Otsuka Holdings and Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Platinum Kurumin and Kurumin
A certification system based on Japan's Act on Advancement of Measures to Support
Raising Next-Generation Children, operated by the Ministry of Health, Labour and
Welfare. Platinum Ku rum in is a certification for Kurumin-certified companies that
have carried out higher-level initiatives. Among group companies, Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical and Otsuka Chemical are certified as
Platinum Kurumin, and Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Foods and Otsuka
Warehouse are certified as Ku rum in.
Eruboshi
A certification system based on Japan's Act on Promotion of Women's Participation
and Advancement in the Workplace, under which the Ministry of Health, Labour and
Welfare certifies companies that meet certain criteria and are recognized for
excellence in empowering women in the workplace. Among group companies, Otsuka
Chemical is certified as Eruboshi (Level 3).
MON ISU Certification
The Monisu Certification System is a system in which the Minister of Health, Labour
and Welfare certifies small-and medium-sized enterprises that excel in their efforts
to hire more people with disabilities and provide them with stable employment.
Among group companies, Heartful Kawauchi was certified in 2020, as one of the first
companies to be certified under the program.
Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organization
A program, led by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi, that examines organizations such as large corporations as well as small-and
medium-sized enterprises working to overcome health-related challenges in local communities or to promote health
conscious activities. The program recognizes organizations that make outstanding efforts in health and productivity
management. Among group companies, Otsuka Pharmaceutical and Taiho Pharmaceutical were certified as among the "White
17
500" enterprises.Sports Yell Company
Program recognizing companies that actively support and promote measures to improve employees' health through
sports. (Japan Sports Agency) Otsuka Pharmaceutical and Tai ho Pharmaceutical were selected as a Sports Yell Company
in 2023.
Tokyo Metropolitan Government Sports Promotion Model
Company(Practical Division)
The Tokyo Metropolitan Government Sports Promotion Company certification
program recognizes companies that implement quality initiatives to encourage and
support employee participation in sports. Otsuka Pharmaceutical was selected as a
Tokyo Metropolitan Government Sports Promotion Model Company (Practical
Division) in 2021.
I◄ Back to TOC
18Society
HOME Sustainability Society
I
Policy
Seek to resolve global health issues from a total healthcare perspective.
Do away with deep-seated preconceptions and promote the development of creative human resources.
Pursue product quality and reliability from the viewpoint of consumers.
Otsuka Group's Materiality and Related SDGs
Materiality Social Issues Our Goals Our Activities Related SDGs
•
Society Contribute to
•
(Healthier unmet needs Promotion of R&D for unmet needs
Society) • Unmet medical and solutions
• R&D of antituberculosis drugs and
health needs
• Eradication of improvement of drug access R ■
• Spread of tuberculosis
• Support and awareness activities for
infectious diseases
Health • Creation of a people's health
• Nutritional needs system for the maintenance/improvement mainly on m ■....
realization of exercise and nutrition etc.
• Increasing aging
healthy lifestyles •
issues Promotion of problem solving by
•
Healthy life strengthening partnerships
extension
• •
t- +
• Creation of a
• Presenteeism corporate culture • Human resource development
that stimulates
People • Unprepared for creativity • Diversity promotion .
diversification • Enhance employee • Health and productivity management II ■
engagement
~
• Sustainable procurement and product
• Gaining
design
stakeholder trust
• Pursuing • Thorough quality control and stable •
supply
• Consumption and sustainability at all
Quality •
production that levels of the value Responsible promotional activities '
inAIIWe
impairs chain and information provision
Do
sustainability
• Establishing a • Deepening communication with I
quality assurance stakeholders
system for safety
• Promotion of "consumer-oriented
and security
management"
Absenteeism is a phenomenon where employees are absent from work frequently due to illness or poor health, or without permission. The term
"presenteeism" was coined by combining "absenteeism" with the word "present." For a long time, the lost productivity due to absenteeism has
traditionally been regarded as a problem in corporate labor management. Recently, however, it has been found that presenteeism, in which an employee
is physically present but cannot concentrate fully on work, causes greater loss for the organization as a whole.
19Health
HOME Sustainability Society Health
Under its corporate philosophy "Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide," the Otsuka group
actively works to solve social issues through its businesses. The desire to be healthy is universal. Every day, the Otsuka group
carries out activities to prevent and treat diseases and to contribute to the maintenance and improvement of people's health
worldwide. The world continues to face a host of healthcare issues, such as the spread of infectious diseases, inadequate
medical care facilities, and lack of effective therapies.
In aiming to solve these issues, we constantly ask ourselves if it is something that only Otsuka can do, and work to find
solutions for unmet medical needs that the majority of other companies have yet to address.
Moreover, issues such as medical cost inflation mean that maintaining and improving health is now an issue that society as a
whole, not just individuals, must face head on. In addition to undertaking initiatives that raise awareness of health among
individuals, the Otsuka group contributes to initiatives for maintaining and improving health in society at large, including
through collaboration with local communities.
20Pharmaceuticals
HOME Sustainability Society Health Pharmaceuticals
I
The Challenge of Addressing Unmet Medical Needs
Psychiatry and Neurology
Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has defined psychiatric disorders as one of the five major disease areas. The
rising number of patients with such disorders poses a pressing global issue. However, while the list of psychiatric and
neurological diseases is long, including schizophrenia, depression, bipolar disorder, and Alzheimer's, R&D in this area is
challenging, and the underlying causes of these diseases have yet to be precisely elucidated. In recent years, there has been a
particularly sharp rise in patients with depression or dementia. Satisfaction with current treatment methods is low, and
patients and their families are in immediate need of new therapeutics. Psychiatry and neurology is a key focus area in which
the Otsuka group has been making headway, namely with the development of antipsychotic drugs REXULTI and ABILIFY
MAINTENA, as well as Selincro, a drug that helps in the reduction of alcohol consumption in patients with alcohol
dependency. We are also proactively developing therapeutic drugs for diseases with no effective medicines. Behavioral
disorders (agitation) associated with Alzheimer's disease are an issue of particular social concern. It is thought that a large
number of Alzheimer's patients exhibit some form of agitation, such as excessive motor activity, and verbal or physical
aggression. This kind of disorder places a burden on patients and caregivers, impacting quality of life. Moreover, agitation is
associated with an increased likelihood of having to move into nursing facilities and the progression of dementia, so the
Otsuka group is working to develop effective treatments.
Oncology
As medical science advances, year by year progress is being made in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer, which is the
number one cause of death in Japan. Nevertheless, there are still many forms of cancer that lack effective treatments and
from which it is difficult to make a complete recovery. The oncology area, where there are still many unmet medical needs, is
another of the Otsuka group's key focus areas. This stems from our track record since the 1970s as a pioneer in developing
oral anti-cancer agents, which at that time were not widely used anywhere in the world. In addition to conventional
chemotherapy and molecular targeting drugs used to treat specific organs, we are taking on challenges in the new fields of
gene therapy and cell therapy in order to keep pace with the shift toward genomic medicine and personalized medicine
tailored to the characteristics of the cancer in each individual patient. Going forward, we will continue to advance our R&D to
deliver innovative therapeutic drugs to patients with greater speed.
21Infectious Diseases
Tuberculosis is one of the world's three major infectious diseases, the others ■ DELTYBA: Supply route via StopTB/GDF
Wholly owned
being Al DS and malaria.It is an infectious disease with a high number of subsidiary of Otsuka
Pharmaceutical
deaths as well as COVID-19.lt has also been designated as a disease to be
/·
eradicated by 2030 as part of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
• ~-Oprrdoegrrfarmoms •
Each year, tuberculosis affects more than 9.9 million people and causes 1.5 /
• '
million deaths worldwide. Furthermore, according to a modelling analysis by
Ill
GDF's supply agency
the Stop TB Partnership, the tuberculosis mortality rate has increased ! Order from
programs
because of reduced diagnosis and reporting due to lockdowns and other Delivery
Government agencies and relevant
movement restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic, and is becoming NGOs in countries earmarked for
support fro!m g lobal funds
a significant problem. After more than 30 years of research and Delivery
development, Otsuka Pharmaceutical successfully created DELTYBA, a new Medical institution/patient
tuberculosis drug. It is one of the world's first new tuberculosis drugs in
nearly 40 years, and is recommended in WHO's treatment guidelines. Given
the current situation, in which DELTYBA needs to be made available as
quickly as possible as a new option for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis,
Otsuka Pharmaceutical entered into a public-private partnership with Stop
TB Partnership's Global Drug Facility (GDF) in 2016. We have obtained
regulatory approval in various countries, and as a result of increased access
through alliance partners and through access programs operated by
governments and public international organizations, the use of DELTYBA is
now being promoted in more than 120 countries and regions as of
December 2021.
In addition, the Otsuka group is conducting research and development of a
new multidrug-resistant tuberculosis agent (development code: OPC-
167832), and will continue working toward the eradication of tuberculosis.
I
Partnerships
Eradicating Tuberculosis
The Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (GH IT Fund) is an international public-private partnership involving the
Japanese government, private corporations, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Welcome Trust, and United Nations
Development Program. It funds drug, vaccine, diagnostic and other R&D in order to leverage Japan's high level of technology
and innovation in the fight against infectious diseases such as AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis and neglected tropical diseases,
which mainly affect developing countries. Since June 2016, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has contributed to the GHIT Fund as an
associate partner.
Also, in line with the goal of eradicating tuberculosis, we have participated in the planning of the Project to Accelerate New
Treatments for Tuberculosis (PAN-TB collaboration) since February 2020. This world-first global cross-industry collaboration
between charitable and non-profit organizations and the drug industry aims to satisfy the Target Regimen Profiles (TRP)
proposed by the World Health Organization (WHO) for tuberculosis by speeding up the development of a new pan-TB
regimen suitable for all tuberculosis patients.
22Initiatives in Kidney Disease
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is a hereditary, intractable orphan disease. It involves the
progressive development and enlargement of a large number of fluid-filled cysts in both kidneys due to gene mutations. The
kidneys grow to many times their original size, resulting in the gradual deterioration of kidney function. Otsuka
Pharmaceutical has signed a comprehensive partnership agreement on ADPKD with the Japan Kidney Association, and is
working to raise awareness about ADPKD and improve the level of medical care.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical has signed a collaborative agreement-also with the Japan Kidney Association-aimed at the practical
application of basic research by young researchers in the kidney field. We are openly soliciting drug discovery research
themes from academia through the Kidney Research Initiative-Japan (KRI-J)-a platform for collaboration between academia,
industry and government established by the Japan Kidney Association. The signing of joint research agreements between the
research institutions and Otsuka Pharmaceutical will enable us to carry out research on the selected themes.
I
Supplying Pharmaceuticals to More Patients (Access to
Medicine)
Expanding Access to Medicine
The Otsuka group is committed to improving access to medicines not only through research and development of
pharmaceuticals and IV solutions that address unmet needs, but also by supporting those with limited access to medicines
due to financial or other reasons.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical has implemented the Otsuka Global Patient Access Support Policy to improve patient access to
medical care. This includes the introduction of the Otsuka Patient Assistance Program using lclusig tablets for patients with
certain types of leukemia in Asian countries and regions. The program provides financial support for pharmaceuticals and in
other ways to patients who cannot afford medical care due to insufficient insurance reimbursement or other financial
reasons.
23Initiatives to Expand Access to Tuberculosis Drug DELTYBA
Eradicating tuberculosis is still a major challenge worldwide. In support of that effort, Otsuka has been working to expand
access to DELTYBA, and since 2016 has shipped enough doses to treat more than 40,000 cases.
• Access programs implemented by countries and public international organizations
• endTB project conducted by Unitaid (a global health agency)
• Access programs implemented by the governments of South Africa and India
• Access through compassionate use programs1
• Supplied to more than 200 patients in 19 countries (ERJ, 20202 )
• Supply from Stop TB Partnership's GDF (since February 2016)
• Access through alliance partners
• Alliance with R-Pharm JSC (Russia, CIS, etc.)
• Alliance with Mylan N.V. (India, South Africa, other TB high-burden countries)
1 Public programs that provide access to yet·to·be·approved drugs on an exceptional basis to patients with serious or life-threatening diseases
2 Ghosh Set al. • Eur Respir J. 2020 Nov 26; 2002483.
Expanding Access to Medicine
There are patients who cannot expect satisfactory outcomes from existing treatments, or whose conditions render them
ineligible to participate in clinical trials. Such patients are unable to access investigational drugs that might be a potential
treatment option. Through its Expanded Access Program, the Otsuka group provides patients that are ineligible to participate
in clinical trials with access to investigational drugs based on application by their physician and if they meet pre-specified
conditions.
Initiatives of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development & Commercialization (OPDC)
While it is preferable for patients to participate in clinical trials, it is not always possible for them to do so. In such cases,
OPDC may enable patient access to investigational drugs. This method, also known as compassionate use, provides patients
with drugs that are not yet approved by the FDA for use outside of clinical trials. OPDC accepts requests for Expanded Access
Program from doctors treating patients who have no other effective treatment options.
Initiatives of Taiho Oncology
Tai ho Oncology, Inc. ("Tai ho") is committed to helping patients with cancer obtain access to new treatments. While we believe
this is best accomplished through participation in clinical trials, we recognize that this is not always possible for every cancer
patient. In such situations, Taiho may be able to provide pre-approval access to an investigational drug through our Expanded
Access Program. Expanded Access, also known as Compassionate Use, is the use of an investigational medical product
intended to diagnose, monitor or treat a patient's disease or condition, prior to FDA approval and outside of use in a clinical
trial. Tai ho accepts requests for pre-approval access to investigational cancer medicines from physicians only.
24Patient Support Programs
In some countries and regions, the Otsuka group offers a variety of programs that provide support to patients and caregivers
when patients purchase certain Otsuka group products.
Initiatives of the Otsuka Patient Assistance Foundation
• Otsuka
(OPAF)
OTSUKA PATIENT ASSISTANCE
OPAF is a nonprofit organization providing Otsuka's pharmaceuticals free of charge to FOUNDATION
patients who are not insured or whose treatment costs are not fully covered by
insurance.
:j-
6uka
Initiatives of the Otsuka Patient Assistance Foundation
~ tient SupporC
(OPAF)
OPAF's Otsuka Patient Support™ combines resources, tools, and support teams to help
patients, caregivers, and healthcare professionals.
Initiatives of Taiho Oncology TAIHO ONCOLOGY
PATIENT SUPPORT
A partner in your cancer core.
Taiho Oncology runs the Taiho Oncology Patient Support'M program to provide patients,
caregivers, and healthcare professionals with services such as insurance confirmation,
treatment cost assistance, and treatment planning support when starting treatment
with Lonsurf.
Initiatives of the Tai ho Pharma Canada, Inc. (TCAN) 00 0
cam
conexus
Taiho Pharma Canada (TCAN) has a personalized patient support program (Conexus -h~s.u,,o,t~""-
Patient Support Program'M) in Canada that provides services, including reimbursement
information, one-on-one support from a dedicated nurse, specialized pharmacy services
and home delivery, and educational services for patients, caregivers and healthcare
workers when starting treatment with the anticancer drug Lonsurf.
25Fair Pricing of Pharmaceuticals and Improved Healthcare
Infrastructure
With the aim of contributing to improved access to pharmaceuticals, the Otsuka group researches, develops and extends
therapeutic drugs and IV solutions that address unmet medical needs. We also work to provide pharmaceuticals at fair prices
to support improved healthcare infrastructure. One example is Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory's approach to IV solutions,
which are defined as basic drugs (a drug with high clinical necessity whose manufacturing and sales will continue to be
required without interruption).* Group companies manufacture IV solutions locally, which contributes to local communities,
such as through the supply of products at fair prices and the creation of employment opportunities. Not many of Japan's
pharmaceutical companies supply locally manufactured pharmaceuticals in other countries, due to the risks involved and
differences in technical capabilities. However, we insist on manufacturing IV solutions in the country in which they are sold
because we believe in supplying pharmaceuticals at fair prices for each country or region so that all people can receive
medical treatment equally, whether rich or poor. The Otsuka Global Quality Standards have been set to maintain high quality
in every country that manufactures our products, aiming to further improve quality.
*Vision for the Pharmaceutical Industry 2013, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare
Providing Information to Patients, Their Families and Caregivers
Across its product portfolio, the Otsuka group provides patients, their families, and caregivers with a variety of materials and
information to help foster their understanding of disease and assist patients in their medical care.
Initiatives of Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc. (OAPI)
This company provides educational materials on line for patients, their families, and OPEN™
caregivers to better understand disease.
ofsuka pa1ien1 edUCJit,on network
Initiatives of Taiho Pharmaceutical
Taiho Pharmaceutical creates and provides a variety of materials that healthcare
professionals can use to assist in patient care. Since 2016, it has distributed its
20-TWENTY-booklet for cancer patients in the AYA generation (adolescents
and young adults), their families, friends, and others close to them. The booklet
does more than just focus on issues of physical appearance; it also addresses
topics related to overcoming obstacles in daily life, dealing with negative
emotions, and developing a positive attitude. The company distributes these
materials to healthcare professionals in the hope that they will help patients
20-TWENTY-
undergoing cancer treatment deal with the issues they face
26In 2017, Tai ho Pharmaceutical published a booklet entitled Thinking about
Having Children: Handbook for Cancer Patients to Preserve Fertility. Recent
advances in medical care have ushered in an era in which cancer can often be
brought into remission, and even when it cannot, patient life expectancy is still
longer. At the same time, fertility preservation technology has also improved.
This booklet is designed to give patients more knowledge about fertility
preservation before cancer treatment, so they can understand the possibility, for
those who wish, of having children in the future. The company hopes that, armed Thinking about Having Children:
Handbook for Cancer Patients to Preserve Fertility
with a full understanding of the situation based on this new knowledge, patients
can then move forward with treatment.
Initiatives of the Sozosei Foundation
Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, a U.5.-based group company, established the Sozosei* Foundation in 2019. The purpose of
the foundation is to spread awareness of medical issues in the U.S., disseminate information and promote education about
medical care and health-related issues, and contribute to related organizations. The foundation mainly provides support in
the psychiatry and neurology area, and the renal area, and contributes to disaster relief activities and local communities. In
2021, the foundation made donations to support patients affected by COVI D-19 as well as their families and healthcare
providers.
* Sozosei (creativity) is one of the Otsuka values.
27Access to Treatment: Fight against Tuberculosis -An Ancient Disease with a
Contemporary Face
HOME Sustainability Society He;dth Pharmaceuticals Access to Treatment: Fight agc1inst Tuberculosis-An Anciem Disease with a Contemporary Face
I
Global public health improved thanks to anti
tuberculosis drug, delamanid
Tuberculosis (TB) has been the scourge of humankind for millenia. There's evidence that it existed in ancient Egypt.'1 It is the
world's second leading infectious killer after COVI D-19.'2 ·3 Drug-resistant strains proliferating in recent decades have
rendered TB even more lethal.
TB is, however, curable and preventable. By deploying its anti-tuberculosis drug, delamanid, the Otsuka group is seeking to go
even further and eliminate TB .
. , Thomas M. Daniel (2006)
•2 World Health Organization. Global tuberculosis report 2020
·3 World Health Organization. Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) dashboard
What is tuberculosis?
TB is one of the most serious infectious diseases in the world, where Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.tb) enters the body and
multiplies, mainly in the lungs, resulting in symptoms such as coughing and production of sputum. In serious cases, the
infection can cause breathing difficulties and affect other organs, potentially resulting in death. While highly contagious,
about 5-10% of infected people will develop the disease at some time in their lives. Some of them may develop the disease
several years after infection due to declining physical strength or aging.
Multidrug-Resistant and Extensively Drug-Resistant TB
Since the 1990s, M.tb bacteria have emerged which have acquired widespread resistance to anti-tuberculosis drugs.
Discontinuation of medication for any reason, such as irregular doses or tolerability, gives rise to bacteria that are resistant to
the drugs that have been taken. Among these are multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) bacteria that have become resistant to
rifampicin and isoniazid, the two most potent first-line therapeutic agents. Extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB) is resistant
to an even greater number of drugs, representing a major global challenge to efforts to control the disease.
SDGs target 3.3
In 2015, the United Nations set out its Sustainable Development Goals. SDG 3 addressed public health. SDG 3.3 set the year
2030 as the target to end the epidemics of AIDS, TB, malaria and neglected tropical diseases, as well as to combat hepatitis,
waterborne infections and other communicable diseases. However, modeling from the Stop TB Partnership on COVI D-19
disruptions to TB services in countries with a high burden of the disease, indicates that the 2030 target may be set back at
least five years. •4
•4 "TB and COVID-19" Stop TB Partnership website, available at: http://www.stoptb.org/covid19.asp 28Number of individuals infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis: approx.1.7billion
Annual deaths from tuberculosis: approx. 1.5 million
TB still spreading worldwide
TB is highly contagious. About 1.7 billion people are said to be infected with M.tb bacteria in the world. An estimated 9.9
million people develop TB in 2020, of whom about 1.5 million die.'5
TB is prevalent in many low-and middle-income countries. Because TB requires long-term treatment, it represents a major
economic challenge in high burden countries.
·s World Health Organization. Global Tuberculosis Report 2021
Limitations of conventional medicinal treatment
M.tb, which may develop into active TB disease, is a very "stubborn bacterium:' Currently, treatment usually involves
administering three to four drugs, to suppress the risk of the patient developing resistance to any one of them. In most cases,
drug-sensitive TB can be successfully treated with what are known as "first-line drugs" and proper case management.
However, for the more dangerous MOR-and XOR-TB strains, doctors turn to "second-line" drugs, and those combinations can
include delamanid.
I
Delamanid is improving global health
One of the first new drugs in 40 years
Birth of delamanid
"If nobody does it, Otsuka must do it."
Delamanid first received approval in 2014 in the European Union for the
-...- .
treatment of adult, pulmonary MOR-TB. It has a completely different mechanism a
of action compared with previous therapeutic agents, and is also effective
against TB bacteria that have become resistant to existing drugs. Since 2015,
delamanid has been included in the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines (list
of priority drugs in any country).
Delamanid is one of the newest anti-tuberculosis drugs approved in the world in
the past 40 years. Although MDR-TB is currently gaining prominent attention, it
had been thought that TB had become a disease that humankind has already
overcome since rifampicin, currently used as one of the first-line drugs, was
discovered in 1964. In the 1970s, when many researchers and research
institutes around the world stopped development, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
continued research, based on the belief that 'TB is a serious global health
problem, and we must continue our research if nobody else does it." Delamanid
was created after more than 30 years. Otsuka Pharmaceutical remains actively
engaged in Research & Development on new anti-tuberculosis drugs. For more
than a decade, the company has consistently ranked among the top funders of TB 29
R&D worldwide.Ml·HIM
Top 15 Funders of TB Research, 2019
Funder 2019 2018
Rank Funder Type Funding Funding
U.S. National Institutes of Health, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) $286,972,907 $253,434,034
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation $117,557,700 $141,115,233
U.S. National Institutes of Health, Other Institutes and Centers (NIH Other IC s) $44,949,029 $43,946,795
4 U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) $37,139,231 $36,735,190
Unitaid M $35,800,429 $26,193,134
CompanyX $32,183,188 $30,319,517
U.K. Department for International Development (DFID) $25,022,125 $24,677,306
8 European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTPJ $24,591,735 $24,491,122
German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) $23,543,671 $16,351,364
10 Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) $19,070,083 $24,243,814
11 Otsuka Pharmaceutical $15,435,292 $28,405,543
12 U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention {CDC) $15,432,560 $17,619,008
13 U.K. Medical Research Council {U.K. MRC) $15,384,488 $16,395,195
14 European Commission $14,252,272 $18,527,670
15 Global Affairs Canada $12,965,569 $12,949,750
C" Co<poration/Private Sector; F = Foundation/Philanthropy; M= Multilateral; P = P11blic•Sector R&OA gency TAG
Tuberculosis Research Funding Trends 2005 - 2019, Stop TB Partnership and Treatment Action Group
A brief history of Otsuka Pharmaceutical's Global TB Programme
1971 TB selected as one of the company's earliest research priorities
2002 Otsuka Pharmaceutical researchers find a new anti-TB drug candidate compound
2004 Phase I clinical trial of OPC-67683, (later named delamanid) starts
2008 Phase II clinical trial for MOR-TB patients starts
2011 Phase Ill clinical trial for MOR-TB patients starts
2013 Clinical trials for paediatric patients with MOR-TB start
2014 Approval granted in the European Union and Japan for treatment of pulmonary MOR-TB in adult patients
2016 Phase I of OPC-167832, a second new anti-TB compound starts
2018 Phase 1/11 ofOPC-167832 starts
2020 Participate in the world's first-of-its kind collaboration, the PAN-TB Consortium, that transcends industry
boundaries
30Delamanid for children
Between 25,000 and 32,000 children develop MOR-TB each year.'6 Of these, only 3 -4 per cent are diagnosed and treated
and consequently approximately 21 per cent of children with MOR-TB are likely to die.'7
The treatment for MDR-TB is arduous and particularly so for children.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical has developed a novel paediatric formulation of delamanid. In 2021, it was approved by the European
Medicines' Agency (EMA) for use in children weighing at least 10 kgs. '6 Access to Medicine Foundation report "Tuberculosis in Children:
Underdiagnosed and Undertreated" (2020)
•7 Helen E Jenkins and Courtney M Yuen (2018)
I
External Collaborations
Expanding access to tuberculosis drugs in low-income countries in
8
collaboration with the Stop TB Partnership's Global Drug Facility
*
Delamanid is one of the first new anti-tuberculosis drugs approved in the past 40
years, but this is meaningless if the drug is not accessible to patients. That said,
there are many TB patients in developing countries of Africa, Asia, and other
regions where the Otsuka Group does not have a business base. For this reason,
we work with the Stop TB Partnership's Global Drug Facility (GDF), an
organization dedicated to expanding access to quality-assured anti-tuberculosis
drugs and diagnostic agents, and ensuring the sustainable procurement of those
drugs in developing countries. GDF now supplies delamanid to more than 80
countries, and the majority of patients currently taking this drug receive their
medicines through GDF, highlighting the organization's excellent contribution to
expanding access.
·s Founded in 2001, the Stop TB Partnership has a mission to serve every person who is
vulnerable to TB and to ensure that high-quality diagnosis, treatment and care are available to all
who need it. GDF is the largest global provider of quality-assured anti-tuberculosis medicines,
diagnostics, and laboratory supplies to the public sector while also providing technical assistance
to TB programs and supporting wide use of innovative tools.
31I
■DELTYBA:
Supply route via StopT B/GDF
Wholly owned
subsidiary of Otsuka
Pharmaceutical
Order from
programs
(
...
t
';;;; GDF's supply agency
! Order from
programs
Delivery
Government agencies and relevant
NGOs in countries earmarked for
support from global funds
!
Delivery
Medical institution/patient
Cooperation with Japanese government on delamanid
We also cooperate with, and receive support from, the Japanese government in
various ways. These include support for access initiatives overseas and sharing
educational information at international conferences and events.
One of the eight points in the economic cooperation plan agreed by Japanese
and Russian leaders is to improve medical care and promote healthy life spans.
At the Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok on September 7, 2017, Japan's
Prime Minister, Shinzo Abe, spoke of mutual cooperation, aimed at getting swift
approval for delamanid in Russia. In that speech, he said, "In the fight against TB,
Japan and Russia have joined hands:' Delamanid received regulatory approval in
the Russian Federation in 2020.
At the United Nations General Assembly High-Level Meeting on Tuberculosis in New York City on September 26, 2018,
Katsunobu Kato, Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare, gave a speech on developing treatments for MOR-TB in Japan and
contributing to eradication of the disease worldwide, and at the same time adopted the political declaration toward
eliminating TB.
32I
Establishing a supply network which will save patients
around the world
Expanding access to patients worldwide
Numerous collaborations have been formed to combat TB and other diseases
that threaten global health, for example with the WHO, United Nations and
national governments who provide active support. In addition to its cooperation
with GDF, Otsuka Pharmaceutical contributes to the health of people around the
world through collaborative initiatives with its many stakeholders. These
include: our participation in the Global Health Innovative Technology Fund
(GHIT); a Japanese public-private partnership established to address infectious
diseases worldwide; and cooperation with programs spearheaded by Medecins
Sans Frontieres/Doctors Without Borders (MSF). We have also received grants
from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to support clinical developments for a
novel regimen of TB treatment. As for global access, we have built aliances with
international companies which have strengths in public health or in areas where
the Otsuka group does not have business bases, such as Viatris in India, South
Africa and other countries with a high burden of TB and R-Pharm in Russia/CIS
region.
Initiatives in which Otsuka Pharmaceutical participates
Romes
a Vatican initiative historically focused on children living with HIV & now including TB.
Ending Workplace TB
a collaboration of the World Economic Forum, the Global Fund and private sector companies to end TB in the workplace.
Through internal and external communication drives, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has pledged to raise awareness of the
disease with the public and its own employees in countries with a high burden of TB.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical and Viatris are completing technology transfer aiming for production in India in order to ensure
affordable access to delamanid in high-burden countries.
In March 2017, we launched a delamanid clinical access program (DCAP) in cooperation with the South African government.
The aim of the national program was to give patients with MOR-TB swift access to delamanid before regulatory approval.
Delamanid is now approved and widely available in South Africa.
In other initiatives, Otsuka Pharmaceutical is working to establish sustainable drug delivery systems at affordable prices, so
that patients around the world who need delamanid can be treated regardless of socioeconomic status or income level. As of
2021, more than 110 countries are expanding use of delamanid based on this multifaceted approach.
33I
Continuous Engagement for TB Drug Discovery
Next-generation tuberculosis drug candidate, OPC-167832
Otsuka Pharmaceutical is conducting research into anti-tuberculosis drugs that will follow delamanid. The latest
development is a compound called OPC-167832, which as of 2021 is undergoing initial trials in South Africa to confirm its
safety and efficacy.
OPC-167832 kills TB bacteria through a mechanism that inhibits the activity of enzymes that are essential for synthesizing
mycobacterium tuberculosis cell walls. Because its mechanism of action differs completely from those of existing anti
tuberculosis drugs, including delamanid,it is expected to be effective as a treatment for various strains of TB. In developing
the drug, we received grants from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which has cited elimination of TB worldwide as one of
its top priorities, to advance clinical trials. We will continue engaging in TB R&D with the aim of establishing innovative
treatment methods.
Initiatives in which Otsuka Pharmaceutical participates
The Project to Accelerate New Treatments for Tuberculosis (PAN-TB)
the first collaboration among philanthropic, non-profit and private sector organizations, led by the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation. It aims to accelerate the development of an investigational drug regimen capable of treating all forms of TB (a
pan-TB regimen).
Unite4TB
another public-private collaboration supported by the European Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) to accelerate
development of novel TB combinations.
EU-Pearl
which aims to make drugs trials more efficient and patient-friendly.
I
Fighting Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR)
The Economist Intelligence Unit, in its 2019 report "It's Time to End Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis, 11 asserts that, by the year
2050, drug-resistant TB could account for 2.5 million deaths annually'9 .
Otsuka Pharmaceutical has been implementing the Responsible Access Program to prevent the outbreak of delamanid
resistant TB and to promote proper use of the drug.
Our stewardship achievements, including efforts to educate about proper use, increase global access to delamanid as well as
continuous research and development into drug-resistant TB, are acknowledged in the AMR Benchmark, a survey of 17 global
pharmaceutical companies. '10 The Benchmark is compiled by the Access to Medicine Foundation.and is funded by the UK and
Dutch governments.
·9 The Review on Antimicrobial Resistance. Tackling drug-resistant infections globally: Final report and recommendations. London: Wellcome Trust and
HM Government, 2016.
34Nutraceuticals
HOME Sustainability Society Health Nutraceuticals
I
Initiatives for Yet-To-Be-Imagined Needs
The term "nutraceuticals" was created by combining the words "nutrition" and "pharmaceuticals." It was coined in 1989 in the
U.S. by Dr. Stephen L. DeFelice and refers to foods and beverages with benefits that have a scientific basis, and which
contribute to the maintenance of everyday health. Our range of nutritional products fit this definition well, which led us to
adopt the term to describe our science-based foods and beverages that help maintain and promote day-to-day health. To be
healthy is a universal desire of people worldwide. While advances in medical technology and improvements in public health
have extended life expectancy globally, new health issues such as population aging and lifestyle diseases have also arisen. The
Otsuka group's Nutraceutical Business is centered on functional beverages and functional foods that support the
maintenance and improvement of day-to-day health. Utilizing expertise honed in our Pharmaceutical Business, the innovative,
science-based products we develop enable people worldwide to live healthier, more active lives. Furthermore, we engage in
health awareness activities as part of our initiatives to expand access to nutrition.
Health Maintenance and Improvement Initiatives in Coordination
with All 47 Prefectures of Japan
Amid trends including medical cost inflation and the aging of Japan's population, the Otsuka group is promoting community
based health maintenance and improvement initiatives, as well as disaster prevention and relief activities. Otsuka
Pharmaceutical has concluded health-related partnership agreements with all 47 prefectures of Japan. We are cooperating
with local governments to find solutions to the health issues of people living in each region, which includes applying our
knowledge and expertise on topics such as dietary education, prevention of lifestyle-related diseases, prevention of heat
disorders, sports promotion, women's health and disaster countermeasures.
Raising Awareness of Proper Hydration
Since the launch of POCA RI SWEAT, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has been
promoting the importance of hydration in various contexts. Spurred by the
establishment of the Japan Amateur Sports Association (now Japan Sport
Association (JSPO)) Study Group for Prevention of Heat Disorders in Sports
Activities in 1991, we began cooperating in efforts to prevent heat disorders
through awareness activities in 1992. Since then, we have provided information
on such themes as children's sports activities, occupational safety and hygiene,
Lecture by Otsuka Pharmaceutical employees
and hydration for the elderly. Otsuka Pharmaceutical's website includes an
information section titled Protect Yourself From Heat Disorders and a section
presenting content based on JSPO's A Guidebook for the Prevention of Heat
Disorder During Sports Activities (First Edition). Another initiative is the Heat
Disorders Prevention website, which was created in collaboration with weather
forecasters. Through these and other activities, we are further raising awareness 35
of the topic.Raising Awareness of Women's Health
The average life expectancy in Japan is over 80 years for both men and women. Healthy life expectancy is defined as the
period in which a person can live without being bedridden and without limitation to daily activities due to health issues. The
difference between average life expectancy and healthy life expectancy is about 9 years for men and 12 for women in Japan.
Therefore, extending healthy life expectancy is a central issue under the Health Japan 21 (the second term) plan established
by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. In response, the Otsuka group developed a product containing equol, a soy
derived ingredient that functions in a similar way to the female hormone estrogen. It can help maintain and improve the
health of women at a time when they can experience a range of mental and physical changes. Based on expertise obtained
during the R&D process, we conduct activities to spread accurate understanding of the mental and physical changes
experienced by women and related health issues, as well as solutions to those issues and evidence for the efficacy of equol. A
wide range of other information on nutrition in relation to women's health and other topics can be found on the Otsuka
Pharmaceutical website.
Nutritional Support and Helping Families Fill Nutrition Gaps
Pharmavite, which is based in the U.S. and handles the development and sales of
Nature Made products, has partnered with the non-profit organization Feed the
Children to provide products and support for health over three years. Through
this partnership, the company has donated approximately 15 million children's
chewable multivitamins. Each family received a two-year supply of children's
vitamins, reaching 8,800 families in total.
In addition, Nature Made registered dietitians provided on-site nutritional
education to families on how to compensate for nutritional deficiencies.
Conveying the Importance of Nutrition
We continue to conduct dietary education activities that explain the importance
of nutrition, based on expertise gained through product development of
nutritional products. Our activities are aimed at all generations. For children, our
app SketchCook helps teach proper dietary habits and knowledge of nutrition in
a world where such information can be difficult to acquire. For busy modern
adults, we provide, in Japan, Nature Made Supplement Check, an app that allows
users to easily analyze the nutritional content of a meal by taking a smartphone
Dietary education app
picture.
SketchCook
Learning the SDGs through Plant-Based Foods
The Otsuka group has released plant-based soy meat products that are free of ingredients derived from animals.
Plant-based foods have been gaining attention as sustainable products with less environmental impact than animal
products. We have co-produced teaching materials titled "Learning the SDGs through Plant-Based Foods" with
Gakken Plus Co., Ltd. to support education on the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for
elementary school children, who will be the leaders of the next generation. In addition, the Daizu Meat Lab provides
information on the appeal of soy meat through columns, recipes, and news.
36A 40-Year History and the Future of POCARI SWEAT
HOME Sustainability Society Health Nutraceuticals A 40-Year History and the Future of POCARI SWEAT
I
Raising Awareness of Heat Disorders and the
Importance of Replenishing Fluids and Electrolytes
Founded as a chemical raw material manufacturer in 1921, the Otsuka group launched its intravenous solutions business in
1946. Leveraging expertise cultivated in the intravenous solutions business, we developed POCARI SWEAT as a beverage
that replenishes the body's fluids and electrolytes, which are important for maintaining and improving day-to-day physical
health. Later, in 1992, we participated in the Japan Amateur Sports Association (now Japan Sport Association (JSPO)) Study
Group for Prevention of Heat Disorders in Sports Activities, and began full-fledged activities to raise awareness of heat
disorders and their prevention. Since then, we have used scientific evidence to raise awareness of the importance of fluid and
electrolyte replenishment in various aspects of life.
This brings us to the present day. The pathology of heat disorders, which was not well known in those early days, and the
concept of supplying electrolytes together with fluids as a countermeasure, are now widely understood and recognized
throughout society. POCARI SWEAThas become a popular staple in all kinds of situations where people sweat, including
sports, commuting, outdoor work, and after a bath or waking up. Today, we continue to promote awareness of the importance
of replenishing fluids and electrolytes in various contexts, including children's sports activities, occupational safety and
hygiene, and hydration for the elderly.
ION SUPPLY DRINK
PO CARI
SWEAT
37POCA RI SWEA Tis a health beverage that easily replenishes the body with fluids and electrolytes lost due to
perspiration. When people sweat to regulate their body temperature, they lose electrolytes along with fluids. Just
drinking water may upset the balance between fluids and electrolytes, which can negatively affect physical condition
and performance. Proper hydration is necessary. As a beverage that is similar to fluids already present in the human
body, POCARI SWEAT enables efficient fluid replenishment.
1982
First overseas
market entry
1987
Cumulative
units sold:
3
billion1
1992
Began cooperation with Japan Amateur Sports
1. One unit equals 340 ml;
units sold includes overseas sales Association2 Study Group for Prevention of Heat
Disorders in Sports Activities
2. Now Japan Sport Association (JSPO)
1993
Began cosponsoring
JSPO heat disorder 1993
prevention awareness
Cumulative
activities and
units sold:
cosponsored production
of A Guidebook for the 10 billion 1
Prevention of Heat
Disorder in Sports
Activities (First Edition)
1998
Cumulative
units sold: 2007
Began cosponsoring production of a guidebook on
20billion1
heat disorder prevention, based on the Guidelines
for Prevention of Heat Disorders in Everyday Life
(Ver. 1) published by the Japan Society of
2007 Biometeorology
Conducted lectures on hydration for
500,000 members of junior sports clubs
nationwide as part of the Sports Activities
Campaign
382008
Cumulative
units sold:
2010
30billion1
Commenced activities at public and other health
centers across Japan to raise heat disorder
awareness among seniors
2012 2012
Co-sponsored production of the Heat Disorders Began Live On Seminar as a lecture for industrial
Prevention website (NPO Weather Caster Network) physicians and public health nurses, nurses,
nutritionists, and health and safety staff working at
business offices in Japan
2016
Received Best Communicator and Top Runner
2017
Award at the Heatstroke Prevention
Communication Project Hitosuzumi Awards 2016 Participated in the reprinting of the Ministry of the
Environment's Environmental Health Manual on
Heat Disorders
2020
40th
anniversary
Supplying quality fluids and electrolytes
to people all around the world
39I
Why POCARI SWEATContinues to Create New Value
Situations in which the body becomes dehydrated are various, and are not
limited to any particular time or place.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical's marketing of POCARI SWEATincludes activities to
raise awareness of the importance of hydration in more than 20
countries/regions around the world.
POCA RI SWEAT continues to create new value-meeting the challenge of
changes in the environment and people's values, and social diversification. This is
because POCARI SWEAT continues to be closely intertwined with people's lives,
and to uncover and address underlying issues. As a science-based solution for
universal needs, it generates value that leads to better health and better
lifestyles.
PO CARI Sales countries/regions Production countries/regions
SWEAT Q More than 20 06 sites
0 0
0
0
0~o o
0
0
E!~
Replenishing fluids and electrolytes lost
~ ~
through perspiration around the wortd
Two years after Its laun<h In Japan, PO<:ARI SWEAT
made Its overseas debut In 1982. At present, It Is
~~~~
sold In more than 20 countrlwreglons.
40I
The World POCARI SWEATA ims to Create
Global warming is having a major worldwide impact on climate and the natural
environment, as well as people's lives. Should global warming continue, as many
as 1.2 billion people could be at risk of heat disorders every year by the year
2100. Also, it is estimated that due to the expansion of habitats conducive to the
propagation of organisms that carry tropical diseases, including Zika fever and
dengue fever, the number of people at risk of infection could increase by 383-
725 million by 2050.* Meanwhile, the importance of and proper methods for
fluid and electrolyte replenishment as "first aid" for heat disorders and tropical
disease infection have not yet become globally recognized.
We explore and identify underlying issues in each country, consider solutions,
convey the scientific grounds and encourage consumers to try POCARI SWEAT.
Through simple measures such as these, we contribute to the health of people
worldwide.
Fluids and electrolytes are essential to life. Our vision is to use our enduring
spirit of inquiry and our ability to flexibly address the needs of a diversifying
society to make POCARI SWEAT a health beverage like no other.
Around the world, there are many people who have difficulty maintaining their health because they lack access to a quality
source of hydration. POCA RI SWEAT aims to change the world by being an industry leader and contributing to solving social
issues.
• Daniel Li et al., Environ Res Lett 2020
Otsuka Pharmaceutical's Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute gathers various kinds of
evidence through clinical trials on the replenishment of fluids and electrolytes under
various conditions.
In 2018, leveraging our expertise from research into heat disorders, we launched POCARI
SWEAT ICE SLURRY. We developed this product using proprietary technology for creating
a formulation that freezes in the form of ice slurry (in which solid particles are dispersed in a
liquid), which is known for its high cooling properties. This "drinkable ice" efficiently cools
the body from its core, and offers people a new option for combating heat disorders when
active in hot environments,
*This page is reprinted from Otsuka Holdings Integrated Report 2019.
41Otsuka Health Comic Library
HOME Sustainability Society Health Otsuka Health Comic Library
I
30 Years of the Otsuka Health Comic Library
We began publishing the Otsuka Health Comic Library in 1989 to promote
sound growth and development of health habits among children of the next
generation. Produced with editorial supervision from the Japan Medical
Association and the Japan Society of School Health, and endorsed by the Japan
Pediatric Society, the library seeks to convey basic health knowledge to children,
covering topics such as the makeup of the human body and nutrition, in a broad,
easy-to-understand manner through the medium of comics. Every year we
choose a different theme and publish a new volume. The comics are donated' to
elementary schools, special needs schools, Japanese schools overseas, and public
libraries.
Each year's theme is decided based on requests from schools and the opinions of
organizations involved in school health. With the cooperation of experts in
various fields, we are finding ways to deliver factual, accurate health information
to children in a fun way. We are also working to make the comics a more useful
part of school health education. Since 2015, together with the Japan Society of
School Health, we cosponsored lectures by health experts and usage
demonstrations of the library at schools. We are continuing to evolve 30 years
after the first volume, and deepening our ability to communicate the value of
health.
* Approx. 23,000 books each year
42Support in Disasters and Emergencies
HOME Sustainability Society Health Support in Disasters and Emergencies
In light of our obligation as a group of companies that handles items needed during emergencies, such as IV solutions,
therapeutic drugs, foods and beverages, we actively engage in disaster relief activities and disaster victim assistance. Our
support for measures to counteract COVI D-19 is one such example. In Japan, we supplied products such as beverages as well
as masks and protective clothing for medical use. Overseas, we donated group products such as beverages and medical
products to local healthcare facilities and chapters of the Red Cross Society, in addition to making monetary donations to such
organizations. In addition, Otsuka group companies are providing humanitarian assistance to the Ukrainian people whose
lives have been severely affected and those who have been evacuated to neighboring countries.
I◄ Back to TOC
43People
HOME Sustainability Society People
The Otsuka group believes that the active participation of a diverse range of employees in a free and open-minded workplace
environment generates innovation and sustainable corporate growth. To this end, we aim to foster a corporate culture that
encourages creativity, invest in the development of human resources, and actively promote diversity among our personnel.
We have a safe workplace environment and strive for fair hiring, evaluation, and promotion processes that respect human
rights.
44Human Resource Development
HOME Sustainability Society People Human Resource Development
I
Basic Policy
Throughout history, innovation has always been generated by people. At the Otsuka group, we strive to attract talented
personnel, develop their individual abilities on an ongoing basis, and enable them to fulfill their potential. This enables us to
continuously generate innovation.
In addition, we intend to continually drive innovation by actively promoting communication and engagement both inside and
outside the group and by building networks that transcend job category and field that are not bound by a stereotype.
I
Approach
Upholding Our Corporate Culture and Developing Global Leaders
In 2016, Otsuka Holdings established the Otsuka Global Academy with the aim of ongoing identification and development of
the global human resources needed for sustained growth. The academy's programs, which target Otsuka group employees
worldwide, are designed and run in-house, but we also partner with outside institutions in some areas for more effective
human resource development.
Guided by the commitment of Otsuka Holdings' executives and rooted in the
leadership of the Otsuka group's founding figures and the group's unique
approach to business, participants learn about and discuss the kinds of people
the Otsuka group needs for its next generation of leaders and the skills they are
expected to possess, and are cultivated as future leadership candidates.
Meanwhile, since 2021 Taiho Pharmaceutical has partnered with outside institutions to provide training that emphasizes
dialogue on upholding the company's longstanding corporate culture and mindset. Inspired by the company's slogan "Acting
on what should be done," training currently targets company executives, but the company intends to broaden coverage going
forward.
45A System That Generates Innovation
Human Resource Development through Collaboration Inside and Outside the
Group
The Otsuka group views partnerships and collaborative efforts inside and outside the group as opportunities to help address
the unmet medical needs of patients worldwide. By sharing expertise and state-of-the-art technologies, we are boosting our
drug discovery capabilities, further improving our development capabilities, and stepping up our global expansion. For
example, Tai ho Pharmaceutical established its own corporate venture capital (CVC) subsidiary in the U.S. in 2016, and is using
it to forge a network with promising biotech start-ups and the academic community in the U.S. and elsewhere with a view to
generating innovation. The company also seconds employees from Japan to the CVC subsidiary for a few years to gain
overseas experience as part of their professional development.
Open Recruitment System/Self-assessment System
We have also established an open recruitment system1 and self-assessment system2 for the purpose of enhancing the
capabilities of employees at each company.
1: Under this system, the Otsuka group internally discloses requirements of a certain position or job and then fllls it from among those who apply. Employees that
satisfy the requirements can apply directly to the company offering the position and be transferred if the expectations of both parties are in agreement. The open
recruitment system can be utilized by employees working at group companies in Japan, and is aimed at boosting employee capabilities and motivation, as well as
invigorating exchange within the group.
2: Under this system, employees can submit opinions and suggestions regarding their current work duties and workplace, as well as career plan aspirations, to the
Human Resources Department. The self-assessment system is implemented on a once yearly cycle, with the goals of further developing employee potential,
ensuring assignment to appropriate jobs, and improving the workplace environment.
Fostering Human Resources Adept in the Digital Era
Otsuka Holdings is conducting a variety of initiatives to speed up digital transformation throughout the group. One example is
the Otsuka Group Al Forum, which is used to share case studies of group companies' successes and generally promote the
spread and understanding of artificial intelligence mainly among group company managements and directors. Training in a
wide spectrum of technologies such as data science is also provided in order to help boost employees' IT capabilities. In
addition, a group-wide portal site was launched in 2021 to disseminate and share in-house and external information relating
to digitalization.
Otsuka Medical Devices hosted a training session at which university professors shared examples of how to employ artificial
intelligence in the field of medicine.
Meanwhile Otsuka Warehouse, knowing that IT is vital for overcoming the
challenges faced by the logistics industry, is seeking to improve the IT literacy of
its employees through encouraging employees to take the Japanese
government's IT Passport exam by holding in-house study workshops and
subsidizing examination fees. The company's commitment to building IT
competency also includes ongoing year-round IT skills training for those who
pass the exam.
46Human Resource Development Institute Encourages People to Turn Ideas on Their Head
"Our mission is the development of human resources who can break the mold."
In March 1988, the Otsuka group established the Human Resource Development Institute, an employee training
center in Tokushima City, the birthplace of the Otsuka group of companies. The institute's mission is to foster the
development of creative human resources who can break the mold of conventional thinking and contribute to
Otsuka's ongoing success as a "big venture" company. The institute has three monuments that embody the Otsuka
values of actualization and creativity, including the Giant Tomato PlantTree, which symbolizes the theme of the
institute: "turning ideas on their head:' New employees are trained in these ways every year at the institute.
Support of Career Independence
HR Interviews and Communication between Supervisors and Staff
At Otsuka Pharmaceutical, the Human Resources Department holds individual interviews with every employee, and follows
up on the issues they raise. Interviews are conducted with more than 1,500 employees every year.
At Taiho Pharmaceutical, approximately one-third of personnel in the Human
Resources Department have obtained career consultant' qualifications, and the
company actively supports career development that accommodates the aims of
each employee. In 2014, the company opened a career counseling office staffed
with both industrial counselors and career consultants. In addition, since 2021
Tai ho Pharmaceutical has distributed a handbook on career counselling for
managers, and have started a system that allows supervisors and subordinates to
openly discuss their careers using a career design sheet (developed inhouse) as a
tool for employees to think deeply about their own careers.
In April 2016, "career consultant" was defined in Japan's Human Resources Development Promotion Act and became a national qualification. Career consultants
are professionals who provide consultation and advice on job selection and skill development to students.job seekers, people currently working, and others.
47Learning Support
At Otsuka group companies, we have introduced support for self-study using e-learning run by external organizations, in this
way providing opportunities for employees to achieve personal growth and self-fulfillment.
In April 2020, we launched the Global E-Learning (GEL) Platform employing the
Harvard ManageMentor program provided by Harvard Business School
Publishing Corporate Learning. A first for the Otsuka group, it is a shared
learning platform for group employees worldwide. So far, a total of 2,400
employees from 75 group companies in 29 countries/regions have participated.
In addition to cultivating business literacy and skills, the program features
messages from top Otsuka group executives, as well as training initiatives unique
to Otsuka that group employees around the globe can take part in together,
including a learning "cafe" and webinars.
Otsuka Chemical assists employees in improving their skills and knowledge under our qualification acquisition support
system, which provides examination fees and incentives for getting qualifications in a variety of fields. Otsuka Warehouse also
has a system in place for employees who raise their hands and wish to take on a challenge to attend business school, based on
the belief that good input produces good output.
Employee Evaluation and Feedback Process
At Otsuka group companies, individual sets goals that are rooted in organizational objectives. Employees sit down and talk
with their supervisors to help with goal setting. Every six months the supervisors evaluate and provide feedback on
employees' self-assessments regarding progress to aid with their development. Also, a system was introduced in 2020 to
enable the integrated management of personal information in such areas as goals, evaluation, training, and the selection,
promotion and nurturing of exceptional human resources. As of June 2022, more than 10,000 group employees have been
entered into the system, helping to maximize human resource development and organizational strengths.
48Diversity & Inclusion
HOME Sustainability Society People Diversity & Inclusion
I
Basic Policy
At the Otsuka group, we know that the contributions of a diverse array of people is conducive to innovation and globalization,
and to the development of innovative products. That is why we embrace and promote diversity. As a group of companies
driven to innovate, we are committed to ensuring our workplaces are welcoming to all people.
I
Promotion System
Since 2008, the Diversity and Inclusion Promotion Team at each group company has led efforts for greater diversity and
inclusion through individual company and coordinated group initiatives. These initiatives include planning group-wide
systems, conducting seminars, and holding regular meetings to share each company's effective examples of diversity and
inclusion.
I
Approach
Initiatives to Promote Diversity
Implement group-wide training and seminars on women's empowerment lkuboss
Corporate Alliance
We hold regular group-wide diversity seminars. A total of 2,770 people attended the seven seminars held from fiscal 2019
through fiscal 2021. We know that it is not enough for only employees to be aware of the issues-their bosses must broaden
their awareness too. That is why we' established the lkuboss (managers supportive of work-life balance) declaration
49Theme
• Enhance performance and a sense of joy through lkuboss system
2019
• Translate diverse human resources into a strength for the company
• Consider new ways of working for the future
2020
• LGBT seminar
• Unconscious bias
• Learning from gold medal Olympic athletes about diversity (multiple viewpoints
2021
and flexible thinking)
• Promoting active participation of diverse human resources
• Nine group companies: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Tai ho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Foods,
Otsuka Medical Devices, Otsuka Techno, and Otsuka Electronics
Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the
Workplace
Women's Empowerment Principles signed (WEPs)
The Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics states our commitment is to In support of
promoting diversity. Further, in 2017 the group became a signatory to the
Women's Empowerment Principles (WEPs)1 , a set of corporate principles jointly WOMEN'S
developed by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and UN Women2 that EMPOWERMENT
PRINCIPLES
offers guidance on how to empower women in the workplace.
Established by UN Women and the
UN Global Compact Office
1 Women's Empowerment Principles
2 United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women
Development of Female Leaders and Managers
Taiho Pharmaceutical believes that having women in management roles leads to more diverse views being reflected in
management decisions. For this reason, the company began new initiatives in 2020 for female managers. Based on the results
of an independent assessment, women reexamine their skills, abilities, and personality traits to create their own career plans,
and are linking those plans to professional development through their work. Also, based on the independent assessment
results, the company began individual training for women in management who want to move up to top-level positions. In
2021, to strengthen the development of female managers, we started new initiatives that include management training,
dialogue with management, and mentoring.
50Increase in Motivation
To further empower female employees, Otsuka Pharmaceutical started the
Otsuka Women's Workshop as a forum for women to share information about
marriage and childcare, in this way contributing to continued career
development following marriage, childbirth, and childcare. WING was
established in 2009 as a voluntary study group that identifies issues and
discusses solutions in teams, which are then proposed to the company for
making improvements. Participants are recruited throughout Japan regardless
of gender or position to take part in cross-organizational activities under the
theme, "When we change, we change the company:' In addition, Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Factory has been providing training on career design since 2017
to foster individual growth and strengthen our organization. In 2021, we
conducted training that provided opportunities for development through mutual
understanding between managers and mid-career employees with a view to
developing leaders who can take full advantage of diversity.
Otsuka America Pharmaceutical among Recipients of HBA's ACE Award'
Otsuka Pharmaceutical in the U.S. established Otsuka's Network of
Otsuka Women (NOW) in 2019 to drive efforts toward diversity, equity,
and inclusion as key parts of its our global business strategy. With a
membership of more than 500 employees, NOW connects women with
opportunities to consider how to succeed and grow in the workplace,
and NOW members have had higher promotion rates. In recognition of
this and other initiatives, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical received the
2021 Advancement. Commitment. Engagement. (ACE) award' from the
Healthcare Businesswomen's Association (HBA).
This award honors companies committed to ensuring gender diversity and leadership
opportunities for women as part of their organizational DNA.
>
About the female manager ratio, please refer Key Sustainability Data
Support of Diverse Work Styles
Introduction of the Work Interval System and the Family Smile Support System
In Japan, we have introduced the Family Smile Support System', which encourages employees to work from home
before/after parental leave, or when taking on childcare/child-rearing and nursing care obligations. This system has led to
improvements in work efficiency, productivity, and work-life balance. We have also introduced the Work Interval System,
which mandates minimum rest periods for shift workers.
Revised telework system for increased flexibility
51Opened daycare centers at our business premises
We have opened daycare centers at three of our business premises (in
Tokushima, Osaka, and Tsukuba) to help employees balance childcare and work.
Since its establishment in Tokushima in 2011. it is now one of the few large-scale
nurseries in Japan in terms of on-site childcare facilities.
Creating a Workplace Where Employees Can Receive Treatment While Continuing
to Work
As a company developing and supplying anticancer agents, Tai ho Pharmaceutical has a team to realize "Workplace support for
employees with cancer:• This team, mainly composed of the Human Resources Department and occupational nursing staff,
aims to create a workplace where employees with cancer or other diseases can receive treatment while continuing to work.
Going further, in 2019 the company launched C-Guide Portal, a portal site about cancer for employees. The site provides
information on systems and consultation desks that employees and their families can use if someone develops cancer or
another disease, and highlights the importance of cancer prevention and screening. It also has a page where users share
experiences. Here, employees share information about the reality of treatment, learned through family members' or their
own experiences fighting cancer. This helps employees deepen their understanding of and recognize issues in cancer
treatment. Meanwhile, it enhances their appreciation of the role they play as employees of Tai ho Pharmaceutical, an
anticancer drug manufacturer.
While lectures and briefings are provided to other companies, including those in other industries, lectures are held not only at
the company but also throughout the Otsuka group to continue spreading awareness throughout society.
Won an Award of Excellence under the Tokyo Work Circle Project in
gan-ally-bu
2016 (organized by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government). which AWARD 2021
recognizes companies as having outstanding initiatives that help cancer
patients balance treatment and work.
Won a gold prize for three consecutive years (2019-2021) at the
Cancer Ally Awards organized by Gan Ally Club, a private-sector project
> I I <
addressing the issue of cancer and employment GOLD
For details, please refer to the following URL.
Human Resources Support for Balancing Work and Medical Treatment (Taiho
Pharmaceutical WEB site, Japanese) ~
>
About the trends of the numbers of employees taking parental leave, please refer Key Sustainability Data
52Promoting the Active Participation of the LGBTQ community, People
with Disabilities, and Senior Citizens
Initiatives for the LGBTQ Community
LGBTQ-related training is provided throughout the group, including for human resource departments and other sections, in
order to promote understanding. Also, from 2020, Tai ho Pharmaceutical has conducted training for the human resources (HR)
department, the management tier, as well as other divisions and departments to introduce basic understanding on this topic
and to convey the current thinking in Japanese society, with examples of initiatives by other companies. The training also
covers specific examples of what can be done today. Approximately 1,700 employees have taken the course to date. In 2021,
230 employees took part in an Otsuka Chemical webinar for all employees entitled "Companies and LGBTQ: Considering
Diversity in the Workplace." Otsuka Pharmaceutical also conducts training for all personnel, while Otsuka Warehouse is
striving to create a more comfortable work environment, for example by removing the terms male and female from work
regulations.
Initiatives for the Employment of People with Disabilities
Otsuka Pharmaceutical established Heartful Kawauchi in Tokushima City in
2011 as a special purpose subsidiary. This subsidiary helps people with
disabilities to fully realize their potential.
>
About the ration of employees with disabilities Please refer Key
Sustainability Data
Encouraging Active Roles for Senior Employees
At Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory and Tai ho Pharmaceutical, older employees
who have been recently recruited are an important force for the company, and a
system has been established to recognize those who have contributed to
corporate earnings and the development of human resources.
Diversity & Inclusion-related Systems
Please refer to the website of each company.
53External Recognition
Content Company
. NADE Nadeshiko Brand Selected in 2020: Otsuka
System for selecting companies that actively
ee SHI! ~ Holdings'
promote the employment and advancement of
eee KO~ ~ * Scope of survey: Otsuka Holdings and
women. (Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry;
Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Tokyo Stock Exchange)
• Platinum Kurumin:
Platinum Kurumin and Kurumin Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Certification system based on the Act on
Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical,
Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next
Generation Children. Platinum Kurumin is a and Otsuka Chemical
certification for Ku rum in-certified companies that
• Kurumin:
have carried out higher-level initiatives. (Ministry of
Health, Labour and Welfare) Otsuka Pharmaceutical,
Otsuka Foods, and others
Eruboshi
Certification system based on the Act on Promotion
of Women's Participation and Advancement in the Eruboshi (Level 3): Otsuka
Workplace. Companies are recognized for excellent Chemical (from 2019)
efforts to empower women in the workplace.
(Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare)
MONISU Certification
Certification system recognizing small-and medium
2020 certification: Heartful
sized enterprises that excel in their efforts to
Kawauchi
provide employment to people with disabilities.
(Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare)
Acquired Tomonin Mark
Certifies companies that strive to create a work
Acquired by Otsuka
environment that allows employees to balance work
Pharmaceutical
and caregiving. (Ministry of Health, Labour and
f±S<'::1UIO)jliJall Welfare)
54Selected in 2021: Otsuka America
Pharmaceutical, Inc. (OAPI) and
Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Development &
Commercialization, Inc. (OPDC)
Great
Second place among large
Place
pharmaceutical and biotech
To Certified as a Great Place to Work®
companies in the Best Workplaces
Certifies companies that create an outstanding
Work,. for Millennials category
employee experience according to Great Place to
Work,®, a global leader in workplace culture and
Third place among large
Certified employee awareness surveys
pharmaceutical and biotech
AUG 2021-AUG 2022 companies in the Best Workplaces
USA in New York category
Seventh place among biotech
companies in the Best Workplaces
in Health Care and Biopharma
category
55Health and Productivity Management
HOME Sustainability Society People Health and Productivity Management
I
Basic Policy
At the Otsuka group, we believe that maintaining workplaces that enable each employee to work in good health and spirits is
vital for making our shared corporate philosophy a reality. This was also the thinking behind the declarations on health made
by major Otsuka group companies.
Health and Productivity Management
Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide
We believe that the physical and mental health of every employee is
• Otsuka Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. essential for us to live up to our corporate philosophy. We will strive
for a working environment that supports employees in maintaining
and improving their health, enabling them to play active roles while
fully demonstrating their abilities and individuality.
Tatsuo Higuchi
President and Representative Director, CEO
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd
April 1,2017
56I
Promotion System for Health and Productivity
Management
The mental and physical wellbeing of every employee is essential for the pursuit of the group's shared corporate philosophy.
Therefore, Otsuka Holdings' executive deputy president and director is in charge of health and productivity management, and
under his supervision the Otsuka Pharmaceutical health insurance association, each group company's health and productivity
promotion manager, and specialist staff such as industrial physicians and nurses work collaboratively across the entire
organization to help maintain and enhance the health of employees and their families. The Board of Directors also monitors
issues related to maintaining and improving health as well as the goals and progress of health management initiatives.
Promotion System (Japan)
Board of Directors meeting
t +
Report Supervision
Top management on Health and productivity management
(Yoshiro Matsuo, Otsuka Holdings' executive deputy president and director)
Group companies of health management initiatives
He•llh marugement promotion office
Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Health Insurance Association
T
Execute measures! Feedback
Group employees and their families
•Implement measures and prov;de feedback through the health committees of each site
In addition, employees' health-related information is integrated into the health management system' so that medical staff,
health officers, and supervisors at all business sites can share information that is required at any time. Based on this
information, the health of each group company is analyzed so that group initiatives can be formulated.
• A system for managing health information from regular medical examinations and interviews with employees by industrial health staff, etc.
57I
Approach
Health Management Action Plan Goals and Progress
Goals
Health checkup rate 90% (2023 target)
Implementation of specified healthcare guidance 55% (2023 target)
Progress
Health checkup rate 80.0% (2021)
Implementation of specified healthcare guidance 72.8% (2021)
• Insured persons and their dependents who are members of the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Health Insurance Association (for Otsuka group companies in Japan)
Health Promotion Activities
Health Seminars: Ensuring the Good Health of Employees and their Families
As part of efforts led by Otsuka Holdings, officers in charge of health
management at each group company cooperate with the Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Health Insurance Association and medical professionals in activities aimed at
improving the health of employees. One such activity that started in 2015 is
hosting health seminars for group employees and their families. Held in major
cities across Japan, these seminars are aimed at communicating the group's
initiatives on health, introducing the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Health Insurance
Health Seminars
Association, and disseminating information relevant to improving the health of
employees and their families. The seminars consist of information that draws on
knowledge gained in the group's businesses, and encourage employees and their
families to reexamine their ideas about health. In 2021, approximately 1,300
people participated in online seminars on women's health and cancer.
In addition, in 2022 we started providing health consultations by a gynecologist
under an initiative of the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Health Insurance Association
with the aims of helping women live their lives the way they want and supporting
the creation of a comfortable work environment. They are free to seek
consultations on issues unique to women depending on their age and life stage,
such as menstrual symptoms and diseases, PMS, and menopause.
58Group-wide Initiatives (Japan, 2021)
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Health Insurance Association conducts an annual health promotion program for all Group employees.
No Initiatives Objective/Outline Number of times
implemented/
duration
Prevent of serious illness Prevent lifestyle-related diseases from becoming serious by recommending medical
1 (letter recommending examinations when necessary for those who have not yet received treatment, Twice
medical exam) providing effective treatments, and making improvements in their lifestyles.
Intended to reduce presenteeism. Practice simple exercises or yoga at lunchtime,
2 Online health seminar since many people suffer from stiff shoulders and back pain when working from t Twice
home or at a desk.
3 KENPOWALK Smartphone walk rally with pedometer app to develop healthy habits Three-month period
Conduct jointly with Earth Corporation so that people can perform daily oral care
4 30-day oral care challenge 30-day period
correctly and effectively.
December 2021 to
5 Online stop-smoking clinic Provide support for those who want to quit smoking.
March2022
Other Group Company Initiatives
Initiatives to Promote Exercise, including POCARl/fresh [Otsuka Pharmaceutical,
Taiho Pharmaceutical]
Otsuka Pharmaceutical conducts 8-minute "refresh calisthenics"
(POCARl/fresh) once a week with different exercises each time at offices
and factories under the supervision of an instructor. These exercises
changed to online only in fiscal 2020 so that employees working remotely
could also take part in POCARl/fresh. Taiho Pharmaceutical introduced an
exercise app company-wide with the aim of providing the opportunity to
exercise and improve communications related to exercises, in this way
supporting good exercise habits for individual needs. This company also
holds company-wide inhouse sports days using the same exercise app.
I
Zero Smoking Rate Initiatives (Tai ho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Foods)
As a health-related company that has made oncology a core business area, Tai ho Pharmaceutical has set the goal of realizing a
zero-employee smoking rate by 2023, and began, in 2020, new initiatives for reaching that goal. For example, we made
systemic changes, such as subsidizing the cost of outpatient smoking cessation treatments and making nonsmoking a
consideration when appointing people to management positions. In addition, we provide information, such as sharing tips on
the company intra net from employees who successfully "kicked" the habit., Otsuka Foods also implements other initiatives,
including a stop smoking support program (assistance with cost) and the removal of indoor and outdoor smoking areas.
59I
Offering a Wellness Program for Employees (Pharmavite)
As a company that provides nutritional products, Pharmavite, a supplement company in the U.S., offers employees a wellness
program called Pharma Fit. Nutritionists visit the company to provide nutrition-related information and consultations, and the
company provides incentives for employees to participate in exercise programs.
Boosting mental and physical health with a virtual run.
In conjunction with World Mental Health Day, the POCARI SWET
RUN charity event took place between October 1 and November
14, 2021, in collaboration with Silver Ribbon-a mental health
awareness NPO based in Singapore. The event is a virtual running
race utilizing a smartphone app. Participants choose their distance
and donate to the NPO based on how far they manage to run.
Around 4,000 runners, including Otsuka group employees from
Japan and Indonesia, laced up their running shoes and took part in
the event.
Before the race, participants could join online seminars to hear
psychiatrists and athletes talk about mental health, focusing on
mental welling, exercise, and hydration. Events of this kind highlight
how Otsuka can work closely with and support consumers' mental
and physical health by utilizing the synergy of its two core
businesses.
Mental Health Care Initiatives
We conduct stress tests once a year, as required by law. Also, Tai ho Pharmaceutical's detailed initiatives include individual
interviews and emails by nurses and public health officials to all employees who have posted away from their families or who
are experiencing high stress based on their stress test results. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory established a new external
consultation desk in 2020.
Infection Control and Prevention of Health Hazards
The Otsuka group has adopted new work practices to ensure that employees can work safely during the COVID-19 pandemic,
including the introduction of a work-from-home system and the shift of documentation and approval processes to electronic
formats.
60Work style innovation
Overtime Reduction Policy
The Otsuka group believes that reducing long work hours is critical to maintaining the physical and mental health of every
employee. Guided by this policy, each operating company undertakes its own initiatives for shortened work hours following
the laws and regulations of each country and region.
Initiatives to Reduce Overtime Hours
The Otsuka group is working to visualize overtime hours as part of the attendance system to reduce overtime hours.
Initiatives designed to prevent long work hours include displaying on individual computer screens a warning regarding Article
36 of the Labor Standards Act and unregistered attendance. We have also introduced a system where personnel departments
can check when individuals log on and off their computer to maintain the physical and mental wellbeing of employees.
In order to reduce and shorten overtime, Otsuka Pharmaceutical requires employees to submit notifications before working
overtime so that their supervisors can appropriately manage work hours. The company also mandates a minimum interval
between shifts to foster an environment where employees can work in good health. Specifically, when an employee
unavoidably works until late at night, a certain amount of rest time before the start of the next shift is guaranteed. In addition,
at Otsuka Warehouse, the time that the last person leaves every head office department and branch office is posted on the
intranet each day to make the work situation visible. The aim of this effort is to raise employees' awareness of productivity per
hour. The company has also adopted a system to solve challenges in a company-wide effort rather than within each
department alone.
In addition to the initiatives for its employees, Otsuka Warehouse have established a new truck reservation system to help
solve the issues of long working hours for truck driver and the shortage of drivers and vehicles, which have become a
challenge for the entire logistics industry. It is now possible to make on line reservations for unloading times, in this way
significantly reducing wait times for drivers and increasing the efficiency of transportation.
I
External Recognition
~
HSUl~flailtA.
.................h l!l'
;Js'J•H500
Health & Productivity Management
Health & Productivity Management Health & Productivity Management
Outstanding Organization (White
Outstanding Organization Outstanding Organization
500)
(large enterprise category) (SME category)
(large enterprise category)
Otsuka Medical Devices, Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Health Insurance
Otsuka Holdings, Otsuka Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory,
Association, Otsuka Wellness Vending,
Pharmaceutical, Tai ho Pharmaceutical Otsuka Foods, Otsuka Warehouse
Otsuka Electronics, Otsuka Techno,
l JIMRO
61Description Company
Sports Yell Company 2022 2022 selection: Otsuka
Program recognizing companies that actively Pharmaceutical (Bronze prize,
support and promote measures to improve selected for five consecutive
employees' health through sports. (Japan Sports years, since 2017), Taiho
SPORTS
Agency) Pharmaceutical
YELL
COMPANY
2022
Tokyo Metropolitan Government Sports Promotion
Model Company
2021 selection: Otsuka
The Tokyo Metropolitan Government Sports
Pharmaceutical
Promotion Company certification program
Note: Certified for seven consecutive years
recognizes companies that implement quality
since 2015
initiatives to encourage and support employee
participation in sports.
l
62Occupational Health and Safety
HOME Sustainability Society People Occupational Health and Safety
I
Basic Policy
The Otsuka group recognizes that ensuring safety and health across all of its business activities is an important element of the
management. This recognition is based on our corporate philosophy of "Otsuka-people creating new products for better
health worldwide." Accordingly, we strive to ensure all workplaces are safe and healthy, including by offering education and
training for all concerned.
Otsuka Group Health and Safety Policy
1. Based on our recognition that ensuring safety and health is an important element of the management, we are
committed to ensuring that each and every one of us proactively engages in safety and health activities, and we
work together to create safe, healthy, and comfortable workplaces across the entire group.
2. We comply with the relevant laws and regulations of each country and region, as well as the voluntary
management standards of each company and site.
3. We strive to prevent the expansion of damage and/or recurrence of accidents by practicing ongoing risk reduction
activities such as forecasting, ascertaining, and periodically reviewing dangerous and hazardous factors,
responding promptly and appropriately in the event of an emergency such as an industrial accident, and
subsequently sharing lessons learned within the organization.
4. We request an understanding of our Policy and the promotion of health and safety awareness by all the business
partners of the Otsuka group (including contractors, and suppliers, etc.)
Group-wide targets
■Goals of health and safety action plan
• Zero occupational accidents
>
Please refer to Health and Productivity Management for comprehensive goals regarding health management.
■Progress
• Rate of occupational accidents: 0.70 (2021 result)
• Severity of occupational accidents: 0.02 (2021 result)
>
Refer to Key Sustainability Data for details.
63I
Promotion System for Health and Safety
To help create safe, secure workplaces at factories and other business sites at every group company in Japan, we have
established safety and health committees, as defined in the Industrial Safety and Health Act. We carry out workplace health
and safety inspections, as well as other necessary activities to ensure effective management of health, operations, and the
workplace environment, in addition to related education and training. These activities are reported at health and safety
committee meetings and form the basis for improvements to the workplace environment.
Further, major group companies hold a joint group health and safety meeting every year to share reports on workplace
accidents and recurrence prevention measures. Moreover, for over 30 years, the Global Production Meeting has been held
with the aim of improving production technologies and sharing information group-wide. In fiscal 2021, this meeting was held
on line after a two-year absence due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The meeting had approximately 148 participants including
management executives from 14 countries and regions for discussion on new models of production.
>
Refer to Production for details of the Global Production Meeting.
Since each group company employs a different promotion system, the one for Otsuka Pharmaceutical is shown here.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical's Promotion System for Health and Safety (Production
Division)
OSHMS manager (Director of Production Division)
Secretanat
OSHMS Health and
system manager safety department
Personnel Health and
department safety office
T1kasalu Fulcurot S.191 Tolcushima Second To kush1m a Tokush,ma WaJ\k1 Tokushima ltano Tokush,ma M1ma
Factory Manager Factory Manager Factory Manager Factory Man,19cr Factory Manager Factory Manager Factory Manager Factory Man,19cr
(05HMS managttJ (OSIIM5 au1n•f) (05IIMS 111ana,ge-f) (OSHMS mar\6gtf) (OSHMS managtf) (OSHMS manager) (OSHMSmanagtf) (OSHMS managtt)
I I I I I I I I
Health and Health and Health and Health and Health and Hc,1lth and Health and Health and
Safety Sec:retanat Safety Secretanat Safety Secretanat Safety Secretanat Safety Sccret1m1t Safety Secretanat Safety Secretariat Safety Secretanat
(OSHMS •an,,ge,1) (OSIIMS Man,,gtr) (OSIIMS •an,,gef) (OSHMS Man,,gtr) (OSHMS tnal\"9tr) (OSHMS 11111\"9fr) (OSHMSMan,,gtr) (0St1MS Man,,gtr)
Otsuka Pharmaceutical has established an OSHMS' and will continue to improve the workplace environment based on
company-wide policies.
OSHMS (Occupational Safety and Health Management System) is a set of measures for safety and health management aimed at preventing occupational accidents,
promoting the health of workers, creating a comfortable work environment and improving the safety and health standards of workplaces. These objectives are
achieved by establishing a series of procedures and voluntarily conducting ongoing safety and health management based on a POCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle
implemented by a business with the cooperation of employees.
64I
Approach
Evaluating and Addressing Risk
Safety and health committees have been established at locations where they are legally required. These committees meet
regularly to discuss safety and health and how to maintain a safe work environment. In addition, information is shared on risk
assessments at regular meetings to identify sources of risk.
For example, Otsuka Pharmaceutical conducts annual risk assessments to identify occupational health and safety issues at
business sites. Risk assessments are used to find potential dangers or hazards in the workplace and to eliminate or reduce
them. For each issue identified, we provide a written follow-up on the measures we implemented. We confirm that the risk has
been mitigated in the risk assessment in the following fiscal year. In addition, we are working to reduce occupational health
risks and improve the workplace environment by sharing information on social demands and onsite problem awareness, led
by the person in charge of health and safety.
Status of Occupational Accidents
2020 2021
Rate of occupational Severity of Rate of occupational Severity of
accidents occupational accidents occupational
accidents accidents
Otsuka group 1.11 0.00 0.70 0.02
Industry-wide 1.95 0.09 2.09 0.09
The Otsuka group shares examples of occupational accidents that have occurred at group companies (production and
research departments) through meetings held to exchange information on safety and health.
Communication Beyond the Company
Otsuka Pharmaceutical conducts a range of programs both inside and outside the Company to promote workplace health and
safety. One example is an annual meeting to share workplace health and safety information with partner companies.
I
Occupational Health and Safety Information Exchange Meeting
*Not held in 2020 due to the COVI D-19 pandemic.
Topic
15th "Safety and health activities in the first year of work style reform: Contributing
2019
to productivity improvement and health management"
2020 16th "Stress countermeasures amid new lifestyles: How to cope (Webinar)"
65Supplier Occupational Safety and Health
The Otsuka group recognizes the importance of ensuring occupational safety and health at suppliers in the Otsuka Group
Sustainable Procurement Guidelines. Specifically, we request that they respect human rights, ensure a safe, hygienic and
comfortable work environment, and consider the health of employees. We hold briefings every year to help our suppliers
understand the detailed content of the guidelines and have received written consent from all suppliers stating agreement
with their objectives. The Otsuka group will continue to work together with suppliers to ensure occupational safety and
health.
>
Refer to Procurement for more details.
Company Involvement in Commitments to Labor Standard Initiatives
or Frameworks
Example: Tokushima
-Tokushima Labor Standards Association (Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka
Chemical, Otsuka Foods, etc.)
Regional association: Tokushima Labor Standards Association Union Meeting~
-Naruto Labor Standards Association [Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, etc.]
-Anan Labor Standards Association [Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Techno]
-Miyoshi Labor Standards Association [Otsuka Pharmaceutical]
Improvement Case Study
Otsuka Chemical, which handles chemical substances, conducts various
workplace safety initiatives. Major initiatives include a system for swift
information sharing on issues related to factory operations among all
domestic and overseas locations, as well as regular reporting of group
safety at Board of Directors meetings. Another key initiative is Anzen
Dojo, an experience-based safety training center which opened in 2012
as part of measures to prevent occupational accidents. The center runs
Anzen Dojo, an experience-based safety training
training programs aimed at improving safety awareness for group
center
employees, employees of overseas affiliates, and third parties. Through
classroom instruction and simulations of past accidents, the center
reinforces lessons from failures and safety knowledge, sharpens
awareness of danger, and develops the ability to identify potential risks.
In recognition of its activities to improve health and safety education
and establish a safety culture through Anzen Dojo, Otsuka Chemical
received an RC Outstanding Award from the Japan Chemical Industry
Association at the 8th Annual Responsible Care Awards in 2014.
66Fair Employment and Working Conditions
HOME Sustainability Society People Fair Employment and Working Conditions
I
Basic Policy
At the Otsuka group, all activities relating to employment, such as recruiting, staffing allocations, performance evaluations,
promotions, and transfers, are carried out under a fair employment policy based on the Otsuka Group Global Code of
Business Ethics, and in accordance with laws and regulations related to human rights and labor. We do not evaluate
employees unfairly based on race, skin color, nationality, heritage, gender, gender identity, religion, age, marital status,
pregnancy, disability, or other attributes, but instead aim to empower every individual to realize their full potential by
maintaining a fair, open, and equal workplace. We ensure that nobody is forced to work against their will by implementing
self-assessments, interviews with employees, and an internal reporting system and also have committed to preventing child
labor by confirming age during the hiring process. For compensation, we pay above the minimum wage prescribed by law in
every country and region and set compensation at a fair level that references roles at the same level in each region. We
promote equal pay for equal work. For example, in Japan, part-time workers are treated based on the Act on Improvement
etc. of Employment Measures for Part-time and Fixed Term Workers to make sure there is no unreasonable disparity between
full-time employees and regular as well as non-regular workers who work shorter hours when determining the nature of work
and work reassignments.
I
Approach
Engagement with employees
Employee Representation System
The Otsuka group has introduced an employee representation system in where the opinions of employee representatives are
sought when drafting and revising labor-management agreements and work regulations. At each workplace, employees either
put their hand up as candidates or are recommended as representatives. These employee representatives are asked for their
opinions on such matters as labor-management agreements and work regulations.
*Labor unions
Otsuka group employees in some regions are members of labor unions.
67Employee Satisfaction Surveys
Otsuka group companies provide internal training on bullying and harassment for all employees, including managers. Further,
Taiho Pharmaceutical conducts an annual survey on harassment for all employees and proactively work to prevent
harassment through the creation of a system where harassment can be reported not only by someone experiencing
harassment, but by anyone witnessing it. In addition, some group companies including Otsuka Pharmaceutical and Tai ho
Pharmaceutical conducts annual employee satisfaction surveys and share its results inside the company. Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Factory holds interviews with employees as well as regular meetings of the Human Resources Department in
order to raise engagement scores, and otherwise work to improve employee satisfaction.
Local Employment
As the Otsuka group expands business globally, we are promoting activities unique to Otsuka that respect local cultures and
customs. For this reason, we believe it is important to strengthen local management, and our basic policy is to employ people
from that country or region. In addition, we are committed to appointing people from the local area to important positions
that drive the corporate management and business.
68Human Rights Initiatives
HOME Sustainability Society People Human Rights Initiatives
I
Basic Policy
The Otsuka group contributes to the health of people around the world by continuously creating new value, and recognizes
that in order to continue sustainable growth, all business activities must be founded on respect for human rights. Based on
this principle, we promote human rights initiatives across the group and work hard to consistently meet those responsibilities.
I
Approach
The Otsuka group joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2016, and the next
year signed the Women's Empowerment Principles (WEPs), which were jointly formulated by
the UNGC and UN Women as a set of principles based on which companies should voluntarily
promote the active participation of women. In addition to declaring our support for these
initiatives, we will pursue the fulfillment of our corporate philosophy with an awareness of
how social responsibility, including consideration for society and the environment, is integral
to our businesses. In 2020, we formulated the Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy in
accordance with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Based
on this policy, we are promoting human rights initiatives across the Otsuka group.
69I
Establishment of Human Rights Policy and Systems
Formulation of Human Rights Policy
The Otsuka group of companies recognizes that respect for human rights in every aspect of our business activities must be
the premise upon which we build to meet the expectations of our stakeholders, create new value, and contribute to the health
and wellbeing of people all over the world as we continue to grow sustainably. The Otsuka group supports and respects
international covenants governing human rights as set forth by the United Nations International Bill of Human Rights (the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights; the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; the International Covenant
of Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights) and the standards established by the International Labor Organization (ILO) in the
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We also support and respect the United Nations Guiding
Principles on Business and Human Rights. As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, we support and respect the
Ten Principles. Considering the content of these principles, we formulated the Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy in
December 2020, and enacted it in March 2021. In formulating the policy, we conducted a human rights risk assessment' of
Otsuka Holdings and the seven main operating companies. In the assessment, we organized, analyzed and identified the
human rights risks that we should address throughout the value chain, taking into consideration the human rights issues
specific to the Otsuka group, including those in the pharmaceutical and food industries, cases of risks that materialized in
regions globally, and the group's business characteristics. Based on that assessment, we identified the salient human rights
issues in the Otsuka group. We plan to continuously disclose our concrete initiatives for these issues on the Otsuka Holdings
website.
Risk assessment: Identification and assessment of adverse impacts (i.e., risks); the first step in due diligence.
70Promotion Framework
Human rights initiatives are necessary in various areas. In the Otsuka group, three departments-the Internal Control,
Human Resources and Sustainability Promotion departments-cooperate to promote initiatives for respecting human rights,
under the Otsuka Group Human Rights Promotion Leader (an Otsuka Holdings director).
~----A~pp_llc~atlon for~r_rN_le_w _____________~
Otsuka Holdngs Otsuka Holdings executive responsive for promotion
Board of Dlrecto11 of the respect of human ~ghts In the Otsuka Group
(otsub Ho~ Dlncto~
Sharing
Approval Proposal
Promotes Initiatives In cooperation with Directors In Charge of
three departments Group Companies
Sustanablllty Internal Control Human Resources
Promotion Dept. Dept
(Otsuka HD) Promotion
(Otsuka HD) (Otsuka HD)
Group Companies • Orchestrate flow of human rights promotion to each company through Otsuka Holdings core departments
(three departments above)
• Promote Initiatives to ensure respect f.or human rights wi .thi n each group co.mp any
. .
■■: · ■. . ■. . ■. ■.. . . ■:. ·
. ... . . . . . . . . . . .-
The Otsuka group also regularly conducts interviews at group companies on human rights risks, and has a system to
continuously monitor and address human rights risks group-wide. By practicing the POCA cycle outlined below, we make
ongoing efforts to resolve the Otsuka group's salient human rights issues.
71Human Rights Due Diligence
To fulfill our responsibility regarding respect for human rights, the Otsuka group identifies human rights issues related to our
business operations, and we continually perform due diligence to prevent and mitigate any impact, as outlined in the United
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Human rights due diligence in the Otsuka group refers to the
entire process of the POCA (plan-check-do-act) cycle outlined below, which is repeated as part of this ongoing process to
resolve salient human rights issues for the Otsuka group. The POCA (plan-check-do-act) cycle outlined below is repeated as
part of this ongoing process to resolve key human rights issues for the Otsuka group. Moreover, we hold regular internal
interviews to determine risks to human rights and have established a framework enabling a continuing response to these risks
throughout the group.
Evaluation Plan
• Interviews on Initiatives for salient Formulation of Otsuka Group
human rights Issues within the Human Rights Polley
group
Identification of salient human rights
• Reporting to Board of Dlrector-5 Issues
Formulation of plans to address
Improvement
salient human rights Issues
• Improvement and
further advancement
of Initiatives to
address salient human
rights Issues Evaluate
and Plan
improve
Execute
Execute
(Promotion
(Risk
management) and Promotion
education)
Promote Internal
understanding of
Risk Management Otsuka Group Human
• Risk management during normal Rights Polley
times • Publicize Otsuka's Initiatives Inside
• Whlstleblowlng system and outside the group
• Response to risks when they occur Education and Training
• Internal education and training
• Fostering employee awareness of
human rights Issues
Salient Human Rights Issues in the Otsuka Group
As part of our human rights due diligence in the Otsuka group, human rights assessments of Otsuka Holdings and the seven
main operating companies' were conducted from 2019 through 2020. Based on the results, we identified the Otsuka group's
salient human rights issues described below, which express our commitment to stakeholders.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Foods, and Otsuka Medical Devices
I
1) Related to Our Patients and Consumers
Otsuka Group contributes to the health and wellbeing of people throughout the world, through the creation of innovative
products and services. As a total healthcare company seeking solutions for health-related issues, we recognize our
responsibility to patients and consumers, always prioritizing the quality and safety of our products, and reinforcing our supply
chain. When issues regarding our products or services become apparent, we will collaborate with relevant departments to
collect and analyze information and develop appropriate responses, enabling us to continue to provide our valued customers
with better products and services.
72I
2) Related to Management and Employees
As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, we are committed to the elimination of forced labor and the abolition of
child labor, as we aim to create comfortable work environments in which human rights are fully respected. To maintain fair
and open workplaces, we strictly prohibit discrimination and harassment. As a total healthcare company, we strive to provide
workplace environments in keeping with the principles of health and productivity management, in which management and
employees are encouraged to take the initiative in developing and maintaining their own health.
3) Related to Our Business Collaborators
In keeping with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, we share our concerns for human rights, labor,
environment and anti-corruption with our business collaborators and engage in ongoing dialogue and consultation to ensure
respect for human rights across our entire supply chain.
I
4) Related to Society
We believe that efforts to reduce environmental issues are closely related to the issues surrounding human rights, and we will
proactively and continuously engage in initiatives that benefit local communities and general society.
I
5) Related to Our Stakeholders
To fulfill our responsibility to respect human rights, we recognize the importance of ongoing dialogue and will proactively seek
opportunities to engage with diverse stakeholders. We are also working to establish contacts and grievance mechanisms to
address any human rights issues that may come to light.
Initiatives Regarding Respect of Human Rights
The Otsuka group implements an array of initiatives to ensure that employees and other stakeholders have respect for human
rights.
Education and Awareness-Raising for Management and Employees
We are working to raise awareness of human rights among management and employees through a variety of initiatives.
• Provide annual education for all employees of group subsidiaries based on the Otsuka Group Code of Business Ethics.
• Provide annual education for all employees of group subsidiaries guided by the Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy.
• Conduct internal training on bullying and harassment (including how to respond when there has been a report of
harassment) for management and employees at each group company.
• Conduct training that incorporates units on human rights as part of personnel training.
• Raise awareness within the group using in-house newsletters and other educational materials.
• Create training materials on human rights issues in promotional materials and advertising expressions to be checked by an
organization that reviews these items, and distribute them as needed.
• Every year Tai ho Pharmaceutical conducts a survey on harassment for all employees.
Create a system allowing employees to report harassment not only when it affects them personally but also when they see
it in the workplace.
73Initiatives related to Human Rights Risks-Supply Chain Transparency
We recognize that supply chain transparency is a particularly high-priority risk as a manufacturer whose operations extend
from research and development to production and marketing. Therefore, we share with our business partners our
consideration for human rights, labor, the environment and anticorruption measures, as we strengthen our sustainable
procurement to further promote respect for human rights.
• Revised Otsuka Group Procurement Policy in 2020
• Established Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines in 2020
• As of 2021, 126 suppliers have been briefed on sustainable procurement practices. People attending these briefings learn
about the Otsuka Group Procurement Policy and the Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines and our
expectations for compliance. These events are also opportunities to stay up to date on human rights and environmental
issues and to hear about the group's initiatives.
• As of 2021, 136 companies, including some overseas, have been provided with common SAQs (self-assessment
questionnaires) published by Global Compact Network Japan. We have been conducting a survey of our suppliers since
2020 that combines the human rights SAQs and environmental SAQs that we created independently based on the Otsuka
group's business activities. In 2021, we also conducted interviews with suppliers based on the results of all SAQs.
I
Whistleblowing
Wh istleblowi ng
I
Internal Whistleblowing System
The Otsuka group has established internal whistleblowing systems at each group company to ensure that any illegal acts,
including bribery, as well as violations of policies, laws and regulations, can be quickly uncovered and corrected. Rules for
accepting reports extend beyond fulltime employees to include contract, dispatched, and parttime employees. In addition to
the internal reporting systems, we have established a reporting system at the offices of an attorney and other external
locations that can be accessed safely and anonymously and so that whistleblowers do not need to fear reprisals. Information
about whistleblowers and their reports is strictly managed, and to prevent any repercussions, information is only shared with
those who must know in order to conduct investigations and take correction action. Information on the operation the internal
reporting systems at group companies is regularly reported at meetings of the Board of Directors of Otsuka Holdings.
74Formulation of Otsuka Group Global Speak-Up Policy
The Otsuka group has established the Otsuka Group Global Speak-Up Policy with the aim of clarifying the basic
principles of the internal reporting system and enhancing its effectiveness so that employees can speak up when they
become aware of fraud, inappropriate behavior, or any action that goes against the group's values, policies, or processes,
or any other suspect behavior.
Basic Principles
• Employees have the right and obligation to report in good faith
• Information will be strictly handled
• Anonymous reports will be accepted
• Reprisals against anyone making a report are strictly prohibited
• Investigations, corrective action, and preventive measures will always be carried out for a reported violation
I
External Inquiries and External Whistleblowing Hotline
Otsuka Holdings and major group companies have established a whistleblowing hotline that accepts inquiries and opinions
from external stakeholders and general customers. Further, certain channels of the hotline also accept anonymous consulting
and reports.
I
Dialog and Collaboration
External Collaboration
The Otsuka group, as a signatory company of the UN Global Compact, is part of the Human Rights Due Diligence Working
Group1 , Human Rights Education Working Group2 , Supply Chain Working Group, and WEPs Working Group3 of Global
Compact Network Japan (GCNJ), and together with other participating companies and organizations, obtains knowledge that
can be used in the Otsuka group's initiatives.
1. Participating companies engage in activities and share information useful in their own concrete initiatives, using as reference the seven WEPs principles, which
contribute to enhancing the international competitiveness of GCNJ signatory companies and improving gender equality in Japanese society.
2. Deepening the understanding of human rights education and creating educational tools that can be used internally by all employees through teaching basic
knowledge of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, lectures by experts, case studies from other companies, and interaction
between participants.
3. Promotes the efforts of each company through lectures by experts, progress assessments of company initiatives, workshops, group work and other activities to
learn together about human rights due diligence initiatives based on the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
75I
Other Initiatives
Commitment to Children's Rights
The Otsuka group does more than work to eliminate child labor in Japan and overseas by also respecting children's right to
live, be protected, grow, and participate in society. The healthy upbringing of children as the leaders of the next generation is
exactly what we have included in our corporate philosophy and business since our earliest days. We are making every effort to
support the human rights of children in our business activities and social contribution activities.
I
Examples of Business Activities/Social Contribution Activities
• OTSUKA Health Comic Library (Otsuka Holdings)
• Visiting lectures to teach the information related to health to children and students in an easy-to-understand way (Otsuka
Pharmaceutical) I:!:
• Initiatives for sports instructors (Otsuka Pharmaceutical) I:!:
• Dietary education from the Deliciously Illustrated SketchCook education app (Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
• Teaching materials "Learning the SDGs through Plant-Based Foods" supporting the learning of elementary school students
on the SDGs (Otsuka Foods)
I◄ Back to TOC
76Quality in All We Do
HOME Sustainability Society Quality in All We Do
To help build a sustainable society, the Otsuka group, guided by an enduring philosophy of "Customers First" and "Quality
First;' pursues quality at all stages of the value chain, and promotes initiatives taking into account the environment, society
and human rights.
77-
Customer
Production . Logistics
. Service
Fields Field-Specific Quality in All We Do Challenges
Ethical Considerations in Accordance with Laws and Guidelines
Research and We comply with all relevant laws and guidelines while striving to uphold
Development bioethics and scientifically valid methodologies from the viewpoints of
preservation of the environment and safety management.
Sustainable Procurement in Cooperation with Suppliers
~eJ r:} We share the Otsuka Group Procurement Policy and Otsuka Group Sustainable
Procurement Guidelines with suppliers. We carry out robust due diligence
Procurement
when selecting new suppliers, and work with suppliers to promote sustainable
procurement with regard to legal compliance, consideration for the
environment, human rights, and other issues.
Group-wide Teamwork to Ensure Stable Supply of High-Quality Products
We comply with relevant laws and regulations, administrative instructions, and
industrial standards, and have also been working to obtain international
Production, certification for quality and food safety management standards. In addition, we
Quality Control observe the laws and regulations of each country in which we do business and,
based on GxP,* perform quality control, quality assurance and utilize our global
and Patient/
safety surveillance system to implement post-marketing safety measures, including
Customer Safety
the collection and monitoring of safety information concerning adverse events.
* GxP (Good x Practice): A general term for "Good Practice" standards (ministerial
ordinances, regulations. and guidelines) established by governments and other public
institutions for ensuring safety and reliability
Building a Logistics Foundation with the Ultimate Mission of
Ensuring Supply Stability
~ We rigorously control and maintain product quality throughout pharmaceutical,
Logistics
food product, and beverage distribution. Furthermore, we have incorporated
transportation into our business continuity planning, including registration of
vehicles for authorized access to restricted areas in an emergency.
Appropriate Promotion and Enhanced Information Access
We have established a Code of Practice that builds on the International
Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations' Code of Practice
8 and the Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association's Promotion Code for
Sales and Prescription Drugs. In addition to complying with that code, Otsuka group
R'''R
R Marketing companies also observe industry rules such as the "Guidelines for Provision of
Sales information on Prescription Drugs" and conduct sales and marketing
activities responsibly and with a high level of ethics. We have also established
an expert panel, comprising members drawn from multiple departments, to
perform reviews of marketing plans and sales promotion materials.
Sincere Response to Inquiries and Reflection in Company Activities
We have established dedicated customer contact points (staffed by specially
Customer trained personnel) that field inquiries and are tailored to the characteristics of
Service particular drugs, quasi-drugs, food products, and other respective products.
Opinions and suggestions regarding products and services are proactively shared
within the group for the purpose of product development and improvement.
78Research and Development
HOME Sustainability Society Quality in All We Do Research and Development
Quality Control
Research and and Customer
Procurement Production Logistics
Development Patient/Customer Service
5;:ifety
Ethical Considerations in Accordance with Laws and Guidelines
I
Basic Policy
The Otsuka group's multifaceted research and development-intended to discover highly innovative drugs for unmet medical
needs-is guided by our corporate philosophy: "Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide:· we also
follow high ethical standards, including those covering bioethics.
I
Promotion System
The Otsuka group has established a promotion system for basic research and clinical trials based on compliance with all laws
as well as a high level of ethics. For example, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has committees for research ethics, animal
experimentation, genetic modification safety and biosafety under the guidance of the executive director in charge of research.
The goal of our committees is to ensure the suitability of our research. We also held discussions on clinical trials from safety,
medical and scientific perspectives under the executive director in charge of development to ensure that appropriate clinical
trials are conducted.
I
Compliance in Basic Research
Research Involving Animals
The use of experimental animals to verify efficacy and safety in R&D is at times necessary. the Otsuka group complies with all
related laws, ordinances, and guidelines, and adopts experimental methodologies that respect animal life and are appropriate
from the perspective of animal welfare. As an in-house management system, we have developed and implemented rules on
experiments that involve animals, have established an Animal Experiment Committee, and properly carry out animal
experiments and breeding.
The Animal Experiment Committee evaluates whether each proposed animal experiment plan is appropriate based on the
3Rs principles. These are Replacement/avoidance or replacement of animal use, Reduction/minimization in the number of
animals used, and Refinement/minimization of animal suffering. Based on these principles, we conduct researcher education
and internal inspections and evaluations of the implementation of experiments involving animals.
79Research Involving Human-Derived Specimens
When conducting research using information or specimens collected from the human body, such as tissues or blood, the
Otsuka group complies with all laws, ordinances, and guidelines and conducts scientifically and medically appropriate
research that upholds ethical considerations. In addition, we establish committees that include outside members to ensure
the appropriateness and credibility of research. The committees do so by examining research plans, the significance and goals
of research, personal information management systems, research progress status, and research outcomes from the
standpoints of ethical and scientific validity and of protection of personal information.
Research on Pathogenic Microorganisms (Pathogens)
In using pathogenic microorganisms (pathogens) or research samples that may contain these pathogens, the Otsuka group
complies with all relevant laws and ordinances, including the Act on the Prevention of Infectious Diseases and Medical Care
for Patients with Infectious Diseases (the "Infectious Diseases Control Act"). We have also established internal regulations
regarding the safe management (handling and storage) of such pathogens and for environmental security, and work to
prevent experiment-related accidents through employee education.
Research on Genetically Modified Organisms
In experiments involving genetically modified organisms, we comply with all laws and regulations, including the Act on the
Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biological Diversity through Regulations on the Use of Living Modified Organisms (the
"Cartagena Act"). We also have an internal review committee and to prevent environmental damage from the spread or leak
of genetically modified organisms.
[Compliance in R&D by Otsuka Group Companies]
>
Otsuka Pharmaceutical (Japanese) I:!:
>
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory (Japanese) I:!:
>
Taiho Pharmaceutical (Japanese) I:!:
I
Ethics in Clinical trials
When developing pharmaceuticals, we confirm the safety and effectiveness of candidate compounds by conducting clinical
trials with the cooperation of healthy individuals and patients. To protect the human rights, safety, and welfare of clinical
subjects, discussions are held within the Otsuka group on safety, as well as the medical/scientific aspects of clinical research.
For multinational as well as domestic clinical trials, we conduct reviews from the ethical and scientific standpoints in addition
to ensuring their compliance with ethical principles and standards, including ICH-GCP and JGCP (Good Clinical Practice), an
international standard for clinical trials of pharmaceutical products. When conducting clinical trials, we follow internal
regulations, standardized procedures, and so on. As well, free and informed consent must be obtained in writing from each
person cooperating on the clinical trial. We handle personal information in the course of conducting clinical trials following
our Basic Rules for the Protection of Personal Information and other related rules.
80[Compliance in R&D by Otsuka Group Companies]
>
Otsuka Pharmaceutical (Japanese) C!:
>
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory (Japanese) C!:
>
Taiho Pharmaceutical (Japanese) C!:
Click here for details on post-sales safety measures
I
Management of Public Research Funds
The Otsuka group has formulated rules for management and control of public research funds and for prevention of research
misconduct, based on the Guidelines for Managing and Auditing Public Research Funds at Research Institutions and the
Guidelines for Responding to Misconduct in Research established by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and
Technology, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry.
[Management of Public Research Funds at Group Companies]
>
Otsuka Pharmaceutical (Japanese) C!:
>
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory (Japanese) C!:
>
Taiho Pharmaceutical (Japanese) C!:
81Procurement
HOME Sustainability Society Quality in All We Do Procurement
Quality Control
Research and and Sales and Customer
Procurement Logistics
Development Patient/Customer Marketing Servtce
5;:ifety
Sustainable Procurement in Cooperation with Suppliers
I
Basic Policy
The Otsuka group is a signatory to the 2016 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC),and considers the compact's positions
on human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption to be universal values. Our procurement is guided by the Otsuka
Group Procurement Policy, which sets out the direction for consistently upholding the UNGC's values, maintaining
sustainable procurement practices in accordance with our corporate philosophy, "Otsuka-people creating new products for
better health worldwide;• and improving corporate value while making a contribution to society.
To promote sustainable procurement, we established the Otsuka Group Procurement Policy across the Group and the Otsuka
Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines in September 2020, which we expect our suppliers to follow. These guidelines are
formed from six items: Quality, Safety, and Stable Supply; Human Rights and Labor Standards; Environment; Anti-Corruption;
Intellectual Property and Information Security; Business and Development Proposals; throughout the supply chain involved
in procurement.
82Otsuka Group Procurement Policy
The Otsuka group of companies, in accordance with our corporate vision, "Otsuka-people creating new products for
better health worldwide", and international norms, conducts procurement activities in a responsible way. Otsuka
delivers innovative, safe, secure, and high-quality products in order to contribute to the construction and
maintenance of a sustainable society, as well as to the health of people around the world.
1. Relationships with suppliers
As a collaborator with many suppliers, the Otsuka group aims to build good relationships for mutual sustainable
development through shared understanding, based on a fair exchange of appropriate information and opinions.
2. Supplier selection
The Otsuka group selects suppliers in a fair, and transparent manner based on comprehensive assessments of
supplier quality, costs, quantity, delivery terms, compliance with laws and regulations, promotion of environment
preservation, etc..
3. Responsibilities toward society
For the realization of sustainable society, the Otsuka group strives to maintain procurement activities that reflect
consideration for human rights, labor, the environment, and non-tolerance of corruption.
4. Compliance
The Otsuka group of companies observes all applicable laws and rules, and all Otsuka employees and supplier
employees must act at all times with the highest level of ethics, consistent with social norms.
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
September, 2020
>
Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines (for suppliers) ~ 97KB
I
Promotion System
The Otsuka Sustainable Procurement Task Force, which is supervised by Otsuka Holdings' directors and comprises Otsuka
Holdings and eight group companies,' was formed in 2020. The task force meets once every two months to share sustainable
procurement issues views on challenges, exchange information, and engaged in various initiatives to promote sustainable
procurement internally and externally.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Foods, Otsuka Packaging Industries, Otsuka Techno, and
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical.
83I
Approach
Embedding Sustainable Procurement through Training
We provide sustainable procurement-related training that takes into consideration human rights, the environment, and other
issues, in order to further embed the Otsuka Group Procurement Policy and Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement
Guidelines throughout the group. Moreover, specific task forces work to improve the skills of procurement staff, providing
them with opportunities to learn about sustainable procurement issues and other topics.
Implementation of Briefings on Sustainable Procurement Practices
We hold briefings for suppliers on sustainable procurement practices. Attendees learn about the Otsuka Group Procurement
Policy and the Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines, and our expectations regarding compliance. These events
are also opportunities for all parties to stay up-to-date on human rights and environmental issues and hear about examples of
the group's initiatives in action. Suppliers that agree to uphold our policies sign a pledge affirming their intention to cooperate
in achieving sustainable procurement as business partners.
Target 160 companies by 2023
Achieved 126 companies by 2021
Achievement rate 79%
Implementation of Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) on
Sustainable Procurement
Suppliers that sign the pledge conduct a self-assessment, which consists of the common SAQ published by Global Compact
Network Japan, and the Human Rights SAQ and Environmental SAQ that we have developed taking into account
characteristics of the Otsuka group business activities. Based on the results, we then conduct interviews with suppliers. Seven
companies were interviewed in fiscal 2021, with the interviews conducted remotely as a pandemic measure. The sharing of
examples of sustainable procurement practices are opportunities to learn from successful case studies, and cooperating to
address specific concerns ensures that we and our suppliers can make tangible progress toward sustainable procurement.
Target 200 companies by 2023
Achieved 136 companies by 2021
68%
Achievement rate
84Sustainable Procurement Survey Results (2021) Average Score of 136 Companies
SAQ Scoring No. of Feedback and Actions Corporate
Category Companies for Improvement governance
100%
Documented feedback on the
Level A 43 vc eh ra sr ut s o tf h r ee s ap vo en rad gin eg o c f o cm ompa pn ai nH iM that
(70% or above) ·mplemented the program.
• Conduct interviews as necessary
Documented feedback on the
Level B 13 vc eh ra sr ut so tf h r en s ap vo en rad gin eg o c f o cm ompa pn ai ne is e s that
(40 to 69%) ·mplemented the program.
• Conduct interviews as necessarv
Documented feedback on the
Level C chart of responding companies
1 versus the average of companies that
(39% or below) ·mplemented the program.
• Conduct visits or interviews
Total responses (FY2021) 57
Environment Self-Assessment (Environment SAQ) Implementation Status
The Otsuka group administers the Otsuka Group Environment Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) in conjunction with the
common Global Compact Network Japan SAQ based on a recognition of the importance of building better communication
with suppliers and other business partners and working together to reduce environmental burden throughout the supply
chain. We are increasing opportunities for dialog with suppliers and striving to further improve our efforts to resolve issues
caused by climate change.
Human Rights Self-Assessment (Human Rights SAQ) Implementation Status
We formulated the Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy in 2021, and based on a human rights risk assessment conducted at
Otsuka Holdings and the seven main operating companies, we identified the prominent human rights issues in the Otsuka
group and created the Otsuka Group Human Rights Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ). We asked the same companies
that filled out the Global Compact Network Japan SAQ to cooperate with our SAQ to identify, mitigate, and prevent adverse
effects on human rights by reviewing the results and specifying risks.
Activities of the Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement
Task Force
The Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement Task Force devises ways to
effectively communicate with suppliers through discussions with
members. In addition to briefings and SAQs, direct communication
through interviews allows us to gain a deeper understanding of the
approach of and issues facing each supplier, providing us with the
opportunity to learn best practices. We are making steady progress in
addressing supply chain issues and will continue promoting sustainable
Naoyuki Miyashita procurement throughout the Otsuka group.
Section Leader, Purchasing
Department
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
85Establishment of the Group Meeting on Sustainable Procurement
Group meetings on sustainable procurement were launched
in 2022 under top management for sustainable procurement
at Otsuka Holdings aimed at promoting activities as well as
stable procurement, related to the four areas defined by the
United Nations Global Compact: human rights, labor, the
environment, and anticorruption.
Group meeting on sustainable procurement:
Attendees include directors, executive officers and staff members from
Otsuka Holdings, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory,
Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods who are in charge
of purchasing, sustainability promotion, and IT.
Robust Global Network for Stable Supply of Prescription Drugs
Otsuka Pharmaceutical established the Global Supply Chain Committee (GSCC) in 2017 to make decisions on important
production and supply-related issues for anticancer drugs, orphan drugs, tuberculosis drugs and others to ensure a stable
supply of pharmaceuticals in the global market. Otsuka Pharmaceutical and our overseas subsidiaries are cooperating to
strengthen the supply chain. This includes the addition of manufacturing bases in 2022 to bolster the supply chain in the
global market for core products.
Joint Business Partner Audits by Pharmaceutical Companies
In the Otsuka group, four pharmaceutical companies* conduct joint business partner audits for shared suppliers of raw
materials. We began these audits in 2016, applying proprietary methodologies that include an auditor skills training program.
Joint Business Partner Audits
Through joint efforts by the Otsuka group's pharmaceutical-related
companies, we standardized business partner audits and improved the
skills of our auditors. This helps us respond to misconduct in the area of
quality, which leads to more trusting relationships with raw material
suppliers.
Yasumasa Omote
Director, Quality Assurance
Department, Headquarters for
Product Safety and Product
Assurance
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
86Production
HOME Sustainability Society Quality in All We Do Production
Research and Sales and Customer
Procurement Production Logistics
Development Marketing Servtce
Group-wide Cooperation to Ensure Stable Supply of High-Quality Products
I
Basic Policy
Production departments at the Otsuka group employ a traceability system covering all stages of the supply chain, from raw
material procurement to production, distribution, and sales, thereby enabling thorough management throughout the entire
supply chain.
I
Promotion System
At the Otsuka group, we aim to maintain a stable supply of high-quality products. To that end, our production departments
practice stringent production management that facilitates the tracing of products throughout the entire supply chain, from
the procurement of raw materials through production and distribution to sale.
To share information, hold discussions, and implement technical improvements
groupwide, managers and staff from Otsuka group factories around the world
come together for the Global Production Meeting, which has been held for over
30 years. This meeting leads to new activities that leverage the strengths of the
Otsuka group in conducting broad-ranging business activities, including
promoting information exchanges among companies.
Global Production Meeting
For day-to-day production, we know the importance of reflecting on and learning
from past performance, and for that reason we have held "Manufacturing Errors"
Workshops twice a year since 2017. These meetings bring together
representatives of group company production departments from Japan and
around the world, and are an ideal opportunity to share and learn from case
studies on manufacturing errors from each company.
87Over 30 Years of Technical Exchange at the Global
Production Meeting
The Global Production Meeting returned in fiscal 2021 after a gap of two
years due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The 2021 meeting was held on line
under the theme "New Forms of Production;• and 148 employees and
executives from 14 countries/regions participated. Case studies were
presented, including reports on remote support for the launch of a new
Ryo Harima
overseas plant and the use of an analysis system for big data used in
Vice President
production. The participants exchanged views, and joined the ceremony for
Deputy General Manager,
the 2021 Production Awards, which recognize outstanding production
Production Headquarters,
achievements.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Education system
At the Otsuka group, production departments formulate an annual education plan for each production site, provide training
on health and safety and good manufacturing practices, as well as regular training on business continuity planning (BCP) and
compliance.
88I
Employee proposals for improvement
Every company in the Otsuka group works hard to make unique proposals for improvement. As an example, for 40 years
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory has invited employees to submit proposals related to creativity, with the most useful
proposals being adopted and implemented. This system leads to company improvements and raises employees' awareness of
creativity. The event continues to spark interest even today. This fiscal year, three employees received the Award for
Creativity' for 2022 given by the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT).
Kazuma Miyamoto Junya Masamori Shuto Sekimukai
PG Department, Naruto Factory, MP-V Department, Matsushige Factory, Engineering Department, Kushiro
Manufacturing Division Manufacturing Division Factory, Manufacturing Division
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
This award from MEXT recognizes the achievement of remarkable results in R&D as well as promoting the understanding of science and technology. The Award for
Creativity is given to those who have contributed to technology improvements with outstanding creativity in their field. Employees at Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Factory have received these awards for 13 consecutive years.
Also, this year marked the tenth anniversary of Otsuka Chemical's Kaizen
Activities, in which employees submit proposals for improvements with the
goal of creating a pleasant work environment through safety and security. The
company was also awarded the 7th Tokushima Prefecture Science and
Technology Award in the creativity category for significant cost reductions by
proposing and implementing business improvements. Examples of
Yasufumi Takebayashi
improvements are given awards and this information is shared on line.
Tokushima Factory, Production HQ
Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd.
89Quality Control and Patient/Customer Safety
HOME Sustainability Society Quality in All We Do Quality Control and Patient/Customer Safety
Quality Control
Research and and Sales and Customer
Procurement Production
Development Patient/Customer Marketing Service
5;:ifety
Group-wide Cooperation to Ensure Stable Supply of High-Quality Products
I
Basic Policy
At the Otsuka group, we believe that providing a stable supply of high-quality products is part of our contribution to a
sustainable society. Accordingly, we make the most effective use of the characteristics of our businesses, which include
pharmaceuticals, foods, chemical products, and cosmetics, in the quest for a level of quality that justifies customers' faith in us.
To that end, we believe it is vital to pursue talent development across departmental borders, to maintain a reliable quality
assurance system spanning all relevant companies (which also has the advantage of enabling us to stay up to date with
changes in the operating environment), to minimize quality risks, and to undertake dynamic initiatives that contribute to
supply chain stability.
An Enduring Philosophy of "Customers First" and "Quality First"
Quality is vital in a factory and so is packaging.
We have to manufacture and market,
putting ourselves in the consumer's position.
Otsuka's founder, Busaburo Otsuka, is still referred to with fondness by
employees as "Oyaji-san" (an informal term of address often used to mean "old
man" or "father"). In 1946, when the Company began the manufacture and sale
of injection drugs, Busaburo wrote the above guiding principles to clarify what
his employees should do to ensure proper manufacturing, transportation, and
sales. Today still, these principles are on display at the Company's
manufacturing sites and other facilities, conveying our philosophy of
"Customers First" and "Quality First."
All employees of the Otsuka group will remain true to this philosophy, and now
as in the past, our responsibility as a health-related company will always be to
think of customers and quality first.
90The Otsuka group's systems for production, quality, and safety management follow all laws and regulations, administrative
instructions, and industry standards (including those prescribed by the Act on Securing Quality, Efficacy and Safety of
Products Including Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices and the Food Sanitation Act). Furthermore, we aim not only to
obtain appropriate standards certification (ISO 9001 for quality, ISO 22000, and FSSC 22000 for food safety), but also to
foster a "quality culture" that goes beyond the minimum obligations required by law. In order to ensure the stable supply of
safe and secure products to patients and customers, we have formulated quality policies for each group company, and under
the leadership of top management, we are continually working to enhance the quality of our products and services.
I
Promotion System for Pharmaceutical Business
The Otsuka group aims to both improve and maintain product quality guided by international standards in response to
requirements in laws and regulations as well as look to improve the functionality of products and ensure a stable supply. For
example, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has formulated the Policy for Pharmaceutical Quality Assurance, seeking to establish a high
level quality assurance system where all activities in all processes are based on this policy, including those undertaken by
external contracted manufacturers. The Pharmaceutical Business established global product quality policy in 2017. Activities
are carried out globally, and include ensuring the reliability of quality data and compiling procedural manuals.
Promotion System
The pharmaceutical segment of the Otsuka group complies with the Act on Securing Quality, Efficacy and Safety of Products
including Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices, and we observe the laws and regulations of the countries where we operate,
performing quality control based on Good Quality Practice1 and Good Vigilance Practice2 in manufacturing and sales, and
implementing post-marketing safety measures. Moreover, we submit all necessary reports, including those on adverse events
, to regulatory authorities, and update and maintain all required documentation (Pharmacovigilance3 ). In addition, we ensure
that all pharmaceuticals are manufactured under a quality assurance system to enable the stable supply of high-quality
pharmaceuticals. We have established a quality assurance system that complies with international standards, such as GM P4 in
each country and PIC/S5 GMP. We are also strengthening the quality control system based on the ICH Q10 Pharmaceutical
Quality System Guidelines.
1: Standards for quality assurance in production and sales (GQP). In Japan, GQP is defined in a ministerial ordinance issued by the Ministry of Health, Labour and
Welfare based on the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Act. The official name is the Ministerial Ordinance on Standards of Quality Assurance tor Drugs, Quasi
drugs, Cosmetics and Medical Devices.
2: Standards for post-marketing safety management (GVP). Good post-marketing study practice (GPSP) and GVP are elements of post-marketing surveillance. GVP
mandates the establishment of rules for the collection and monitoring of safety information, and the implementation of necessary safety measures after
pharmaceuticals and medical devices are launched in the market. In Japan, GVP is defined in a ministerial ordinance issued by the Ministry of Health, Labour and
Welfare based on the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Act. Its official name is the Ministerial Ordinance on Standards for Post-Marketing Safety Control of
Drugs, Quasi-drugs, Cosmetics, Medical Devices, and Regenerative Medicine Products.
3: Pharmacovigilance refers to monitoring of drug safety information. It helps to promote appropriate use of drugs and protect patient safety by detecting, evaluating
and preventing adverse reactions.
4: Standards designed to ensure proper manufacturing control and quality control in all processes from the receiving of raw materials to the shipment of final
products. In Japan, GMP is defined in a ministerial ordinance issued by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare based on the Pharmaceutical and Medical
Devices Act. Its official name is the Ministerial Ordinance on Standards for Manufacturing Control and Quality Control for Drugs and Quasi-drugs.
5: Pharmaceutical Inspection Convention and Pharmaceutical Inspection Co-operation Scheme (PIC/S) is the informal cooperative arrangement between regulatory
authorities aimed at the international development, implementation and maintenance of harmonized GMP standards and quality systems for inspecting in the field
of medicinal products.
91Safety Management
The Otsuka group has established a safety management system that consists of the Quality Assurance Manager, who is
responsible for the quality control of pharmaceuticals as required by the Act on Securing Quality, Efficacy and Safety of
Products Including Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices. Under this system, the Safety Control Manager responsible for
post-marketing safety management and the General Marketing Compliance Officer oversees compliance. This ensures that
actions taken for quality and safety are performed accurately. We also hold monthly debriefings for everyone from the
General Marketing Compliance Officer to management.
The Triumvirate Structure in the Manufacture and Sale of Pharmaceuticals
General Marketing
Compliance Officer
(re on, bl ovenll for qu, lity c ntrol ,nd
post marketing sa1ety management)
RePort on propased Repcrt on proposed
measures measures
Quality Assurance Manager Safety Control Manager
(re,pon• b over II for quality cuntro Jp~rat,om) (resi,on,.b,e for po -marke,ong s.,fety mLncgun,,nt)
Since 2016, Otsuka Pharmaceutical and group companies have enhanced compliance for a range of processes from
development through to the finished product. Monthly debriefings are held with the director in charge of quality in addition
to management reviews three times a year. The Nutraceutical Business holds monthly debriefings and quality assurance
meetings with the director in charge of quality as part of a thorough quality management system.
Participation in Activities to Raise Awareness of and Eradicate
Counterfeit Medicines
Annual worldwide sales of falsified (counterfeit) medicines1 are estimated at more than $75 billion.2 In developing countries,
where these medicines reportedly account for 10-30% of drug distribution, the safety of patients is seriously threatened.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical participates in raising awareness of and eradicating falsified medicines in collaboration with the
Pharmaceutical Security Institute (PSl).3 Otsuka Pharmaceutical and subsidiaries outside of Japan have formed a global
product security team that practices market surveillance and cooperation with industry and government so that medicines
reach patients through the correct distribution channels. This structure was strengthened in January 2021, and members
with expertise from production, quality, procurement, and logistics departments are participating in cross-organizational
activities.
1: The definition of falsified medicines was discussed at the 2017 WHO World Health Assembly. WHO defined falsified (counterfeit) medicines as "medical products
that deliberately/fraudulently misrepresent their identity, composition or source.
2: Growing threat from counterfeit medicines" (Bulletin of the World Health Organization, Volume 88, Number 4, April 2010, 241-320)
3: Forty pharmaceutical companies from around the world fund the Pharmaceutical Security lnstitute's (PSI) anti-counterfeit medicine efforts (information gathering,
collaboration with law enforcement, and awareness-raising activities).
92Global Quality Assurance Officers' Meeting
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory insists on manufacturing IV solutions in the country where they are sold because we believe
in supplying pharmaceuticals at fair prices for every country or region so that all people can receive medical treatment
equally, whether they are rich or poor. The Otsuka Global Quality Standards have been set to maintain high quality in every
country that manufactures our products, aiming to further improve quality. We send young engineers to other countries to
oversee production, which also presents a huge opportunity for personal growth for those employees. The Global Quality
Assurance Officers' Meeting is held every year for 15 group companies across 10 countries engaged in the IV solutions
business. IV solutions require stricter quality control than other pharmaceuticals, since they are administered directly into
the body.
While establishing a framework for exchanging safety data throughout the group, we are working as one to unify our
approach to quality assurance and steadily maintain and improve product quality.
I
Promotion System for the Nutraceutical Business
i
In 2018, Otsuka Pharmaceutical established the Quality Division for making
possible quality improvements and safety control for products in the
Nutraceutical Business. The Global Product Quality Team consisting of members
from 15 Otsuka group companies has begun formulating a common philosophy
on quality and the NC Global Quality Policy was established in 2021.
Commitment to the NC Global Quality Policy
In 2018, Otsuka Pharmaceutical's Quality Assurance Office of the
Quality Headquarters inaugurated a Global Product Quality Team, with
members from 14 Otsuka group companies from around the world
involved in the Nutraceutical Business. Otsuka Pharmaceutical's
approach to quality is rooted in, and remains faithful to, founder
Busaburo Otsuka's words: "Quality is vital in a factory and so is
packaging. We have to manufacture and market, putting ourselves in the
consumer's position:•
The key message of the NC Global Quality Policy is "Customer delight
Ken Konagai
through Quality;' which expresses the founder's sentiment in our own
Director
words and declares our common global commitment.
Office of Nutraceuticals
Quality Assurance
Quality Headquarters
Otsuka Pharmaceutical
93Promotion System
Otsuka Pharmaceutical established a Quality Assurance Office. Based on the concept of good manufacturing practice for
pharmaceuticals, the Global Product Qua I ity Team, consisting of members from 15 group companies, built an integrated
management system that ranges from identifying and investigating risk to examining the cause of issues that arise and taking
effective countermeasures. As an example, in December 2020 Otsuka Pharmaceutical formulated rules for evaluating the
quality of nutraceutical products from development to marketing to prevent risks to quality in all aspects of the value chain.
In addition, we are promoting more quality improvements, such as acquiring international certifications at production bases
to ensure global quality assurance.
94Acquisition of International Certification (Nutraceutical and
Consumer Products)
ISO 9001 Food safety
quality management system
Company name Certificate factory Others
management
system FSSC22000
Second Tokushima
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 0
Factory
Tokushima ltano
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 0
Factory
Tokushima Wajiki
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 0
Factory
t +
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Saga Factory 0
+
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Takasaki Factory 0
+
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Fukuroi Factory 0
+
Otsuka Foods Tokushima Factory 0 HACCP
+
HACCP
Otsuka Foods Shiga Factory 0 (Beverage
manufacturing line)
+
Otsuka Foods Kushiro Factory 0 HACCP
Otsuka Foods Gunma Factory 0 HACCP
Amerta lndah Otsuka cGMP
Sukabumi 0 0
(AIO) (Indonesian FDA)
+
Amerta lndah Otsuka
Kejayan 0 0
(AIO)
+
Otsuka Sims (Guangdong) First Factory,
0 0
Beverage (OSGB) Second Factory
+
Tianjin Otsuka Beverage (TOB) Tianjin Factory 0 0 HACCP
FDA,
Pharmavite San Fernando
USP-QSGMP-DSVP
+
FDA.
Pharmavite Opelika
USP-QSGMP-DSVP
+
N&S REVEL1 IFS
+
Crystal Geyser Water Bakersfield 0
+
Crystal Geyser Water Calistoga 0
Daiya Foods Burnaby SQF
FSSC22000: Food safety management system standard
HACCP: Hygiene management system
c-GMP (Current Good Manufacturing Practice): One of the food and drug quality control programs established by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
USP (United States Pharmacopeia): Quality standard for U.S. pharmaceuticals (including supplements)
BRC Global Standard: Food safety standard run by the British Retail Consortium
IBWA (International Bottled Water Association): Trade association of companies in the bottled water industry
IFS (International Food Standard) certification: Food safety standard for EU countries
95
SQF (Safe Quality Food): US food safety and quality control certilicationListen to the Customer Feedback Meetings
We collect post-marketing information on Otsuka Pharmaceutical's nutraceutical products. Feedback provided to the
Consumer Relations Office is shared with production and technology departments at monthly meetings of the Quality
Assurance Office of the Quality Headquarters. The goal is to make and check the progress of product improvements. Listen to
the Customer Feedback Meetings have been held every year since 2018, and they have gradually gotten bigger. At these
meetings, representatives from purchasing, production, quality, compliance, legal affairs, and Otsuka Holdings share
information and work to improve quality from a customer perspective.
Initiatives to Improve Product Quality through
Collaboration between Pharmaceutical and
Nutraceutical Businesses
Global Product Quality Meeting
In Otsuka Pharmaceutical's product quality operations, the Pharmaceutical Business and Nutraceutical Business jointly hold
an annual Global Product Quality Meeting. The 2022 meeting was attended by approximately 120 managers and quality
supervisors for pharmaceuticals and nutraceuticals from 12 countries/regions, including Japan, on the topic of creating new
synergies for future quality management. Participants shared information on quality-related risks in the supply chain and
their countermeasures as well as quality assurance initiatives within environmental conservation programs. In addition, a
Quality Performance Award was established to recognize quality control initiatives, and we are training more people for
quality control and to raise awareness.
Global Product Quality Meeting, Quality Achievement Award, Grand Prize
Quality Culture Secretariat' consisting of members from
Qualify Culfure Secrefarlaf
Otsuka Pharmaceutical's production, quality and quality
assurance departments
Leads and promotes "quality culture" development across divisions in the
Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical businesses.
PT Amerta lndah Otsuka's Quality Assurance Department
Developed and started operating a digital management system
that streamlines vendor management through vendor audits,
the sharing of results from incoming inspections for raw
materials and other materials online, and the centralized
management of onsite data. This initiative was aimed at
ensuring compliance with FSSC22000 Food Safety System
Certification version 5.1.
96I
Human Resource Development and Education System
In addition to regular training on quality for the employees and other people concerned in accordance with an annual plan, we
provide training on topics including: company and manufacturing site rules; safety, health and the environment; and
manufacturing management and quality control in relation to products and their manufacture. Depending on the content,
human resource development includes practical programs for learning procedures and skills.
For example, Otsuka Pharmaceutical provides education for new recruits, training to improve skills for employees in their
second or third year with the company, and training for people to confirm the content of tests, each around 10 times a year.
97Logistics
HOME Sustainability Society Quality in All We Do Logistics
Research and Sales and Customer
Procurement Production Logistics
Development Marketing Servtce
Building a Logistics Foundation with the Ultimate Mission of Ensuring Supply
Stability
I
Basic Policy
The Otsuka group handles products that relate directly to human life, including pharmaceuticals, foods and beverages. As
such, we ensure the rigorous control and maintenance of product quality throughout distribution, and actively take measures
to ensure stable supply in the event of a natural disaster or other emergency situation. The group also promotes
environmentally friendly logistics operations through measures, such as reducing CO emissions.
2
The Otsuka group company Otsuka Warehouse takes a lead role in delivering products throughout Japan and handling a part
of overseas logistics. Otsuka Warehouse has established a quality policy aimed at providing a level of quality that earns the
trust of customers and society. All employees are fully on board with our policies and comply with all provisions to maintain
and improve quality.
Otsuka Warehouse Quality Policy
1. We will pursue safe and secure services that reflect changes in the environment and social needs, and provide a
level of quality that helps us earn the trust of customers and society.
2. We will appoint quality officers at the head office and all offices to maintain and manage quality.
In addition, we will formulate targets for quality for each business site and implement an action policy to achieve
these targets. Results will be reviewed and improvements made, when required.
3. We will use a quality management system to investigate accidents and complaints, implement countermeasures,
and manage conditions until they are resolved.
Employees comply with our code of conduct regarding environmental conservation, the prohibition of unfair
trading, protection of personal information, and all other similar requirements.
98I
Quality Maintenance and Management System
Promoting Good Distribution of Pharmaceuticals
Otsuka Warehouse has set up the GDP1 Promotion Office to facilitate appropriate logistics in accordance with the GDP
guidelines for pharmaceuticals. We disseminate the principles of the GDP guidelines among personnel engaged in the
manufacture and distribution of pharmaceuticals through training and drills on temperature control during shipping and
storage, security and other quality management systems, document control, administration of outsourced processes, facility
and equipment maintenance, storage and transport operations, assessment of supplier and customer eligibility, among others.
In addition, we conduct regular training to ensure compliance with internal standards and procedures.
1: Good Distribution Practice
I
Measures to Enhance Distribution Quality
Systemization of Warehouse Operations2
Otsuka Warehouse has shifted to a paperless environment through the use of
tablets. The introduction of this information technology has enabled anyone to
work effectively in warehouse operations, reducing delays and mistakes.
Warehouse conditions can now be determined in real time, which is not possible
with conventional paper-based picking systems. This minimizes inaccurate
shipments and picking errors, leading to improved work efficiency and quality.
Warehouse navigation system
2: ID Warehouse (Otsuka Warehouse) (Japanese version only) ~
Understanding Delivery Status in Real Time3
Delivery operations that are difficult to visualize can restrict the work flow, leading to long work hours, among other negative
effects. Otsuka Warehouse standardizes specifications for the data management system to simplify collaboration and
cooperation between shippers and logistics operators. Introducing IT systems for dispatching trucks and vehicle monitoring
enables better tracking of transportation and delivery as well as improves the quality of logistics. At the same time, Al is used
to visualize delivery operations, such as automatically recommending a delivery route, in line with the goal of streamlining
work and increasing the quality of logistics.
3: ID Transport (Otsuka Warehouse) (Japanese version only) @
99I
Measures to Maintain a Stable Supply
Establishing the BCP System
Otsuka group companies coordinate with Otsuka Warehouse to ensure a stable supply of products so that business can
continue to the extent possible even during a largescale earthquake or other disaster. Business continuity is aided by having
logistics sites throughout Japan, diversified production inventory, and a robust nationwide network of sites based on securing
new locations.
Furthermore, for pharmaceuticals, a framework for business continuity planning (BCP) has been established that ensures
essential products can be delivered to where they are needed. In addition to securing stock, measures include developing an
emergency response system for transporting products, for example registering vehicles for authorized access to restricted
areas and exchanging MOUs with shippers, warehouse owners and other partners for cooperation in the transport of
emergency relief supplies.
Key Base for BCP: West Japan Logistics Center (Otsuka Warehouse)
Since 2015, Otsuka Warehouse has been operating the West Japan Logistics Center in Kobe City, Hyog o Prefecture
around two hours from Tokushima, where the main Otsuka group factories are located. The ground in the area is hard and
there is a low probability of a major earthquake. By installing private emergency power generation equipment that can
operate 24 hours a day even during a power outage due to an earthquake or other disaster, the Center can operate at full
capacity for around three days. In addition, the quake-absorbing building structure can withstand a largescale earthquake
or tremors. For this reason, we have created a BCP system, where supply can continue, by stopping products from falling
and being damaged, and buildings are prevented from collapsing.
West Japan Logistics Center Emergency private power generation facilities Seismic isolation system
100I
Environmentally Friendly Distribution
Reducing CO Emissions
2
Among measures to reduce environmental impact, Otsuka Warehouse is moving forward with a modal shift to rail and sea
transportation, which have lower CO emission intensities. Use of a reservation system for booking access times when
2
receiving and shipping at warehouses has reduced the average waiting time for drivers by more than half. Such measures
contribute to reducing CO emissions throughout the industry. Further, considering the optimal vehicles and routes for
2
diverse products and transport destinations, the company is implementing joint logistics, which combines products from
multiple companies in a single vehicle, in this way reducing the number of transportation vehicles across society.
Truck Reservation System
Otsuka Warehouse uses IT to increase efficiency in warehouses,
connecting them to pre-and post-distribution operations. Drivers can
connect with each warehouse and get an overall picture of logistics
on line in a system known as connected logistics. The aim is to resolve
some of the issues that have plagued the logistics industry. A truck
reservation system makes it possible to make reservations for unloading
times on line, in this way seriously reducing driver wait times,
contributing to lower CO emissions as well as improving the work
2
environment for drivers and addressing the issue of a shortage of
drivers and vehicles.
101Sales and Marketing
HOME Sustainability Society Quality in All We Do Sales and Marketing
Research and Sales and Customer
Procurement Production Logistics
Development Marketing Servtce
I
Basic Policy
The Otsuka group believes that we have a responsibility to deliver higher-value products and services to customers. To do
this, we will engage in suitable promotion and advertising activities that comply with all laws and regulations, and
communicate with customers in an effective way.
I
Promotion System for Pharmaceutical Business
Basic Approach and Policy
We have established standards of conduct that comply with the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers &
Association's Code of Practice and the codes of industry associations in each country and region to ensure a high level of
ethics and transparency in interactions with stakeholders, including medical practitioners, medical institutions, and patient
groups, and to meet the trust placed in us by society. For example, in Japan, every company has developed its own code' that
reflects and improves upon the Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (JPMA) Code of Practice and Promotion
Code for Prescription Drugs, mainly for sales divisions. In addition, all activities of the Otsuka group from R&D to providing
medical information and other corporate activities are subject to laws and regulations, such as the Act on Securing Quality,
Efficacy and Safety of Products Including Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices (Drugs and Medical Devices Law). We also
comply with the Fair Competition Code concerning Restriction on Premium Offers in Ethical Pharmaceutical Drugs
Marketing Industry (Fair Competition Code), voluntary codes such as the Guidelines for Provision of Sales Information on
Prescription Drugs issued by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, administrative notifications, and other guidelines.
Our compliance ensures responsible promotional activities based on high ethical standards suitable for a health-related
company.
* Otsuka Pharmaceutical Code of Practice
* Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory Code of Practice
* Taiho Pharmaceutical Code of Practice
102Promotion System
All promotional activities of the Otsuka group comply with laws, regulations, and guidelines.
For example, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, under the guidance of top management, has established a review and supervisory
committee that includes a third party and an investigation committee within the supervising department that includes
administrative and human resource sections. We have also introduced a system for regular reviews to ensure that
promotional materials comply with all appliable laws, regulations and guidelines. In the unlikely event of a violation, an
investigation is undertaken swiftly, and guidance is provided to prevent a reoccurrence.
Review System for Providing Sales Information (Example: Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
Top management
t
!
Grant authonty
Report Management
Opinion guidance
Department responsible for overseeing activities
rtela ted to providing sales informationt
Report .J. Advice Consultation ♦ Reportings Management
guidance
Review and supervisory committee Audit Department
alno.,des thud party invt-1hgal1Y1t lnvest1gat1on Comm,ttH
CCMnralttH vnllMn UM! 1u~M10ry dt!p..-1:ntMI
I
Review t1nd approve 't' Monitoring, guidance,
materials, etc. and supervision
Department and person responsible
for providing sales information
Review System for Responsible Promotion of Prescription Drugs
The Otsuka group has established a department to supervise how sales information is provided for prescription drugs to
ensure that promotional activities are conducted properly.
For example, at Otsuka Pharmaceutical, the compliance promotion committee meets once a year and includes the
participation of company presidents and other directors in the value chain. In addition to reporting results from a review of
activities related to information distribution and information training, top management are also given training. The
compliance promotion committee closely follows the advice of external members (lawyers) when providing sales information.
The Compliance Division takes charge of review and supervisory committee meetings twice a year that also include outside
experts. The meetings cover the Company's response to reviewing reports on information distribution as well as the current
state of activities. All promotional materials for prescription drugs are reviewed monthly by a committee that screens the
product information. The committee includes outside experts but no sales representatives to ensure objectivity. In addition, a
limit is set for how long materials that have passed the review process can be used, with any extension requiring a separate
review.
Further, the slides used by medical professionals for lectures are checked in advance by the Medical Affairs Department.
103Training System for the Responsible Promotion of Prescription Drugs
The Otsuka group holds regular training for all employees involved with promotions, including departments that prepare
materials, and sales representatives, with the aim of raising awareness of compliance. We also provide regular training for
employees so they can acquire knowledge of the laws, guidelines, and ethics related to the prescription drugs and other
products that we handle, as well as any other knowledge considered necessary. In the unlikely event of a violation, special
training is given as soon as possible to prevent a reoccurrence.
We provide periodic training on the Fair Competition Code, Guidelines for Provision of Sales Information on Prescription
Drugs and Guidelines for Transparency of Relationship between Pharmaceutical Companies and Medical Institutions, etc. to
those from Otsuka group companies that handle the sales and promotion of pharmaceuticals.
Implementation of Training on Sales and Promotional Activities for Pharmaceuticals
(Example: Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
Participants Main content Frequency
• Fair Competition Code, other codes, providing sales information • Once a year (basic
Medical representatives, personnel training)
affiliated with pharmaceutical sales • Guidelines on activities and transparency, ethics, systems, PMS, etc.
division, etc. • Eight times a year
(practical training)
• Important points when sharing the latest information and creating • Twice a year (general
materials to ensure compliance with advertising restrictions under training)
Personnel in charge of preparing materials the Drugs and Medical Devices Law
• Four times a year (each
specialized area)
Pharmaceutical sales division, medical • Important points to ensure compliance with Guidelines for Provision • Most months
affairs department, academic affairs of Sales Information on Prescription Drugs
department, etc.
• Ethics education (key points on compliance with guidelines) • Twice a year
Medical representatives • Around 100 times a
• Fair Competition Code, Guidelines for Provision of Sales
year (each branch and
Information on Prescription Drugs
team)
I
Approach in the Nutraceutical and Consumer Products
Businesses
Basic Approach and Policy
Sales and promotions for food and beverages are based on scientific evidence. Our basic policy is to comply with all laws,
regulations, industry standards and guidelines in every country where we provide products and services, and to be sincere in
our actions based on high ethical standards. We also partner with industry groups and government for maintaining suitable
promotions.
104Review System for Responsible Promotional Activities
The Otsuka Group has established a review system to ensure appropriate marketing and sales promotion activities in
accordance with laws and regulations.
At Otsuka Pharmaceutical, the product information committee, chaired by an executive officer and consisting of managers
from multiple departments such as administration, legal affairs, production and consumer-relations, meets every month to
review sales promotion plans and advertising materials. The secretariat, meeting under the production information
committee, which also includes staff from multiple departments, discusses individual sales promotion plans for each week.
At Otsuka Foods, the label review committee, also with people from different departments, meets once a week to review
sales promotion plans and advertising materials. In addition, a debriefing session is held each month to share with
management the content discussed by the committee. Directors from departments related to general affairs, legal affairs, and
intellectual property as well as product managers and division heads take part in these debriefings.
Training System for Responsible Promotional Activities
To instill ethical compliance at group companies, the Otsuka group conducts universal training based on the content of the
Global Code of Business Ethics, the Global Anti-Corruption Policy and the Global Conflict of Interest Policy. Officers,
employees, contract employees, and dispatched employees at each operating company attend related training once a year.
The levels of understanding of compliance and its penetration among employees are evaluated through a test during training,
awareness surveys, and other measures. We also provide employee training on responsible sales and promotions that
specifically focus on the business of each company.
At Otsuka Pharmaceutical, in addition to annual compliance training for all employees, we provide training with content
specific to business divisions as well as training on laws, regulations and guidelines related to prescription drugs. By doing this,
we are fostering an awareness of the need for strict promotional activities among all employees of a division from the
perspective of a pharmaceutical company. Employees can also check regulations on promotional activities at any time on the
company intra net.
Otsuka Foods raises awareness of compliance by sending emails on different topics twice a month and runs remote (on line)
compliance-related training for all employees five times a year to foster a comprehensive awareness of compliance.
105Customer Service
HOME Sustainability Society Quality in All We Do Customer Service
Quality Control
Research and and Sales and Customer
Procurement Production
Development Patient/Customer Marketing Service
5;:ifety
Sincere Response to Inquiries and Reflection in Company Activities
I
Basic Policy
We recognize that respecting consumer rights is an important human rights issue. Our Declaration of Consumer-oriented
Commitment, made in October 2018, establishes basic policies regarding our commitment to our social responsibilities as a
corporation, which we fulfill by pursuing consumer-oriented management and making appropriate decisions that are based on
dialogue with all stakeholders.
>
Declaration of Consumer-oriented Commitment
106I
Promotion System
Each group company establishes dedicated customer contact points for patients, healthcare professionals and general
consumers, and provides appropriate training for the employees who work there. For example, the assignment of specially
trained female operators enables us to better answer inquiries about products designed for women. This approach helps us
deepen communication with customers and provide appropriate information. Comments and suggestions regarding products
are shared with top management by the related department and reflected in product improvements.
At all company customer contact points, we work closely with related departments within the company. For example, at
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, customer feedback is sent in a daily report to the Quality and Production Divisions as well as product
managers. We work to foster a consumer-oriented approach by deepening cooperation among departments to ensure an
effective response to a problem with a product or service. In addition, when inquiries are received from the National
Consumer Affairs Center of Japan or other consumer centers around Japan, related departments and group companies work
together to respond and earn the trust of consumers.
We also communicate with stakeholders on our activities at every stage of the value chain so that our business initiatives
maintain a consumer-oriented.
Value Chain Communication with Stakeholders
The cross-group Otsuka Sustainable Procurement
Procurement Task Force communicates closely with suppliers to
promote sustainable procurement.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical's Tokushima llano Factory
and Human Resource Development Institute, and
Production
Otsuka Foods' Tokushima Factory hold online
factory tours as part of community outreach.
Quality In addition to collecting feedback through the
Control and Consumer-Relations Office, Otsuka
Patient/ Pharmaceutical collects and analyzes consumer
1
Customer comments from social media, and incorporates
- Safety these comments in product improvements.
Otsuka Warehouse, which handles the Otsuka
.
group's logistics operations, holds meetings with
transport partners as necessary to share policies
Logistics
and initiatives, and also engages in mutual
employee exchanges aimed at promoting digital
transformation and operational improvements.
Swift dissemination of information using online
Sales and tools enabled us to provide information about
Marketing pharmaceuticals and nutritional products without
compromising strict CO VID-19 countermeasures.
Group-wide Customer Service Liaison Meeting
Since 2008, we have held a Group-wide Customer Service Liaison Meeting every year under the supervision of Otsuka
Holdings directors. Meetings are attended by representatives of companies in the Pharmaceutical Business, Nutraceutical
Business, Consumer Products Business, the daily necessities and e-commerce categories, and well as from other relevant
departments. The various companies report on their customer service activities and initiatives for greater consumer
orientation, thus fostering our consumer-oriented corporate culture. The 27th meeting, held in 2022, focused on evolving
consumer trends amid social changes in the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and best practices for product improvements
informed by customer feedback.
107I
Examples of Product Developments and Improvements
Based on Customer Feedback
Product Development to Improve Food-related QOL for Those
Required Nursing Care
(EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical has established a system for sharing customer
feedback received at the Consumer-Relations Office with all related
departments, including management, in the form of a daily report.
For example, this office received feedback from a family member of a customer
requiring nursing care who has been using the iEat® for many years. This
product is for people with mastication difficulties and the person was struggling
as their physical condition worsened. EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical takes seriously
all feedback, and in response, started developing new foods that are softer and
retain their shape in the mouth while maintaining the taste and color of
traditional iEat®. The new products were launched in July 2021 as "iEat® the
shape-maintaining and softened meals".
Improvement of Containers to Make Them Easier to Hold and Open
(Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory)
05-1' and 05-1 Jelly' are produced by Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory. These products are foods for people with medical
conditions. We received input from elderly individuals, customers receiving treatment, those in need of nursing care, and
others who reported difficulty opening the cap because of weakened muscles. Based on this input, we redesigned the
container to be easier to open. Our pursuit of products that are better and easier to use was recognized with a Good Design
Award in 2020. We have also created websites that provide product information in Japanese, English, Chinese, and Spanish,
and we added QR codes to product labels that link to these websites. Currently, a Korean language site is being added.
05-1 is approved as a food for people with medical conditions and is intended to provide water and electrolytes to maintain the proper water and electrolyte
balance in people with mild-to-moderate dehydration (Approved by the Consumer Affairs Agency)
108Example of Improved Product: 05-1500 ml plastic bottle
• To make it easier to hold, the bottle was redesigned from a round shape to an angled shape that narrows in the
middle.
• A QR code was added to the label so that people can access more detailed information about the product.
• To make the cap easier to open, the grooves were made finer, and directions for how to open are indicated on the
top.
New design
Previous design
Round bottle Angled bottle with narrow section
>
QR code
Example of Improved Product: 05-1 Jelly
• Enlarged cap diameter by 5 millimeters.
New design
Previous design Larger cap makes the product
easier to open.
>
..,'1',..,otl,.11N"r11,•,,..•·
@ A"....,-.1J,..,..,
GOOD DESIGN trcl'ltlmly11••.W.td1'tlocl,_.
...- ...- ....... .i. .., ............ .
" AWARD 2020
I
~
109Improvements to Easy-to-Open Boxes (Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
At Otsuka Pharmaceutical, personnel from the Quality Division use customer feedback on products to make improvements.
One example is the Calorie Mate Block boxes now have a round perforated line on the back so they can be opened with little
effort. Based on customer feedback, the packaging was made even easier to open in March 2022 by adjusting the perforations
on the opening by a few millimeters.
Old box New box
)
Adoption of a Design that Considers Variations in Color Vision
(Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory)
ENO RAS® Liquid for Enteral Use, a line of enteral nutrition formulas (for both oral and tube feeding). which is a prescription
drug manufactured and distributed by Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory and EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical, uses a package design
that takes into consideration variation in color vision among users and makes it easier to tell product variations apart. In
recognition, the Color Universal Design Organization1 granted the product line CUD certiflcation2 in June 2020. We expect
this package design to help prevent medication errors, not only by those prescribed the product, but also by healthcare
professionals who handle the product.
COLOR
UNIVERSAL
DESIGN
1: A nonprofit organization that contributes to the realization of a society where all people can live a fairer and more culturally rich life. It widely conveys information
on color vision to the general public and organizations, evaluating and proposing improvements on color use, and improving the color environment of the real world
such that society takes into consideration the variation in human color vision.
2: Third-party certification ensuring that a product has a color scheme that is easy for many people to understand.
110A Design Easy for Everyone to Understand
Clearer Labels for Healthcare Professionals (Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
Inquiries from healthcare professionals led to a change in product labelling for Otsuka Pharmaceutical's UBIT Tablets, a
diagnostic agent for Helicobacter pylori infection. Although the package inserts state that only one tablet is to be taken during
an examination, the company received several inquiries as to whether two tablets were necessary because the product is
packaged with two tablets per box. This seemed to call for a reminder, from the viewpoint of promoting proper use and
preventing erroneous use. After consideration by the relevant departments, a warning to indicate one tablet per dose was
added to the strip package and individual boxes.
Front Side that opens Back Labelling indicating
Labelling indicating one tablet per dose one tablet per dose
Labelling indicating
one tablet per dose
Labelling That Is Easy for Consumers to Understand (Otsuka Foods)
For packaging produced by group companies in Japan, with the exception of certain products such as those with space
limitations, we ensure the understandability of labelling. In addition to information required by law, the following information
is presented: instructions for storage after opening, precautions, an easy-to-read list of allergens (mandatory and
recommended items), and a clear indication of packaging materials. Based on customer feedback, we continue to make
further improvements. For example, Otsuka Foods has redesigned allergen labelling by adding a list of allergens on the
package in a separate location from the comprehensive list of instructions and precautions. For Bon Curry for Children,
illustrations have been added to make the information easier to understand, so that consumers can purchase it with peace of
mind.
Previous design New design
'?/"'' •
1~ ••••
) A
;::~t,O)t::~ O)
.r.:.,nL,-:
111Change of Expiration Date Labeling to Prevent Food Loss
The Otsuka group aims to raise production efficiency through measures including improving production technology, flexibly
handling production volume, efficiently using raw materials, and ensuring safety and stability, thereby reducing the
occurrence of food loss. For example, Otsuka Pharmaceutical switched to month-based expiration dates and extended the
shelf life for about 90 items. In addition, Otsuka Warehouse is working to minimize disposal by introducing a system for group
employees to purchase products that would have been disposed of because they are nearing their expiration date, have some
packaging damage or for other reasons. As a result of this initiative, food loss was reduced by approximately 116 tonnes in
2021.
Extending Shelf Life and Switching to Month-Based Expiration Dates
The expiration date is the date until which a product can be enjoyed with no change in quality if the container or bag
is stored unopened in the way prescribed. Otsuka Pharmaceutical seeks to reduce food loss by extending shelf life
and switching to labels that indicate the expiration date by month rather than day. Month-based expiration dates are
meant to signify quality until the last day of the month indicated, enabling shelf lives of up to one month longer.
Reference: Example of an expiration date printed for a product manufactured on October 10, 2020
By day (previous format) By month (new format)
2021. 10. 09 2021. 10
►
Two-digit year. Month. Day Year. Month
Labeling to Ensure Proper Nutrition (Nutrition and Sante)
Nutrition and Sante (N&S), which offers a range of healthy nutritious foods in more than 40 countries worldwide, mainly in
Europe, seeks to deepen consumers' understanding of food and nutrition. For example, since 2020 the Nutri-Score nutritional
rating system has been applied to all N&S products (excluding lsostar ® brand products) so that consumers have a better
understanding of a product's nutritional rating. The Nutri-Score system, a five-level scale (A to E) rating the nutritional quality
of products, was started in France and has now been introduced in many European countries. The goal is to help consumers
make healthier product choices based on nutrition, which is expected to help reduce the risks of developing cardiovascular
disease, obesity, and diabetes. N&S aims to achieve a Nutri-Score rating of C or higher for all products.
NUTRI-SCORE
112Release of Eco-Friendly Label-free Bottles (Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
In recent years, along with growing environmental consciousness, the Consumer-Relations Office at Otsuka Pharmaceutical
has received an increasing number of inquiries and requests for labels that can be removed more easily from emptied PET or
glass bottles. In Japan, although it is not necessary to remove paper labels before recycling bottles, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
launched a label-free version of Oronamin C Drink in July 2021, a first in Japan for bottled beverages, in response to
consumer concerns.
Shift to Eco-Friendly Packaging (Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
We responded to consumers indicating they would like more eco-friendly packaging in a questionnaire conducted regularly
by the department in charge of online sales at Otsuka Pharmaceutical, So, in July 2021 the Company started to use paper in
place of plastic for cushioning in packages. This change is expected to reduce plastic consumption by approximately 270 kg
per year.
Plastic cushioning Paper cushioning
►
113I
Examples of Stakeholder Engagement
Remote Factory Tours (Otsuka Pharmaceutical's Tokushima ltano
Factory)
The Tokushima ltano Factory, which produces pharmaceuticals and SOYJOY products, introduced remote (online) factory
tours when onsite tours became difficult due to COVID-19. In fiscal 2021, 690 students from eight nearby elementary schools
and special needs schools and six high schools and universities took part. Participants saw a video of the SOYJ OY production
process as well as hear explanations about Otsuka Pharmaceutical and the factory itself. Many students commented on how
interesting it was to see the factory from above in drone shots and that the factory was operating in harmony with nature with
various living creatures in the biotope,' including an endangered species, the golden venus chub. Others said that the remote
tour stimulated their desire to learn more about the environment, including litter in the sea.
Running a remote factory tour (Tokushima ltano Factory)
The word biotope, from the German words bias (meaning life) and topos (meaning place), refers to an area where native species can continue to thrive. At the
Tokushima ltano Factory, many creatures live in the pond that is filled with the cooling water that we use.
Resolving Local Health Issues through Partnerships with 47
Prefectures (Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
Leveraging knowledge gained through product R&D and health-related education, the Nutraceuticals Division of Otsuka
Pharmaceutical has collaborated with local governments across Japan to resolve local issues that include countermeasures
for heat disorders, dietary education, sports promotion, women's health issues as well as disaster prevention and support.
Partnership agreements have been concluded with all 47 prefectures, and the range of activities has grown to include cities
and other municipalities who are focused on health promotion for local populations.
We have also started initiatives to resolve other local health issues by using our knowledge in medical-related fields. In
addition to support being provided by the Nutraceuticals Division, such as distributing information on products and health,
we are also collaborating with local governments in areas that include mental health, which has been intensifying alongside
the spread of COVID-19.
114Providing Information on Disease Prevention, Home Medical Care,
and Nursing Care (Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory)
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory uses knowhow in intravenous solutions and clinical nutrition for projects taken on together
with local governments by providing detailed information ranging from disease prevention to home medical care and nursing
care. A partnership agreement on preventive medicine was signed with Ono City, Hyogo Prefecture in September 2020 and a
comprehensive partnership agreement was signed with lmizu City, Toyama Prefecture in October 2020.
Online Lectures on SDGs, Cancer and Drug Discovery for Junior High
Schools (Taiho Pharmaceutical)
Taiho Pharmaceutical often collaborates with local governments where there are research and production bases. For
example, the Tsukuba SDGs Partners agreement concluded with Tsukuba City. In 2021, online lectures were held for junior
high schools in lbaraki Prefecture, through this partners program. The lectures included an introduction to sustainability by
public relations staff, an explanation of cancer and drug discovery by a researcher, and a description of work at a corporate
venture capital company by an employee of Tai ho Ventures, a subsidiary of Tai ho Pharmaceutical that invests in bio startups.
A short video on the Tsukuba area was also shown during the lectures. These lectures provide an excellent platform for two
way communication with students interested in pursuing a career in medicine.
High Hopes for Deeper Permeation of
Consumeroriented Management
I have the deepest respect for the people of the Otsuka group, who
work hard to create a sustainable society together with consumers,
inspired by the ideal of ethical consumption founded on three key
concepts: the environment, workers' rights and happiness, and the
community. In an age when we can no longer count on the future being a
direct extension of the past, I am convinced that the Otsuka group's
consumer-oriented management style, imbued with a spirit of altruism
Prof. Izumi Kado and defined by diverse, in-depth and, ethical communication with all
Department of Business and stakeholders, will come to be shared widely around the world.
Communication,
Shikoku University, Junior College
I◄ Back to TOC
115Governance
HOME Sustainability Governance
I
Policy
In addition to improving management soundness, we work to enhance our corporate ethics and conduct appropriate risk
management.
Otsuka Group's Materiality and Related SDGs
Materiality Social Issues Our Goals Our Activities ..Rela.ted
SDGs
Strengthening corporate governance 11111
Fragile governance
Long-term improvement of corporate Thorough compliance
Governance system
value Risk identification, evaluation and
Social change risk
management
L
116Corporate Governance
HOME Sustainability Governance Corporate Governance
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. ("the Company") is committed to promoting sustainable increase of its corporate value over the
medium to long term by realizing its corporate philosophy, "Otsuka-people creating new products for better health
worldwide:' To meet this commitment, it adopts a basic policy of making transparent, fair and timely decisions, and fulfilling its
corporate social responsibility by living up to the expectations of all stakeholders, including customers, business partners,
employees, local communities, and shareholders, through ongoing dialogue.
I
Initiatives to Strengthen Corporate Governance
2008 • Establishment of Otsuka Holdings
• Term of directors set at one year
• Decision not to adopt a directors' retirement benefits system
• Corporate officer system adopted
• Two outside Audit & Supervisory Board members
2010 • Three outside Audit & Supervisory Board members
• Stock options as performance-linked remuneration introduced
• Stock publicly listed in December
2011 • First Medium-Term Management Plan announced
2013 • Two outside directors; three outside Audit & Supervisory Board members
1172014 • Second Medium-Term Management Plan announced
• Three outside directors; two outside Audit & Supervisory Board members
• Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics established
• Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy established
2015 • Corporate Governance Guidelines established
• Internal whistleblowing system (for Otsuka Holdings and major group companies) established,
with reporting to an independent body outside the Company
2016 • Three outside directors; three outside Audit & Supervisory Board members
• Effectiveness of Board of Directors evaluated
• System for granting stock options conditional on progress with the medium-term management
plan introduced
2017 • Corporate Governance Guidelines revised
• Corporate Governance Committee established
• Started to evaluate the effectiveness of the Board of Directors based on questionnaires
completed by all directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members
• Started to hold reporting meetings for outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory
Board members to improve their understanding of the group's management and business
2018 • Twofemaledirectors
• Corporate Governance Guidelines revised
2019 • Third Medium-Term Management Plan announced
• Restricted stock-based compensation plan introduced
2020 • Four outside directors; three female directors
• Otsuka Group Global Conflict of Interest Policy established
2021 • Corporate Governance Guidelines revised
• Otsuka Group Global Anti-Fraud Policy formulated
• Accounting auditors changed
2022 • Otsuka Group Global Speak-Up Policy formulated
• Five outside directors; three female directors
118Governance Structure
HOME Sustainability Governance Corporate Governance Governance Structure
I
Overview of Corporate Governance Structure
The Company has adopted the audit and supervisory board structure defined by the Companies Act, and as such has a Board
of Directors and an Audit & Supervisory Board. It has also engaged an accounting auditor. Furthermore, as an advisory body
to the Board, the Company has established the Corporate Governance Committee, consisting of the president, the director in
charge of administration, and all outside directors. The Committee makes reports on matters relating to corporate
governance, including the nomination of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, and the remuneration system
and remuneration standards for directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members.
The Articles of Incorporation stipulate that the number of directors shall not exceed 18, and that the number of Audit &
Supervisory Board members shall not exceed five. The Company's corporate governance structure is illustrated in the
diagram below.
Consults Operational audits d' . d
Corporate Accounting audits Au 1t & Supervisory Boar
Governance Recommends +-------f (4 Audit & Supervisory Board
members; 3 of whom are
Committee outside members)
'
• _ (Cooperates with) _______ • : (Cooperates with)
: Accounting audits~---- ----~
Accounting Auditor
'
'
(-! I
< ·----------------------'
(Cooperates with)
-
Subsidiaries (Shareholders' Meeting, Board of Directors. Audit & Supervisory Board Members, etc.)
I
Reasoning behind Corporate Governance Structure
With the aim of promoting the sustainable growth of the Company and increasing corporate value over the medium to long
term, the Board of Directors, which also includes outside directors, advances the execution of management plans, supervises
the Company's management, and also assumes roles and responsibilities related to enhancing profitability and capital
investment efficiency. The Company secures its soundness and has established a solid corporate governance structure that
lives up to social expectations by ensuring that the Audit & Supervisory Board and its members, which are independent from
the directors, can audit the directors' performance of their duties in collaboration with the accounting auditor, as well as the
Internal Audit Department.
119Directors and the Board of Directors
Guided by the Board of Directors Regulations, the Board of Directors convenes regularly (once a month) and holds
extraordinary meetings as necessary to make important business decisions and supervise the execution of operations. As of
March 30, 2022, there were 13 directors, five of these were outside directors. To clarify executive responsibilities for each
fiscal year, the term of directors is set at one year.
I
Director Selection Criteria
The Company aims to become "an indispensable contributor to people's health worldwide" by targeting sustainable growth
and enhanced corporate value over the medium to long term. Toward this aim, the Company works to ensure the overall
diversity of directors, and appoints people with the insight, expertise, and experience needed to realize and maintain
appropriate and effective corporate governance. For internal directors in particular, we comprehensively evaluate the
experience, expertise, insight, and other attributes of candidates to ensure that they have the qualities needed to implement
the group's corporate philosophy, Code of Business Ethics, and management strategies.
I
Major Matters Deliberated by the Board of Directors
Category Major reports and discussions in fiscal 2021
• Monitoring of progress of consolidated results and plan
• Discussions on current conditions and issues regarding the performance of each
Business performance and plan
operating company and business segment
• Monitoring of progress of Medium-Term Management Plan
• Identification of issues in improving the effectiveness of the Board of Directors
• Approval of officer election and remuneration
Corporate governance • Monitoring of subsidiary activities
• Confirmation of progress of measures to reinforce group governance
• Review of cross-shareholdings
• Formulation of group energy strategies
• Approval of support for the recommendations of the Task Force on
Climaterelated Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
• Confirmation of the status of execution of programs for cultivating management
Sustainability
personnel
• Formulation of 2050 Environment Vision, "Net Zero" and approval of revised
material issues
• Approval for joining the RE100 international initiative
• Discussion of a license agreement for joint development and commercialization
by Otsuka Pharmaceutical, and Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma (now Sumitomo
M&A and partnerships
Pharma) and its U.S. subsidiary Sunovion Pharmaceuticals
• Discussion of Pharmavite's acquisition of Uqora 120• Approval of internal control reports, update on implementation of global training
programs and on confirmation of conflicts of interest, and approval of activity
reports and activity plans
• Annual reporting on internal whistleblowing system (whistleblowing system
improvement status, number of reports and overview) and approval of action plan
Risk management
• Formulation of new global policies (Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy, Otsuka
Group Global Anti-Fraud Policy and Otsuka Group Global Speak-Up Policy)
• Reporting on ERM monitoring activities
• Reporting on progress of initiatives to reinforce overseas crisis management
• Formulation of funding policy
Financial strategy • Discussions of new capital investments
• Formulation of dividend policy
• Reinforcement of cyber security measures
IT
• Reporting on Otsuka group IT activities, etc.
Corporate Governance Committee
Otsuka Holdings established the Corporate Governance Committee in February 2017. As an advisory body to the Board of
Directors, the committee discusses matters relating to the enhancement of the corporate governance structure, including the
nomination of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, as well as succession plans and the remuneration system
and remuneration levels for directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, and reports the results of its deliberations to
the Board of Directors. The committee has seven members: the president, the director in charge of administration, and all
outside directors (five as of March 30, 2022). The president serves as the chair of the committee.
I
Content of Deliberations
(1) Nomination
The Corporate Governance Committee discusses the validity and fairness of matters related to the appointment and
dismissal of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, and reports to the Board of Directors. Regarding
candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board members, the committee obtains approval from the Audit & Supervisory Board
prior to reporting to the Board of Directors.
Candidates are those put forward by the representative director(s).
(2) Remuneration
The Corporate Governance Committee discusses matters related to the remuneration system and remuneration standards
for directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, and reports to the Board of Directors.
(3) In addition, the Committee deliberates on matters related to the enhancement of the corporate governance structure,
and reports to the Board of Directors as necessary.
121Audit & Supervisory Board
Audit & Supervisory Board members attend and express opinions at meetings of the Board of Directors, and monitor the
performance of duties of directors in terms of legal compliance and soundness of management through audits. As of March
30, 2022, there were four Audit & Supervisory Board members (including three outside members).
To ensure the effectiveness of auditing by Audit & Supervisory Board members, systems have been established by which
Audit & Supervisory Board members can interview directors and employees about the status of business execution, review
internal consultation documents and other important documents pertaining to business execution, and promptly receive
reports on the execution of operations when requested. The Statutory Auditor's Office has been established to assist the
duties of Audit & Supervisory Board members.
It convenes meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board and assists in the duties of Audit & Supervisory Board members
independent of directors' authority.
Internal Audit Department
The Company's Internal Audit Department reports directly to the president. The department regularly conducts audits based
on the Internal Audit Rules to verify that operations are being executed appropriately and efficiently with regard to the assets
and business of the Company and its affiliated companies. The department submits audit reports to the president, directors,
and Audit & Supervisory Board members. Where there is need for improvement, the department recommends remedial
actions and later confirms their implementation, thereby contributing to the optimization of business execution.
Internal Control Department
The Company views internal controls as an integral component of corporate governance that functions together with
compliance and risk management, and has established the Internal Control Department as the department in charge of
compliance and risk management to improve the internal control system. The Internal Control Department promotes the
Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics and other Otsuka group global rules at Otsuka Holdings and its affiliated
companies. It also works to establish and promote compliance programs and risk management programs at each company.
The status of the establishment and operation of those programs is regularly reported to the Board of Directors, the Audit &
Supervisory Board, and the accounting auditor.
The Internal Control Department handles internal controls regarding financial reporting by the Company and its affiliated
companies. The department formulates rules and manuals pertaining to internal controls, provides training, and ensures that
employees thoroughly understand operational rules. The department also works in cooperation with the Internal Audit
Department to continuously monitor the status of operations. This is the basis of an internal control system under which
management personnel can be reliably evaluated.
Accounting Auditor
Otsuka has concluded an audit contract with KPMG AZSA LLC to serve as our accounting auditor, and we receive accounting
audits from a fair and unbiased standpoint.
122Board Members
In order to establish an effective corporate governance structure that supports sustainable growth, the Company appoints
individuals with wide-ranging business experience, advanced expertise in broad fields, and extensive knowledge, as directors
and Audit & Supervisory Board members. The table below summarizes areas of experience and expertise of directors and
Audit & Supervisory Board members.
* Please see our web pages for Board Members.
For further information on each director and Audit & Supervisory Board member, including a skill matrix, reasons for
nomination, and significant concurrent positions outside the Company, please see respective the Notice for the Calling of the
Annual Shareholders' Meeting.
Evaluation of Effectiveness of Board of Directors
During January and February 2022, the Company conducted a questionnaire survey of all directors and Audit & Supervisory
Board members. Results of the survey were reviewed by a company attorney, and then considered and evaluated at the Board
of Directors meeting in March 2022.
Questionnaire items were as follows.
(1) Composition of the Board of Directors
(2) Each director's understanding and knowledge of business fields and specific management strategies and plans
(3) Cooperation with outside directors
(4) Cooperation with the Audit & Supervisory Board
(5) Operation of Board of Directors meetings
(6) Governance-related matters
i. Function of the Board of Directors in determining the direction of management strategy
ii. Monitoring of each business with respect to the execution of management strategy
iii. Understanding of the perspectives of major investors and stakeholders
iv. Risk management
v. Cooperation and information sharing with each operating company
(7) Support system for outside directors
(8) Operation of the Corporate Governance Committee meetings (frequency, agenda, etc.)
(9) Overall functioning of the Board of Directors from the perspective of effectiveness
123Summary of Evaluation in Fiscal 2021
The overall opinion was that improvements have been made from the previous year, and that the Board of Directors
is functioning appropriately from the standpoint of effectiveness.
Nonetheless, the results confirmed the need for ongoing efforts to make further improvements in areas such as the
role of the Company as a holding company, approaches for fully coordinating and sharing information with
subsidiaries, and the stance of the Company with respect to investors and other stakeholders.
Status of Outside Officers
I
Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members
The role of outside directors is to strengthen the Board's governance function of supervising appropriate decision-making
and business execution by providing effective advice from a neutral, objective standpoint based on their broad insight and
wealth of experience. Outside directors also verify the status of the Internal Control Department as necessary, and
strengthen and enhance oversight of management through their various activities at Board of Directors meetings.
The role of outside Audit & Supervisory Board members is to enhance management transparency and strengthen auditing
functions. They audit operations from a neutral, objective standpoint based on their high level of insight in finance,
accounting, legal affairs and management, and wealth of experience in business management. In striving to improve the
effectiveness of audits by Audit & Supervisory Board members, outside Audit & Supervisory Board members also share
information and exchange opinions as appropriate with relevant departments, including the Internal Audit Department,
Internal Control Department, Administration Department, and Finance and Accounting Department, as well as the
accounting auditor.
The Company believes that it appoints outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members whose
independence is secured and who have extensive experience and a high level of insight in business management.
Standards for appointing outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board
members
When appointing outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members, the Company looks for individuals with
a wealth of knowledge and extensive experience in a variety of fields. The Company requires that candidates have the ability
to adequately exercise management oversight functions through fair and objective monitoring, supervision, and auditing of
management from a neutral and objective viewpoint. The Company recognizes that one standard for ensuring neutrality and
objectivity is independence from management, and therefore requires that candidates have no relationship with the
Company that could lead to a conflict of interest with ordinary shareholders. The Independence Standards for Outside
Directors are defined in our Corporate Governance Guidelines, and form the basis for judgments on the independence of
outside directors. In addition, we require that they have not previously been engaged in the execution of operations at any
Otsuka group companies. These standards also form the basis for judgments on the independence of outside Audit &
Supervisory Board members.
124I
Independence Standards for Outside Directors
The Company determines that an Outside Director is independent if none of the following applies:
(1) A person who is a relative within the second degree of kinship of an Outside Director is currently or has been in the past
three fiscal years a managing director, executive officer, executive operating officer or important employee (each an
Executive) of the Company or one or more of the Company's subsidiaries.
(2) A company to which an Outside Director belongs as an Executive has transactions with the Otsuka group of companies,
in which the amount of such transactions in any fiscal year within the past three fiscal years exceeds two percent of
consolidated revenue of either company.
(3) An Outside Director, as a legal, accounting or tax expert or as a consultant, has received remuneration exceeding five
million yen per fiscal year directly from the Otsuka group (excluding remuneration as the Company's Outside Director) in
any fiscal year within the past three years
(4) The amount of donations to a non-profit organization to which an Outside Director belongs as an Executive has
exceeded 10 million yen in total for the past three fiscal years and such amount exceeds two percent of the income of such
non-profit organization.
Mutual Cooperation Between Supervision/Audits by Outside Directors/Outside Audit
& Supervisory Board Members, and Internal Audits, Audits by Audit & Supervisory
Board Members and Accounting Audits, as Well as Relationships with the Internal
Control Department
Mutual cooperation between outside directors and the Internal Audit Department is enhanced through regular exchanges of
information (including information exchanges with the independent accounting auditor and the Internal Audit Department)
and discussions on management by outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members.
The Company holds regular briefing sessions for outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members on such
matters as the status of business operations and industry conditions. In addition, to deepen their understanding of the group's
businesses, outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members are provided with explanations of group
businesses and opportunities to visit manufacturing, R&D and other sites as appropriate.
Succession Plan
The Company continues to develop and implement executive human resource development programs to identify talented
personnel early and systematically nurture next-generation management candidates equipped with the qualities and skills
called on by the corporate philosophy. The status of these programs is regularly reported to the Board of Directors.
125System to Ensure Appropriate Business Operations in
the Corporate Group Comprising Otsuka Holdings and
Its Subsidiaries
As a holding company whose role is to maximize the Otsuka group's corporate value, Otsuka Holdings has established a
system to ensure appropriate business operations from the perspective of the group as a whole.
We have established a system for facilitating cooperation in the Otsuka group. Under this system, affiliated companies report
to Otsuka Holdings as necessary regarding items specified in the Affiliated Company Management Regulations, and obtain
approval on relevant important items.
Otsuka Holdings and its main subsidiaries have adopted an audit and supervisory board system and appointed Audit &
Supervisory Board members, who audit the directors' performance of duties to increase their effectiveness. Audit &
Supervisory Board members attend Board of Directors meetings as well as other important meetings, and monitor the
performance of duties of directors in accordance with audit policies and audit plans. As a general rule, meetings of group
companies' Audit & Supervisory Boards are held four times a year to share information, strengthen coordination, and report
on each company's business conditions.
Additionally, the Internal Audit Department of Otsuka Holdings, pursuant to the Internal Audit Rules, supervises or conducts
audits that also include affiliated companies. In this way, the Company has established a cross-company risk management
system and compliance system that ensure appropriate business operations throughout the group.
I
Status of Risk Management System
To defend against potential risks relating to the performance of duties, Otsuka Holdings has established rules regarding risk
management, provides thorough risk management training to all employees, and has established a risk management system.
In the event of an unforeseen risk event, the Company will respond promptly, set up committees to manage each category of
risk as needed, and establish a system to minimize the spread of damage.
>
Risk Management
126Remuneration for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board
HOME Sustainability Governance Corporate Governance Remuneration for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members
I
Basic Policy
The Company's remuneration plan for directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members is designed to achieve sustainable
growth and enhanced corporate value over the medium to long term for the group based on the corporate philosophy, while
also ensuring that functions such as business execution and management supervision are exercised appropriately, maintaining
transparency and fairness.
Remuneration Levels
Considering the need to acquire and motivate outstanding personnel who will take responsibility for the Company's global
business activities, the Company sets remuneration levels fully commensurate with the roles and responsibilities expected of
such personnel, while also considering levels at companies that the Company considers benchmarks based on the scale,
industry, and business model.
Remuneration System
With regard to remuneration for directors responsible for business execution, the Company has formulated a remuneration
system that is closely linked to performance in individual fiscal years, as well as over the medium to long term, while
emphasizing sustainable enhancement of corporate value. Remuneration consists of fixed remuneration as basic
remuneration, performance-linked bonuses, and share-based payments, emphasizing the link to shareholder value.
Remuneration for outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members comprises only fixed remuneration as basic
remuneration in light of their duties.
Method of Determining the Content of Remuneration of Individual
Directors
The Board of Directors receives recommendations on the appropriateness of the remuneration system and remuneration
levels, and the performance evaluation for performance-linked bonuses and share-based payments from the Corporate
Governance Committee, which consists of the president, the director in charge of administration, and all outside directors.
Based on these recommendations, the Board determines the individual remuneration for directors as follows.
• The president is delegated with deciding the specific payment amounts of individual fixed remuneration as basic
remuneration to directors and individual performance-linked bonuses for each director (excluding outside directors)
pursuant to resolution of the Board of Directors. In accordance with this delegation, the president makes the final decision
on remuneration amounts based on deliberation and reports by the Corporate Governance Committee regarding
remuneration levels.
127
• • Individual share-based payments for each director (excluding outside directors) are determined by resolution of the
Board of Directors based on reports on performance evaluation, etc. by the Corporate Governance Committee.I
Content of Remuneration to Directors (Excluding Outside Directors)
Remuneration Payment method Remuneration content
type FixedNariable (Including policy for determining timing or conditions of remuneration)
Fixed • Remuneration for directors of the holding company is determined based
remuneration
on their duties and responsibilities including formulation of group
strategies, monitoring group operations, and strengthening corporate
governance.
• Remuneration for directors who serve concurrently as directors of
Cash/ subsidiaries that are operating companies is determined based on their
Fixed duties and responsibilities including execution of business based on
group strategies formulated by Otsuka Holdings, formulation of
strategies for operating companies, and strengthening corporate
governance. (Remuneration shall not to exceed the upper limit of
remuneration resolved at the Shareholders Meeting.)
• Fixed remuneration is paid out equally every month.
Performancelinked • Remuneration is paid in a lump sum at a certain time every fiscal year,
bonus
with the amount or calculation method determined based on (1) rate of
achievement of the fiscal year's targets for consolidated revenue,
Cash/ consolidated operating profit, and consolidated business profit before
Variable R&D expenses; (2) progress with respect to medium-to-long-term
consolidated performance targets; and (3) appropriate business
management in compliance with corporate governance, along with the
individual's personal performance.
Share-based • The Company has introduced a share-based payment plan that reflects
payment
progress in achieving the targets in the Third Medium-Term
Management Plan covering the period from fiscal 2019 to fiscal 2023.
• Under the plan, restricted stock allocation agreements stipulating
conditions including transfer restrictions for a set period are concluded
with the grantees. The plan is designed to function as an effective
remuneration system by combining multiple release conditions for the
Non-cash (restricted
stock)/ transfer restrictions, including a set performance evaluation period and
Variable
performance achievement, and by, in principle, granting restricted stock
requiring evaluation of performance over several fiscal years at the same
time in the first fiscal year.
• Specifically, stock is granted each fiscal year for items requiring
evaluation of performance in a single fiscal year, and at the same time in
the first fiscal year of the evaluation period for items requiring
evaluation of performance over several fiscal years.
128I
Overview of non-cash remuneration (restricted stock)
To determine the number of shares to be allocated to grantees of restricted stock, a standard number of shares is set for each
fiscal year for each individual, giving consideration to his or her performance of duties, responsibilities, and the weighting
versus fixed remuneration as basic remuneration. Based on this standard number of shares, shares are allotted for each series
each fiscal year or at the same time in the first fiscal year of an evaluation period of several fiscal years, according to the
specified release conditions.
The restricted stock allocation agreements concluded with the grantees stipulate that in certain cases, the transfer
restrictions on restricted stock shall not be released and the Company shall acquire all of the restricted stock without paying
compensation.
For example,
• if a director of the Company retires before the end of the transfer restriction period, the Company shall acquire without
paying compensation all of the director's restricted stock upon the retirement of the director, except when the Company
recognizes a just reason, such as completion of the term of office or death;
• if a director retires before the end of the transfer restriction period due to a just reason, such as completion of the term of
office or death, the number of shares of restricted stock to be released and the timing of the release shall be reasonably
adjusted as necessary, and the Company shall acquire without paying compensation all of the shares for which it has
decided that the transfer restriction is not to be released; or
• if the performance-based release conditions have not been met, the Company shall acquire without paying compensation
all of the shares for which it has decided that the transfer restriction is not to be released.
129Allotment ratio Fiscal year for Summary of release conditions
evaluation and
allocation timing
Series A On condition of incumbency in the
(Incumbency condition) r subject fiscal year (single fiscal
year)
Allocated each year,
(However, the shares will not be
40% of the standard taking a single fiscal
released if the combined
number of shares year as the evaluation
consolidated revenue and
period
consolidated operating profit
target achievement rate is less
than 80%)
Series B Evaluation Period 1 is
(Achievement of medium-term the three fiscal years
performance targets) from fiscal 2019
In each evaluation period, the
through fiscal 2021,
value of (2) below may not fall
with the shares for
below the value of (1)
the three years
(1)The cumulative amount of the
allocated at the same
planned value of "consolidated
time at the start of
business profit before R&D
30% of the standard the period
expenses" of the Third Medium
number of shares Evaluation Period 2 is
Term Management Plan
the two fiscal years
(2)The cumulative amount of the
from fiscal 2022
actual value of "consolidated
through fiscal 2023,
business profit before R&D
with the shares for
expenses" for the evaluation
the two years
period
allocated at the same
time at the start of
the period
Series C Evaluation Period 1 is
(Satisfaction of the medium-term the three fiscal years
cost of capital condition) from fiscal 2019
through fiscal 2021, In each evaluation period, the
with the shares for value of (2) below may not fall
the three years below the value of (1)
allocated at the same (1) The cumulative amount of the
time at the start of "consolidated cost of capital"
30% of the standard the period calculated in accordance with the
number of shares Evaluation Period 2 is consolidated capital cost ratio for
the two fiscal years the evaluation period
from fiscal 2022 (2) The cumulative amount of the
through fiscal 2023, actual value of "consolidated net
with the shares for operating profit after tax" for the
the two years evaluation period
allocated at the same
time at the start of
l
the period
I
Reason for selection of the indicators
For the performance indicators for performance-linked bonus, by combining consolidated revenue, consolidated operating
profit, and consolidated business profit before R&D expenses, it is possible to evaluate the results of business management
for a single fiscal year from multiple perspectives.
For the performance indicators for share-based payment, by selecting incumbency contribution for achievement of single
fiscal year financial results, consolidated business profit before R&D expenses from a medium-term perspective, and
consolidated cost of capital as evaluation items, it is possible to comprehensively evaluate the level of contribution to
increasing corporate value.
130I
Composition of Remuneration to Directors (Excluding Outside Directors)
The remuneration plan emphasizes medium-to-long-term enhancement of corporate value, and is designed so that
performancelinked remuneration as a percentage of total remuneration varies according to the Company's single-year and
medium-to-long-term consolidated performance.
As a rough guide to the ratio of remuneration by remuneration type, performance-linked bonuses are designed to be variable
over the range of 0%-100% of fixed remuneration, and share-based payments over the range of 0%-100% of fixed
remuneration. Performancelinked bonuses and share-based payments combined are roughly a maximum of 66% of total
remuneration (200% of 300% total).
Composition of Outside Director Remuneration
Remuneration for outside directors comprises only fixed remuneration, with no variable components based on business
performance.
Composition of Audit & Supervisory Board Member Remuneration
Remuneration for Audit & Supervisory Board members comprises only fixed remuneration, with no variable components
based on business performance.
I
Total Remuneration to Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members
Total amount of Total amount by type of remuneration(¥ million) Number of
remuneration eligible officers
(¥million) Fixed Performance- Share-based
remuneration linked bonus payment
Directors
764 342 129 292 13
[of which Outside
(39] (39] [-] [-l [4]
Directors]
Audit & Supervisory Board
Members
56 56 4
[of which Outside Audit &
(32] (32] [3]
Supervisory Board
Members]
Total
[of which Outside Directors
820 398 129 292 17
and Outside Audit &
(72] (72] [-] [-] (7]
Supervisory Board
Members]
l
Notes: There are no directors of the Company who concurrently serve as employees.
During fiscal 2021, outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members received total remuneration of ¥2 million from the Company's
subsidiaries for their services as directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members.
131Compliance
HOME Sustainability Governance Compliance
Legal compliance is the cornerstone of all our business activities. The Otsuka group maintains high ethical standards and
conducts its business activities with integrity in order to secure the trust of all stakeholders and achieve sustainable growth.
132Approach to Compliance
HOME Sustainability Governance Compliance Approach to Compliance
I
Basic Policy
The Otsuka group seeks to earn the trust of stakeholders and to achieve sustained growth by contributing to people's health
worldwide, acting in good faith and with the highest level of ethics in accordance with the corporate philosophy: "Otsuka
people creating new products for better health worldwide:' That commitment is encapsulated in the Otsuka Group Global
Code of Business Ethics, which outlines the standards of behavior expected of everyone involved in our work. This is
reinforced with a range of global policies that reflect our behavioral standards in core areas. Regular training helps ensure
that our compliance stance is thoroughly embedded.
Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics
The Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics is consistently applied at all of our worldwide business operations and
serves as the group's ethical foundation in pursuing our corporate philosophy. We openly convey information about our
stance on related initiatives on our website in the form of a message from the president of Otsuka Holdings. The content of
this code of ethics will be reviewed, as required, in light of changes to the social environment, and revisions will be made
following resolutions by the Board of Directors.
>
Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics
Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy
The Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy expresses and reinforces our strong commitment to conducting business
with integrity and in compliance with all anticorruption laws. We have clearly defined the ethical standards to be upheld as
the global anticorruption standard for employees. This policy outlines how to prevent, detect, and deter violations of
anti corruption laws. It sets out our global minimum standards regarding the prevention of corruption and applies this to all
our worldwide business operations.
In addition, the Board of Directors monitors the operation of the policy, which includes regulations on bribery, and decides on
key revisions and amendments.
>
Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy~ 303KB
Otsuka Group Global Conflict of Interest Policy
The Otsuka group recognizes conflicts of interest between the group and individual employees as a matter that could impact
the integrity of the organization, and one that has a great bearing on the group's future. Based on this thinking, we formulated
the Otsuka Group Global Conflict of Interest Policy to prevent such conflicts and we are working to instill the policy at a
global level.
133
>
Otsuka Group Global Policy for Conflict of Interest~ 242KBOtsuka Group Global Privacy Policy
In recent years, many countries have enacted privacy protection legislation, such as the European Union's General Data
Protection Regulation (GDPR) implemented in May 2018. The Otsuka group is working to strengthen privacy protection. In
addition to formulating the Otsuka Group Global Privacy Policy to define our stance and guiding principles on privacy
protection, we establish related rules and review management systems in accordance with the laws and regulations related to
privacy protection in each country.
>
Otsuka Group Global Privacy Policy ~ 183KB
Otsuka Group Global Anti-Fraud Policy
Corporate scandals and other misconduct not only cause short-term loss, such as penalties for violating laws and regulations,
but they have a major medium-to long-term impact on management. This impact could include damage to our brand image, as
well as lower corporate value and compensation to shareholders. We are keenly aware of the importance of taking a strict
antifraud approach as part of our business risk management. The Otsuka Group Global Anti-Fraud Policy was established to
clarify our stance and basic policy on fraud prevention as a global company. We are implementing initiatives and working to
raise awareness of this topic among executive officers and employees throughout the group.
(Basic Policy)
• Fraud is never tolerated
• Misconduct and questionable behavior must be reported without fear of discrimination or retaliation
• Sincere reports will cause no disadvantage
• Training and awareness will be conducted on the risk of fraudulent activities
Compliance Promotion System
As a holding company whose role is to maximize the group's corporate value, Otsuka Holdings has established a system for
appropriate business operations from the perspective of the group as a whole. We have established a system for facilitating
cooperation in the Otsuka group. Under this system, group companies report to Otsuka Holdings as necessary regarding
items specified in the Affiliated Company Management Regulations, and obtain approval on relevant important items. The
Board of Directors has built a group-wide risk management system, which includes the establishment of the Risk
Management Committee (chaired by the President and Representative Director), and oversees the system's operation. The
Risk Management Committee and the Board of Directors receive regular reports on compliance and risk management action
plans and results from the Internal Control Department. These reports and plans form the basis for discussion of issues and
additional measures.
To instill thorough compliance at group companies, the Otsuka group conducts universal training providing to all employees of
worldwide subsidiaries based on policies such as the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics, the Otsuka Group Global
Anti-Corruption Policy and the Otsuka Group Global Policy for Conflict of Interest. Training materials (available in English,
French, Chinese, Korean, Indonesian, and other languages) are distributed to group companies, and executives and employees
(including contract and temporary employees) attend related training at least once annually. Depth and breadth of compliance
understanding among employees is evaluated through a test during training, awareness surveys, and other measures.
Trainees are required to submit a signed declaration that they will observe the regulations, and the results of training and the
status of submission of declaration forms are regularly reported at meetings of the Board of Directors. The operational status
of the internal reporting systems and internal audits at group companies is likewise reported. Other examples of initiatives
include the appointment of compliance officers at overseas group companies and regular meetings for sharing the status of
progress in each country. In Asia, for instance, the director in charge of compliance visits companies to gather information and
offer suggestions on how improvements can be made.
134Group companies
Departments in charge of compliance
Monitoring System
The Company's Internal Audit Department reports directly to the president. The department conducts regular audits based
on the Internal Audit Rules to verify that operations are being executed appropriately and efficiently with regard to the assets
and business in general of Otsuka Holdings and Otsuka group companies. Audit reports are submitted to the president,
directors, and Audit & Supervisory Board members. Where there is need for improvement, the department recommends
remedial actions and later confirms their implementation, thereby contributing to the optimization of business execution. The
department also shares information and works in cooperation with Audit & Supervisory Board members and the accounting
auditor.
The Otsuka group operates an crisis management system that enables a swift, cohesive response if a risk event demanding an
urgent response occurs in or outside Japan. When a critical or time-sensitive event does occur, the group company
immediately shares information with the main operating companies and Otsuka Holdings, and the relevant departments
mount a coordinated response to mitigate impact. Otsuka Holdings maintains and updates regulations, manuals, and other
documentation setting out fundamental approaches to risk management and response, and enhances group-wide readiness
through regular training and exercises.
Whistleblowing Hotline
I
Internal Whistleblowing Hotline
At Otsuka group, we have established internal reporting systems within each group of companies. Through this hotline, we
work to ensure that any improper acts, including acts of bribery, as well as violations of policies, laws and regulations, can be
quickly uncovered and corrected. Rules for accepting reports extend beyond full-time employees to include contract,
dispatched, and part-time employees. Hotlines have also been set up outside the Company, such as at a law office, with
anonymous reporting allowing whistleblowers to make a report with peace of mind and without fear of reprisal. Information
on whistleblowers and their reports is strictly managed in order to prevent any repercussions. No information will be shared
with anyone except those who must know in order to provide an effective response, given the necessity of conducting an
investigation and taking corrective action. Information on the operational status of the internal reporting systems at major
group companies is regularly reported at meetings of the Board of Directors of Otsuka Holdings.
135Formulation of Otsuka Group Global Speak-Up Policy
The Otsuka group has established the Otsuka Group Global Speak-up Policy with the aim of clarifying the basic
principles of the internal reporting system and enhancing its effectiveness so that employees can speak up when they
become aware of fraudulent or wrong behavior or actions that go against the group's values, policies, and processes, or
any other suspect behavior.
(Basic Principles)
• People have the right and obligation to report in good faith
• Information will be strictly managed
• Anonymous reports will be accepted
• Reporters will not suffer any repercussions
• Investigations as well as corrective and preventive actions must be carried out
I
External Inquiries and External Whistleblowing Hotline
Otsuka Holdings and its major group companies have established a whistleblowing hotline that accepts inquiries and opinions
from external stakeholders and general customers. Furthermore, certain channels of the hotline also accept anonymous
consultations and reports.
System for Dealing with Individual Cases
People with knowledge of infractions or concerns about any noncompliance issues are required to consult with and report to
their immediate supervisor, the Legal Affairs or Human Resources department, or the department in charge of compliance.
Reprisals against reporting parties are strictly prohibited.
Depending on the nature of the violation, the Compliance Department, or the Human Resources & General Affairs
Department are in charge as the secretariat and form an investigative team that includes external experts, such as lawyers,
certified public accountants, and data forensics experts. These investigative parties examine the facts, while managing the
protection of personal information and ensuring that there are no acts of reprisal against the whistleblower. Cases
determined to be serious violations are reported to the chair of the Risk Management Committee and the Board of Directors
to respond and take the initiative to prevent a reoccurrence given the circumstances, and all cases are used in planning and
implementing group-wide compliance.
Anticorruption Measures for Business Partners
All group companies have established a due diligence policy, and we conduct due diligence for business partners, as needed, to
evaluate risks from corruption, violations of human rights, abuse of privacy, and other issues.
>
Initiatives for Sustainable Procurement
136Tax Policy
HOME Sustainability Governance Compliance Tax Policy
I
Basic Policy
The Otsuka group operates around the world and recognizes that the appropriate payment of taxes in accordance with
relevant laws and regulations in each country and region contributes to the local economy in those countries and regions. The
group fulfills its tax obligations in accordance with the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics.
I
Approach
The Otsuka group complies with the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics, the group's tax policy, country-specific
laws, regulations and tax treaties of the countries in which they operate, as well as international taxation rules, and does not
engage in transactions designed to evade the payment of taxes, but carries out the appropriate filing and payment of taxes in
each country. We endeavor to appropriately disclose information and ensure a degree of transparency and trust when dealing
with tax authorities in each country. The increased globalization of business makes tax oversight more complex, but by
continuously updating information and preliminary consulting tax experts where necessary, we are appropriately responding
to minimize tax risk.
Correspondence with Tax Authorities
The Otsuka group remains committed to building constructive relationships with tax authorities in the countries and regions
in which it operates. As economies become more global and digital, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD) and other organizations have been reviewing the basic rules of international taxation. The shift toward
a system in which even enterprises without permanent facilities in a location are liable for tax on income earned in that
market means that the process of reporting to local tax authorities will become more complex and far-reaching. We will
continue to improve the reliability of tax data and establish systems to provide it promptly.
Transfer Pricing Policy
The Otsuka group calculates transfer prices based on the OECD guidelines that were created for the prevention of double
taxation and fair application of the transfer price tax system, as well as each country's transfer price tax system, and makes
efforts to ensure proper transactions between related parties. In addition, we are appropriately responding to the reporting
of corporate information based on the common format published by the OECD. Also, when necessary, we make use of
advance pricing agreements (APAs) to obtain ahead-oftime consensus with tax authorities.
137Governance
We work to maintain and improve tax-related governance, recognizing that this contributes to the enhancement of corporate
value. To this end, with the active involvement of the CFO, Otsuka Holdings' tax department is taking the lead, we are
strengthening cooperation with other departments and operating companies as well as securing and training capable human
resources, thereby maintaining an appropriate system that enhances the group's tax compliance and reduces tax risks.
Furthermore, we have established reporting obligations to the Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board
regarding the abovementioned policies and processes, as well as their ongoing implementation and maintenance.
I
Tax Policy
As a multinational enterprise, the Otsuka group recognizes that the appropriate payment of taxes in adherence with
applicable laws and regulations in each country and region contributes to local economies. Among increased calls for tax
transparency worldwide, we are committed to making improvements in this regard. In accordance with the Otsuka
Group Global Code of Business Ethics, the Otsuka group works to ensure appropriate payment of taxes under a
principle of compliance that is shared by all employees, including those at departments outside the purview of the CFO.
Moreover, we strive to build constructive relationships with relevant tax authorities by maintaining and providing
reliable data.
In accordance with its tax compliance policy, the Otsuka group will implement effective management, strengthen
governance, build constructive and positive relationships with respective tax authorities and fulfill its tax obligations in
all countries and regions.
June 26, 2020
Executive Director, CFO
L/
( - ~ -Iv,,__
138Risk Management
HOME Sustainability Governance Risk Management
The Otsuka group recognizes that pursuing management ef1iciency and controlling the risks inherent in business activities are
important for improving corporate value. For this reason, it is vital to establish a group-wide system that enables all
executives and employees to swiftly uncover, identify, and deal with risks related to their work. The Otsuka group manages
risk via the initiatives outlined below, under the supervision of top management.
139I
Risk Management System
To further improve risk management at Otsuka Holdings and the main operating companies, the Company introduced
enterprise risk management (ERM) in July 2020 for recognizing and assessing group-wide risks as well as prioritizing the
allocation of resources for the control of significant risks.
As part of ERM, we define uncertainties that could have a major impact on our ability to fulfill our corporate philosophy and
achieve business strategy goals as risks, and have established a group-wide risk management framework and a system for risk
assessment to effectively and efficiently manage significant risks faced by the group. Under this framework and system, we
perform risk assessments to identify and gauge the significant risks faced by the group's main operating companies;
determine whether to mitigate, transfer, avoid, or accept risks; develop and implement risk management policies, and conduct
monitoring activities on an ongoing basis.
At Otsuka Holdings, the Risk Management Committee oversees the group's ERM as a whole. The committee participates in
deliberations on significant risks and reports on them at meetings of the Board of Directors, formulates and monitors the
implementation of policies for the management of significant risks, and provides instructions and support to the main
operating companies when needed. The Board of Directors receives reports on committee activities, issues instructions as
necessary, and oversees the efficacy of the group's ERM structure.
Board of Directors
• Reporting on • Supervision and
risk management instructions on risk
activities management activities
Risk Management Committee
(Chair. President and representative director)
• Decisions on status of risk management
• Reporting on status of
risk management • Monitoring of st.,tus of risk management
• Review of risk management system
Coordination of each company's risk management
POCA initiatives; visualization of group risks
Otsuka Holdings
Plan Check & Action
Otsuka Holdings and
Main Operating
Companies
140Details of Risk Management Activities
Identification of significant risks begins with the sharing of risk awareness by senior management through interviews at
Otsuka Holdings and the main operating companies (top down approach), as well as assessments of risks and controls by
frontline employees (bottom up approach). This enables us to comprehensively identify the risks that exist in the group. Each
group company develops risk management policies and risk management action plans for the risks that are judged to be
significant risks, and regularly monitors and reviews the status of those risks and the progress of action plans.
Otsuka Holdings aggregates and visualizes the significant risks faced by each group company so as to grasp a comprehensive
understanding of the existing risks and the status of controls in the group. Common risks that apply to the whole group are
studied closely and the significant risks are gathered and identified. Based on the results of this process, the Risk Management
Committee assigns priority to significant risks that could have major impact on the group's business, for such as financial
losses or business continuity.
Otsuka Holdings and our main operating companies develop and implement countermeasures to each significant risk based
on the characteristics and risk tolerance. Otsuka Holdings provides the necessary guidance and support to group companies,
which submit reports and seek advice from Otsuka Holdings, as appropriate. In these activities, the whole group coordinates
closely to promote and practice ERM. Moreover, Otsuka Holdings and group companies work to prevent risks from becoming
real by regularly monitoring them and confirming that they are within their respective tolerance levels.
Risk Map
Risk Categories by Degree of Impact and Level of Control
Risks requiring
Risks requiring
prioritized
regular group-wide
strengthening of
monitoring
group-wide control
Risks for which a Risks for which
certain level of additional action plans
control has been are to be implemented
achieved at operating companies
M,oo,!
------- Level of risk
High Control Low
141Business Continuity Planning and Management
The Otsuka group has business continuity plans (BCPs) in place to minimize the impact on our business activities and ensure
that the group continues to operate as effectively as possible in order to maintain the stable supply of products, even when
largescale earthquakes and disasters strike.
In terms of business continuity management (BCM), Otsuka Holdings and all major group companies (Otsuka Pharmaceutical,
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Tai ho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical, etc.) have partnered to create a
system to tackle business continuity on a group-wide scale. Since acquiring ISO 22301 certification for the production and
stable supply of pharmaceutical products, beverages, and foods in 2012, we have gradually expanded the scope of
certification to include the stable supply of intravenous solutions (in 2015) and the stable supply of anticancer agents (in
2016). The acquisition of ISO 22301 certification demonstrates that our organization complies with international standards
and is fully covered, from a BCP standpoint. In addition, the Otsuka group as a whole is working to strengthen measures and
systems to minimize the impact on business activities in the event of an emergency. Every year, we conduct joint simulation
drills for different scenarios, such as natural disasters and the spread of infectious diseases. These drills provide the
opportunity to test our framework for cooperation under close-to-realistic conditions, with a focus on ensuring stable
product supply.
Risk Management Training
Risk management training is held annually for directors, Audit & Supervisory Board members, executive officers, and
department heads of major group companies. Training includes simulation drills and lectures by outside experts, and involves
discussions and reviews on domestic and overseas risks, referencing serious incidents and other matters. Topics include the
initial response and coordination of information among the group when a crisis occurs, measures to ensure business
continuity, and corporate social responsibility.
Information Security
The Otsuka group has established the Otsuka Group Global Security Policy as its basic policy on information security. We
endeavor to ensure shared awareness of the policy at all group companies, including overseas subsidiaries. In striving to raise
the level of, and constantly improve, comprehensive security across the group, we set up the Otsuka Group Information
Security Committee to examine specific measures and to share up-to-date information with regard to information security
based on the policy. To counter the risk of cyberattacks, the Otsuka group employs a number of measures, such as arranging
system security audits by external specialists, diagnosing website vulnerabilities, conducting drills related to targeted email
attacks, and monitoring posts on social media. The group also conducts regular emergency drills with a focus on the core
systems that construct data. In addition, we have built capabilities for responding to cybersecurity emergency situations,
including the establishment of the Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSI RT), which preempts the occurrence of
damage from cyberattacks targeting personal information and trade secrets held by respective group companies.
I◄ Back to TOC
142Contribution to Communities
HOME Sustainability Contribution to Communities
The Otsuka group contributes to regional development by working together with local residents on social and cultural
projects. In particular, we are investing in areas that include maintaining and improving people's health as well as disaster
relief, and other projects connected to our business domains from a medium-to long-term perspective. In 2021, the Otsuka
group donated ¥6.6 billion for initiatives that included disaster relief.
143I
Examples of Activities
SATU HATI (One Heart) in Indonesia Initiatives of US-based Sozosei Foundation
PT Amerta lndah Otsuka (AIO) has implemented a The Sozosei Foundation was established to spread
social action program for over 15 years in awareness of medical issues, distribute
Indonesia based on the three pillars: education, information, and promote education on medical
the environment, and health. care and health, as well as contribute to related
organizations in the United States.
Read more - close Read more - close
POCARI SWEAT manufacturer and The Sozosei Foundation was established in
distributor P.T. Amerta lndah Otsuka (AIO) 2019 by Otsuka America Pharmaceutical
developed a social action program called Inc., a US group company, to spread
SATU HATI after providing support to areas awareness of medical issues, distribute
affected by the 2006 Yogyakarta information, and promote education on
earthquake to give back to the local medical care and health, as well as
community in Indonesia. The scope of the contribute to related organizations in the
activities has been increased every year, and U.S. The name sozoseimeans "creativity" in
focus is on now the three pillars: education, Japanese. In addition to support in the
the environment, and health. psychiatric and neurological areas, the
In 2020, the Otsuka Eco Village initiative Foundation centers its activities on disaster
was launched as part of the SATU HATI to relief and contributions to local
promote waste disposal and resource communities.
recycling. With the aim of encouraging
building a community that can manage
waste independently together with local
residents, AIO supports initial awareness
raising as well as building the infrastructure
in several ways, including donating facilities
for a recycling bank.
144Social Contribution Program Using Contributing to Local Communities through
Crowdfunding Sports
Taiho Pharmaceutical implements a social In addition to supporting soccer teams, we are
contribution program to support groups and involved in corporate sports through the Otsuka
individuals working to solve issues in the field of Pharmaceutical Track and Field Club.
oncology that cannot be resolved with drugs
alone.
Read more - close Read more - close
The company launched the Tai ho Smile Tokushima Vortis is a J.League soccer team
Support program in 2021. Taiho formed in 2004 as a way of contributing to
Pharmaceutical uses a website to call for the vitalization of the local community.
organizations and individuals who plan to The team has its origins as the Otsuka
use crowdfunding to raise funds to address Pharmaceutical corporate soccer team
social issues. Selected organizations and initially formed in 1955. After changing its
individuals will conduct a crowdfunding name to Tokushima Vortis, the team was
campaign and if they raise 50% of the funds promoted to the J.League in 2005. Since
required for the project, Tai ho 2005, the Otsuka group continues to
Pharmaceutical will match this amount sponsor the team and otter support by
through a donation. advising players on health and nutrition and
by assisting with events at the team's home
stadium.
Beyond playing soccer, Tokushima Vortis
also works to solve issues affecting
Tokushima Prefecture. Activities include
soccer workshops for diverse age groups,
from children to seniors. Furthermore, the
team has been working with Otsuka
Pharmaceutical and Mirna City on a new
project, the Vortis Conditioning Program,
the first example of a social impact bond
(SIB)* in the healthcare field involving a
J.League team. Through these activities,
players and coaches from Tokushima Vortis
are helping local residents to maintain and
improve their health as well encouraging
them to take a greater interest in sport.
*Social impact bonds are outcome-based programs where
private-sector funds are used for initiatives that address
social issues. Local governments then later reimburse or
subsidize the costs according to the program's level of
success.
145
Established in 1990, the Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Track and Field Club sendsEstablished in 1990, the Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Track and Field Club sends
athletes to represent Japan at international
championships. In addition to their
participation in training sessions, club
members contribute to the local community
by holding track and field workshops.
Furthermore, since 2016, with the help of
the Tokushima Track and Field Association,
the club has held the Tokushima Athlete
Meeting, which aims to encourage and
support junior athletes in Tokushima
Prefecture.
These are just a few examples of the wide
range of sports-related projects that the
Otsuka group continues to support as part
of its contribution to the development of
local communities.
146Disaster Relief Initiatives related to COVID-19
We deliver Otsuka products and other items in a We played a part to help contain the spread of
disaster. infection.
Read more - close Read more - close
The Otsuka group provides support by The Otsuka group provided its products
delivering Otsuka products and making such as POCARI SWEAT, BODYMAINTE,
donations following a disaster. As an Calorie Mate, and 05-1, as well as masks
example, when the Great East Japan and protective clothing across Japan
Earthquake struck, the Otsuka group through local governments and affiliated
mobilized local offices to provide organizations to prevent the spread of
emergency relief supplies, such as COVID-19. Overseas, we donated to local
beverages, water, and food. Otsuka group medical facilities and the Red Cross, and
employees from across Japan took turns other insitutions in addition to providing
assisting relief efforts from a base in Sendai Otsuka beverages, foods, and medicines. For
City, supplying oral rehydration solutions to example, the US-based Sozosei Foundation
evacuation centers to address dehydration donated $939,000 (approximately ¥100
among evacuees and leveraging Otsuka's million) to five charitable organizations and
assets for relief efforts. The Otsuka group four organizations related to mental health
also provided relief supplies in response to and kidney disease.
requests from government agencies and
industry associations, and Otsuka Holdings
made a large donation to the Japanese Red
Cross Society on behalf of the 39,000
employees of the Otsuka group following
calls for assistance from overseas group
employees.
147Together with the Local Communities in Established Otsuka Museum of Art
Tokushima The Otsuka Museum of Art was founded in
As a company that originated in Tokushima, we Naruto City, Tokushima Prefecture, the birthplace
continue to implement initiatives deeply rooted in of Otsuka, to commemorate our 75th anniversary.
the local communities.
Read more - close Read more - close
The Traditional Culture of the Awa Odori To commemorate the 75th anniversary of
As a company with its origins in Tokushima, our founding, we opened The Otsuka
we are keen to promote traditional Museum of Art in Naruto City, Tokushima
Tokushima culture, and the most well Prefecture, the birthplace of the Otsuka
known aspect of Tokushima culture has to group of companies. This museum is one of
be the Awa Odori. Boasting 400 years of the largest permanent exhibition spaces in
history, the Awa Odori is the most famous of Japan,* and houses over 1,000 ceramic
many dance festivals held across Japan. At reproductions of major works of Western
Awa Odori events, each team is known as a art. Otsuka Ohmi Ceramics used special
"ren," and every year, four rensfrom the techniques to make actual-size ceramic
Otsuka group join the festival. The first is reproductions of various works of art, from
the Otsuka ren, which consists of more than ancient wall paintings to modern paintings,
one hundred workers from Otsuka originally exhibited in around 190 art
Pharmaceutical. The second is the Otsuka museums in 26 countries. It is typical for
Uzumaki ren, which inherited its name from original artworks to become discolored or
the oldest renfrom Naruto City, and to deteriorate due to environmental
consists of members from Otsuka pollution, or sometimes even to suffer more
Pharmaceutical Factory. The third is the extensive damage from disasters such as
Tiovita ren, from Taiho Pharmaceutical, earthquakes or fires, but these ceramic
which has a very fun and friendly spirit. reproductions should maintain their original
Finally, taking its name from the Japanese color and shape for more than 2,000 years.
word for 'energetic; the Otsuka Hatsuratsu
This unique approach of creating ceramic
ren, which celebrated its 30th anniversary
reproductions of masterpieces has
in 2016, comprises members from Otsuka
incorporated many creative and unique
Chemical, Otsuka Warehouse, and Otsuka
ideas. For instance, the six parts of El
Foods.
Greco's "Santo Domingo el Antigua
As well as dancing, members of the ren also Altarpiece" cannot usually be seen together
play musical instruments, such as shamisen, at one time. However, our approach to
gongs, drums, and flutes. Learning how to creating a reproduction of this famous
play these instruments, as well as coming up altarpiece has made it possible. We have
with new dance formations, creates new also created a comparative exhibition of The
challenges for our staff-everyone takes it Last Supper by Leonardo da Vinci, where
seriously and gives their best performance visitors can see it before and after its
so that both participants and onlookers restoration. Furthermore, we chose to
have a memorable experience. exhibit our reproduction of Monet's The 148
Water Lilies outdoors to fulfill the painter's
An Annual Concert Held for Around 30word for 'energetic; the Otsuka Hatsuratsu
This unique approach of creating ceramic
ren, which celebrated its 30th anniversary
reproductions of masterpieces has
in 2016, comprises members from Otsuka
incorporated many creative and unique
Chemical, Otsuka Warehouse, and Otsuka
ideas. For instance, the six parts of El
Foods.
Greco's "Santo Domingo el Antiguo
As well as dancing, members of the ren also Altarpiece" cannot usually be seen together
play musical instruments, such as shamisen, at one time. However, our approach to
gongs, drums, and flutes. Learning how to creating a reproduction of this famous
play these instruments, as well as coming up altarpiece has made it possible. We have
with new dance formations, creates new also created a comparative exhibition of The
challenges for our staff-everyone takes it Last Supper by Leonardo da Vinci, where
seriously and gives their best performance visitors can see it before and after its
so that both participants and onlookers restoration. Furthermore, we chose to
have a memorable experience. exhibit our reproduction of Monet's The
Water Lilies outdoors to fulfill the painter's
An Annual Concert Held for Around 30
wish that it be viewed in natural light. The
Years
museum has received many positive reviews
Exciting Summer in WAJIKI
from visitors from inside and outside Japan.
Each year during the Awa Odori season,
The Otsuka group will continue to promote
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, with the help of
art and culture in the local community
local authorities, holds Exciting Summer in
through the museum and its creative
WAJ I Kl, a free outdoor concert on the
technologies and unique ideas.
premises of the Tokushima Wajiki factory.
The event started in 1990, the year * Total floor space: 29,412 m2
following the founding of the town of Wajiki
(which in 2005 became incorporated into
the new town of Naka), with the hope that
with the help of young people from local
authorities, industries, and associations, we
could transform the rural community into a
place where young people could come
together. In 2019, around 3,500 people
from all over Japan attended the concert. In
addition, the Oronamin C Drink Presents
Awa Odori Sound Festival, another free
concert, has been held every year in
Tokushima City since 1990 on the eve of the
Awa Odori festival. The lineup boasts a large
variety of artists and genres, and people of
all ages can enjoy a delightful summer night
of music.
I◄ Back to TOC
149Sustainability Data
HOME Sustainability Sustainability Data
Key environmental, social, and governance data can be found in a list.
>
Key Sustainability Data ~ 386KB
>
Environmental Data~ 423KB
>
Fiscal Goals 2023 and Fiscal 2020 Progress ~ 557KB
ISO Management System Certification Status
>
ISO Certification (in Japan) ~ 156KB
I◄ Back to TOC
150Key Sustainability Data
Employees
Items I
Employees by region 169 consolidated companie total ersons 32 817
Japan % 42.3% 41.8% 40.5% 40.2% 39.7%
Outside Japan % 57.7% 58.2% 59.6% 59.8% 60.3%
by gender *1 19 companies Men % 73.4% 72.7% 72.0% 71.5% 71.8%
Women % 26.6% 27.3% 28.1% 28.5% 28.2%
Percentage of employees 19 companies 4 Under 30 % 15.2% 15.6% 15.8% 15.9% 16.2%
by age group 30-49 % 54.7% 54.1% 53.9% 53.0% 53.8%
50 and over % 30.1% 30.3% 30.3% 31.1% 30.0%
Newly hired ratio by gender *2 19 companies 4 WomM ee nn % % 6 31 8. .3 7% % 6 32 7. .9 1% % 6 30 9. .1 9% % 363 6. .7 3% % 45 09 .. 64 %%
Turnover ratio'3 19 companies total % 3.6% 4.1% 4.5% 4.0% 5.1%
Female manager ratio 19 companies Women % 7.8% 8.1% 10.3% 10.4% 10.4%
19 companies 4 Men persons 101 136 210 280 341
Employees taking parental leave
Women persons 177 151 303 268 296
Rate of men's taking parental 19 companies *4 Men % 18.7% 17.0% 23.6% 29.8% 35.6%
leave
Employees with disabilities 16 companies Japan % 2.0% 2.2% 2.3% 2.1% 2.3%
Health checku rate'7 Ja an % 76.5% 80.0%
Implementation of specified
Japan % 47.5% 72.8%
healthcare uidance'7
Work-related fatalities 19 companies *8 total number
em lo ees
Work-related fatalities 19 companies *8 total number
contractors
Lost time injury/illness 19 companies *8 total % 1.11 0.70
fre uenc rate
Lost time injury/illness severity 19 companies *8 total % 0.00 0.02
rate
Avera ea e Otsuka Holdin s Ja an ears old 44.3 44.0 43.8 44.1 43.8
Avera e len th of service Otsuka Holdin s Ja an ears 3.5 3.3 2.9 3.6 3.7
Avera e annual a Otsuka Holdin s Ja an en 10 762 985 10 549 652 10 323 328 9 916 447 10 445 476
*1 Regular employees including operating officers
*2 Newly hired regular employees including mid-career recruitment
*3 Ratio of employees retiring for personal reasons
*4 FY2017-FY2019; The data of 9 major companies(Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical,Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Foods, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development &
Commercialization, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Pharmavite),FY2020; The data of 11 major companies (9 majour companies+ Otsuka Holdings and Otsuka Medical Devices) , FY 2021; The data of 19 major companies (11
maiour comoanies +Otsuka Electronics, Otsuka Techno, Okavama Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Packaaina Industries, Otsuka Ohmi Ceramics, Hiaashivama Film, Otsuka Wellness Vendina, and JIMRO)
*5 FY2017-2018; The data of 6 major companies (Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Tai ho Pharmaceutical,Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Foods) FY2019; The data of 9 major companies (*4),
FY2020; The data of 11 major companies (*4), FY 2021; The data of 19 major companies (*4)
*7 Insured persons and their dependents who are members of the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Health Insurance Association (for Otsuka group companies in Japan)
*8 FY2020-FY2021; The data of 19 companies is the same as the data of FY2021(*4)
Corporate Governance
Organization Company with an Audit & Supervisory Board ...
T erm o fD 1rec ors One vear
I l••:•lY.H'.i ~--Jl•···llY..t.-.i ~--.111•.Jlm..t.-.1. ~--·•··-·'"'"''"--·•·--··"·''"·
Structure Board of Directors Directors oersons 11 12 13 13 13
Outside directors oersons 3 3 4 4 5
Female directors oersons 2 2 3 3 3
Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board oersons 4 4 4 4 4
Outside Audit & Supervisory Board oersons 3 3 3 3 3
Corporate Governance Committee Members oersons 5 5 6 6 7
Outside directors oersons 3 3 4 4 5
Chair - CEO CEO CEO CEO CEO
Items Scope
Remuneration Directors (excluding outside directors) Officers who receive basic remuneration persons
Total remuneration ¥ mil
¥ mil
¥ mil
roug
restricted stock remuneration plan ¥ mil
Bonus ¥ mil
Audit & Supervisory Board (excluding outside Audit & Officers who receive basic remuneration persons 1 2 1 1 1
Total remuneration ¥ mil 30 25 24 24 24
Officers who receive basic remuneration persons 6 8 7 7 7
Total remuneration ¥ mil 54 54 54 59 72
Shareholders Name of shareholders Number of shares held (thousand) Sh ra ar te ioho (%ldi )n g
FY2020 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 68,567 12.64
The Nomura Trust and Banking Co., Ltd.
(AsofDecember31,2020) Otsuka Founders Shareholdino Fund Trust Account 56,216 10.36
Otsuka Estate Co., Ltd. 23,316 4.29
Custody Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 23,137 4.26
Otsuka Group Employee Shareholding Fund 13,175 2.42
The Awa Bank, Ltd. 10,970 2.02
JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385635 8,862 1.63
JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 380072 7,964 1.46
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. 7,933 1.46
Otsuka Asset Co., Ltd. 7,380 1.36
1. Numberofsharesheldisroundeddowntothenearestthousand.
2. Although the Company holds 15,443,722 of its own shares, treasury shares are excluded from the above list.
3. Shareholding ratio is calculated after treasury shares are deducted.
151Materiality (Material Issues) Fiscal Goals 2023 and Fiscal 2020 Progress
In 2019, the Otsuka group determined its material issues based on their importance to society and to Among the 12 social issues determined to be Otsuka group's materiality, we selected nine issues that
the group's businesses. They are: society (health, people, quality in all we do), environment (climate we regard as especially important at present, and set goals related to them for fiscal 2023.
change, resource recycling and conservation, and water conservation), and governance.
Materiality Social Issues Our Goals Our Activities Related SDGs IS so sc ui ea sl Our Goals FY 2023 Goals FY 2020 Progress
0 Unmet medical and • Contribution to unmet • Promotion of R&D for unmet 0 • Contribute to unmet • PromotionofR&Dforunmetneeds • In areas with unmet needs1
health needs needs solutiom needs needs solutions Addressunmetneedsinthepsychiatryandneurologyareas New development projects: 9 projects1
f) Spread of infectious • Eradication of tuberculosis • R&D of antituberculosis drugs Createtirst-in-classproductsintheoncologyarea Late-phase development projects: 9 projects2
diseases • Creation of a system and improvement of drug Createtirst-in-classproductsinthecardio.ascutarand renal area
8 Nutritional needs for the realization of a access •lnareaswithunmetnN!ds1
8 iI sn sc ur ee sa sing aging • h He ea al lt th hf yu ll i fl eif e e xtension • a mS cu atp i iv np i to t eier nt s
a
a f nn o cd r
e
p /a ie mw oa ppr re l oen v'se
e
s mhs e ea nlt th N L 3ae 0tw e o-
r
pd me h ov ae s rel eo dpm eve en lt o p pr moj eec nt ts p: ro1 j0 eo ctr sm ao dr ve a ncingtother.extphase
mainly on exercise and • Eradication of • Provide DELTYBA (generic name: delamanid) for a • DELTYBA
nutrition etc tuberculosis cumulative total of 60,000 cases Provi0edDELTY8Afor40,000acumulat~totalofcases1nmorethan110
• Promotion of problem solving • Supply DELTYBA for pediatric patients coun1ne!/re91::ins
e 0 UPr ne pse ren pte ae ri es dm f' o r • C cur le ta ut ri eo n th o af t a s tc io mr up lo ar ta et se • • H Dby iu v ms et rar se n itn yrg e pt sh ro oe un mri cn oeg t i d op e na vr etn loe pr msh eip ns t ■Ill • • IL pna acu rr ten nc a eh s re sa a c cl cin ei sc sa tl otr i Da El Lfo Tr Y Bn Ae w b yt r ce oa lt lm abe on rt a r te ing gim we in th A R l Pm a-c p rq p thu l neai er mre rm sd e h nat ih ptc ee q ad um nsi dr ud e 1 p adc p l a lm ~ io ao na tn chik ero e o pf 1 u a1D gn rH g th n T a ethpY rsepB rA Go v ll oao blr ac fo lh r O d Dd rr ufLe gn T f Y ain cB iAE h u tyIr lo l ( p GRe Ou sm Fs )iaO o mc ftto hM b eae - Sr J t2 o20 0 p2 2 T0 0 B
diversification creativity • Healthful management • Participated in Pan-TB collaboration and accelerated the
• Enhance employee 1111 development of new TB treatment regimen
engagement • Continued participation in the Global Health Innovative
Technology (GHIT) Fund
• Creation of a system for • Challenge new categories and new areas • h byir sth tac nr inin gc ore pa es re ad t it oh ne s s au tp ap nly e o wf m p ala nn ut fb aa cs te ud r info go sd it ep rodticts
& Consumption • Gaining stakeholder trust • Sustainable procurement and the realization of a • Create new systems and reinforce existing systems for • ~xe<:utcd coopcrillion agreements with all 4i' prcfccwres
and production • Pursuing sustainability at product design healthful life realizing healthy lifestyles ,:md promoted collabor,:ition in he,:ilth and other fields
sth ua st ta i im nap bai ilr is t y • a El sl tl ae bv le isls h io nf g t h ae q v ua al lu ite y chain • sT th ao br leo u sg uh p pq lu ya lity control and • C chr aea nt ge e sn e inw e c no vn irc oe np mts e a nn tsd products keeping an eye on • • • CC 30o umtn h 1t i 1an lanu tn, ix viv el e t to r os a th aro y l l d Oo Aft h It e h H eW A O So lt r sn ru oc k gn a i' ss tH rI ae l naea tlt sl ht : h AC S poe pmm roici xn iLa mir bs ar a tery ly 20,000
assurance system for safety • Responsible promotional activities •Started the "Healthy President" service
and security and information provision
• Deepening communication with 0 • Creation of a corporate • Further instill the corporate culture and philosophy • C r(>u Sm {)uu rl ca cti dve c vt co lt oa pl mpa er nti tc i pp ra on gts ra min s t h oe f Oex tse uc ku ati v Ge loh bu am l a An c ad1,,lny
stakeholders culture that stimulates • Build systems for ongoing human resource (OGA): 1714
• Promotion of "Customer-centric creativity development aligned with changes in society and in • Cumulative total participants in He;,lth Seminars approx
.. 0 Global warming F • Y 3 020 %3 0 re G do ua cl t ion in CO2 • m tR hea rdn oua ucg gee h m C oe u0n t1t " t e hm ei s vs ai lo un es chain • eE nn gh aa gnc ee md e e nm t ployee • t F inh u ne r o tt h vim e ar te ip os nro mote and instill diversity as a source of • • dI F1 m u o,5 rp r mi0 nle0 ugm l a t te h en <et .e ! Cd th Oh eVe dIa D Olt -h t1 s 9 ua kn p ad a n Gs da !Oefe m ut py ic m H ue mas au nre Rs igfo hr t se m Pop lil co yy " ~
~ .·.· emissions compared to FY • Pursuing sustainability at • Self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) survey conducted • Cumulative total of companies implementing SAQ: 80
2017 ca hll a l ie nv els of the value • Son us: t2 a0 in0 a bco lem pp ra on cuie rs e ment • • • SC Ho t eam ldb p l gea ls on u bic p as lp p plya wor dt fi pc uti cp o ta d iot ui nn c g t msin eds euu tr ip nin gp gt si te ah1 neb dC r ei Od ni V vn iIg rD os - n: 1 m97 p eJ na tn ad l emic
6) Environmental load FY 2030 Goal • Reduce environmental OCo rin gd inu ac lt ged o as lu p Op vl eie r r 3b 0r i te imfin eg s/s c f oo mr p1 a6 n0 i es su )p bp yli e fir ss c al •Hm can lda gg le om be an lpt win dfo u1 c m tqa ut i aon li tyex rrc lh ('Ca -n tig nge s m eetings
- increase • 50% reduction in simple impact by improving resource 2023) •lmprovedproductsbasedoncustornerfee<!Nck
incineration and landfill efficiency
~ ,, ' compared to FY 2019 • Promotion of business activities
' • r m5 e0 ac% y tec o rle ir ad h l sai g in nh d oe p ur l rc a o Pn En t- Tt be ban s ot e to tdf l e s a soim cie ed ty a at na d s tu hs et a ein aa rtb hle state of F • Y e F3 m0 Y2 %0 i 2s3 0s 0 r 1ie o 7G d n suo a c cl t o io mn p ain r eC dO t2 o • I on ft r Co Od iu --c fre e ere en le ew cta rib cl ie ty e nergy and raise the usage rate • • ••A l S c£ n owxc t mq p r io tO a pcdr ahJ i ,di nx ere e ie edd d d ssl t 5 c uh0 o pe1 - pi g4 n le y0 t n t0 r oo e1 gd r i ru an e< tt ie eotg i no nr po sa oo yte s wfCd te ec C m re h fr a o-t nfi rf r oi dec sea ffoet ii clo l ae eo < dr : eptr poic awit ry e tl mr g ee nn te sr oa fti fo ivn ef ga rc oi Oli Jti pe s
0 Reducing in FY 2030 Goal • Understanding water resource 0 FY 2030 Goal • Strengthen cooperation for reducing simple • Established the Otsuka Group Plastic Policy
freshwater • Improvement of water risks •50%reductionin1illl)leincineration incineration and landfill volume
availability due to use efficiency by 15% • Management and effective andlandfillcomparedtoFY2019 • Build an internal group system for improving the
' ' water resource risks compared to FY 2017 use of water resources •50%orhighercontentofrecycled usage rate of recycled and plant-based materials
andplant-basedmaterialiinourPET
bottles
e Fragile governance • Long-term improvement • Strengthen corporate
system of corporate value governance FY 2030 Goal • Improve water use efficiency in accordance with • Carned out water resource risk assessments using Aqueduct
~ • social change risk • Thorough compliance • lrr-.:irovement of water u1e efficiency water resource risks that are unevenly distributed by •formulatedwa1erresourcenskanalys1schartsateachmanufac1uring
Governance • Risk identification, evaluation by 15%c ompared to FY 201 country/region s1te,andident1f1edwatershed1ssuesaroundthes1tes
and management
• Promotion of R&D for • Build a system to strengthen compliance within the group • Introduced enterpnse nsk management ri Ju~ 2020
unmet needs •Strengthencorporategovernancetofurtherraiseeffectiveness •Camedoutactiv1tiesfordirectorstora1seeffectiveness
• The situation where productivity does not go lJP due to the JX>Or condition of the mind and body despite coming to work • Bui kl a governance system capable of global business • Board of Directors meeting allendan,e rate 100%
development and response to various changes • Implemented the "Otsuka Group Global Policy for Conflict of lmerest"
1. Unrnct needs a!t'i!S ddint'd by Otsuka bast>d on Pa(i<!n(SMap2020JP .:rnd PJ(it'fl(SMap2020U5. MJ & SSRI
2Cumulativc-tota1Sincc-2019
l Otsuka Advanct'd Jr;,inirKJ for H1,,-althy AfJirKJ Suppor1crs: A prorJram 1ha1 suppo11s pharrrric:ie>s as ht-alth inforrmtiOO hubs with strong COflfl!..'<tiOns 10 local corrrnunitie>s
4. As of December 31,2020
5.lncludingcarOOn-neutralelectricity 152
6. Water 1esou1ce 1isk asS!!SSrrl!!lll tool developt!d by the World Resouices Institute
20 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 21(As of September 30, 2020)
International Certification at Manufacturing Sites of Major Group Companies in Japan
Quality Food Safety
Manufacturing Products Environment
Company ISO 9001 FSSC 22000
Site Manufactured ISO 14001. (ISO 9002) (ISO. 2 2000)
Pharmaceuticals and •
ltano, Tokushima (•)
food products
Wajiki, Tokushima Pharmaceuticals and • •
food products
Tokushima Pharmaceuticals •
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Second Tokushima Pharmaceuticals and • •
food products
• •
Takasaki Food products
Fukuroi Food products • .•
Saga Pharmaceuticals and • (•)
food products
Toyama Pharmaceutical •
products
Kushiro Pharmaceutical •
Otsuka Pharmaceutical products
Factory Naruto Pharmaceutical •
products
Matsushige Pharmaceutical •
products
Saitama Pharmaceutical •
products
Taiho Pharmaceutical Tokushima Pharmaceutical •
products
Kitajima Pharmaceutical •
products
Tokushima Chemicals • (•)
Otsuka Chemical Naruto Chemicals • (•)
Matsushige Chemicals • •
Tokushima Food products • •
Kushiro Food products • •
Otsuka Foods
Shiga Food products • •
Gunma Food products • •
ISO 14001: International standard for environmental management systems (EMS)
* In August 2020, five companies in Japan (Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho
Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Foods) and Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. as the supervising organization
acquired integrated ISO 14001 certification.
ISO 9001: International standard for product design, development, manufacturing, installation and quality of
incidental services
ISO 9002: International standard for product manufacturing, installation and quality of incidental services
ISO 22000: International standard for food safety management systems (FSMS)
FSSC 22000: An international standard for food safety management systems that supplements ISO 22000 with
additiona I requirements
153[For reference] (As of September 30, 2020)
Facilities Certified as Meeting the Requirements of ISO 14001
(Total: 28 facilities)
Facilities Facilities
Otsuka Environment Management
Holdings General Affairs Dept.
Production Headquarters Tokushima Site (including the
Tokushima Factory)
Tokushima Factory Saitama Site (including the
Taiho Saitama Factory)
Second Tokushima Factory Pharmaceutical Kitajima Site (including the
Kitajima Factory)
Tokushima Wajiki Factory Okayama Site:
Okayama Taiho
Tokushima ltano Factory Pharmaceutical
Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Saga Factory Tokushima Site (including the
Pharmaceutical Tokushima Factory)
Takasaki Factory Otsuka Naruto Site (including the
Chemical Naruto Factory)
Fukuroi Factory Matsushige Site (including the
Matsushige Factory)
Fujii Memorial Research Tokushima Factory
Institute
Otsu Skin Care Research Shiga Factory
Institute Otsuka
Otsu Nutraceuticals Research Foods Kushiro Factory
Institute
Naruto Site (including the Gunma Factory
Naruto Factory)
Matsushige Factory
Otsuka
Pharmaceutical
Toyama Factory
Factory
Kushiro Factory
154ESG control chart
HOME Sustainability ESG control chart
* Links in the following table are inactive.
Item Policies, commitments and systems Initiatives
• Signatory to the United Nations
Global Compact
• Sustainability Mission
• Materiality
• Approach to Sustainability
• Goals and progress
Overall
• Stakeholder engagement
• Sustainability management
structure
• External recognition
• Key Sustainability Data(people, the
environment, and governance)
+-
• Basic policy
• Contribution to unmet medical needs
Pharmaceutical • Basic policy • Initiatives for access to medicine
Health Business • Goals and progress • Initiatives for infectious diseases
including tuberculosis
Nutraceutical • Basic policy • Catering to yet-to-be-imagined needs
Business • Goals and progress • Initiatives for Access to Nutrition
People • Basic policy
• Human resource development
programs (including management human
resource development programs)
Human resource
• Basic policy • Internship programs
development
• Systems for leveraging abilities (open
recruiting system, self-assessment
system, etc.)
• "Otsuka Group Global Code of
Business Ethics" ("Diversity and • Diversity
Inclusion") ~ • Systems for diversity promotion
• Basic policy (including mindset and establishing
• Signatory to the Women's structure to help diverse human
Diversity & Inclusion
Empowerment Principles (WEPs) resources play active roles regardless of
• lku Boss (managers supportive of nationality, race, age, gender, disability,
work-life balance) declaration by sexual orientation, etc.)
group companies (Otsuka • Examples of external recognition
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.)
+-
• Otsuka Group Global Code of
Business Ethics("Human Rights and • Initiatives for employee health
Labor Standards" and "Employee maintenance and promotion
Health")~ • Initiatives for workplace health and
Health and Safety • Basic policy safety
• Declaration on health by group • Initiatives for reduction overtime and
companies encouraging employees to take paid leave
• "Health and Safety Committee" and • Examples of external recognition
other promotion structures
• Otsuka Group Global Code of
Business Ethics("Human Rights and • Internal training on bullying,
Fair employment and Labor Standards;· "Discrimination and harassment and other issues
working condition Harassment;· and "Reporting • Employee survey, and improvement
Concerns") ~ activities based on survey results
• Basic policy
+-
155• Implementing human right risk
• Otsuka Group Global Code of
assessment to identify salient human
Business Ethics("Human Rights and
right risks
Labor Standards;· "Discrimination and
• Identifying salient human right issues
Human rights Harassment;· and "Reporting
and implementing corrective measures
initiatives Concerns") ~
• Whistleblowing hotline
• Basic policy
• Employee training on Otsuka Group
• Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy
Human Rights Policy
• Promotional structure
• External collaboration
• Basic policy
• Otsuka Group Global Code of
Business Ethics ("Business Integrity;·
Quality in All We "Maintaining Books and Records;· etc.)
Do ~
• Certification status of ISO 9001
(quality), ISO 22000, FSSC 22000
(food safety), etc.
• Ethical considerations in research
involving animals
• Ethical considerations in research
Involving human-derived specimens
• Ethical considerations in research
• Commitments in R&D (compliance
Research and involving pathogenic microorganisms
with laws and guidelines, ethical
development (pathogens) and genetically modified
considerations, etc.)
organisms
• Ethics in clinical trials
• Compliance in R&D by Otsuka group
Society
companies
• Management of public research funds
• Promotion of sustainable procurement
• Basic policy with consideration for the environment,
• Otsuka Group Procurement Policy human rights other matters. (including
• Otsuka Group Sustainable due diligence investigation on new
Procurement Guidelines ~ suppliers, and the common SAQ and
Procurement • Sustainable procurement briefing sessions for business
Promotional structure (establishment collaborators)
of the Otsuka Sustainable • Joint business collaborator audit by
Procurement Task Force) pharmaceutical companies
• Goals and progress • Global initiatives for streamlining
production and supply of products
• Production, quality control and
patient/customer safety in compliance
with and regulatory requirements, and
governmental and industry standards
• Acquisition of ISO 9001 (quality), ISO
• Basic policy
22000, FSSC 22000 (food safety), etc.
• Measures including global product
Production, quality ~
quality policies for the pharmaceutical
control and • Quality control based on GQP and GVP,
products of Otsuka Pharmaceutical
patient/customer and post-marketing safety management
• Promotion structure including
safety • Global implementation of
Global Production Meeting and Global
pharmacovigilance activities
Product Quality Meetings.
• Measures against falsified medicines
• Employee training
• Examples of external recognition
(Initiatives for improvemnet at Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc.)
• Initiatives for quality control and
maintenance (promotion of logistics in
compliance with the Good Distribution
Practice (GDP) guidelines, employee
training, etc.)
• Initiatives for streamlined cooperation
among shippers and distributors
• Basic policy (standardization of IT-based data
• Establishment of the GDP systems, digitization of forms, etc.)
Promotion Office and other • Initiatives for stable supply (distribution
Logistics
promotion structures for control and strage of inventory, registration of
maintenance of product quality and vehicles for authorized access to
stable supply in logistics restricted areas, etc.)
• Environmentally friendly measures (the
promotion of modal shift to reduce CO2
emissions)
• Examples of external
recognition(lnitiatives for CO emmission
2 156
at Otsuka Warehouse CO.,Ltd.) (in
Japanese)• Basic policy
• Establishing internal code of
practice that expand on the JPMA • Conducting appropriate marketing and
Promotion Code for Prescription promotion activities in compliance with
Drugs, for activities targeted at laws and regulations
healthcare professionals • Gathering and disseminating
• Structural measures such as information about products, related
Sales and Marketing establishing the Scientiftc Affairs knowledge, latest academic information,
Department for gathering and etc.
disseminating information about • Employee training
products, related knowledge, and the • Reducing food loss (extending shelf life,
latest academic information, and switching to month-based expiration
dedicated review unit to ensure dates, etc.)
appropriate marketing and promotion
activities
• Basic policy • Promoting customer-centric
• Declaration of Customer-centric management
Commitment • Ensuring appropriate communication
• Group-wide Customer Service with customers
Customer Service Liaison Meeting, cross department • Improved products based on customer
"Listen to Customer Feedback feedback
Meeting;· and other promotion • Establishing dedicated contact points
structures for consumer-centric for patients, healthcare professionals and
management customers respectively
• Otsuka Group Global Code of
Business Ethics ("Environmental
Protection") ~
• Otsuka Group Environmental Policy
• Otsuka Group Environmental
Environmental
Activity Guidelines
management
• Group promotional structures
centering on the Otsuka Group Global
Environmental Council
• Disclosure of ISO 14001
certiftcation status ~
• Initiatives for efficient energy use and
CO reduction (expanded use of
2
renewable energy sources, such as by
introduction of CO-free electricity,
2
including solar power generation for in
• Basic policy
Environment Carbon Neutrality house consumption, and purchase of
• Goals and progress
Green Power Certiftcates, etc.)
• Validation of goals under the Science
Based Targets (SBT) initiative
• Disclosure of CO2 emissions and other
data ~
• Initiatives to achieve zero waste
• Initiatives for plastic resource and
• Basic policy marine plastic pollution
Circular Economy
• Goals and progress • Disclosure of waste volume (effective
use volume and ftnal disposal volume) and
otherdata ~
• Water risk evaluation at manufacturing
• Basic policy sites
Water Neutrality
• Goals and progress • Disclosure of water usage, water use
efficiency and other data. ~
157r
Corporate • Basic policy
Governance • Corporate Governance Guidelines
• Initiatives to Strengthen Corporate
Governance
• Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory
Board and Corporate Governance
Governance • Basic policy Committee
Structure • Overview of governance structure • Rationale for selection of directors and
evaluation of board effectiveness
• Skill matrix for directors and Audit &
Supervisory Board members
• Succession plan
r
Remuneration for
Directors and Audit & • Remuneration standards, system and
• Basic policy
Supervisory Board method of determination
Members
• Basic policy
Compliance Overall
• Compliance promotion structure
r
• Basic policy
Tax Compliance • Tax policy • Correspondence with tax authorities
• Transfer pricing policy
r
• Otsuka Group Global Code of
Governance Business Ethics ("Bribery and • Due diligence
Anti-Corruption Corruption;' etc.) ~ • Training for employees
• Otsuka Group Global Anti- • Monitoring
Corruption Policy ~
• Otsuka Group Global Code of
Business Ethics ("Conflicts of Interest;·
• Training for employees
Conti icts of Interest etc.)~
• Monitoring
• Otsuka Group Global Policy for
Conflict of Interest ~
r
• Otsuka Group Global Code of
Business Ethics ("Privacy and
• Training for employees
Protecting Privacy Confidentiality;' etc.) ~
• Monitoring
• Otsuka Group Global Privacy Policy
~
Whistleblowing • Provision of internal and external
Hotline whistleblowing hotlines
• Identifying principal risks via risk
• Basic policy
assessments and mitigating risks
• Risk Management Policy
• Business continuity planning and
• Enterprise risk management Page 68
Risk Management Overall management
• Risk management system operated
• Risk management training
through the Risk Management
• Initiatives to mitigate information
Committee
security risk
• Activities to Contribute to
Contribution
communities
to • Policy
• Volunteer leave (Otsuka
Communities
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.)
158GRI Content Index
HOME Sustainability GRI Content Index
Otsuka group has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for Fiscal 2021 (January 1, 2021 to December 31,
2021) with reference to the GRI Standards.
* Links in the following table are inactive.
GRI Standards Disclosures References
1. The organization and its reporting practices
Corporate Profile
2-1 Organizational details The Otsuka Group at a Glance
Group Companies
Integrated Report (P.82) Scope of Reporting ~
Entities included in the organization's
2-2
sustainability reporting
Environmental Report (P.2) Scope of Reporting ~
Fiscal 2021 (January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021)
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point Annual
Contacts (Japanese only)
2-4 Restatements of information
Annual Securities Report (P.172-173 Japanese only) ~
Environmental Report2021 (P.23) Third-Party
2-5 External assurance Verification ~
Environment (Carbon Neutrality Third-Party
Verification)
2. Activities and workers
Activities, value chain and other business
2-6 Our Four Businesses and R&D
relationships
The Otsuka Group at a Glance
2-7 Employees Sustainability Data ~
Annual Securities Report (P.19 Japanese only) ~
2-8 Workers who are not employees Annual Securities Report (P.19 Japanese only) ~
1593. Governance
Governance Structure
Sustainability Management Structure
Notice for the Calling of the 14th Annual Shareholders
Meeting (P.7-24) ~
Sustainability Data ~
Risk Management System
2-9 Governance structure and composition
Environmental Management System
Environmental Report (P.7) Environmental
Management System ~
Human Rights Initiatives (Promotion System)
Health and Productivity Management (Promotion
System)
Nomination and selection of the highest
2-10 Governance Structure
governance body
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Governance Structure
Governance Structure
Message from Outside Directors
Sustainability Management Structure
Risk Management System
Role of the highest governance body in overseeing Environmental Management System
2-12
the management of impacts
Environmental Report (P.7) Environmental
Management System ~
Human Rights Initiatives (Promotion Framework,
Human Rights Due Diligence)
Health and Productivity Management (Promotion
System)
Governance Structure
Sustainability Management Structure
Environmental Management System
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Environmental Report (P.7) Environmental Management
System~
Human Rights Initiatives
Health and Productivity Management (Promotion
System)
Major Matters Deliberated by the Board of Directors
GRl2 : General
Disclosures 2021
Sustainability Management Structure
Environmental Management System
Role of the highest governance body in
2-14 Environmental Report (P.7) Environmental Management
sustainability reporting
System~
Human Rights Initiatives
Health and Productivity Management (Promotion
System)
1602-15 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Guidelines ~
Otsuka Group Global Policy for Conflict of Interest ~
Governance Structure
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Sustainability Management Structure
Approach to Compliance
Governance Structure
Sustainability Management Structure
Environmental Management System
Collective knowledge of the highest governance
2-17
body Environmental Report (P.7) Environmental Management
System~
Initiatives to Strengthen Corporate Governance
Evaluation of Effectiveness of Board of Directors
Sustainability Management Structure
Evaluation of the performance of the highest
2-18
governance body
Evaluation of Effectiveness of Board of Directors
Remuneration for Directors and Audit & Supervisory
2-19 Remuneration policies
Board Members
Remuneration for Directors and Audit & Supervisory
2-20 Process to determine remuneration
Board Members
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Annutal Securities Report (P.19, P.75 Japanese only) ~
4. Strategy, policies and practices
Mangement Message
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy
Message from the Director in Charge of Sustainability
Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics
Initiatives and Commitments
2-23 Policy commitments Otsuka Group Human Rights Policy
Otsuka Group Procurement Policy
Otsuka Group's EnvironmentalVision and Policy
Approach to Compliance
Human Rights Initiatives
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
Otsuka Group Procurement Policy
Otsuka Group's Environmental Vision and Policy
Approach to Compliance
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts
Customer Service
Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics
Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising
2-26 Approach to Compliance (Promotion System)
concerns
Human Rights Initiatives
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Environmental Report (P.21) Environmental Data ~
Initiative and Commitment
ISO Management System Certification Status ~
2-28 Membership associations
161
Acquisition of International Certification
(Nutraceutical and Consumer Products)5. Stakeholder engagement
Stakeholder Engagement
Information Meeting of Tuberculosis Project
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement
Procurement
Customer Service
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements Engagement with employees
3-1 Process to determine material topics Process for Determining Materiality (Material Issues)
The Otsuka Group's Materiality (Material Issues) and
3-2 List of material topics
Related SDGs
GRI 3: Integrated Report2021 P.18-21 (Fiscal 2023 Goals and
Material Topics Fiscal 2021 Progress) ~
2021
Promotion System
3-3 Management of material topics
Risk Management
l
Business Risks
I
Environmental
GRI Standards Disclosures References
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Annual Securities Report (Japanese only) ~
Integrated Report (P.53) Initiatives for TCFD
Recommendations ~
Financial implications and other risks and
201-2
GRl201: opportunities due to climate change
Environmental Report (P.97) Initiatives for TCFD
Economic Performance
Recommendations ~
2016
Environmental Report (P.7 Initiatives for TCFD
201-3 Annual Securities Report (P.126 Japanese only) ~
Recommendations
201-4 Financial assistance received from government
Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender f
202-1
GRl202: compared to local minimum wage
Market Presence
2016 Proportion of senior management hired from the
202-2
local community
Contribution to Communities
GRl203:
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported otsuka Group Initiatives Related to COVID-19 ~
Indirect Economic
Impacts
2016 Annual Securities Report (P.45-50 Japanese only) ~
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Contribution to Communities
GRl204: l
Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers
2016
162Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy (Scope)
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption
~
Compliance Promotion System
GRl205:
Communication and training about anti-corruption
Anti-corruption 205-2 Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy ~
policies and procedures
2016
Risk Management
Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions
205-3
taken
GRl206:
Anti-competitive Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-
206-1
Behavior trust, and monopoly practices
2016
207-1 Approach to tax Tax Policy
207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management Tax Policy
GRl207:
Tax
Stakeholder engagement and management of
2019 207-3 Tax Policy
concerns related to tax
207-4 Country-by-country reporting
GRI Standards Disclosures References
Environmental Report (P.21) Environmental Data
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume
~
GRl301:
Materials
301-2 Recycled input materials used
2016
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials
Environmental Report (P.19) Environmental Data
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
~
Environmental Report (P.19) Environmental Data
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization
~
Environmental Report (P.19) Environmental Data
GRl302: ~
Energy 302-3 Energy intensity
2016 Environmental Report (P.9) Initiatives for TCFD
Recommendations ~
Environmental Report (P.19) Environmental Data
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption
~
Reductions in energy requirements of products and
302-5
services
Water Neutrality
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource
Environmental Report (P.19) Environmental Data
~
303-2 Economic
GRl303:
Water and Effluents
Environmental Report (P.19) Environmental Data
2018 303-3 Water withdrawal
~
Environmental Report (P.19) Environmental Data
303-4 Water discharge
~
303-5 Water consumption Environmental Report (P.14) Water Neutrality~
163+
Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or
304-1 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Environmental Report (P.15) Biodiversity~
biodiversity value outside protected areas
Significant impacts of activities, products and
GRl304: 304-2
services on biodiversity
Biodiversity
2016
304-3 Habitats protected or restored Environmental Report (P.14) Biodiversity~
IUCN Red List species and national conservation
304-4 list species with habitats in areas affected by Environmental Report (P.15) Biodiversity~
operations
Environmental Report (P.20) Environmental Data
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
~
Environmental Report (P.20) Environmental Data
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
~
Environmental Report (P.20) Environmental Data
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
~
GRl305:
Environmental Report (P.20) Environmental Data
Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity
~
2016
Carbon Neutrality
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
Environmental Report (P.10) Carbon Neutrality~
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and Environmental Report (P.156) Management of
305-7
other significant air emissions Chemical Substances ~
Waste generation and significant waste-related
306-1
impacts
Environmental Report (P.20) Environmental Data
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts
~
GRl306:
Environmental Report (P.20) Environmental Data
Waste 306-3 Waste generated
~
2020
Environmental Report (P.20) Environmental Data
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal
~
Environmental Report (P.20) Environmental Data
306-5 Waste directed to disposal
~
GRl307:
Environmental Non-compliance with environmental laws and Environmental Report (P.20) Environmental Data
307-1
Compliance regulations ~
2016
New suppliers that were screened using
GRl308: 308-1 Environmental Report (P.17) Supply Chains~
environmental criteria
Supplier Environmental
Assessment
Negative environmental impacts in the supply
2016 308-2 Environmental Report (P.8) Carbon Neutrality ~
chain and actions taken
I
Social
GRI Standards Disclosures References
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Sustainability Data ~
GRl401:
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are
Employment 401-2
not provided totemporary or part-time employees
2016
164
401-3 Parental leave Sustainability Data ~t I
GRl402:
Labor/Management Minimum notice periods regarding operational
402-1
Relations changes
2016
Occupational health and safety management
403-1 Occupational Health and Safety
system
Hazard identification, risk assessment, and
403-2 Occupational Health and Safety
incident investigation
403-3 Occupational health services Health and Productivity Management
Worker participation, consultation, and
403-4 Occupational Health and Safety
communication on occupational health and safety
GRl403:
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety
Occupational Health and
Safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health Health and Productivity Management
2018
Prevention and mitigation of occupational health
403-7 and safety impacts directly linked by business Occupational Health and Safety
relationships
Workers covered by an occupational health and
403-8 Occupational Health and Safety
safety management system
403-9 Work-related injuries Occupational Health and Safety
403-10 Work-related ill health
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee
GRl404: Programs for upgrading employee skills and
404-2 Human Resource Development
Training and Education transition assistance programs
2016
Percentage of employees receiving regular
404-3 Human Resource Development
performance and career development reviews
Board Members
GRl405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
Diversity and Equal Sustainability Data ~
Opportunity
2016 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women
405-2
to men
GRl406:
Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions
Non-discrimination 406-1
taken
2016
t
GRl407: Human Rights Initiatives
Operations and suppliers in which the right to
Freedom of Association
407-1 freedom of association and collective bargaining
and Collective Bargaining
2016 may be at risk Procurement
T
GRl408: Human Rights Initiatives
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for
Child Labor 408-1
incidents of child labor
2016 Procurement
+
GRl409: Human Rights Initiatives
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for
Forced or Compulsory 409-1
incidents of forced or compulsory labor
Labor 2016 Procurement
~
GRl410:
Security personnel trained in human rights
Security Practices 410-1
policies or procedures
2016
t
GRl411:
Rights of Indigenous Incidents of violations involving rights of
411-1
Peoples indigenous peoples
2016
+
165+
Human Rights Initiatives
Operations that have been subject to human
412-1
rights reviews or impact assessments
Procurement
GRl412:
Human Rights Employee training on human rights policies or
412-2 Human Rights Initiatives
Assessment procedures
2016
Significant investment agreements and contracts
412-3 that include human rights clauses or that
underwent human rights screening
Operations with local community engagement,
413-1 Contribution to Communities
GRl413: impact assessments, and development programs
Local Communities
2016 Operations with significant actual and potential
413-2
negative impacts on local communities
New suppliers that were screened using social
GRl414: 414-1 Procurement
criteria
Supplier Social
Assessment
Negative social impacts in the supply chain and
2016 414-2 Procurement
actions taken
GRl415:
Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions
2016
r
ISO Management System Certification Status ~
Assessment of the health and safety impacts of Customer Service
GRl416: 416-1
product and service categories
Customer Health and
Acquisition of International Certification
Safety
(Nutraceutical and Consumer Products)
2016
Incidents of non-compliance concerning the
416-2
health and safety impacts of products and services
Customer Service
Requirements for product and service information
417-1
and labeling
Sales and Marketing
GRl417:
Marketing and Labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning product
417-2
2016 and service information and labeling
Incidents of non-compliance concerning
417-3 f
marketing communications
GRl418:
Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of
Customer Privacy 418-1
customer privacy and losses of customer data
2016
r +
GRl419:
Socioeconomic Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the
419-1
Compliance social and economic area
2016 l
l
I◄ Back to TOC• Otsuka
Otsuka-people creating new products
for better health worldwide
Environmental
Report
2021
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.Environmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Materlal Issues
.......; :..• ..... Ed1t,:if1a P II v I Cc ~ ::intP Pr,::if1 e I ~ ,1e re c·a t( g r fr,C:,>,h a • rh ge e I MP ac n ai gc ey man e1d 1 t C~rb,~ Ne,,tra ty I rcu,.r E, m, I Water Neutra ty Ie r,M ra nn a a1g ,n u t.stt a nc (f e$ I SuI .I y Cha, , I Engagement I En av ni Vr di e r1r 1hr 1 rT dd1 t·t a ml u D tya ta I
-
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Editorial Policy 2 How to Use This Report
Navigation buttons and category tabs are provided at the top of each page to enhance the
Corporate Profile 3 searchability of information. The pages also include links to pages or external sites related to the
text.
Message from the Director in Charge 4
Navigation Buttons
Policy and Management 5 ~ Click here to return to the TABLE OF CONTENTS
®
Carbon Neutrality 7 Click here to return to the previous page
Click here to move to the next page
Material Issues Circular Economy 11
!) Click here to return to the immediately preceding page
Water Neutrality 13
Link Button
........ 15
Biodiversity
PDF Icon
Click here to go to the relevant page in this report
Management of Chemical Substances 16
Web Icon
Click here to go to the relevant website
Supply Chains 17
Category Tab
Engagement 18
Click here to go to the top page of each category
Environmental Data and Third-Party Verification 19 I
Ed t 1a I P ::ii I y I C. IX rat, Pr Jfile I Me_ e a t1g re 1 f nr , Jr 1r at rh ge eEnvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Material Issues
TABLE OF zrrr:r::rz . I Message from the I Policy and Carbon Neutrality I Circular Economy I Water Neutrality Biodiversity Management of I Supply Chains Engagement En av nir do n Tm hie rdn -t Pal a rD tya ta I
CONTENTS Corporate Profile Director in Charge Management Chemical Substances I Verification
I
Editorial Policy
Editorial Policy Guidelines Referenced Contact Information
The editorial policy of this environmental report is to ensure • International Integrated Reporting Framework, International Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
accuracy of information, comprehensiveness, and response to Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Section for Environmental Affairs, Sustainability Promotion
requests from stakeholders. In terms of the environment, the • GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, Global Reporting Department
report is based on specific numerical targets and progress in the Initiative (GRI) Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Kanan,
results of initiatives. • ISO 26000 Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan
For information on social (S) and governance (G) initiatives, • Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2018, Ministry of the TEL: +81-3-6717-1410
please refer to the Integrated Report or our website. Environment, etc.
~ Integrated Report
Disclosure of Information on Otsuka Group Third-Party Verification
Information on the environment is available on our website.
~ Environment
In order to improve reliability, we are verified by third-party
organizations.
Integrated Report ~,8,~1 ~ Third-Party Verification
Reporting Period
Data for FY 2021 (from January 1 to December 31 of 2021) are t
• Otsuka
used. =--::.=::--
Initiatives reported include the most recent ones. ~ Integrated Report 2021 ~ Investor Relations
Scope of Reporting
In principle, all Otsuka group consolidated production sites are
covered.
In case of any limit on the scope of initiatives or data, a note
on the details is provided in this report.
~ Sustainability ~ Sustainability Handbook
Issuing Date
August 2022 (once a year)£nvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Material Issues
rr:r:rrnr I I I I I I
CT OA NB TLE
E
NO TF
S I Editorial Policy
DM ire es csa tog re
i
f nr o Cm
ha
t rh ge
e
MP ao nl aic gy
e
a mn ed
n t
Carbon Neutrality Circular Economy Water Neutrality Biodiversity I
C
hM ema in ca ag
l
e Sm ube sn tt
a
o ncf
es
Supply Chains En gag em ent IE n av nir Vdo en T rm 1h f. i
1
e r cn d at - t. 1Pa oal
n
rD tya ta
Corporate Profile Approach to Sustainability
Corporate Profile (As of December 31, 2021) Corporate Philosophy
Company Name Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd Otsuka-people creating new products
Established July 8, 2008 for better health worldwide
Capital ¥81 69 billion
Head Office 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0048, Japan
Tokyo Headquarters Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Kanan,
M inato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan Otsuka's Goal
Telephone +81-3-6717-1410
To become an indispensable contributor
Number of Employees 137 (Consolidated 33,226)
to people's health worldwide
Business Description Control, management and related activities with respect to the
Company's subsidiaries and affiliates operating in pharmaceutical,
nutraceutical, consumer product, and other businesses
Sustainability Mission
Global Network (As of December 31, 2021) Address social issues such as the evolution toward a healthier and more
sustainable society, while simultaneously achieving growth. These activities
are all supported by a comprehensive governance system.
Otsuka operates in 3 3countries/regions
Contribution to a More Sustainable Society
a
Otsuka's business is fully synchronized with our efforts to address social issues
Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide
~ Society (Healthier Society) ~~IA> d. } Environment (Hea~hler Planet)
p..A~ Health People Quality mall we do Carbon N@utr.nhty Circular Economy
Water Neutral ty
~ Governance
Idl .,I J Corporate gov~nance Compliance Risk managementEnvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
lll.;MII Material Issues
I
CT OA NBL TE E NO TF S I Editorial Policy I Corporate Profile MP ao nli ac gy e a mn ed n t Carbon Neutrality I Circular Economy I Water Neutrality Biodiversity I ChM ema in ca ag l e Sm ube sn tt a no cf es I Supply Chains Engagement I En av ni Vr do e Tn rim h fiie crdn a- tt iPa ol a n rD tya ta
Message from the Director in Charge of the Environment Affairs
2050 Environmental Vision of "Net Zero"
Zero environmental impact of all our business
activities.
We aim to contribute to making people and
the earth healthier.
Based on its corporate philosophy of "Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide," the Otsuka
group works to solve social issues through its businesses and contribute to the creation of a healthy and sustainable
society, while achieving its continued growth. As a unique total healthcare company that contributes to maintaining
and improving people's health through innovative and creative products, we are committed to reducing the impact
of our businesses on the global environment and contributing to a sustainable society that leads to prosperous
future.
The Otsuka group aims to help resolve social issues through its business activities. Amid the increasing seriousness
of climate change and various other environmental issues, we have adopted the 2050 Environmental Vision, "Net
Zero," which calls for us to reduce the total environmental impacts of our business activities to zero. We identified
three environmental material issues: "carbon neutrality," "circular economy," and "water neutrality"; set new
medium-term targets that include "reducing 50% in CO emissions compared to 2017 levels by 2028"; and raised the
2
target of the Otsuka Group Plastic Policy to 100% use of recycled and plant-derived raw materials in our PET bottles
by 2030.
In addition, we joined the international RE100 initiative, which asks companies to commit to using 100% renewable
energy in their business activities. As a new initiative that maximizes the Otsuka group synergy, we have established
an integrated energy service structure, with the aim of efficient power supply and maximization of energy efficiency.
The Otsuka group will work as one to achieve its 2050 Environmental Vision, "Net Zero," by pursuing unique
initiatives, and will continue to carry out environmental management that will lead to a society in which people and
the earth can coexist in the future.
Yoshiro Matsuo
Executive Deputy President and Director
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.Environmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
-----J Material Issues
I
CT OA NBL TE E NO TF S Editorial Policy I Corporate Profile I DM ie ress ca tog re infr o Cm ha t rh ge e - Carbon Neutrality I Circular Economy I Water Neutrality Biodiversity IC hM eman ica ag l e Sm ube sn tt a no cf es I Supply Chains Engagement I En av ni Vr do e n T rim h fii ce r adn t-t iPa ol a n rD tya ta
Environmental Management
Sustainability Management
Otsuka Group's Environmental Policy
The Otsuka Group Sustainability Promotion Committee was established in 2018 and is chaired by The Otsuka group strives to advance as an essential company that contributes to the health
the director in charge of sustainability promotion at Otsuka Holdings. The committee promotes of people and global environment. We will help to realize a society in which people and the
sustainability for the entire Otsuka group, acting as an engine for discussions and decision-making earth can coexist in the future by continuing to work on the issues with creativity.
regarding the direction of sustainability-related activities, plans, and other measures. Committee
meetings are held regularly to discuss direction and evaluate activities, develop systems in each Guidelines
area of sustainability promotion, and update promotion plans, as necessary. Committee members 1.Carbon Neutrality
comprise group officers in charge of various areas such as supply chain, environment, human We are committed to carbon neutrality throughout our business activities, aiming to create a
resources, corporate governance, compliance risk management, and public relations. The decarbonized society.
Committee, together with persons in charge from group companies, carries out close examination, 2.Circular Economy
with the Sustainability Promotion, IR and Corporate Planning Departments of Otsuka Holdings We are committed to the elimination of fossil resources-derived materials and the achievement of
functioning as the secretariat. zero waste, aiming to create a circular economy society.
3.Water Neutrality
■ Sustainability Management Structure Promote sustainable use of water through conservation, recycling and clean return.
Apply for deliberation 4.Environmental Compliance
Otsuka Holdings Board of Otsuka Group Sustainability Promotion Leader
Directors
Approval
(Otsuka t Ho lld ings Executive Deputy Pretsid ent) cC oo mn pti lin au ne
ce
,t o
a
ni dm rp er do uv ce
e
o risu kr
s .
environmental management system, increase effectiveness of
Proposal Approval Promotion 5.Communication
We will proactively disclose environment-related information in a transparent manner, and
Group Companies' Executive
Otsuka Grou tp Sustainability Promotion Committee in Charge of Sustainability promote communication with stakeholders.
(Revised June 2022)
Promotion
Environmental management system
Examination in - - -
each area1 -t- -
Acquisition of Integrated ISO 14001 Certification for the Otsuka Group
Promotion
To strengthen group-wide efforts toward more efficient and effective
Group Companies and Divisions environmental activities, the Otsuka group began acquiring ISO 14001
integrated certification in August 2020. In 2021, the certification expanded to
Activities are promoted through various conference bodies, WGs, TFs, and others (including time-limited PJ) include six companies* in Japan and Otsuka Holdings, the supervising
<;_onsumer _B_elations: Activities to build trust between companies and consumers organization. Under the integrated environmental goals and management
systems outlined in the certification, we will further strengthen our ISO 14001 Certification
environmental initiatives and make group-wide efforts to achieve the goals.
The Otsuka group has acquired ISO 14001 certification including integrated certification at 10
companies in Japan and 13 overseas (as of the end of December 2021).
* Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical (including its subsidiary, Okayama Taiho
Pharmaceutical), Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods, Otsuka TechnoEnvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Material Issues
CT OA NBL TE E NO TF S Editorial Policy I Corporate Profi. le I DM ire es csa tog re infr o Cm ha t rh ge e -- Carbon Neutrality I Circular Economy I Water Neutrality Biodiversity I ChM eman ica ag l e Sm ube sn tt a no cf es I Supply Chains Engagement I En av ni Vr do e n T rim h fii ce r adn t-t ia P ol a n rD tya ta I
2050 Environmental Vision of "Net Zero"
Sustainability Mission
Con!,ributetoa -~hier~nd
/ more sustainable societ~
while,. simultaneously achieving growth
/I
The Otsuka group has established a 2050 Environmental Vision, "Net
Zero", which aims to reduce the total environmental impact of our
business activities to zero.
Under this vision, we identified three environmental material issues:
"carbon neutrality," "circular economy," and "water neutrality." As
global action aimed at a decarbonized society gathers speed, we have
established a new set of medium-term targets with the aim of being
more proactive in our own initiatives. We will promote activities to
improve employees' understanding and recognition of environmental
issues through environment-related training, generate synergy among
Otsuka group companies, and act from a unified standpoint.
Develop a water use strategy Reduce 50% in CO,
for business locations in emissions compared to 2017 100 % content of recycled
water-stressed areas and plant-based materials in
our PET bottles
Social Issues Our Goals Our Activities FY 2021 Pr ress Related SDGs
n
Globalwarming 2028 target • Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the ·Joining the RE100 lnitiativeil!J
_.. u 1 _ • Reduce 50% in CO2 emissions compared to value chain il!J
· Installation of co-generation system equipment and fuel conversion equipment
2017 il!J
· Introducing CO,-Free Electricity at Four Indonesian Group Companies
il!J
• Building a New Integrated Energy Service Structure
•
■ 2028 target • Reduce environmental impact by · Containers and Packaging for a Sustainable Society il!J ii
I~ ~ - E inn crv eir ao sn e mental load • dR ie sd pu oc se a l 5 c0 o% m pin a rs eim d p tole 2i 0n 1c 9in eration and landfill • Pim rop mro ov ti in og n r oe fs o bu ur sc ine e e ssff i ac cie tin vc ity ie s aimed at · Launch of PET Bottles Made Using Recycled Materials il!J m
2030 target sustainability for both society and the
. • 100% content of recycled and plant-based earth
materials in our PET bottles
i!I
il!J
Reduced freshwater 2028 target • Risk analysis and understanding of • Develop a plan to establish a water management program
availability due to • Expand the plant water management program sustainable water use II
water resource risks to all locations globally • Management and effective use of water
• Develop a water use strategy for business resources
locations in water-stressed areas
• fl
1 To reduce CO2 emissions from business activities to substantially zero (calculated by subtracting uptake from emissions) Otsuka Group's Materiality
2 To establish an economic system that recycles resources by reusing waste discharged from business activities as new raw materials
To reduce the impact of water intake and discharge from business activities on water resources to zeroEnvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Material Issues
. I I I
CT OA NBL TE E NO TF S Editorial Policy I Corporate Profile DM ie ress ca tog re infr o Cm ha t rh ge e MP ao nl aic gy e a mn ed n t Circular Economy I Water Neutrality Biodiversity IC hM eman ica ag l e Sm ube sn tt a no cf es Supply Chains Engagement I En av ni Vr do e n T rim h fii ce r an d t-t ia P ol a n rD tya ta
Carbon Neutrality
Approach and Policy into the management plan as matters to be resolved at the Board of Directors as needed. The
Committee is positioned as a subordinate organization of the Otsuka Group Sustainability Promotion
Climate change due to global warming is causing serious environmental issues on a worldwide Committee, which decides overall sustainability strategies and directions, and plays a role as one of
scale, such as by severely impacting biological and water resources. We recognize it as a major risk the group's sustainability initiatives.
to our global operations.
In aiming to contribute to a decarbonized, more sustainable society, the Otsuka group is
working to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions throughout the value chain in line with the ■ Otsuka Group Environmental Management System
international targets and indicators adopted under the Paris Agreement.
Otsuka Group Sustainability Promotion Committee
t
Initiatives for TCFD Recommendations
Sharing and promotion
In October 2021, Otsuka Holdings announced its support for the Otsuka Holdings Environmental = Executive Deputy President and
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial TCFD F' lS" 'I - C.n M \INA e F Sc fUR lRe F TF< Committee Director at Otsuka Holdings
Disclosures (TCFD). Accordingly, we are moving forward with the • sM tra ak ti en gg i ed se cisions on environmental . Directors and Executive Officers at
disclosure of information on climate-related risks and opportunities in • Approval of goals and activity plans Otsuka Group Companies
t l
governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets,
according to the framework recommended by the TCFD. Proposals and reports Approval
Otsuka Group Global = Persons in charge of environmental
Governance Environmental Council management at Otsuka Holdings
As a global group that contributes to the health of people worldwide, the Otsuka group works • Formulation of goals and activity plans
sincerely to reduce the impact its businesses have on the global environment, and seeks to • Reporting on the results of activities . manP aer gs eo mns e nin t c ah t a Or tg se u ko af e gn rov uir po n Cm omen pt aa nl ies
contribute to the creation of a sustainable society that protects nature and the future of the earth.
Therefore, we have built a system of governance.
The Otsuka group's environmental policies and initiatives are discussed and determined by the Strategy
Otsuka Holdings Environmental Committee, which consists of the executive deputy president and Process of Scenario Analysis
director of Otsuka Holdings and the directors and executive offices in charge of environmental With the purpose of assessing the financial and business impacts under various scenarios, as well as
management in our group companies. Matters on the direction of the entire Otsuka group will be assessing the resilience of our strategies to climate-related risks and opportunities, we carry out
discussed and approved by the Otsuka Holdings Board of Directors, and will be shared with group scenario analysis using IEA World Energy Outlook 2020 and other resources, following the steps
companies as the Otsuka group's policy. Then, they will be implemented as an implementation below.
scheme of the Otsuka Group Global Environmental Council (hereafter referred to as "OGG
Environmental Council"), which consists of directors from the production departments of group ■ Steps of Scenario Analysis
companies and persons in charge of environmental management. In 2021, the Board of Directors
approved 2050 Environmental Vision, "Net Zero," with the aim of reducing the total environmental Step1 Step2
impact across all its business activities to zero. The OGG Environmental Council assesses the risks and Identify key Set up climate-related
opportunities examined and reports the results of monitoring. The Otsuka Holdings Environmental climate-related risks and scenarios
opportunities, and set up
Committee gives instructions for improvement and approves planning. In addition, if the monitoring parameters
results have an impact on business strategy and management resources, they will be incorporatedEnvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Materlal Issues
I
Ed1tof1a P II v I Cc ~ ::intP Pr,::if1 e I M ,, 1e re cta ( g r fr, C:, h,, a • rh ge e MP ac n aIC gY e man e1d 1 t ecu,.c E, m, I Watec Neutca ty Er-gagement IE n av ni Vr d e rr nhr 1 r ddn t-t lPa : aI .- rD tya ta
Climate-related scenarios Financial Impacts and Responses Associated with Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
■change in Global Mean Surface Temperature
6.0
Rise of 2.7°C-5.4°C if no additional global warming Policies aid • lncre-ased costs due to tightened • Introduction of internal carbon pricing
40 countermeasures are taken regUations regulatioos such as carboo pricing Large Large • Introduction of COrfree electricity
• Introduction of solar power generation systems
• Steep rise in renewable energy prices Large Large including mega solar power systems
2.0 Tra Rn iss kit si on Market • Steep rise in energy prices Large Large •
•
Il f nt ur e v() l
e
ro c sov tmoin v eg e nrr s tx i ioie nor g ey
n
ve if rf oic nir mxic ey
n
tt ah lr o fo ag ch
il
ite ien se r ig ny Js aa pvi an ng aa nn dd
• Reputation risk and investment~ overseas
00 Reputation ir ne ala dete qd u ar ti es k re sa ps os no sc ei a tt oe d c limw ait th e Large Medium
Rise of 0.9°C-2.3°C if drastic global warming change and water resource risks
-2.0 countermeasures are taken • Risks of damage to production and • Decrxitralized production of major products
2000 2050 2100 (Year) other facilities due to intensificatioo • Formulatioo, disclosure, and sharing of procurement
of extreme weather, and cost policies and guidelines with suppliers
increases to prepare for extreme • Strengthrxiing corrmunication with oor supply chains
Acute weather even ts Medium Large (expanding the nurrber of suppliers that are subject to
4°C Scenario Below 2°C Scenario • Risks in raw material procurement our supply chain questionnaires, improving and
A scenario in which development is dependent on fossil A scenario in which development is sustainable and Physical asu nc dh s a tas bd leis pru rop cti uo rn e mto e nsu t pply chains e dn ish ca un ssc ii on ng s }c ontents of the questionnaires, and holding
fuels and climate change measures are not introduced climate change measures are proactively implemented Risks
dR iis si an sg te t re s,m np ee gra at tu ivr ee s i mca pu as ce t a on n i cn rc or pe sa ,s e a nin d n loa st su r oa fl ato ch k iee ve ep at h de e ct ae rm bop ne ir za etu d r se o cri is ee t yb ae rl eo w en 2 h° aC n. c eM de , a ins cu lr ue ds i nto g • wIn ic tr he a tes te rd () ee rn ae turg rey rc iso es ts associated Large Large • Systematic renewal of facilities
biodrversity. the introduction of CO2 emissions regulations and Chronic • Effects of climate change oo drug • Collection of informatioo aboot the impacts on drug
expansion of the renewable energy market. discovery using crop and other Medium Medium discovery using crops and other natural products, risk
natural products assessment, and examinatioo of coontermeasures
Based on the Ministry of the Environment's Japanese translation of Summary for Policymakers, Working Group II Report, Fifth • Reduction of operating costs • Collection of information on new technologies (such as
Assessment Report published by the IPCC Main Scenarios Referenced eR fe fs ico ieu nrc ce y eth nr eo rgu yg -eh ff ict ih ene t i en qutr ipo mdu enc tt ion of Large Medium m ree qum irb er a sn tee a w ma } t ae nr d t r ee xa at mm ie nn at t iote oc h on f o inlo trg oy d uth ca tiot od o oe f s sn uco ht
• IEA World Energy Outlook 2020 (Sustanable Development Scenario. Stated Policy Scenario) technologies in a timely manner
• IPCC (RCP2 6, RCP8 5)
• Reductioo of energy procurement • Introduction of internal carboo pricing
• OECD-FAO Agricultural Outlook 2021-2030 sE on ue rr cg ey s r ois f k r ed nu ee w at bo lep r eo na ec rgti yv e introductioo Large Small • C soo ol rl ce ec st i (o sn u cho f a sin hf yo dr rm oa geti no n an o d n a rn rmex ot n-g iae )n ae nr da t ei xo an r re inn ae tr iog oy
of introduction of such soorces in a tirn:fy manner
• Increased revenue from increased • Formulation of the Otsuka Group Plastic Policy (in
Measures to Deal with Risks and Opportunities demand for products that rritigate 2020} that aims at reducing reliance on fossil fuel
or address climate change (e.g., derived materials
The Otsuka group carried out the first scenario analysis for each business sector to reduce risks and products fcr preventing heat stroke • Examinatioo of introduction of recycled PET resin or
and the spread of infectious Large Large plant-based bio-PET resin for PET bottle beverage
expand opportunities. Transition risks include energy shortages as well as steep rise in energy prices dise-ases) cootainers
• Examples: Expand sales of products for prevrxiting heat
due to increased demand for renewable energy and other forms of energy. stroke, and expand sales of products with low
To deal with these risks, we are promoting the introduction of CO2-free electricity, mega solar environmental itr()act throoghoot their lifecycles
power systems, fuel conversion, and so forth, at all locations globally Market • I innc tore a ns ee wd r mev ae rkn eu te cf aro tem g ce rx ip esa n wsi io thn Medium Medium • D cle imv ae tlo e p cm hae nn gt e o (ef .gp .r ,o pd lau nc tt -s b ath sea dt pm roit di ug ca tt se ) or address
In Japan, we established the Otsuka group integrated energy service structure to maximize energy prod.Jets that address clrnate change
use utilizing new power sources. In this way, the Otsuka group will strive to promote both business • Strengthening business continuity • Strengthening of promotion of energy saving and
planning (measures against disaster renewable energy through internal carbon pricing
growth and improving environmental issues, and wtll strive to enhance its resilience against climate Resilience and supply chain disruptions) Medium Large • Business continuity plan measures at manufacturing
sit'?s (anti-seismic m'?asures and measures against
change flooding)
il!J
Building a New Integrated Energy Service Structure Assessment of business/fina-icial impacts
Lcrge: One billion yen or more (equivalent to 1 % of operating income assuming a minimum operating income of 100 billion yen)
Medium: From neg I igible to less than one billion yen
Small NegligibleEnvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Materlal Issues
I
I
MP ac n a1 gc1 e nm ied r t ""'"' E, .,, Wa er Ne •tra ty IC M ra nna o g l e ;n u b t a c nf ( e Si .ly c 81 ~
Risk Management Initiatives to Reduce CO2 Emissions
The Otsuka group examines and assesses climate-related risks that have the potential to impact its
financial affairs and strategies. The Otsuka Holdings Environmental Committee considers related Increasing Utilization of Renewable Energy and Maximizing Energy Efficiency
risks, and committee members in charge of environmental management report on any matters
The Otsuka group has set the target of reducing CO, emissions by 50% (compared to 2017) by
that are deemed to be significant in the risk assessment process to the Board of Directors.
2028. To achieve this target, we are increasing our renewable energy usage through the
Resolutions on matters approved by the Board of Directors are communicated to each company in
introduction of CO2-free electricity and solar power generation equipment, and maximizing our
the form of Otsuka group policies, and the whole group works to minimize climate-related risks.
energy efficiency through the adoption of co-generation systems 1.
In 2021, we introduced CO2-free electricity at all 23 manufacturing sites of five 2 Otsuka group
Metrics and Targets
companies, and as a result reduced our annual emissions by approximately 109,800 t-C0,.3
The Otsuka group has established 2050 Environmental Vision, "Net Zero," with the aim of reducing
In addition, the introduction of renewable energy reduced CO, emissions by 143,000 metric tons.
the total environmental impact across all its business activities to zero. In addition to revising our
In Tokushima Prefecture, which is home to many Otsuka group production facilities, we have
co, emissions reduction target upward (from a 30% reduction by 2030 to a 50% reduction by
begun upgrading the co-generation facility at Otsuka Chemical's Tokushima Factory. This will
2028; compared to 2017), we have joined the international RE100 initiative and continue to
enable us to supply electricity and steam to neighboring Otsuka group manufacturing sites and
promote activities aimed at decarbonization. Looking ahead, we will maximize group synergy and
improve our energy efficiency. The new co-generation system is scheduled to begin operation in
proactively engage in efforts to achieve carbon neutrality.
2024, and is expected to cut annual emissions by approximately 8,000 t-CO,. In addition, we have
a€
Our Goals of Carbon Neutrality introduced a new co-generation system and changed boiler fuel at Otsuka Pharmaceutical
a€ Factory's Naruto Factory, which should result in an annual reduction of approximately 4,800 t-CO,.
Joining the RE 100 Initiative To assess the environmental impact of the entire supply chain, we calculate greenhouse gas
emissions across the entire value chain, including emissions from our business activities (Scope 1
and 2) as well as emissions from the activities of suppliers and customers (Scope 3), and promote
■ Target Values of co, Emission
initiatives for grasping emissions trends and improving the situation.
(t-CO,) The engines, turbines, or fuel cells of co-generation systems generate electricity from natural gas, LPG, Nother fuel
100,000 - sources. At the same time, the systems colle:t the waste heat, thereby achieving efficient use of !:oth heat and electricity
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods
Compared to 2017
■ Reduction in co, Emissions Through ■ G HG Emissions throughout the Value Chain
Adoption of Renewable Energy
Net Zero Scope 1
(t-CO,) 12.5%
150,000- 143,000 Ot~r----,...,,-.
categories Scope 2
28.9% 0.8%
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2028 Fiscal 2050 100,000- Scope 3
Result Target Target 86.7%
Category 1 ----t-"r~
57.7%
Fiscal 2017 Result 50,000-
Scope: Five group companies: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka
CO2 Emissions
818,000t-CO, -16.5% Pharmaceutical Factcry, Tai ho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chem1cal, '1'id
Scope 1, 2
2019 2020 2021 Otsuka Foods
€Benvironmental DataEnvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Material Issues
CT OA NBL TE E NO TF S Editorial Policy I Corporate Profi. le I DM ire es cs ta og re infr o Cm ha t rh ge e MP ao nl aic gy e a mn ed n t Circular Economy I Water Neutrality Biodiversity IC hM eman ica ag l e Sm ube sn tt a o ncf es I Supply Chains Engagement I En av ni Vr do e n rT im fh ii ce r an d t-t iPa ol a n rD tya ta I
Joining the RE100 Initiative Building a New Integrated Energy Service Structure
In April 2022, the Otsuka group joined the international RE100 initiative, which asks companies to The Otsuka group established the Energy Support Department in Otsuka Business Support Co.,
commit to using 100% renewable energy in their business activities. As the world transitions to a Ltd., which aims to procure renewable energy from power producers and to more efficiently
decarbonized society, under our 2050 Environmental Vision, "Net Zero," through which we aim to supply electricity generated within the Otsuka group to group business sites. By centralizing
reduce the total environmental impact across all business activities to zero, we will continue to energy management in Japan and establishing an advanced management system of supply and
proactively implement measures to reduce CO, emissions. demand, we will pursue the optimal energy mix in the Otsuka group while expanding renewable
energy use, and work to both contribute to business growth and solve environmental issues.
RE100 °CLIMATE
GROUP
Previously From Now On
Plants purchase electricity individually Establishment of an advanced
from local electric power companies management system by having an in
house electricity supply and demand
Introducing COrFree Electricity at Four* Indonesian Group Companies
system and centralizing energy
Among our overseas businesses, the highest generator of CO, emissions after Japan is Indonesia, management in Japan
where we are engaged in the pharmaceutical, nutraceutical, and chemical businesses. In Indonesia,
we have introduced CO,-free electricity from geothermal power, which we forecast will reduce CO,
Electric Electric Electric Electric Local JEPX (Japan In-house
emissions by approximately 94,000 ton per year, which is approximately 60% of the plants' annual Power Power Power Power electric Electric power
CO, emissions. Moving forward, we will continue increasing our use of renewable energy and Company Company Company Company power Power generation
A B C D companies Exchange) facilities
maximizing energy efficiency both in Japan and around the world, and make use of group synergy
to contribute to a decarbonized, more sustainable society.
* PT Otsuka Indonesia, PT Amerta lndah Otsuka, PT Widatra Bhakti, and PT Lautan Otsuka Chemical
Sukabumi Factory, PT Amerta lndah OtsukaEnvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Materlal Issues
¥1\H•hh:5 I I
Edit( a P II v MP ac n a1 gc1 e nm ied r t Carb :ir "e ra Wa er Ne •tra 1y IC M ra nna o g l e ;n u b t a nc (f e Si .lyca,~ IE o a Vrd, e rit r <d o- t1Pa 1:al i rr ty
Circular Economy
Approach and Policy
Fiscal 2019 Results 2028 Targets
Compared with 2019
In line with global trends, for us to be able to create a more sustainable society and achieve Total Waste Volume 97,4001 90,1001 -7.51/o
sustainable corporate growth, we must shift to a circular economy-type business model whereby
we can achieve growth without having a serious impact on the environment. We regard the use of aS nim d p Ll ae n l dn fd iln l Ver oa l1 ui mon e 16, 1001 16,4001 +1.9% 501/o reduction
fossil resources-derived materials and waste discharge to the natural environment as
environmental impacts that must be reduced to zero. We are committed to eliminating fossil
Initiatives toward Zero Waste
resources-derived materials and achieving zero waste* as our vision. We will also continue to
increase resource efficiency throughout the value chain and build a harmonious and sustainable
relationship with bioresource and other resource sources. Global emissions in FY 2021 were 90,100 metric tons, and simple incineration and landfill volume
was 16,400 metric ton. The Otsuka group is working with each group companies in Japan and
* Approach to reduce waste discharge (simple incineration and landfill disposal) to the natural environment to zero and
overseas to achieve the 2028 goal of a 50% reduction in simple incineration and landfill compared
utilize all resources effectively
with FY 2019.
Our Goals
■Total Waste Volume Simple ----~
Incineration
The Otsuka group has established a 2050 Environmental Vision,"Net Zero," which aims to reduce
the total environmental impact of our business activities to zero, along with setting the 2028 goal Landfill---------
that aims to reduce simple incineration and landfill by 50% compared to FY 2019. 11%
PET bottles for beverages constitute most plastic containers and packaging used for consumer Material Recyding
(lrdudng valua~es)
products by Otsuka group companies. For this reason, we have established the Otsuka Group 41%
11%
Plastic Policy to achieve 100% use of recycled and plant-based materials in our PET bottles globally
by 2030. We are working to achieve this goal.
Our main initiatives include reducing the use of plastic containers and packaging for various Generation, Thermal ---- ~
Recycle, Fuelization
products, reducing the use of materials for logistics, and promoting recycling activities to achieve 13% -----Composting and feed
17%
zero waste*.
* Approach seeking to reduce waste generation and waste of resources to zero ■Volume of waste simply incinerated and landfilled
■Simple Incineration and Landfill Volume Target (t)
20,000 -
(t)
18,000 - 16,400 North America 39.6%
Japan 25.0%
Asia 27.9%
Europe 7.2%
Others 0.4%
Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2028 Fiscal 2050 2019 2020 2021
Result Target TargetEnvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
-HM+ateirihal Ilss•uehs f
CT OA NBL TE E NO TF S Editorial Policy I Corporate Profi. le I DM ire es csa tog re infr o Cm ha t rh ge e MP ao nl aic gy e a mn ed n t Carbon Neutrality Water Neutrality Biodiversity IC hM ema in ca ag l e Sm ube sn tt a no cf es I Supply Chains Engagement I En av ni Vr do e n T rim h fii ce r an d t-t ia P ol a n rD tya ta I
Otsuka Group Plastic Policy Initiatives to Use Packaging that Supports a
Sustainable Society
PET bottles
Fundamental Concept Containers and Packaging for a Sustainable Society A
PET bottles comprise the majority of plastic containers and packaging used for consumer , ~!§II''
Based on the Otsuka Group Plastic Policy, we
products by our group companies. For this reason, we believe that by promoting PET bottle
recycling, we can reduce our reliance on fossil fuel and thereby contribute to environmental are quickly moving forward with measures to ;--nm ! I.!!
conservation. Our plan is to use PET bottles manufactured from recycled and plant-based reduce the environmental impact caused by PETresm iJ;A.~--
materials and increase the percentage of such sustainable resource use in our production our plastic containers and packaging. In doing feedstock . Bott e. -to. -b. ottle ~=55 Collect
so, we are contributing to sustainable
processes globally to 100% by 2030 and by 2050, we aim to eliminate the use of petroleum
closedloop recycling for plastics and other
based raw materials in all consumer products. - -
resources.
Our Vision for 2050
For our entire line of consumer products, we will endeavor to use packaging that supports a
sustainable society: Cleaning Crushing
• No use of plastics made from petroleum-based materials
• Promote use of recycled, plant-based, and biodegradable materials Launch of PET Bottles Made Using Recycled Materials
• Promote use of reusable packaging
We launched a PET bottle made using 50%
Our Goal for 2030
recycled PET resin for Crystal Geyser in April
• Achieve a 100 percent or higher content of recycled and plant-based materials in our PET bottles. 2021, and a 30% recycled PET bottle for POCARI
• Introduce alternative packaging (e.g., paper) and increase use of cans for our drink products. SWEAT in March 2022. While moving forward
• Step up promotion of drink bottle recycling by introducing reusable packaging through a zero
with further technological development, we will
waste sales and circular distribution model, which also includes the use of sports bottles for our
gradually extend the use of recycled PET bottles
powder products.
• We will promote the use of alternative packaging and concurrently pursue using more recyclable to other products.
materials for drink containers. 310ml 500ml 700ml 300ml 500ml
Crystal Geyser POCARI SWEAT
To advance PET material recycling, it is essential to recycle PET bottles for use as raw material. ■2021 Amount of Plastic Containers and Packaging
Together with our various stakeholders, we will advance our global efforts on proper collection and Used for Consumer Products* (Metric TonsNear)
recycling of used PET bottles.
Food, supplements, and
Revised July 2 0 22 cosmetic
(Bottles, caps,
*16 Companies 11,000
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical 22%
Factory, Otsuka Foods, Taiho Pharmaceutical, ~--PET bottles for
Shanghai Otsuka, lnterpharma Praha, N&S, PT beverage
Guided by the Otsuka Group Plastic Policy, we are taking swift and appropriate actions regarding Amerta lndah Otsuka, Pharmavite, Ridge, Crystal Beverage 31,600
every aspect of our use of plastic, and thereby contributing to the sustainable use of plastic and Geyser, Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Sims (Caps, 64%
effective resource recycling. Specific initiatives include developing an action plan for PET bottles, (Guangdong), Tianjin Otsuka, FoodState, and Daiya 6,600
14%
using recycled and plant-based materials, and examining options for alternative packaging. FoodsEnvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Material Issues 111111
CT OA NBL TE E NO TF S Editorial Policy I Corporate Profi. le I DM ire es csa tog re infr o Cm ha t rh ge e MP ao nl aic gy e a mn ed n t Carbon Neutrality I Circular Economy Biodiversity IC hM eman ica ag l e Sm ube sn tt a no cf es I Supply Chains Engagement I En av ni Vr do e n T rim h fii ce r adn t-t ia P ol a n rD tya ta I
Water Neutrality
Approach and Policy Evaluating Water Risk at Manufacturing Sites
Since its establishment, the Otsuka group's operations have had a deep connection to water, a Considering environmental risks in each region is also important for sustainable growth in the
resource essential to life. Through products that use water as a raw material, we have actively diverse business models of the Otsuka group operating around the world. Since 2017, the Otsuka
contributed not only to the treatment and prevention of diseases, but also the maintenance and group has conducted water risk assessments using the water risk assessment tool "Aqueduct,"
promotion of health. We therefore recognize the importance of water to us as a resource, and developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI), so as to understand and minimize the impact of
consider its conservation to be a critical global issue. Moreover, water resources are unevenly water-related risks on the group's business activities. In order to conduct a more detailed analysis,
distributed across different countries and regions, each of which faces different risks. We we conducted a questionnaire survey of 87 sites of 51 companies (all consolidated manufacturing
cooperate with all stakeholders, and conduct ongoing water conservation initiatives from intake sites) to evaluate the impact on our business in terms of seven water-related risks in line with our
to discharge (including cultivation of water resources, conscientious use and clean return), in the business (water resource risk, groundwater resource risk, drought risk, flood risk, water quality
aim of sustainable water use. risk, intake risk, and drainage risk) from 2020, and completed water risk assessments. Water
resources are unevenly distributed across different countries and regions, each of which faces
Our Goals different risks. Thus, we draw up model cases for water management and water usage targets
tailored to each country or region. In the future, we will verify and evaluate the result of this
initiative and promote management and effective use in accordance with each region, pursuing
The Otsuka group has established a 2050 Environmental Vision, "Net Zero," which aims to reduce
conservation and improvement of water resources.
total environmental impact of our business activities to zero. Under the vision, we have revised our
targets to include developing and implementing a water use strategy for business sites in water
■ Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas and Breakdown by Region of Water Consumption in the Otsuka Group
stressed areas, and expanding the plant water management program to all locations globally, both
by 2028. We are working on the realization of sustainable water use by improving water use Arctic Ocean
efficiency and working to preserve water resources from intake to discharge (including cultivation
of water resources, conscientious use of water, and return of clean water to the environment).
2%
Pi!cifi
.. Oce.a. ,n Water stress
ap . ...........
ti Ocean ■useofdrylowwater
■No data
Source: WRI Aqueduct •Environmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Material Issues 111111
CT OA NBL TE E NO TF S Editorial Policy I Corporate Profi. le I DM ire es cs ta og re infr o Cm ha t rh ge e MP ao nl aic gy e a mn ed n t Carbon Neutrality I Circular Economy Biodiversity IC hM eman ica ag l e Sm ube sn tt a o ncf es I Supply Chains Engagement I En av ni Vr do e n rT im fh ii ce r an d t-t iPa ol a n rD tya ta I
Initiatives to Reduce Water Usage Initiatives that Protect Water Sources1 through Forestry
About 60% of the water used by the Otsuka group comes from production activities in Japan. The One of our initiatives to preserve water resources uses water conscientiously and returns clean
Otsuka group strives to ensure the proper use of water in order to continuously preserve water water using water source protection through forestry. Group employees and family members
resources from intake to discharge. In Japan, the Tokushima Factory of the Otsuka Foods improved voluntarily participate in conservation drives, such as planting trees, in turn developing a sense of
the water use process on the production line, and the Naruto Factory of the Otsuka closeness with forests.
Pharmaceutical Factory reduced the amount of water used in the treatment of wastewater from
the factory to a level that does not affect water quality. As a result, the reduction in water use in Projects
Japan reached 696,000 m3 (6% reduction year on year). In Japan
The Otsuka group has signed a partnership agreement with Tokushima Prefecture's Tokushima
~ Limiting Emissions to the Atmosphere and Water Systems Cooperative Forestry Project, taking part in intensive forest management that is focused on large
scale forests covering 100 ha or more.
■Water Usage, Water Usage per Sales
■Tokushima Forests - Forestry in Collaboration
(Thousand m3) (m3/¥ million) with Tokushima Prefecture
20,000 - - 20 In 2010, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory and Tai ho
Japan 61.7% Pharmaceutical signed partnership agreements
15,000 - Southeast Asia 18.3% - 15 with the Tokushima Cooperative Forestry Project,
East Asia 10.2% based on Tokushima Prefecture's Ordinance on
10,000 - South Asia and North Africa 5.3% - 10 Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures.
North America 3.0% In fiscal 2021, eight group companies' planted
broad-leaved trees and others in an area of 21.29
5,000 - South America 0.1% - 5
hectares, equivalent to 139.81 metric tons of CO,
Europe 1.4%
absorbed by forests.
0
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Outside Japan
■ Water usage (left) ·•·Water usage per sales (right)
■ PT Widatra Bhakti Watershed Conservation in
Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group
Pasuruan Regency
In the Pasuruan Regency region in Indonesia,
employees of PT Widatra Bhakti helped protect
water sources by planting 6,080 saplings in
Andonosari Village in the Tutur subdistrict.
Water source protection means nurturing and maintaining
water resources, as well as using the natural capacity of
forests to mitigate flooding and droughts. Forests soak up falling rain and snow, then allow that water to slowly flow
into rivers as groundwater
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical,
Otsuka Foods, Otsuka Packaging Industries, and Otsuka Techno CorporationEnvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Material Issues ~
CT OA NBL TE E NO TF S Editorial Policy I Corporate Profi. le I DM ire es csa tog re infr o Cm ha t rh ge e MP anol aic gy e a mn ed n t Carbon Neutrality I Circular Economy I Water Neutral. it y - ChM eman ica ag l e Sm ube sn tat no cf e s I Supply Chains Engagement I En av ni Vr do e n T rim h fii ce rd an t-t iPa ol a n rD tya ta I
Biodiversity
Approach and Policy Business Activities That Take Local Ecosystems into Account
Otsuka Group's Biodiversity Policy Initiatives for Nature Conservation
Basic Approach The Otsuka group is committed to protecting the natural environment at each of its business sites
The Otsuka group recognizes the invaluable benefits provided by the global environment, and and conserving animals and plants based on laws and regulations. We have been conducting our
thus deeply values the wonder of life. It understands that nature's gifts are the key to our future, environmental survey of globe-spanning operating companies to monitor the status of compliance
and is consequently committed to protecting biodiversity worldwide. with laws and regulations on animals and plants to be protected that are defined by laws and
others (IUCN protected area management categories, the Ramsar Convention, domestic laws and
Guidelines regulations) and conservation activities for them. We will continue to grasp ecological risks in the
1 The group will deepen its understanding of the relationship between business activities and areas surrounding our plants, and take measures against them.
biodiversity.
2 The group will strive to reduce the environmental impact of business activities that impact Creating Biotopes*
biodiversity. A biotope at the Tokushima ltano Factory of Otsuka Pharmaceutical was created in 1998 when the
3 The group will strive for sustainable use of resources (including ecosystem services), and for fair plant was built under the theme of "symbiosis with nature." The biotope, with a total length of
and equitable distribution of genetic resources in accordance with international arrangements. about 450 m, is fed by cooling water from the plant and provides an environment for diverse
4 The group will work on conservation of biodiversity by communicating, cooperating and aquatic creatures to flourish, including dragonfly larva, water scorpions, and pygmy water lilies.
collaborating with stakeholders worldwide. The Okayama Taiho Pharmaceutical plant created a biotope in 2011. Reusing the water (purified
5 The group will help foster public awareness of biodiversity. water) used for cleaning and sterilizing glass bottles of the Tiovita Drink series and the cooling
water, the water is discharged into ditches that reproduce the natural environment. Freshwater
fish such as Japanese Medaka (killifish) breed in the biotope creek, seasonal flowers bloom around
Relationship between Biodiversity and Business Activities
the water, and insects and wild birds also fly in.
Supply Adjustment Cultural * Biotope Restoring ecosystems that have been lost due to the establishment of factories, etc., and creating an
Plants Animals Freshwater Air quality Recreation environment for plants and animals that originally lived in the area can return
Fuel Wood Water purification Emotional value
Medicinal resources Waste disassembly Environmental education
Biochemical resources Natural disaster protection
Ecosystem benefits
Corporate activities -
Ill hi:thhd
■
Impact on biodiversity
Climate change
Changes in Depletion of resources Non-native species
Air pollution
habitats (animals, plants, and freshwater) introduction
Water pollutionEnvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Materlal Issues
I
Ed1tof1a P II v I Cc ~ ::intP Pr,::if1 e I M ,, 1e re cta ( g r fr, C:, h,, a • rh ge e MP ac n aIC gY e man e1d 1 t C~rb,~ Ne,,tra tv I r1.u, .. r E,. m, I Water Neutra ty litMHltMI Su1 ly C::ha1 ~ Er-gagement I En av ni Vr d e rnr hr 1r ddn t-t lPa : aI .- rD tya ta
Management of Chemical Substances
Approach and Policy Limiting Emissions to the Atmosphere and Water Systems1
Chemical substances used and emitted in business activities of our group companies and our Prevention of Air Pollution
manufacturing contractors are appropriately managed. Our policy is as follows. Emissions of nitrogen oxides and sulfur oxides from our business activities amounted to 75 metric
tons and 2 metric tons, respectively. We will continue to consolidate boiler facilities, switch to
1 Prevent the adverse effects of chemical substances on humans and ecosystems cleaner fuels, and continue to improve its energy efficiency in an effort to minimize emissions of
2 Comply with laws and regulations in each country and further promote voluntary initiatives NOx (nitrogen oxides) and SOx (sulfur oxides) into the atmosphere.
We will comply with the laws and regulations of each country regarding the use and
discharge of chemical substances and will further promote voluntary initiatives. ■ NOx (Nitrogen Oxides) Emissions ■ sox (Sulfur Oxide) Emissions ■ Dust and Soot Emissions
3 Monitoring
(Metric tom) (Metric tons) (Metric tons)
We will monitor the amount of chemical substances used and emitted in our business 100- 100- 100-
activities, check the status of compliance and progress of voluntary initiatives regularly,
80- 80-
and take necessary corrective actions.
4 Response in the event of violations or disasters 60- 60-
We prepare the procedures for dealing with violations and disasters, and share them with 40- - 40- - -
relevant employees to prevent the occurrence of chemical contamination even in a state of -
20- 20-
emergency. 7 4 7 5
2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021
Proper Management of Chemical Substances1
Prevention of Water Pollution
The total amount of wastewater discharged during business activities was 11,844,000 m3 , COD
We handled 2,236 metric tons of PRTR substances' in our business activities. We will continue to (chemical oxygen demand), which indicates the environmental impact of water quality, was 52
strive for proper management of chemical substances. metric tons, and 55 (suspended solid) emissions were 41 metric tons.
■ Changes in Handling, Release of PRTR Substances ■ Total Amount of Wastewater ■ COD (chemical oxygen demand) ■ ss (Suspended Solids) Emissions
■ Amount of PRTR handled Emissions
(Metric tons)
3.000- ■ Amount of PRTR released (atmosphere and water) (Thousand m3) (Metric tons) (Metric tons)
■ Am aunt of PRTR transfered (waste) 20.000- 100- 100-
2. PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register): 15,000- 11' I ~80l- l i 80-
aa gn g i rn egve atn et ,o ar ny d t r pa uc bk lii cn ig ze s dy as tt ae m on to va ru ion ud se hrs at rman fd u, l 10,000- 60- i I i
chemical substances: their generation sources, and 40-
their quantities released into the environment, or
5.000-
their quantities contained in waste and carried out of 20-
the workplace. There are presently 462 substances
designated under the PRTR system 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021
2019 2020 2021
Five group companies Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka FoodsEnvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Materlal Issues
I
Ed1tof1a P II v I Cc ~ ::intP Pr,::if1 e I M ,, 1e re cta ( g r fr, C:, h,, a • rh ge e MP ac n aIC gY e man e1d 1 t C~rb,~ Ne,,tra tv I r1.u, .. r E,. m, I Water Neutra ty Engagement I En av ni Vr d e rnr hr 1 r ddn t-t lPa : aI .- rD tya ta
Related Information
II II
Supply Chain Basic Policy Promotion System
II II
Implementation of Briefings Implementation of SAQ
Initiatives for Sustainable Procurement
Across the entire value chain, the Otsuka group engages in business activities that are safe, reliable,
Otsuka Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines
socially acceptable, and in compliance with laws and regulations. When commencing transactions
(Excerpts involved environment)
with a supplier, we perform screening and checks to ensure the quality of raw materials and to
guarantee stable procurement. We also conclude a basic transaction agreement. In the case of a We require the following in accordance with the Otsuka Group Environment Policy:
new supplier, transactions are determined only after we have carried out due diligence. 1. Obsenvance of environmental law as well as international treaty as well as in the countries
and areas of business activities
We aim for mutually sustainable development through fair, equitable, and transparent
2. Pursuing activities such as chemical management, reduction and appropriate disposal of
procurement and the establishment of healthy relationships with business collaborators. To further
waste and the prevention of pollution, to consider the health and safety of local
these initiatives, we formulated the Otsuka Group Procurement Policy, which considers factors such communities and environments
as human rights, labor issues, the environment, and anti-corruption measures, and the Otsuka 3. Consideration of the impacts of activities on the global environment, such as reduction of
Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines to promote the initiatives with the aim of embedding greenhouse gas emissions, responses to climate change, and environmental load reduction
sustainable procurement. Starting in 2022, the Otsuka group has also begun focusing on a new 4. Recycling, efficient usage and reduction in the consumption of resources such as energy,
area-stability of supply, which addresses natural disasters and geopolitical risks--in addition to water, and raw materials
the four existing areas of attention: human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. 5. Promotion of comprehensive conservation activities for biodiversity considering the
diversity in ecosystems, species, and genetics. Fair and equitable allocation of benefits
resulting from utilization of genetic resources
otsuka Group Prorurement Policy
The Otsuka group of companies, in accordance with our corporate vision, "Otsuka-people Briefings on Sustainable Procurement Practices
creating new products for better health worldwide", and international norms, conducts
By 2021, we had held briefings for 126 suppliers on sustainable procurement practices. Attendees
procurement activities in a responsible way. Otsuka delivers innovative, safe, secure, and
are expected to comply with the Otsuka Group Procurement Policy and the Otsuka Group
high-quality products in order to contribute to the construction and maintenance of a
Sustainable Procurement Guidelines. Also, we had training sessions where the attendees had
sustainable society, as well as to the health of people around the world.
opportunities to stay up to date on human rights and environmental issues and share the
1. Relationships with suppliers significance of improving sustainability.
As a collaborator with many suppliers, the Otsuka group aims to build good relationships for mutual Suppliers that agree to uphold our policies sign a pledge affirming their intention to cooperate
sustainable development through shared understanding, based on a fair exchange of appropriate in achieving sustainable procurement as business partners.
information and opinions
2. Supplier selection Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) on Sustainable Procurement
The Otsuka group selects suppliers in a fair, and transparent manner based on comprehensive
Suppliers that sign the pledge conduct a self-assessment, which consists of the common SAQ* published
assessments of supplier quality, costs, quantity, delivery terms, compliance with laws and regulations,
promotion of environment preservation, etc by Global Compact Network Japan, and the Human Rights SAQ and Environmental SAQ that we have
developed taking into account characteristics of the Otsuka group business activities. Based on the
3. Responsibilities toward society
results, we conduct intenviews with suppliers, and promote sustainable procurement with them.
For the realization of sustainable society, the Otsuka group strives to maintain procurement activities
that reflect consideration for human rights, labor, the environment, and non-tolerance of corruption •SAQ (Self-Assessment Questionnaire)
4. Compliance Number of implemented SAQ 34 companies 46 companies 57 companies
The Otsuka group of companies observes all applicable laws and rules, and all Otsuka employees and Initiatives with Business Partners
supplier employees must act at all times with the highest level of ethics, consistent with social norms
The Otsuka group is making concrete efforts to build relationships of trust with various stakeholders,
otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. IJ
including business partners
Stakeholder EngagementEnvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Material Issues
TABLE OF Ed. it ori. a l Pol. ic y I Corporate Prof. ile I M.e ssage. fromh the Policy and Carbon Neutrality I Circular Economy I Water Neutrality Biodiversity Management of I Supply Chains
CONTENTS Director 1n C arge Management IC hemical Substances
Engagement
Initiatives That We Are Engaged In External Recognition
Participation in TCFD CDP Evaluation
The Otsuka group has announced its support for recommendations In 2021, CDP, an international NGO that works on Ill
issued by TCFD in October 2021. Scenario analysis assesses climate TCFD TASK FORCE , environmental issues, scored the Otsuka Holdings "A-" for
CLIMATE RELATED
related risks and opportunities, including carbon taxes, physical I FINANCIAL climate change and water resources respectively, which means
DISDOSURFS ID
risks, and crop demand. We promote various measures based on we are at the leadership level for these fields.
the assessment result.
ii!]
initiatives for TCFD Recommendations
Communication with Local Communities
Joining the RE100 Initiative
Otsuka Holdings has endorsed RE100, an international initiative Participation in "the Adopt an Eco-School Program,"
that aims for 100% use of renewable energy for business an Initiative through a Public-private and University
operations, and joined it in April 2022. Partnership
RE100 °CLIMATE Concluded agreements with local schools; Otsuka
Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, and Taiho Pharmaceutical
GROUP
I have been participating in the Adopt an Eco-School program
since 2008. As the name of this initiative represents, three
group companies adopt local schools as foster parents to
Support for Climate Change Initiatives
support environmental learning activities. In spite of the
Otsuka Holdings supports for Japan Climate Initiative that COVID-19 pandemic, the companies continued their activities
declares "joining the front line of global push for decarbonization JAPAN~ and provided support activities, including a remote tour of
from Japan," and participates in various activities. CLIMATE the Tokushima ltano Factory of Otsuka Pharmaceutical
INITIATI (introduction of the factory environment from the air using
Certification by Science Based Targets (SBT)* Initiative images taken by a drone, introduction of the factory,
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction targets set by Otsuka explanation of the manufacturing line, live broadcasting of
Pharmaceutical and Taiho Pharmaceutical have been certified by the biotope). We hope that the Adopt an Eco-School program
the Science Based Targets (SBT) initiative. In order to achieve will serve as an opportunity for students to pay attention to
these new goals, we will optimize energy use and introduce SCIENCE environmental issues around them.
BASED
renewable energy, and continue to promote reduction of GHG
TARGETS
emissions throughout the value chain. Relationship with Stakeholders
DRIVING AMBITIOUS CORPORATE CLIMATE ACTION
*An international initiative led by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), World The Otsuka group is promoting environmentally conscious
Resources Institute (WRI), and World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF}. It certifies the CO2
efforts to build relationships of trust with various
emission reduction targets of companies that are in line with emissions reduction
scenarios based on scientific facts, for achieving the Paris Agreement-mandated stakeholders. IJ
Stakeholder Engagement
objective of limiting the average global temperature rise to below 2°C.Environmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. · -
Materlal Issues
I
Ed1tof1a P II v I Cc ~ ::intP Pr,::if1 e I M ,, 1e re cta ( g r fr, C:, h,, a • rh ge e MP ac n aIC gY e man e1d 1 t C~rb,~ Ne,,tra tv I r1.u, .. r E,. m, I Water Neutra ty Ie r,M ra nna o g l en u bstt a nc (f e Engagement
Environmental Data
Materiality Classif,cat,on Sources Scope Unit FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021
G loba I tot a I 800,413 736,508 533,095 503,399
Electricity Japan thOOJsand kWh 381,748 311,456 127,521 93,177
Outside Japan 418.665 425.052 405.573 410.221
Global total 82,549 201.858 265,242
CO2 free electricity Japan thousand kWh 74.805 194,051 226.690
Outside Japan 7.744 7.807 38.552
Global total 75,892 72,075 71,600 68,084
Natural gas & City gas Japan thousand m3 32,812 32,014 31,498 31,153
Outside Japan 43.080 40,061 40,101 36.930
Global total 58,695 67,707 57,968 60,203
Coal Japan
Outside Japan 58,695 67,707 57,968 60,203
Global total 374,805 363,460 343,067 355,317
Steam Japan 163.871 158.207 152.076 152.010
Outside Japan 210,934 205,253 190,991 203.307
Global total 12,061 13,337 14,104 16,142
LNG Japan 11,887 13,055 13,823 15,729
Outside Japan 174 282 281 413
Global total 10,350 9,516 7,945 5,025
AHFO Japan kl 10, 113 9,516 7,945 5,025
carbon Outside Japan 237 0
Neutrality Energies Global total 5,486 6.046 5.870 5.990
LPG Japan 5,154 5.776 5.596 5.664
Outside Japan 332 270 274 327
Global total 968 543 436 452
Diesel Japan kl 54 69 58 20
Outside Japan 914 474 378 432
Global total 148 145 130 133
Kerosene Japan kl 148 145 130 133
Outside Japan
Global total 56 50 115 48
Gasoline Japan kl 56 50 115 48
Outside Japan
Global total 988 1,033 1,084 1,198
Steam (non industrial) Japan GJ 988 1,033 1,084 1,198
Outside Japan 0
Global total 193 2,408 2,567 1,371
Hot water Japan GJ 192 163 173 138
Outside Japan 2,245 2,393 1,233
Global total 5.842 11.400 11.774 3.897
Cold water Japan GJ 5,842 11.400 11.774 3.897
Outside JapanEnvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. · -
Materlal Issues
I
Ed1tof1a P II v I Cc ~ ::intP Pr,::if1 e I M ,, 1e re cta ( g r fr, C:, h,, a • rh ge e MP ac n aIC gY e man e1d 1 t C~rb,~ Ne,,tra tv I r1.u, .. r E,. m, I Water Neutra ty Ie r,M ra nna o g l en u bstt a nc (f e Engagement
Materiality Classif,cat,on Sources Scope Unit FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021
G 1oba I tot a I 420 1.674 3.869 6.727
Solar power Japan thousand kWh 342 356 1,409 4,069
Outside Japan 78 1,318 2,459 2,658
Global total 271 222 222
Renewable Energies Solar water heater Japan GJ
Outside Japan 271 222 222
Global total 13
Biomass power Japan thousand t
Outside Japan 13
Global total thousand t-C.02 842 821 7(X; 684
co., emissions Japan 324. 162 282.243 207.281 188.999
Outside Japan
t-C02
518,329 538,525 498,754 494,704
CO 2 emissions per sales Global total t/Vmillion 065 059 0 SO 046
GHG emissions throughout the value chain thousand t-CO2 1,399 1,320 1,118 1,030
Scopel 98,308 138,583 125,038 128,464
carbon
Scope2 179.389 92.444 36.647 8.255
Neutrality
Category 1 748,933 730,219 635,542 592.537
Category 2 84,157 85,119 52,402 38,763
Category 3 31.518 29.633 45.579 34.167
co, Category 4 82, 176 79,981 70,621 70,519
Category 5 12,143 11,851 12,836 13,535
Category 6 11,677 10.882 6.030 5.413
Japan1
Category 7 t-co, 5,801 5,888 5,773 5,917
Scope3 breakdown Category 8 9,121 8,463 6,356 7,258
Category 9 22,936 22,484 20,407 20,736
Category 10 N/A
Category 11 78.554 81,034 80.209 79,452
Category 12 34,766 23,681 20,751 21,163
Category 13 NIA
Category 14 N/A
Category 1 S NIA
Global total 19,463 18.756 17.732 17.680
Water usage Japan thousand m3 13,010 12,274 11,605 10,909
Outside Japan 6,453 6,482 6,127 6,772
Water use efficiency Global total t/¥million 15.1 13.4 12.5 11.8
Municipal water (induding industrial water) 14,110 13,561 12,793 13,548
Water Water intak:e by water source River water thousand m3 1,417 1,382 1,312 125
Water
Neutrality Ground water 3.936 3,813 3.627 4.007
Rivers, lakes and marshes 12.345 11.717 11.194
Underground seepage 61 60
thousand m3
Wastewater by destination Area of ocean 1,267 1,002 1,051
Third-party processing (municipal sewage, etc.) 3. 109 2.886 2.873
Total Amount of Wastewater thousand m3 16,782 15,666 15,122Environmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. · -
Materlal Issues
I
Ed1tof1a P II v I Cc ~ ::intP Pr,::if1 e I M ,, 1e re cta ( g r fr, C:, h,, a • rh ge e MP ac n aIC gY e man e1d 1 t C~rb,~ Ne,,tra tv I r1.u, .. r E,. m, I Water Neutra ty Ie r,M ra nna o g l en u bstt a nc (f e Engagement
Materiality Classif,cat,on Sources Scope Unit FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021
Material Material Japan1 127.473 125.289 114.847 114.771
PET 16,888 14,376 11,963 12,028
Plastics
Others 17,660 17,783 16,028 14,998
Packaging material Japan1
Paper and cardboard 37.465 36.388 33.149 32.481
Others 95.658 89.826 88.949
Global total 97,441 88,878 90,147
oTo f t wa al sa tm e ount Japan 43,083 35,723 35,246
Outside Japan 54,358 53,155 54,901
Glcbal total 74,618 64,027 64,395
Japan 38,805 30,647 30,352
Outside Japan 35,813 33,380 34,043
Recycled materials
Material Recycling 42,236 39,243 36,804
Global
Thermal Recycle 12, 121 9,528 11,911
Breakdown
Composting and feed4 20,261 15,256 15,680
Total (Including valuables)
Global total 5,048 4,841 6,171
Final disp::,sal Japan 4,163 4,068 3,983
Outside Japan 885 773 2.188
Glcbal total 11.075 9.632 10.226
(landfill) Japan 115 99 112
arrular Outside Japan 10,960 9,533 10,114
Economy Global total 10.379 9.355
Bio-processing and
Japan 909 799
chem ica I P'Ocessing
Outside Japan 9,470 8,556
Waste'
Glcbal total 9,761 9.793 10,703
Total amount Japan 3.771 3.836 4,513
of waste
Outside Japan 5,990 5,958 6, lS(l
Glooal total 5,318 4.549 5.450
Japan 1,638 1,653 2,174
Outside Japan 3,680 2,897 3,276
Recycled materials
Material Recycling 2,634 96 2.257
Global Thermal Recycle 2,441 1,556 3,193
Breakdown
Composting arid feed4 243 0
Hazardousl
Glcbal total 2,389 2,443 2,694
Final disp::,sal Japan 2. 124 2.047 2.235
Outside Japan 265 396 459
Global total 1,572 1,824 2,137
(landfill) Japan
Outside Japan 1,563 1.822 2.136
Global total 978 421
Bio-processing and
chem ica I P'Ocessing Japan 135 102
Outside Japan 843 319
Five group compffiies: Otsuka Pha-maceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factcry, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chenical, cT1d Otsuka Foods 2. Since 2019, the scope of disclosure has expcl'lded from Japan to Global
Hazardous waste by Japanese regulations, in other countries, the classification is brned on the respective national standards. 4. Composting and conversion to feed in FY 2019 indude other wastewater treatment
Reporting of Violations of Environmental Laws and Regulations
In FY 2021, we did not have any serious accidents, violations, or environmental fines related to water quality or hazardous chemical substances,Environmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. · -
Materlal Issues
I
Ed1tof1a P II v I Cc ~ ::intP Pr,::if1 e I M ,, 1e re cta ( g r fr, C:, h,, a • rh ge e MP ac n aIC gY e man e1d 1 t C~rb,~ Ne,,tra tv I r1.u, .. r E,. m, I Water Neutra ty Ie r,M ra nn oa g l en u bstt a nc (f e Engagement
Material balance over the life cycle of the business1
INPUT OUTPUT
Umt Total Umt Total
Material (Pharmaceuticals, glucose, etc.) t 114,771 Material
Packaging material t 148,456
Plastics I I OPE tT h ers t t 1 12 4, ,90 92 88 Scope 3 (C Pa ut re cg ho ar sy e d1 goods and services) 592,537
Paper and cardboard t 32,481
Others t 88,949
Fuel GJ 2,518,777
Oils Gasoline GJ 506
Kerosene GJ 4,500 Scope 12 t-C02 128,4'Ci4
Diesel GJ 495
AHFO GJ 119,083 Production
Gas LPG GJ 219,777
LNG GJ 762,420
City gas GJ 1,411,996 i Category 3
Purchased power GJ 2,812,733 Scope 3 (Fuel and energy-related activities not included in S<opes 1 t-C02 34, 1'Ci7
General power GJ 168,919 ....... and 2)
CO2 free p:iwer GJ 2. 158,556
Other power GJ 485,257
Purchase energy GJ 434,166
Steam, Hot water, Cold water GJ 7,117 Market-based t-C02 8,255
Industrial steam including cold water GJ 427,050
By-product energy GJ 935,590
Water thousand m3 10,396 Scope 2
River water thousand m3 0
Industrial water thousand m3 9,278
Clean water thousand m) 341 Location-based t-C02 111,965
Well water thousand m) 777
Others (rainwater, etc.) thousand m) 0
Category 2 (Capita I goods) t-C02 38,763
Transportation Category 4 (Transportatim and distribution) (Upstream) t-C02 70,519
'illiil
Category 5 (Waste generated in operations) t-C02 13,535
Category 6 ( Business travel) t-C02 5,413
Use
aT mra on us np to rtation thousand t-km 1,091,207 ~ Scope .33 Category 7 (Employee ccmmuting) t-C02 5,917
• Category S ( Leased assets) (Upstream) t~Ol 7.2 58
Disposal Category 9 (Transportatim and distribution) (Downstream) t-C02 20,736
Category 11 (Use of sold products) t-C02 79,452
Category 12 (End-of-life treatment of sold products) t-C02 21,763
1. Five group companies: Otsuka Fharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Fharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemic<l, aid Otsuka Foods 2. Indirect emissions from energy sources and indirect emissions from freoo leak \.Olume and during the production of ca-booated beverages, etc
3. Categories 10 a-id 13 to 15 a-e not appicableEnvironmental Report 2021 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Material Issues
CT OA NBL TE E NO TF S Editorial Policy I Corporate Profi. le I DM ire es csa tog re infr o Cm ha t rh ge e MP ao nl aic gy e a mn ed n t Carbon Neutrality I Circular Economy I Water Neutrality Biodiversity IC hM ema in ca ag l e Sm ube sn tt a no cf es I Supply Chains Engagement - -
Otsuka Group's subsidiaries' acquisition of ISO 14001 certification Third-Party Verification
Acquisition rate 55.3 (Japan77.8%, Outside Japan34.7%)
In order to improve the transparency and reliability of its environmental data, the Otsuka group
* All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka Group has its GHG emissions Scopes 1 and 2 (CO, emissions from energy sources, including energy
consumption), and Scope 3 (Category 1) verified by third-party organizations. This helps us identify
Integrated certification as Otsuka Holdings (Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd emissions trends and implement improvements. We will continue to expand the scope of
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc, Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. , Otsuka verification and further enhance the reliability of our data.
Chemical Co., Ltd., Otsuka Food Co., Ltd., Otsuka Techno Corporation)
Japan:10 Companies
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd
(Certified Companies) SGS
Otsuka Packaging Industries Co., Ltd
Higashiyama Film Co., Ltd VcrilicationOpinion
J.O. Pharma Co., Ltd
Opira<>nNo20~
Tianjin Otsuka Beverage Co., Ltd Ohj«tivo
Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd S 2re 0Gk 1lS 9mJ ota ndp dtao !Mnalsn Sc" G.t(hh SeeO .,rr .eg ..ian ,n fai izf clae al;r tir io( onl/ n1et pror roO o:> l< o<lt c>o <<at JsJ Ic· Jsti ~Gr< rSl dei "pw 'e 9.n> 1c•l 1ce< ,n o1)m d"' a3m< laiiSl -i <Sc iaI dOt. bni yo< tn> hbd eab 0oy re0 gd1 ao° ," .n' .aC .8liro b;k- ool nin1 ogv nse tCr hio ef" . ,. e" Ul oid p<. e;(,h o,o( lvlr$W e0 rI1 iO t' i0n c00 a<4 1 - i3 o n
Nutrition & Sante SAS
i( Or. re gr ".i 'n "";: ",f 6t oer or 'e •f ae wirr le iad lt boa les o"l oh oe pst ea hto aim ibe en er o) c.T oh nl elo cb tfJ yO c~C ..1 k1 :uv l< al lo el <th ll as nv do rr etn pc oa rl tl eo <n lf le n1 l~oc oo laniln or mm e1 th 1a 11 n1 c11 oo ns fia o1iro mm ao nm c1 en w11 i1 lho
Nutrition & Sante Iberia SL
Otsuka Pakistan Ltd
PT Amerta lndah Otsuka
Outside Japan: 13 Companies
PT Otsuka Indonesia
(Certified Companies)
Zhejiang Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd fi~;;;;~~;;;~~;;;;
Egypt Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., SAE __ _
PT Widatra Bhakti
P.T.Lautan Otsuka Chemica
Zhangjiagang Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd - F, p,o.,r an- dMbo- l laH- o!SGS- Jo,,.· nln<
Hebron S.A
~~~ ,«t
As of December, 2021• Otsuka
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
MID
FONT