Otsuka Group
CSR Report 2012
Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwideOTSUKA GROUP Editorial Policy
CSR REPORT 2012
On December 15, 2010, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. became a public company by listing its
shares on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. In keeping with its corporate com-
mitment to “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide,” the Otsuka
Group endeavors to leverage its unique assets and skills to have a positive impact on health
worldwide through its business.
We published our fi rst environmental and social report in 2010, in order to provide diverse
stakeholders with information about the many initiatives that the Group pursues through its
business. Starting in 2011, we expanded the scope of the report to broadly inform stakehold-
ers about the Group’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts.
In this report, we focused on providing stakeholders with a more comprehensive picture of
initiatives that are being pursued throughout the Otsuka Group with several common themes.
We have gathered information from Group companies around the world to report on social ini-
tiatives, and focused on securing the accuracy and continuity of environmental performance
data. Furthermore, the knowledge that was gained from assembling this report will be lever-
aged to expand future CSR initiatives of the Otsuka Group.
Scope of report
This report focuses on Otsuka Holdings. The social initiatives described in this report
encompass the global activities of Group companies in and outside Japan. Environmental
data applies to the following 11 Group companies in Japan:
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. JIMRO Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
TAIHO PHARMACEUTICAL CO., LTD. Otsuka Techno Corporation
Otsuka Warehouse Co., Ltd. Otsuka Packaging Industries Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd.
Otsuka Electronics Co., Ltd.
Period covered
The data presented in this report are actual fi gures from April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012. The
activities reported on include some conducted more recently.
Publication schedule
The next report is scheduled for publication in autumn 2013.
Guidelines referenced
This report was compiled with reference to the Environmental Report Guidelines 2007 Edition
and the Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 Edition issued by Japan’s Ministry of the
Environment, and the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 3rd Edition.
Feedback on the Otsuka Group CSR Report
We welcome your feedback by email. Please do not hesitate to provide us with your feedback
or impressions of this report, including requests about the initiatives of the Otsuka Group. Your
input is valuable and will help us shape future reports and initiatives.
Email hd-pr@otsuka.jp
01 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Corporate Profi le Contents
As of March 31, 2012
Company name: Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. About the Otsuka Group …………… 02
Established: July 8, 2008 Corporate Profi le …………………………………… 02
Capital: JPY 81.69 billion Otsuka Group across the Globe ………… 03
Head Offi ce: 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi, Business Overview of
Chiyoda-ku Tokyo 101-0048, Japan the Otsuka Group …………………………………… 05
Tokyo Headquarters: Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Konan,
Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan
Message from the President …… 07
Representative: Tatsuo Higuchi, President and Representative Director, CEO
Corporate Philosophy …………………………… 10
Employees: 65 (Consolidated: 24,595)
Scope of consolidation: 67 consolidated subsidiaries and
13 equity method affi liates Highlight 1
Business description: Control, management, and other operational aspects of Tackling Unmet
business activities related to holding the shares of companies Medical Needs ……………………………………11
that operate in the fi elds of pharmaceuticals, nutraceuticals, Developing New Pharmaceuticals
consumer products, and other businesses.
Highlight 2
Soylution-From Japan
to the World ……………………………………………13
Consolidated Net Sales Consolidated Operating Income
A New Solution for Environmental Issues and
Operating income Better Health Worldwide
(Unit: ¥ billion) Net sales (Unit: ¥ billion) (%)
1,200 1,127.61,154.6 160 Operating margin 148.7 16
1,084.3
Highlight 3
1,000 928.5 955.9 140 126.3 15
118.3
120 14 Community and
800 98.5
100 91.5 13 Global Initiatives …………………………………15
600 80 12.9 12 The World's Only Museum Displaying Masterpieces
12.7
60 11 on Ceramic Panels-Otsuka Museum of Art
400
11.2
40 10
200
20 9.6 9.1 9 Social Report …………………………………… 19
0 0 8
FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Managing and Improving Quality ………… 21
Consolidated Ordinary Income Research and Development Expenses Social Initiatives for Better Health ………… 23
Ordinary income R&D expenses Social Contribution Activities—
(Unit: ¥ billion) Operating margin (%) (Unit: ¥ billion) Operating margin (%) Otsuka Group and Local Communities ……… 25
1 16 400
124.1 128.4
152.1 11 56 11 680 0
135.9
151.8 164.7 159.2 1 17 6 B fou
r
il Ed min pg
l
oV yit ea el sW o …r …kp …l …a …ce …s
… ……………………… 31 120 109.1 14 140 15
100 96.1 13 120 101.8 14.6 14 Development of Human Capital …………… 33
80 13.4 13.2 12 100 14.2 14.0 13.8 13 Employee Health ……………………………………… 34
80 12
60 11
11.4 60 11
40 10 40 11.0 10
20 10.1 10.1 9 20 9 Environmental Report ………………… 35
0 8 0 8 Environmental Performance Data ……… 37
FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011
Note: Data marked “FY2007” is from the consolidated earnings of Otsuka Pharmaceutical. Energy and Resource Conservation …… 39
Zero-Emissions Initiatives ……………………… 42
Consolidated Net Sales Consolidated Net Sales
by Geographical Segment (FY2011) by Business Segment (FY2011) Coexistence with Nature ……………………… 43
Sales to external customers Sales to external customers
Clean-Up Activities ………………………………… 45
Others:
73.1
O 16t 6h .e 2r: J 5a 74p .a 9n: C 48o .n 0sumer Products 6: .3% P 78h 2a .r 2maceuticals: Management ……………………………………… 47
14.4% 4.2%
Corporate Governance …………………………… 49
21.8% Risk Management …………………………………… 50
49.8% Compliance ……………………………………………… 51
35.8% 67.7%
Third-Party Opinion /
Editorial Postscript ………………………………… 52
North America:
413.5 N 25u 1t .r 3aceuticals: Environmental Performance Data ………… 53
(Unit: ¥ billion) (Unit: ¥ billion)
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 02
About
the
Otsuka
Group
Message
from
the
President
Highlight
Social
Report
Environmental
Report
Management
Environmental
Performance
DataOtsuka Group across the Globe
The Otsuka Group’s global businesses create a variety of
products that help to maintain and enhance daily health and
aid in the diagnosis and treatment of illness.
As of March 31, 2012, net sales from markets outside Japan accounted for 50% of the Group’s consolidated net sales.
There are approximately 25,000 employees in the consolidated Group worldwide, and 44% of these are outside Japan.
Otsuka Group employees are working every day around the world, for the universal betterment of human health.
Asia and
Europe Middle East Japan
1,402 6,803 13,808
employees employees employees
20 26 19
companies companies companies
Belgium China Japan
Nutrition & Sante Benelux SA Otsuka (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Zhejiang Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
France Sichuan Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical France SAS Tianjin Otsuka Beverage Co., Ltd. TAIHO PHARMACEUTICAL CO., LTD.
Euriso-Top S.A.S Suzhou Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Warehouse Co., Ltd.
Nardobel SAS Shanghai Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd.
Nutrition & Sante SAS Chongqing Otsuka Huayi Chemical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Medical Devices Co., Ltd.
Nutrition & Nature SAS China Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.* EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Laboratoires Dietetique et Sante SAS Guangdong Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.* Otsuka Electronics Co., Ltd.
ALMA S.A.* Micro Port Medical (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.* Otsuka Techno Corporation
Microport Scientifi c Corporation* J.O. Pharma Co., Ltd.
Germany VV Food & Beverage Co., Ltd.* OKAYAMA TAIHO PHARMACEUTICAL CO., LTD.
Otsuka Pharma GmbH Otsuka Packaging Industries Co., Ltd.
Cambridge Isotope Laboratories (Europe), GmbH Egypt Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd.
Euriso-Top GmbH Egypt Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., S.A.E. Otsuka Chilled Foods Co., Ltd.
Advanced Biochemical Compounds, GmbH Otsuka-MGC Chemical Company, Inc.
India JIMRO Co., Ltd.
Italy Otsuka Chemical (India) Private Limited Earth Chemical Co., Ltd.*
Nutrition & Sante Italia SpA Earth Environmental Service Co., Ltd.*
Indonesia
Spain P.T. Otsuka Indonesia
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, S.A. P.T. Merapi Utama Pharma
Nutrition & Sante Iberia SL P.T. Widatra Bhakti
Hebron S.A. P.T. Amerta Indah Otsuka
P.T. Otsuka Jaya Indah
Sweden P.T. Lautan Otsuka Chemical
Otsuka Pharma Scandinavia AB
Switzerland South Korea Thailand
Nutrinat AG Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Thai Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.*
Dong-A Otsuka Co., Ltd.*
UK
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Europe, Ltd. Taiwan Pakistan
Otsuka Pharmaceutical (U.K.) Ltd. Taiwan Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Pakistan Ltd.*
King Car Otsuka Co., Ltd.*
* List of consolidated companies. Equity-method affi liates are indicated with an asterisk (*).
03 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012North America
2,582
employees
15
companies
Canada
Otsuka Canada Pharmaceutical Inc.
2768691 Canada, Inc.
USA
Otsuka America, Inc.
Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development & Commercialization, Inc.
Otsuka Maryland Medicinal Laboratories, Inc.
Cambridge Isotope Laboratories, Inc.
CIL Isotope Separations, LLC
Membrane Receptor Technologies LLC
Pharmavite LLC
Ridge Vineyards, Inc.
Crystal Geyser Water Company
Soma Beverage Company, LLC
Otsuka America Manufacturing, LLC
CG Roxane LLC*
Consolidated Net Sales in and outside of Japan Consolidated Number of Employees in and outside of Japan
(Unit: ￥ billion) (%) (No. of employees) (%)
1,400 60 30,000 50
1,200 1,127.6 1,154.6 24,589 25,188 24,595
1,084.3 22,928
50 44.3 43.9
1,000 928.5 955.9 49.0 50.2 20,000 20,036 42.4
48.5
800 41.5 41.3 39.7 40.4
40 10,415 11,158 10,787 40
600 385.2 395.0 525.5 552.5 579.7 7,948 9,271
10,000
400
30
200
543.3 560.9 558.8 575.1 574.9 12,088 13,657 14,174 14,030 13,808
0 20 0 30
FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011
Consolidated net sales in Percentage of consolidated net sales
Employees outside Japan Percentage of employees outside Japan
international markets from international markets
Consolidated net sales in Japan Employees in Japan
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 04
About
the
Otsuka
GroupBusiness Overview of the Otsuka Group
Contributing to People’s Health and Well-being Worldwide
The Group is dedicated to being a global healthcare company that works for the benefi t of people’s health worldwide.
It generates health-outcomes from many angles, while offering original products that create new markets. The Group
pursues a range of businesses in four main segments—pharmaceuticals, nutraceuticals, consumer products and other
businesses. The Group strives to utilize its unique assets and skills, endeavoring to create products that are benefi cial
to health and to society.
Pharmaceutical Business Nutraceutical Business
I.V. solutions Functional beverages OTC products,
Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Medical devices Cosmedics
(clinical nutrition) and foods Quasi-drugs
The pharmaceutical business focuses on the priority areas of The nutraceutical business focuses on functional beverages and
the central nervous system and oncology in order to address foods that help maintain and promote day-to-day wellbeing. In
unmet medical needs. Furthermore, the Group is engaged in a recent years the Group has been developing a soy-based business
wide range of fi elds and businesses, including the cardiovascular predicated on the concept that the soybean is the “Soylution”
system, gastroenterology, ophthalmology, diagnostics, and I.V. (“soy” and “solution”) to many of humanity’s problems such as
solutions and medical devices businesses, in order to provide health, and environment issues.
comprehensive healthcare solutions ranging from diagnosis to
treatment of disease. Nutraceuticals = nutrition + pharmaceuticals
Flagship products Flagship products
ABILIFY, Mucosta, Pletaal/Pletal, Pocari Sweat Oronamin C Drink Tiovita Drink OS-1
an antipsychotic an antigastritis and an antiplatelet agent
antigastric ulcer agent
TS-1, Samsca, SoyCarat SOYJOY Calorie Mate
an antimetabolite agent an aquaretic agent
Aloxi, Abraxane, ELNEOPA, SOYSH Nature Made UL-OS Oronine H Ointment
an antiemetic agent an antimetabolite agent a high-calorie TPN solution
05 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Consumer Products Business Other Businesses
Functional Fine Electronic
Beverages Foods Alcoholic beverages Distribution Packaging
chemicals chemicals equipment
In the consumer products business, the Otsuka Group manufactures The Otsuka Group also pursues diversified businesses, such as
and supplies foods and drinks for everyday consumption. We have chemical materials for the automotive, electrical, electronic, and
led the way with the development of products such as Bon Curry, building materials sectors. We operate transport and warehousing
which was launched in 1968 as the world’s first commercially services that provide eco-friendly logistics centering on the
available food in a plastic pouch bag, and Sinvino Java Tea movement of pharmaceuticals, foods and beverages of the Otsuka
Straight, which was a pioneer in the unsweetened tea beverage Group, in addition to supplying electronic equipment to support
market. Our mission is to supply foods and beverages that satisfy cutting edge advancements in science and technology.
on all levels: delicious, safe, reassuring, and healthy.
Flagship products Flagship products
Poticon, resin compound
Application 1: Application 2:
Bon Curry Neo My Size Bon Curry Gold 21
Automotive parts Electronic parts
Clutch sleeve bearings LED refl ectors
(sliding bearings supporting an aluminum shaft) (that increase light extraction effi ciency)
Mannan Hikari CRYSTAL GEYSER MATCH
POCone, HM series of LED evaluators
a medical device
Sinvino Java Tea Straight Ridge Monte Bello
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 06
About
the
Otsuka
GroupMessage from the President
Tatsuo Higuchi
President and Representative Director, CEO
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
At the Otsuka Group, corporate social responsibility is founded
on activities that realize our corporate philosophy and arise from a
dialogue with stakeholders.
Reminded of the Importance of Supply We gain some solace that we helped in our own way, from
Reliability as a Company Dedicated to the letters that we received from local governments, the Tokyo
Fire Department, and various organizations thanking us for our
Betterment of Life
efforts. At the same time, the events served as a reminder that
We have passed the one-year mark since the unprecedented we have a strong responsibility to work quickly to secure the
Great East Japan Earthquake occurred. I would like to offer my reliable supply of our products in an emergency, as a company
deepest sympathies to those whose lives continue to be af- that is dedicated to betterment of life. We are studying the is-
fected by the quake, and I wish for the rapid recovery of areas sues that we encountered during the Great East Japan Earth-
that were struck by the disaster. quake, in our ongoing efforts to reexamine and improve our
Immediately after the quake hit, the Otsuka Group mobilized crisis management.
to provide aid, placing a priority on responding to requests from
medical facilities and municipal disaster response offices to
The Need to See Beyond the Foreseen
supply urgently needed medical supplies and food and drink
provisions. Knowing that the availability of medicines can have Surprising and previously unforeseen events continue to happen
life-or-death consequences in an emergency, and that food and today. Japan was hit by the Great East Japan Earthquake and
drink provisions can be a lifeline for many people, we had a duty resulting tsunami, which led to the accident at the Fukushima
to move as quickly as possible to respond to the situation. Nuclear Power Plant. These events had a deep impact on the
07 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Message
from
the
President
Japanese economy as well as the global economy, dealing a behave like a “big venture” fi rm. By this, I mean that we must contin-
major blow to the lives of people in stricken areas and affecting ue to question existing ideas and break free from norms, delivering
local industry and corporations with production facilities in the new products that realize and demonstrate our global contributions,
Tohoku region. as a company that engages in creative manufacturing.
Elsewhere in Asia, we witnessed massive fl ooding in Thailand, The Otsuka Group operates the Human Resource Develop-
whereby unforeseen rainfall and imbalances in urban waste- ment Institute, an employee training facility that exists to foster
water infrastructure heavily affected people’s daily lives, and creative human resources who can break loose from their pre-
deeply impacted corporations with manufacturing operations conceived notions in trying to enhance the creativity of each
in Thailand. employee. At the Institute, there are three monuments that em-
In Europe, the fear that Greece might default on its sovereign body the creativity that is at the heart of the Otsuka approach,
debt also spread to Italy and Spain, giving rise to uncertainty including a network of cultivated giant tomato trees—studded
surrounding the Euro currency itself. The fiscal irresponsibil- with numerous fruit—that covers the entire ceiling of the hall
ity of European Union (EU) member states, which itself was through which visitors enter the Institute.
unforeseen, threatens to plunge the world into another global Normally, a single tomato vine is limited to producing several
fi scal crisis. dozen fruit using traditional soil cultivation methods, but we
These events illustrate how unforeseen events have been oc- have employed hydroponics to free the roots so that four tomato
curring in everything from the global environment to the political vines can produce as many as 10,000 fruit a year, using stand-
decision-making process and economic activities. It is no longer ard tomato cultivars. By breaking free of traditional methods,
enough to think within the foreseeable, or to look at things as an we have been able to draw out the full potential of the tomato
extension of the past. vines to bring out capacities that exceed our normal expecta-
These events have taught us that in hedging risks for corpo- tions, which can also be applied to the development of human
rate activities, we must expand our vision and not be limited to resources. We want each employee of the Otsuka Group to be
existing perspectives, or be satisfi ed with a single-dimensional able to switch ideas by forgetting preconceived notions, in order
perspective of today. One way we can address this is through to fully leverage their latent capabilities. Switching ideas will un-
observation and action arising from innovation. That is to say, leash their creativity, which will lead to innovative products and
it is more important than ever to adopt a multidimensional ap- initiatives that refl ect the Group’s unique assets and skills.
proach through diversity and globalization.
Breaking Free from the Norm and Driving
Innovation from Within
In its 90-year history, the Otsuka Group has grown through
an unwavering dedication to making innovative products that
benefit society, without limiting ourselves to the norms of the
day. We feel it is crucial for the Group to continue taking this ap-
proach in light of the unforeseen turbulence we are seeing in the
world today.
In 2010, Otsuka Holdings became a public company with a
listing on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, elect-
ing to place itself on a new stage. This move refl ects a determi-
nation to evolve in order to secure future growth, and provides
us with an opportunity to communicate the Group’s initiatives
and approach to an even wider audience. By becoming a public
company, we also raised the profile of the Otsuka Group and
elevated the confidence placed in us by global markets, while
Promoting Diversity as a Global
positioning the Group so that global human resources want to
Healthcare Company
be part of Otsuka.
The Otsuka Group began developing its international business
in the 1970s. We opened our fi rst international offi ces in Thailand
Products and Initiatives Born from
and the United States in 1973, and today operate offices in
Creative Ideas
25 countries and regions. Our consolidated Group companies
The Otsuka Group today generates consolidated net sales of over employ some 25,000 people, 44% of whom are located outside
one trillion yen, and in aiming to grow our businesses, we need to of Japan. This workforce speaks 19 different languages and is
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 08Message from the President
made up of people from diverse cultures and backgrounds with absolutely no cost, including tests and medication. More than
different ways of thinking, who conduct our business. We be- 650,000 people have visited the clinic, which has become a vital
lieve in “glocalisation,” which is to think globally and act locally part of the community. We will continue pursuing social initia-
according to local ways and approaches. We respect the culture tives that leverage Otsuka’s unique assets and skills by examin-
of the countries and regions we do business in and welcome ing where we are most needed.
diversity, which will give rise to further creativity and in turn lead
the Otsuka Group toward growth.
Welcoming diversity is not the same as leaving employees to
do as they wish. What makes the Otsuka Group special is that
we leverage each person’s individual qualities to work toward
the same goal, a purpose that is embodied by our corporate
philosophy of “Otsuka-people creating new products for better
health worldwide.”
Corporate Commitment and Dialogue
Realizing this corporate philosophy is central to the Otsuka
Group and gives meaning to our existence within society by con-
tributing to people around the world. We have a social respon-
sibility to coexist and have a rapport with stakeholders through
mutual dialogue and by engaging in diverse initiatives, from
environmental and social initiatives to practicing compliance.
Working with Stakeholders
In aiming to realize our corporate philosophy, we are involved
in four major business segments that relate to health. The two Since becoming a public company, we have had greater oppor-
pillars of our businesses are pharmaceuticals that contribute tunities to pursue dialogue with our investors and stakeholders,
to the diagnosis and treatment of illness, and nutraceuticals and, as a result, have gained more support from them. In addi-
that help to maintain and improve health. Our two other major tion to our business efforts, we are striving to earn the loyalty of
business segments are consumer products that help people stakeholders so that we can grow our business and contribute
be more productive and live smoother lives, and other diversi- to better health worldwide. We are confi dent that this will make
fi ed businesses where we supply everything from chemicals to society better.
electronic equipment. Driven by our corporate philosophy and the enterprising
In all of our business segments, I can promise that Otsuka will spirit of a “big venture” firm, we will continue to demonstrate
continue contributing to better health and have a positive social innovative products as we work with stakeholders to make the
impact, through innovative products that refl ect Otsuka’s unique world a better place. We hope that you will support us in our
assets and skills. continued endeavors.
Social Initiatives Uniquely Our Own
The Otsuka Group engages in social initiatives that focus on
health, the natural environment, and local communities, in act-
ing as a good corporate citizen through our business activities.
We try to leverage Otsuka’s unique assets and skills in these
initiatives, to pursue social initiatives that are uniquely our
own, so that we can coexist with the communities in which we
do business.
For example, we opened the Otsuka Welfare Clinic in 2003 to
provide medical care for needy Afghan refugees in Peshawar,
Pakistan. These refugees were placed in a situation where criti-
cally needed relief supplies from corporations and organizations
were prevented from reaching the refugees. The Otsuka Group
stepped in to leverage its unique assets and skills, electing to
open a clinic to directly provide much-needed medical care for
the refugees. Patients come to the clinic to receive treatment at
09 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Message
from
the
President
Corporate Philosophy
Corporate Philosophy of the Otsuka Group
These words embody our commitment to:
Creating Improving Contributing to
innovative human the lives of
products health people worldwide
In keeping with this corporate philosophy and the Otsuka mottos of Jissho (Proof through Execution) and Sozosei
(Creativity), the Otsuka Group strives to utilize its unique assets and skills to develop differentiated scientifi c solutions
which contribute to the lives of people worldwide in the form of innovative and creative products ranging from pharma-
ceuticals to consumer products. We are striving to cultivate a culture and a dynamic corporate climate refl ecting our
vision as a healthcare company. As such we are dedicated to achieving global sustainability, to our relationships with
local communities and to the protection of the natural environment.
Monuments embodying the Otsuka Group Philosophy
Giant Tomato Trees / Bent Giant Cedar / Floating Stones
These three monuments embody the Otsuka Group philosophy, reminding all who visit the birthplace of the Otsuka Group in
Tokushima of the importance of being creative and open-minded to new ideas.
Giant Tomato Trees Bent Giant Cedar Floating Stones
The giant tomato trees that cover the entire This piece features the trunk of a giant cedar This water garden features large stones that
ceiling of the hall can produce more than that is deeply bent instead of being typically appear to miraculously float on a wide ex-
10,000 fruit per year, as a result of maximizing straight, with the trunk of a second cedar panse of water, including some that seem to
the fruit-producing potential through hydro- crossing on top of it. The delicately balanced droop. The garden was created to capture
ponics that frees the roots from normal soil. piece—which at first glance appears unsta- and enrich the spirit of the people who look at
The tomato trees are symbolic of employing ble—was strong enough to withstand mag- it, and to free the mind for contemplation. The
new ideas to draw out potential. nitude 5 tremors during the Great Hanshin piece teaches us the importance of switching
Earthquake in 1995. The piece speaks to the ideas and thinking beyond the conventional.
idea that appearances may reveal something
completely different.
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 10Highlight 1
Tackling Unmet Medical Needs
Developing New Pharmaceuticals
Otsuka Group—An Ongoing Commitment to Developing
New Drugs and Bringing Hope to Patients
New Drug Development New drug development is said to typically take anywhere
In the pharmaceutical segment, the Otsuka Group believes from 9 to 17 years and requires a massive capital investment.
it has an important responsibility to develop and supply new Researchers must examine countless compounds, carry out
drugs that address unmet medical needs. studies repeatedly, and conduct clinical trials to determine
Process for New Drug Development
Application for Post-marketing
Basic research Non-clinical study Clinical trials Approval and sales
approval and review studies
Investigation of candidate Research on the efficacy After the candidate com- Once the effi cacy, safety, If manufacturing and sales After the drug is launched,
compounds with pos- and safety of candidate pounds have passed the and quality are demon- are approved after the there is an ongoing col-
sibilities for new drug de- compounds for new drugs non-clinical studies, their strated, applications for review process, the drug lection of reports on side
velopment, and develop- is cairied out, in advance efficacy and safety are drug approval are filed can be sold as a medicine. effects from medical
ment of new substances. of clinical trials involving studied on people. The with regulatory bodies facilities on patient uses,
people. Also, tests are studies are conducted in in various countries. In and data on proper use
conducted to evaluate three phases at medical Japan, applications are of the drug. Feedback
quality, safety and the facilities and with the filed with the Ministry is provided to medical
pharmacokinetics (ab- consent of healthy per- of Health, Labour and practitioners, and the
sorption, distribution, me- sons and patients. Welfare, for review by the data is used to improve
tabolism and excretion) of Pharmaceuticals and Medi- drugs and provide ideas
the candidate compounds. cal Devices Agency and for new drug development.
Pharmaceutical Affairs and
Food Sanitation Council.
2–3 years 3–5 years 3–7 years 1–2 years
Phase I clinical trials Phase II clinical trials Phase III clinical trials
Verification of side effects and Verification of effective and safe Comparative study of the efficacy
drug safety on a small number of dosage and methods of adminstra- and safety on a large number of
healthy people. tion on a small number of patients. patients, compared with existing Based on information taken from the
drugs and placebos. website o Mf t ah ne uJ fa ap cta un r eP rh s a Arm ssa oc ce iau tt ii oc na .l
11 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012the exact effects of drugs, while comprehensively verifying drug medical practitioners tackle the challenges that cancer survivors
safety and quality. These long and cumulative processes along directly deal with in their lives. These efforts center on dissemi-
with the efforts of many people make a drug ready to be sup- nating information to support cancer patients.
plied for treatment. The success rate for new drug development In order to support comprehensive healthcare, from diagnosis
is said to be just one in every 30,000, yet despite the many hur- to treatment of illnesses, the Group is involved in diverse areas
dles involved, new drugs are needed to help patients who suffer including the fi elds of cardiovascular, digestive and ophthalmo-
from conditions that lack effective treatment or medicines. logical science, and products such as diagnostic agents, I.V.
The Otsuka Group is fully committed to developing new drugs solutions and medical devices.
that provide additional value to people worldwide who suffer This includes taking on the challenge of developing anti-
from illnesses. tuberculosis agents, a fi eld that has seen no new drugs for the
last 40 years, in order to address what is a major public health
Priority Areas of Otsuka Group issue around the world.
The Otsuka Group pursues pharmaceutical R&D focusing on the
areas of the central nervous system and cancer as its priorities, Developing Anti-Tuberculosis Agents
where there are many unmet medical needs. Tuberculosis (TB) was once thought to have been conquered,
In the fi eld of central nervous system research, even compa- yet even today some two billion people representing one-third
nies that have developed a new drug in the past face diffi culties of the global population are infected with TB. There are an es-
in their efforts to develop succeeding drugs, owing to the com- timated 8.8 million new cases of TB each year and some 1.4
plexity of the brain and because there are many aspects of the million deaths annually associated with TB*1.
brain that are still unknown. Otsuka Pharmaceutical began con- Of the various strains of TB that exist, there is a particular
ducting R&D into the central nervous system in the 1970s, and need for treatment of multiple drug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-
after a quarter century of research, the antipsychotic ABILIFY TB). When a patient develops a resistance to the strong anti-
was developed. It was approved and launched in the United tuberculosis agents that are used today, the symptoms must
States in 2002. Since then, the drug has been approved in be treated by taking many drugs for a long period lasting 24
Europe and Japan and is now available in more than 60 coun- months or longer. Even with this treatment, the rate of recovery
tries and regions worldwide, helping to treat many patients. is low and every year an estimated 440,000 patients develop
In addition to its effectiveness as a drug, ABILIFY has an such symptoms, with some 150,000 deaths associated*2.
excellent safety profile so that patients can continue taking Otsuka Pharmaceutical began R&D for anti-tuberculosis
the medicine for an extended period of time, keeping their agents in the early 1980s. In June 2012, the leading medical au-
symptoms at bay so that they can return to society. Leveraging thority New England Journal of Medicine published the results
its collected expertise, Otsuka Pharmaceutical is tackling the of clinical trials to assess the effectiveness and safety of a new
challenge of developing a next-generation antipsychotic drug compound that Otsuka Pharmaceutical had been developing for
that is effective for a broad range of symptoms and with an MDR-TB patients. The study, which was conducted by 17 medi-
even safer profi le. cal institutions in nine countries*3 involving 481 patients, is the
In the field of cancer research and drug development, Taiho largest clinical trial of its kind in the fi eld of TB research.
Pharmaceutical is spearheading the Group’s efforts to develop The Otsuka Group has faced many hurdles along its way dur-
new anticancer drugs. The company pioneered the develop- ing the 30-plus years of its TB research and development, but it
ment of oral anticancer agents with the approval and launch is determined to make further progress in conquering this urgent
of Futraful in the 1970s, the fi rst oral anticancer agent ever ap- health issue for mankind.
proved. Later, Taiho Pharmaceutical launched the UFT antican-
cer agent in 1984 and the TS-1 anticancer agent in 1999. These *1: Source: WHO—Global Tuberculosis Control Report 2011
*2: Source: WHO—Multidrug and extensively drug-resistant TB (M/XDR-TB):
products refl ect an ongoing commitment to meet the challenge
2010 global report on surveillance and response
of developing medicines and enhancing the quality of life for *3: China, Egypt, Estonia, Japan, South Korea, Latvia, Peru, the Philippines, and U.S.
cancer patients.
While great strides have recently been made in anticancer
drug treatment, there remain considerable unmet medical needs
from cancers that still cannot be effectively treated today. In ad-
dition to pursuing new drug development for cancer treatment,
the Otsuka Group is expanding its product lineup to encompass
supportive care products such as antiemetic agents, engaging
in R&D covering the full spectrum of cancer treatment. Addition-
ally, Taiho Pharmaceutical is directing its energies toward cancer
survivorship, to help cancer patients as well as their families and
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 12
Highlight
1Highlight 2
Soylution -F rom Japan to the World
A New Solution for Environmental Issues and Better Health Worldwide
The Otsuka Group is using soy to resolve the world’s health and
environmental problems, via its Soylution (soy + solution) concept.
Global Health and Environmental Issues director of the Institute for World Health Development at
Scientifi c advancements and technological innovations are help- Mukogawa Women's University and a leading researcher on
ing to make our lives better, yet even today, some 15 million peo- diet and longevity, has been studying global diets and longevity
ple die every year from hunger. At the same time, lifestyle-related for three decades on behalf of the World Health Organization—
diseases are becoming increasingly prevalent in developed na- Cardiovascular Disease and Alimentary Comparison (WHO-
tions, including Japan, from dietary changes and overabundance CARDIAC) Study Group. Professor Yamori, focusing on the
of food. The growth in the global population is giving rise to vari- various functional components of soy, has suggested that,
ous issues, as rapid economic development and the pursuit of “The reason Japan has the longest life expectancy in the world
convenience are causing environmental issues to become more is deeply related to the intake of soy in the diet. Soy will save
diversifi ed and more complex. the world.” Elsewhere, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
To address the situation, the Otsuka Group has proposed
the Soylution concept that leverages the possibilities of using
soybeans to help address the world’s health and environmental
issues, through wider consumption of soybeans.
Possibilities of Soybeans
Soy has been called “the meat of the fields” or “miracle food”
for its high quality plant proteins and isoflavones and lecithin,
components that have the potential to improve health around
the world.
Researchers around the world have shed light on the strong
nutritional potential of soybeans. Professor Yukio Yamori,
13 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012(FDA) approved the health claim that “25g of soy protein a day
(6.25g per serving) may reduce the risk of heart disease,” lend-
ing credence to the nutritional benefi ts of soybeans.
Soybean Consumption Today
The Japanese, who are said to be amongst the most long-lived
people in the world, consume the greatest amount of soy at 8.19
kg annually per capita.*1 Most Japanese bean consumption
comes from processed soy products (e.g., tofu, fried tofu, and
natto). In recent years, however, soy consumption by people
aged 40 and younger has tended to be below the average due
to the skipping of breakfast and to the Westernization of diets.*2 Excerpt from Lecture by Professor Yukio Yamori:
No more than 6 percent*3 of soybeans grown around the “After looking at every part of the globe, from regions with good
longevity to those with short longevity, we have learned that soy can
world are eaten directly by people. The United States is the
save the people of the world from a health crisis.”
world’s largest producer of soybeans, but the annual U.S. con-
sumption of soy products is about 40 grams*4 per person. This
is less than the amount eaten by the average Japanese in a Soylution—A Proposal by the Otsuka Group to Address
single day. the World’s Health and Environmental Issues
The Soylution concept—of leveraging soy’s benefits for better
health worldwide—is growing to also become a solution for
the health of the global environment. Raising one kilogram of
beef requires 10 kilograms of grain including soy, whereas data
shows that soy production takes only 1/50th of the water and
1/20th of the energy used in producing beef.*5 With the global
population expected to top nine billion in the not-too-distant
future and the predictions of a coming large-scale food crisis,
making soybeans part of our diet could help to address the
health and environmental challenges that the world faces.
*5: Professor David Pimentel, Cornell University, U.S.A.
*1: FAOSTAT food supply data, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations (FAO)
*2: National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2010, Ministry of Health, Labor Offering the World New Ways to Enjoy Soy
and Welfare of Japan
Based on its Soylution concept, the Otsuka Group is offering
*3: U.S. Department of Agriculture
*4: FAO the new ways to consume whole soy, including people unacus-
tomed to eating it. Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s two research cent-
Soy Education Seminars ers in Tokushima are concentrating on the development of soy
Sympathizing with Professor Yamori’s work for the WHO-CAR- foods, continuing the pursuit of forms and fl avors acceptable to
DIAC Study Group, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has provided ongo- people around the world.
ing support for his activities since 1985, including employee’s The first Soylution product was SOYJOY, a fruit-flavored
volunteer participation in WHO studies. With traditional diets soy bar that is currently available in 11 countries and regions
being re-examined around the world, Otsuka Pharmaceutical including Japan, the U.S., China, and Europe. Since then, Otsuka
organizes seminars on soy’s possibilities in an effort to broadly Pharmaceutical has introduced SOYSH, a carbonated soy
inform nutritionists and the public. The seminars, which center drink, which was developed at the First Research Institute of
on a presentation by Professor Yamori on how soy can save New Functional Products Development by an employee with an
the world, focus on the relationship between diet and longevity aversion to soy milk seeking to find a tasty way to ingest soy.
around the world, and on the value of soy and its possibilities. SoyCarat is a healthy soy snack that brings a smile to everyone
In 2012, Otsuka Pharmaceutical will hold the seminars in more that tries. It was developed at the Second Research Institute of
than 40 locations across Japan with the cooperation of dietetic New Functional Products Development.
associations and municipal governments. The Otsuka Group will continue to develop and introduce new
Soylution products for people worldwide.
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 14
Highlight
2Highlight 3
Community and Global Initiatives
The World’s Only Museum Displaying Masterpieces on Ceramic
Panels—Otsuka Museum of Art
It all began forty one years ago, with a handful of sand poured on a desk, and the determination of two employees.
“This white sand comes from the Naruto Straits in Tokushima prefecture. The sand is today sold cheaply to make con-
crete, but it can also be made into tiles that command a high price, which would be in the interest of Tokushima and
of Otsuka,” says one of the two Otsuka employees who convinced the company to launch a ceramic board business.
Meanwhile, the Otsuka Group has been seeking ways to further contribute to the community and to children’s learning.
These circumstances led the Otsuka Group to create the Ceramic Board Masterpiece Art Museum in 1998, coinciding
with the 75th anniversary of the Company’s founding. This one-of-a-kind museum brings together Otsuka’s technology for
manufacturing large ceramic boards, which all began with a handful of sand, and a desire to contribute to the community.
15 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012The Otsuka Museum of Art was established in Naruto City in
Tokushima Prefecture, to coincide with the 75th anniversary
of the founding of the Otsuka Group. The facility houses
the Ceramic Board Masterpiece Art Museum, which has
the largest permanent exhibition space in Japan, covering
29,412 square meters.
http://www.o-museum.or.jp/english
For the Community and Children’s Learning Ceramic Board Masterpiece Art Museum—
The Otsuka Museum of Art was built nearby the famous Naruto A One-of-a-Kind Experience
whirlpools in 1998, to coincide with the 75th anniversary of the Reproducing masterpieces on ceramic boards requires the
founding of the Otsuka Group. The museum and its location permission of the original rights holders and curators. Picasso’s
capture Otsuka’s desire to give back to the Tokushima region. son and museum directors and staff from around the world
The museum features more than 1,000 masterpieces re- have visited the museum to inspect the works, and have been
produced on ceramic boards, ranging from ancient murals to impressed by the quality of the museum and the works, enabling
outstanding examples of modern art. These replicas faithfully the museum to receive their permission. The special reproduc-
reproduce the color, shape, textural feel and dimensions of the tion rights are granted based on two main factors—the quality of
originals, enabling visitors to have an awe-inspiring experience the ceramic board reproductions themselves, and the fact that
of the power of these masterpieces without leaving Japan. they are created on a unique medium (ceramic boards), which
The museum gives children a valuable opportunity to inter- ensures that they will not be mistaken for the originals. Visitors
act with the masterpieces at a young age, without traveling can see and compare the reproductions of masterpieces from
abroad. We hope that the museum will help foster an interest in collections around the world, all under one roof.
art, culture, and the world. Our aim is to curate exhibitions and The collection includes a re-creation of El Greco’s high altar
programs that make the museum even more enjoyable, so that paintings, which were later dispersed in the Napoleonic wars.
visitors can experience art at a deeper level. The high altar was recreated from past evidence to produce
objects with great value to art history.
Scrovegni Chapel
Three Unique Exhibition Approaches
Historical Reconstruction
Three-dimensional reproductions of entire rooms
including ancient monuments and religious murals.
Historical Development
Exhibits organized by timeline, covering such periods
as the Renaissance and modern art.
Thematic Section
Exhibitions organized around a theme such as Family.
El Greco’s High Altar recreated
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 16
Highlight
3Highlight 3
Community and Global Initiatives
A New Way to Preserve Artistic Works children wear costumes and act out scenes from paintings,
The largest of the ceramic boards used to make artistic reproduc- and guessing games relating to the artwork. Some 200 children
tions measures 90×300×2cm. Otsuka Ohmi Ceramics Co., Ltd., a ranging in age from 8 to 12 years old participated in the work-
subsidiary of the Otsuka Group, developed special techniques to shops in fi scal 2011.
fi re such large ceramic boards so that they are thin yet straight. The museum also offers programs for elementary and junior
First, photographs of masterpieces are transferred to the ce- high school-aged children who visit the museum from across
ramic boards using a silkscreen-like process, then glazes are ap- Japan, during the 40-day summer break. Every year, the mu-
plied to retouch the images by brush using some 20,000 colors. seum chooses one country as the theme for the program.
The ceramic boards are fired in a kiln several times during this Children visiting the museum contribute to a group collage of
retouching process to produce the fi nished reproductions. artwork made by 100 children from around Japan. Other activi-
While the original works cannot escape color fading and dete- ties include cards that children can fill out with drawings and
rioration over time, the ceramic board reproductions keep their impressions of the works they looked at. With the success of
color and shape almost indefi nitely, so that the process is gain- these programs, the museum
ing attention as a way to record and preserve cultural assets. has seen a steady increase in
the number of students from
elementary school through
high school who visit from
around Japan. In fi scal 2011,
those students accounted for
12% of the 220,000 visitors
Children painting the four emotions
to the museum. (delight, anger, sorrow and pleasure)
The Last Supper, displayed with the pre-restoration work and restored work
facing each other
Human and Robot Guides
Audio guides are available in four languages to help visitors get
the most from their visit. Volunteers provide guided walks six
times a day, and on weekends, museum staff gives talks on vari-
ous topics and offer different programs for visitors.
The museum also has a Gallery talk robot, Mr. Art, who inde- Collage of drawings by 100 children
pendently guides visitors through the museum and talks about
the works. While Art is recharging, he will reproduce your face High School Class Art Museum
on his LCD screen and analyze your features to find a subject The museum runs the High School Class Art Museum (HiCAM)
in a painting who resembles you, using face recognition tech- program for senior high school students who visit the facility.
nology. Art plays a valuable Students receive one of two pamphlets—Art Joy which focuses
role in communicating with the on paintings that appear in high school textbooks, and History
museum’s visitors and draw- Mate which focuses on the historical development of art. The
ing interest to the artworks. guides have been used by some 5,000 high school students
Roughly 60% of visitors to the to date. Students are also encouraged to vote on their favorite
museum use the human and works and the results are tabulated to produce a ranking that is
robot-guided services. published on the museum website. The museum is also plan-
ning to develop guide pamphlets for junior high school students.
‘Mr. Art’, the Gallery talk robot
Education Programs for Children
The museum offers a variety of workshops and events designed
to give children enjoyable access to art.
Naruto City and the Naruto University of Education working
in cooperation with the Otsuka Museum of Art offer a program
of four workshops each year, called Naruto Children’s Art Park
(N*CAP). Since the program was launched in 2004, the work-
shops have offered a variety of activities designed to foster
children’s interest in art, such as role-playing games in which Senior high school students reading the HiCAM guide pamphlets
17 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Full-Size Reproduction of the Sistine Chapel Sistine Kabuki—A Meeting of Cultures
The Otsuka Museum of Art’s popular Sistine Hall contains full- Since 2009, the Sistine Hall of the Otsuka Museum of Art has
size reproductions of the murals in the famous Sistine Chapel in hosted the annual Sistine Kabuki, a new performance of kabuki,
the Vatican. However, the original ceiling spandrels that transi- featuring Japanese and Western collaborations.
tion from the walls to the ceiling and their intricate three-dimen- The third edition of the Sistine Kabuki held in 2011 centered
sional curves could not technically be reproduced on ceramic on the story of the ancient Japanese outlaw Ishikawa Goemon.
boards when the museum fi rst opened, and were missing from The performance featured a special appearance by Shoji Kojima,
the exhibit until recently. a world-renowned Japanese flamenco dancer from Tokushima
In 2007, the museum set about reproducing the three- who was recognized in Japan as a Person of Cultural Merit in
dimensional ceiling to coincide with the 10-year anniversary of 2009 by the Tokushima Chamber Orchestra, and a local amateur
the museum. A fi ring method was developed that involved using theater company among others. In previous performances,
wood molds to create firing molds on which the ceramic clay Michelangelo’s ceiling paintings were obscured by the produc-
was laid to produce a curved board. Through a long process of tion, but the latest production incorporated a spectacular scene
trial and error, engineers developed a way to produce curved with the Goemon character descending from the ceiling on a wire
ceramic boards that did not break, using the same principle as against a backdrop of Michelangelo’s ceiling. The performance
high-temperature fl ow of glass. provided a true meeting of Western art and Japanese culture.
With the breakthrough, the museum was able to realize a full The Otsuka Group will continue giving back to the community
reproduction of the Sistine Chapel ceiling and its paintings, so and contributing to the creation of new art and culture, cap-
that visitors can experience the greatness of Michelangelo’s turing the spirit of creativity that is part of the Otsuka Group’s
work in its full glory. corporate philosophy.
Curved ceramic boards developed to reproduce the Sistine Chapel ceiling
Pope Benedict XVI Bestows Pontifi cal Order of Pope
St. Sylvester on Curator
In March 2007, Pope Benedict XVI of the Vatican City State
bestowed the Pontifi cal Order of Pope St. Sylvester on Akihiko
Otsuka, director general, of the museum, for his contribution to
introducing and furthering Christian art in Japan.
The Director of the Vatican Museums also said at the time,
“The people of Japan can experience the beauty and learn
the history (of Christian art) here at this museum. The Sistine
Chapels of the Vatican and Sistine Hall at Naruto City are not in
opposition, but rather they complement each other.”
Through art, the Otsuka Museum of Art is serving as a major
bridge for global culture.
Photo courtesy of Shochiku Co., Ltd
The main character Ishikawa Goemon descends from the ceiling of the Sistine
Ceremony bestowing the Pontifi cal Order of Pope St. Sylvester on Akihiko Hall in a performance of the Sistine Kabuki
Otsuka, Director General of the Otsuka Museum of Art
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 18
Highlight
3The Otsuka Group pursues social initiatives that focus on
the three key areas of health, the natural environment, and
Social Report communities in its mission to provide innovative and creative
products and services that contribute to better health as a
good corporate citizen.
Heat stroke prevention seminar (Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
19 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Social
Report
Customers and Patients
Heat Stroke Prevention Education
Otsuka Group employees actively advance the dissemination of
information on heat stroke prevention and the importance of hy-
dration through the corporate website, and seminars at schools
and corporations, as well as involvement at conferences. The
Group aids in heat stroke prevention by providing timely informa-
tion at events involving physical activity throughout Asia.
Media and Public Seminars
The Otsuka Group conducts seminars for the media and the public
to convey accurate information about conditions such as cancer
and schizophrenia, reaching out to patients, their families and
medical practitioners. We hope that these efforts support patients
by helping to bring hope to their lives.
Local Communities
Clinic for Afghan Refugees
The Otsuka Group opened the Otsuka Welfare Clinic in Peshawar,
Pakistan to provide free medical care for needy Afghan refugees.
More than 650,000 people, mainly women and children, have vis-
ited the clinic to date.
Adopt an Eco-School Program
The Otsuka Group supports environmental education at a junior
high school in Tokushima City, under the Adopt an Eco-School
project that is conducted through a partnership involving the
Tokushima prefectural government, private corporations, and
universities. The activities help foster students’ awareness of con-
serving the environment in the communities in which they live.
Employees
On-Site Daycare Facility
The Otsuka Group opened the BeanStalk Kids Center Tokushima.
The on-site daycare facility was established to assist employees in
their efforts to balance work and parenting. The building that hous-
es the daycare center features a main hall with beams and wood
fl ooring made of large cedar trees from Tokushima Prefecture. The
vibrant sounds of children playing at the center can be heard from
the surrounding offi ces.
Otsuka
Group
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 20Social Report
Managing and Improving Quality
As a company that is committed to the betterment of life, the
Otsuka Group thinks first of the customers and patients who use
“Quality is the lifeblood of the factory.
our products. We pursue business activities that place the highest
Packaging is a part of quality.
priority on safety in the quality and management of our products. Always make and sell products from the
standpoint of the customer.”
The Group uses stringent systems for quality assurance, to deliver
Busaburo Otsuka,
high-quality products that offer safety and security. founder of the Otsuka Group
Pharmaceutical Business
Supplying Innovative and High-Quality Products Universal Design in Packaging
The Otsuka Group places a high priority on the suitability of For the TS-1 anticancer agent, which comes in a granule formula-
manufacturing costs and environmental initiatives to provide tion, the Otsuka Group developed stick packaging that is rarely
a stable supply of innovative products originating from R&D, employed for pharmaceuticals, as well as incorporating universal
and it strives to develop manufacturing technology and quality design principles to facilitate ingestion. To clearly distinguish the
management technology to meet these objectives. The Group is medicine from foods, the stick packaging features the product
dedicated to manufacturing world-class pharmaceuticals, from name in bold lettering and incorporates a pictogram for using the
active pharmaceutical ingredients to fi nal products. product, which is a fi rst for a Japanese pharmaceutical.
The sticks are given to patients by placing them in a matching
Good Manufacturing Practices for Pharmaceuticals resealable aluminum storage pouch, instead of the previous alu-
Quality Control minum packaging. The new packaging encourages patients to
Stringent quality control is demanded for the manufacturing of keep their medicine in the storage pouch, separately from other
intravenous (I.V.) solutions that are directly injected into veins. medicines and food to prevent accidental ingestion. The pack-
The Otsuka Group uses harmonized assessment rules for quality aging design received a Pharmaceutical and Medical Packaging
standards at all of the nine plants throughout seven countries that Award under the Japan Packaging Contest 2011 organized by
produce I.V. solutions, to ensure the stable supply of products. the Japan Packaging Institute.
Countries are increasingly implementing international Good
Point.1 Point.2 Point.3
Manufacturing Practice (GMP)*1 for pharmaceuticals manufac-
Product name in First pictogram used Matching resealable
turing and quality control, through participation in the Pharma- bold lettering clearly on the packaging of aluminum storage
distinguishes the pharmaceutical patch helps prevent
ceutical Inspection Convention and Pharmaceutical Inspection medicine from food product used in the mix-ups with other
products Japanese market medicines and
Co-operation Scheme (PIC/S)*2. The Otsuka Group endeavors to foods
maintain and enhance quality by manufacturing products based
on international standards, in addition to practicing GMP-compli-
ant manufacturing in each of the countries that have adopted it.
*1: GMP: a set of practices for pharmaceuticals manufacturing and quality
management that are prescribed by countries.
*2: PIC/S: a cooperative inspection organization that is dedicated to promoting
international harmonization of pharmaceutical quality systems and GMP standards.
Nutraceutical Business
Pharmaceutical-Equivalent Quality Management
The Otsuka Group applies the same stringent standards for
quality management of nutraceutical foods and beverages, as
it uses for pharmaceuticals. The Group acquires ISO 22000 in-
ternational certifi cation for food safety for each plant that manu-
factures nutraceutical products, in order to meet globalized
standards for food safety and security in manufacturing and to
provide stable supplies of high-quality nutraceuticals.
Quality control building, Tokushima Itano Factory, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
21 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Social
Report
Consumer Products Business
Food Ingredient Safety and Security *1: CNAS certification: a laboratory accreditation based on ISO/IEC 17025 global
standards for testing and accreditation laboratories.
The Otsuka Group aims to ensure that consumers can be reas-
sured about food safety. Otsuka Foods employs a traceability
Data verification and
system that keeps information on agricultural products, and registration by
Otsuka Foods Quality
Centrally managed by
tracks management and inspection records for food processing Subcontracted Otsuka (Shanghai) Food Control and Assurance
manufacturing plant Department
Safety Research &
and manufacturing process as well as inspection records for
Development
processed foods. This enables tracing and verifi cation down to
the agricultural ingredients used.
For manufacturing of foods in China, Otsuka (Shanghai) Food
Database server
Safety Research & Development Co., Ltd. employs stringent and Web server
operated by
standards for food inspection under certifi cation from the China Otsuka Foods
National Accreditation Service (CNAS),*1 to ensure that only
products whose safety is confi rmed reach Japan. Subcontracted Subcontracted
manufacturing plant manufacturing plant
Logistics data
Traceability system
Other Businesses
Internal System for Sharing Quality Data Equipment Maintenance System
The Otsuka Group endeavors to effectively manage data to The Otsuka Group works to enhance equipment maintenance at
enhance quality. Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. operates an online plants. In an effort to build a world-class framework for equip-
system for sharing quality-related data, so that managing de- ment maintenance, Otsuka Chemical adopted a new equipment
partments are able to rapidly implement countermeasures. maintenance system in 2011 that comprehensively manages
The system was adopted to use and share quality-related maintenance data for more than 4,500 pieces of equipment, to
data that was previously handled only by the staff who directly effectively prevent equipment malfunction and lost production
handled the data, covering everything from customer requests opportunities. Employees use a smart device such as an iPad to
and feedback to internal data on nonconformities and data on access the system and quickly access information about mal-
process irregularities and raw materials. With the system, data functions, repairs or parts replace-
is rapidly disseminated to the managing departments to ensure ment, to optimize equipment and
that countermeasures are consistently managed. The system parts procurement.
also facilitates the retrieval of past data. The system is combined with
The company will continue using the system to collect and monthly maintenance briefings to
analyze quality-related data, in order to reduce risks and ad- improve and transfer maintenance
dress quality issues. skills among staff.
Group-wide Initiatives
Listening to Customers addition, the Group operates a hotline that is available from 5:30
The Otsuka Group operates departments organized along p.m. to 9:00 a.m., to receive and respond to customer feedback
product lines that are dedicated to fielding and responding to and input outside of business hours.
customer inquiries. The Group operates a customer hotline for By responding to customer inquiries through these channels,
pharmaceuticals, and in April 2011 it launched a separate drug the Group is able to encourage the proper use of products, and
information center for I.V. solutions and nutritional products, improve products by collecting and analyzing data and tracking
independent of the customer hotline. The Group fields some customer requests and feedback.
100,000 inquiries each year from patients and medical facilities.
The Group also operates a customer hotline for nutraceuti-
cal and consumer products that fields some 60,000 inquiries
each year, and a hotline for cosmetic and quasi-pharmaceutical
products for customers of the related business departments. In
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 22Social Report
Social Initiatives for Better Health
As a good corporate citizen, the Otsuka Group pursues social initiatives in ways that only we can, for the
environment and for the communities in which we operate.
Otsuka Group’s Social Contribution Activities
Basic Policy on Social Contribution Activities Guidelines for Social Contribution Activities
In keeping with its corporate philosophy, “Otsuka-people creating The Otsuka Group pursues
new products for better health worldwide,” Otsuka Group’s business social contribution activities
activities are aimed at fulfi lling its mission of contributing to human that contribute to human Health
health. In addition, the company recognizes its role as a company well-being in the three key
involved in the life sciences, and uses the knowledge and experience areas of health, the natural
it has gained, as well as its human capital and other management environment, and local Local Natural
resources, to engage in communication with a large proportion of the communities. communities environment
world’s population. As a good corporate citizen, the Otsuka Group is
seriously engaged in activities that contribute to society.
Pharmaceutical Business
Website as a Portal for Communication with In addition, the Group conducts public seminars on schizo-
Customers phrenia to encourage a better understanding of the condition.
Otsuka Group companies use their websites to communicate These seminars feature psychiatrists as well as members of the
with customers and to provide diverse information about health community who live with schizophrenia, to facilitate a broader
and medical conditions, in addition to providing corporate and understanding of the condition. In addition, for the last seven
product information. years the Group has sponsored a major gathering of cancer pa-
For example, Otsuka Pharmaceutical devotes a section of tients as a platform for communication among cancer survivors.
its website to the topic of tuberculosis, which has been on
the rise in recent years despite its long history as a human ail- Support for Pink Ribbon Campaign
ment. The company endeavors to provide accurate information Statistics show that one out of every 16 women in Japan will one
about how tuberculosis is contracted and about its prevention day contract breast cancer. Taiho Pharmaceutical is involved
and treatment. in the Pink Ribbon Festival that is held in cities such as Tokyo
Taiho Pharmaceutical, in partnership with the Shizuoka Cancer and Kobe, to raise awareness of the need for early detection,
Center in Shizuoka Prefecture, operates the SurvivorSHIP.jp diagnosis, and treatment of breast cancer. At the 2011 sympo-
website to support persons connected with cancer survival, from sium, the company distributed offi cial Pink Ribbon products and
cancer survivors to their families and medical staff. The website handed out pamphlets on breast self-examination, helping to
includes a recipe section to help patients cope with chemotherapy raise awareness of the need for breast cancer screening.
and radiation treatment, and a The company also displayed Pink Ribbon products and post-
Q&A section regarding cancer. ers in its lobby and conducted its own Pink Ribbon campaign
Users of iPhone and iPad devices to support the cause, which included an expanded section for
can also download an application breast cancer patients on the corporate website.
to view the content. In addition,
Otsuka Pharmaceutical provides
diverse information on such as heat
Taiho Pharmaceutical’s iPhone
stroke prevention and metabolic
and iPad application provides
syndrome through its website. information on cancer treatment
and diet
Media and Public Seminars
The Otsuka Group conducts seminars for the media and public,
in order to broadly disseminate information on the latest medical
developments. Since 2006, the Group has conducted 14 oncol-
ogy seminars to provide information about cancer treatment
and 10 seminars on schizophrenia. These seminars provide a
platform for physicians at the forefront of treatment to speak to
Tokyo venue for the 2011 Pink Ribbon Festival
the media.
23 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Social
Report
Nutraceutical Business
Heat Stroke Prevention Education heat stroke prevention, which were attended by 54,000 people.
To raise awareness of the importance of heat stroke prevention, In South Korea, the Group conducted 207 educational seminars
the Otsuka Group stresses the need for keeping hydrated in targeting active groups such as school sports teams and Boy
various situations ranging from children’s sports to hydration for Scout groups, and in Taiwan conducted 27 seminars for 4,571
the elderly and occupational health and safety. The Group has people. In addition, more than 100 seminars were conducted in
conducted Otsuka Academy seminars on heat stroke preven- the Philippines for members of the community, using national
tion at 2,574 public schools, which have been attended by half hospitals as venues. The
a million grade school students over the last 12 years. Group will continue work-
ing to spread awareness
about heat stroke preven-
tion, focusing on initiatives
in Asia.
Seminar organized by Otsuka Sims
(Guangdong) Beverage at a community
gathering
Otsuka Health Comic Library
Since 1989, the Otsuka Group has published a new comic every
year about health topics, forming a collection called the Otsuka
Health Comic Library. Copies are donated to grade schools
Heat Stroke Prevention Seminars at junior high schools across Japan and Japanese schools in foreign countries. The
contents of the comics are reviewed by health professionals and
illustrated by well-known comic artists. The comics are made
available through school libraries and nurse’s offices for stu-
dents to read, and are also widely used by teachers and parents
and can be accessed online. The series has earned consider-
able praise for its accessibility and its role in raising students’
interest in health.
Seminar on heat stroke prevention at a fi tness club in South Korea,
organized by Dong-A Otsuka Co., Ltd.
The Otsuka Group is also actively involved in raising aware-
ness of heat stroke prevention outside Japan. In fi scal 2011, the
Group conducted 3,300 seminars in China on rehydration and
Consumer Products Business
My First Water Project
The Otsuka Group has launched the My First Water Project to
educate parents on the importance of water for children, under
the belief that parents are responsible for making choices about
water until their children are old enough to make their own de-
cisions. The project provides diverse information about water,
including tips on making safe water choices for parents of young
children. In 2012, the project sought to raise awareness of the
issue by organizing events for children and parents, and pub-
Picture book published by the My First Water Project
lished a picture book for preschool use.
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 24Social Report
Social Contribution Activities —
Otsuka Group and Local Communities
Community Exchange, Partnerships, and Volunteering
2
1
Awa-Odori
Free Summer Concerts
The
apttpEE ho nel exv
n
a ot ce uc h c pir e ae ot ly ei
l
mn Oa cy g ar mt oe o ns a nS u u u dr cnu k n, efd am iO at
r
y tmPtt m . hs wh T iu ee la aih k er rt se a m sii m n
s
cP wa te oW ach
h
n reoa a
o
tcuf er j e m i t
f
dtk ri lh c ot ia
i
e a nchoc l ka’Aue s
1
swtu
t
9W d obt 9ai o c ea
0t
o O hca j ,i r k eol id ni a mc o
t
pn o
o
tr e hlid an
w
eF an c nO e te hs st tar ous ot t n pm. iu v d
e
eTk a m
n
ha wl o, je e
o
fiT o rt
y
vh e f n t r
i
rc
t
te c aa ahh oe d len ifi o zi c to e
c
ip i noo l oeds gnn r np ac b tf co o hte e ein o err l
r
ots n y
t
co n .t o ofa g Tr ur mk oi ht nneh m eg -gse
r2itm
enh
5
sgeu
, i0
d
n
ae
0
ei rt
v
0
nty
ie ts
p
sra
t-
e
,sn
p
o
b
d
so
p
r
up
if
l
neo
cu
g
s
h fl
iat
r
n
oe
ar
g
r msbi n
mM
ag
an
uc
iwi
d
ct ros
h
aD
s
g
ea
srr
xe
no
J
ca
dw
a
im
t
p
et Oh
s
a
mk.
n
C u
eI n
t
nho
o
ta2
m
t
tn0
h
oe
a1
e
k
t1
T
hsor,
e
mu
.t h
e T
cae
oh la
l
mec
s
t
oo
e mw
wn
v
uec
ne
nle
nl
o
ir
t
tat
f
y
as
.l ri otn
u t
ure
p a
gu
- c
hp
a t
l
en
yin
dd
1c
-
0sl cu
,oo
0d
m
0me 0ed
-
dess uvtp
a
e
ro iO
r
nntn
e
gtn s
d
eo tt hnh r ins ese
u
1t ne h
r9
iev e g9e
s
h0O n
tt
ri
ht
on o
o
a
fg n
ts
t
a hub Tm eope i kpf cno
uo
o
r C
sr
ne
t
h
c
A ct
i
emh uw re
tl
ata
.
u
A iO
r
sw
e
d ba io
n
u
O r zti
h
zd S ieo no r gcui
o
nF wmde
i
tms F ht e ui ev s na nt ii tl ev, ya r.O
g
l T,
y
t w hs eeu h
a
k i fc cra eh
h
eC w
s
h
c
ua oe msm
n
ma ci l ec s era o
rt
l
25 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012
a w a o d o ir festival is a colorful summer tradition in Tokushima
that features a traditional folk dance. Every year, employees from
the Otsuka Group organize four er n (dance groups) to display
their dance moves and carry on the a w a o d o ir tradition. Members
of the Otsuka Ren from Otsuka Pharmaceutical receive grueling
instruction and are screened to form an elite group of dancers who perform the a w a o d o ir in the traditional style. The Otsuka Uzumaki Ren from the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory carries on the tradition of the Uzumaki Ren, which is the oldest dance group in Naruto City, and the members don traditional summer kimo- nos designed for the Otsuka Museum of Art. The TIOVITA Ren
from Taiho Pharmaceutical, and Otsuka Hatsuratsu Ren formed by Otsuka Chemical, Otsuka Foods, and Otsuka Warehouse, are family-participation dance groups in which parents, children, and
other family members join in the dancing.
3
Forest Conservation and Maintenance
Project in Tokushima
4 Involvement in Hanamaki Festival
The Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory and Taiho Pharmaceuti-
cal are corporate partners of a forest conservation and main-
tenance initiative in Tokushima, which was launched with the
introduction of a prefectural ordinance to promote measures
to address global warming. In 2011, the initiative agreed to
conduct forest thinning in the Miune foothills and in the Iyakei
section of Miyoshi City, both in Tokushima Prefecture, with
the program underwriting the cost of thinning the forests. Em- Employees from EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical participate in the an-
ployees and their families participated in the thinning work in nual Hanamaki Festival, featuring a parade of portable
November 2011. The thinning is anticipated to help foster the
forest’s role in the conservation of water resources and en-
courage growth so that more carbon dioxide can be absorbed
from the atmosphere.
5 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012
m ki o s h i
shrines carried on the shoulders of different groups. The mikoshi
parade is the largest of its kind in the Tohoku region. During the
parade, the group from EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical carry their
own mikoshi and give out paper fans and Pocari Sweat.Social
Report
7
5
8
4
2
1
3
6
6
Asan Earth Festival in Itano
5
The Race for Life
Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Tokushima Itano Factory co-spon-
Seven female employees from Otsuka Pharmaceutical Europe sors the Asan Earth Festival in Itano, a hike that takes place
(U.K) participated in the Race for Life, which is the UK’s in the nearby Asan Mountains. The plant sponsors the event
largest women-only fundraising event organized by Cancer in an effort to be an eco-conscious and people-friendly plant,
Research UK. In addition to running in support of the fight and to spotlight Tokushima Prefecture’s breathtaking natural
against cancer, the women raised funds for cancer research assets for both visitors and prefectural residents. The walking
by soliciting donations. course takes the participants past the plant and offers them
splendid views during the hike.
7 Fun Run/Run for Life 8
Christmas Campaign 2011
E a f t fom hn or e
r
ap A afnl ao I n D wmy u Se oa oe , rl u
t
s TF hs uu
y
o Ab nf cr e O c aR r c ut u ds u sn eu el o ik .Tn sa r i iP s oP ma ah r n pia s d hr m t eo M a ar ac a sle ais eu re mit a i mc p. a T lo ol hn yF ee er y ea r u sn fo nc hr e ec t lih pp rce ea u dr G mt i rlc o ani bp ia sa va el it ge fF uad u nt n ei dn d d s edsE me rm en pnp ts l.l
o
o It yny o ee
2
ele e
0
ss s
,1
so
s1
f of
,
o O
t
tr
h
htt us
e
au n
tc
k a soa t oe
m
mP c ph eh aa i
n
3lr dm
y
0r 0ea mn p( aG s
rt
eue
c
scr
h
em h
e
n
da a tsn s
t
y
h
wo)
e
r ed p
p
ro eh rn a
e
ga n
s
it vese
e
n
aC ntn
s
h td or
d
i s s
o
ct t
n
hm re
a
ila e dtes t
r e
dcp
n
hr
b
.e il y--
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 26Social Report
Social Contribution Activities —
Otsuka Group and Local Communities
For Children
27 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012
S a t u H a t i 1 Charity Events and Library Donations
Amerta Indah Otsuka works closely with local communities for the
development of Indonesia and pursues initiatives focusing on chil-
dren’s education. The company has organized annual S a ut H a it
(One Heart) charity events since 2007, raising funds through di-
verse activities, including organizing charity concerts and solicit-
ing donations at major public gatherings. These funds are used to
build libraries at schools and to donate books for school libraries.
In 2011, the program raised funds to build four school libraries.
From 2007 to 2011, the program helped build 20 libraries and do-
nated more than 100,000 books to school libraries.
The Kejayan Plant that manufactures Pocari Sweat features a
soccer pitch, mosque, and community education center that can
be accessed by the members of the community and children. At
the community education center, a S a ut H a it School is held once
a week where employees take turns providing after-school tutor-
ing to help the children improve their reading, writing, and math
skills. Even after school hours, the children were still intensely tak-
ing down notes and writing stories in their notebooks.
3
Children’s Field Trip to Senckenberg
2 Coloring Books on the
Environment Museum
Employee volunteers from Otsuka
O t c vo s st sh a is yg ch i ru l si n ha d ok te on r eua e dd oms n P
l
sto i solh i lu .n iu a
n
rt T s ar ec Fm t hil r so re eaa ael m to
n
ci( corG ke oi hnn fn le ui osg lt dr r, ra m
t
rb i ,ir nen yoa Ggnc n o ’s el s by uk c
r
) s d o mih n h i oo o n t ae e kn o g nl r sp l yee s a .s s a n . n t rs v T i em ip i nhr soo ae t unn l h sc pms e oo a p e el nr lon in d ea rt v d a in in b rl o g ia tc r ondn o b mn s an o ,u ls e lo aa e n ek nl r t lsv i d en a a mfi natt eii dr eoa a e nnt t e i u d tv ct are eo oe r - - y gslsGbf uP upr ee to eh ieu i dr r oma g nmm enr
t
dMm a a aat nn toua n oy
f
s d uo ul’( e s eG
l
r ru
l
ba p le tm a sr i hh or r n
u
rm g a df
o
mo e an i ua vsr ba
m
g
n t eag o hy ern e ufi s )
r
a
t
te i ht t t t do lo u b y ed ao . r i t oa
y
mtk Th r l li ho ie up h1 neg
s
i2 cS t s
e
io
l
ccte
u
uc o haen mdh r l ix yc l ii d nl p e kd am gv rle nor eo e un dr ane -n --
lunch at the museum restaurant.Social
Report
2
5
3
4
1 6
4
Adopt an Eco-School Program
5
Toyama Eco Kids Explorers
Since 2007, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical and
Taiho Pharmaceutical have been working with junior high
schools in Tokushima City to support environmental educa-
tion. The initiative is part of an eco-school adoption program
that is implemented through a public-private and university
partnership involving the Tokushima Prefectural government.
In 2011, first-year students at Tokushima Municipal Jun-
ior High School participated in a variety of activities, including
taking a class on local water resources, learning about wa-
ter quality surveys, and conducting an environmental survey
of a nearby river, together with a visit to a factory wastewater
treatment facility. For a fi nal report of their activities, the 162
students wrote articles on the theme of their relationship with
rivers and about community water resources and water envi-
ronments. The feedback from students indicated that the pro-
gram helped raise their awareness of environmental conserva-
tion, with students saying that it taught them about the nearby
water environment and the importance of water resources, The Toyama Plant of the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory was
and that they came away with a desire to communicate the chosen to host a plant tour under the Toyama Eco Kids Ex-
importance of water to others. plorers program run by the Toyama prefectural government,
as part of visits to eco-friendly companies recognized for their
active environmental initiatives.
The tour was attended by elementary school students
ranging from grades 4 to 6 and their parents, and included
The Otsuka Group supports a briefing about the company and seeing informative pan-
the Hometown Rice Paddies els about the environmental initiatives at the plant. The group
and Water Children’s Art Ex- then toured the manufacturing facilities for I.V. solutions, and
hibit to encourage children to learned how I.V. bags were redesigned to have multiple cham-
connect with the splendors of bers to make the packaging more eco-friendly and recycla-
their communities through art. ble. In addition, the visitors watched a wastewater treatment
For the 2011 exhibit, the Group experiment in which cloudy liquid was turned into clear wa-
sponsored the Otsuka Holdings ter, and visited the wastewater treatment facilities. The visitors
Award and provided commem- also enjoyed taking part in a quiz and tried to open a seal be-
orative gifts. tween the chambers of an I.V. bag, displaying their eagerness
to learn about the plant’s environmental initiatives.
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 28
A b u n d a n H t a vr e s st
6 Hometown Rice Paddies and Water
Children’s Art Exhibit 2011
,
winner of the Otsuka Holdings Award1
Otsuka Welfare Clinic, Free Medical Clinic for Afghan Refugees
In 2003, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pakistan and 24 other
Group companies in Asia and the Middle East established the
Otsuka Welfare Clinic in Peshawar, Pakistan, to provide free medi-
cal care for Afghan refugees.
The clinic was established out of a desire to ease the plight of
Afghan refugees living in refugee camps in Peshawar. Instead of
providing relief supplies as many corporations and organizations
were doing, the Otsuka Group, which operates in Asia and the
Middle East and is committed to the betterment of life, opened a
clinic to provide much-needed care for refugees. The clinic is also
used by nearby residents and is helping to reduce crowding at lo-
cal medical facilities. The clinic sees some 260 patients every day,
and has been visited by more than 650,000 people since it was es-
tablished. In addition, in July 2010, the clinic mobilized to set up a
temporary relief center and provide treatment at a nearby refugee
camp that was severely impacted by the heavy fl ooding.
In 2011, the Japanese Ambassador to Pakistan bestowed a
letter of appreciation on the Otsuka Group, citing its outstanding
contributions to community welfare and goodwill between Japan
and Pakistan.
Dong-A Otsuka has designated the 25th of each month as
Ion Day for teams of employees to volunteer for the commu-
nity. The number “25” is pronounced e e o- h
Social Report
Social Contribution Activities —
Otsuka Group and Local Communities
Aid
3 Aid for Pakistan Flooding Victims
2 Ion Day Community Volunteering O 20ts 1u 0k aa n P da 2k 0is 1t 1a ,n wsu op rkp io ngrt e wd i tv hi c Oti tm sus k o a f P fl ho ao rd min ag ce in u tP ica ak l i ts ot a sn u pin -
ply I.V. solutions. The Otsuka Welfare Clinic also set up a tem-
porary medical clinic in a disaster area. Beverages and water
were also supplied to heavily affected areas through employee
and company donations.
4
Aid for Thai Flooding Victims
in Korean, which
sounds close to the “ion” that is supplied in Pocari Sweat. On
October 25, 2011, employees volunteered to provide coal bri-
q o m S g vu f ore oe aS lon ut met ut ne ho sl
t
s eu oo o ea l ff f, f
r
n i rO is c nd ico ec
g
e r t ti d o fc h t ooibe a s
r
e t t 1f
t
rro ht 0. i h br
e
T he u t h ch oy ti oee r u w t md syn eo - me 2o hue ,n o ul 0d d e nl0 dy ih 0 ts ei ya .n m cv T tt o hpe hh ral ee o of l u y ucD be e goro l e hi m qn a s tug pn hf ed r ad eo t na tmf Iye eo o m so nit s h du a Dce n ni o a n- dc ymg o tu 2 ih mm n 4ed ii tp 0 t ii tc as a ekt h tn dr ii vi yi ll c ol et’y st o- . dcThsI oon hoe
n
uasa2 ai npr l0 a tc ti i1 t r onh a y1 d
n
.l( s, T T tt O ohah h ant a tas t hdi i lu ew a Opk n e Tua td r s hb eP ) u al i h ikdh c Me aa o h a r n iPem nva a i h il sta yl ae t tc h rrad ye mc f u fa o5 e at r f0 ci c ec P, t e 0 ea c uud0l e
b
t 0a n i lb c in t cyc aed a Hr lfl s nO ao
e
s li o at n s s ld o o tu s hi f nek m igP va na e o tS sdhnc ua r e a p o ph r aur pia o g oS fvA h i rniw tn os a oce uia n fea t c tsR t t hih ate i eeno l-
fl ooding victims.
29 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Social
Report
8
1 2
6
9
7
5
3
4
6
5 Continuing Aid for Japan Quake Victims
Digging Wells in Cambodia
Korea Otsuka Pharmaceutical donates all profi ts from Following the Great East Japan Earthquake that struck on
its corporate cafeteria to help dig wells for elementary March 11, 2011, local offi ces of the Otsuka Group quickly mo-
schools in Cambodia. In 2011, the money was used to bilized to provide emergency relief supplies in the form of bev-
build 38 wells. erages, water, and food. In addition, employees from across
Japan took turns to provide oral rehydration solution to evac-
uation centers to prevent dehydration among evacuees, work-
7 Ecocap Movement ing from a base of operations in Sendai City and leveraging
Otsuka’s unique skills and assets to help disaster victims.
The Head Offi ce also provided relief supplies at the request
of government agencies and industry bodies, while offers
poured in from employees of the Otsuka Group outside Japan
who wanted to help with relief efforts. Otsuka Holdings donated
￥390 million to the Japanese Red Cross Society for quake re-
lief, which is equivalent to ￥10,000 for each the Group’s 39,000
employees (including non-consolidated companies).
Since then, Group companies have continued to provide their
products for relief supplies. In addition, the Group has organ-
ized lectures with invited experts on the subject of radiation and
health, and employees have organized their own fundraising
O d c c bot y h os cn au tla tsek lt ee a i to h cpW n ae o a
p
t lb ior oe co nh ot vtoo lal le enu c
c
s - ccp te i ia n or pa o e nn sf s i bd t a f
o
oo nJ xrrI d egM i m sa uR n s hpO i e az o va vc t eht eo i eo r bll i e n s ere hc s ect e n( y dNp pc l Pa c ll ais O hn ct igsi l ec d ) d r. rb e eT io v nnh et . st e nl T ae uN h l eec eP s a t O pp o ols s fap fi sf r cuo e t er ir - c- s 9tatd oim rr e i cv e a Aoe so ns
i
dtf. tf h i nT f a fo uh t or i e nw re gG em
I
r tr ne oo p
d
u l so fi p it ny ar e duh e c Qa ws ks a
u
w ba y ayhl ss ko to th o
e
wm e hi Vs da ehd i ils p
c
e t a o
t
vss
i
itv mcp eo te r il . smuc Tni sa ht l e e o p e fG r r to hw rv o eii ut s h qpio u rn ie ass l k ie c et f oo . e m p ff mr oo r iv t ts ti ed i dne
across Japan.
8
Raising Funds for Cancer Research
Otsuka Pharmaceutical France pro-
vides its employees with the Gally Gar-
den service for purchase of fresh fruits.
Proceeds from the fruit sales are donat-
ed to a French cancer research fund. Employees of Otsuka Chemical (India) delivered 2,400 cans
of Pocari Sweat to areas affected by a major earthquake that
shook parts of India in October 2011. Due to road closures
from the quake, the relief supplies had to be physically trans-
ported from neighboring areas and were handed out directly
to disaster victims.
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 30Social Report
Building Vital Workplaces for Employees
As a global healthcare company that contributes to better health, the Otsuka Group believes it is important
to provide a work environment in which all employees are able to thrive. The Group engages in activities to
promote diversity, work-life balance, and normalization, so that each employee can fully realize his or her
individual talents.
Diversity
Promoting Diversity Diversity Forum 2011
The Otsuka Group promotes diversity by accepting diverse hu- Otsuka Pharmaceutical organizes an annual Diversity Forum
man capital, and endeavors to realize their individual strengths aimed at raising employee awareness.
in order to build a strong yet fl exible organization that can cope In 2011, the forum was attended by 169 employees from in
with change, believing that this leads to innovation. and outside Japan, including staff from sales and R&D depart-
As of March 31, 2012, 44% of the Group’s consolidated em- ments centering on the Nutraceutical Division. The main theme
ployees were based outside Japan, forming a diverse global of the forum was “Self-Driven Change and Growth,” with pres-
workforce that comprises many different nationalities. The entations and sessions stressing the importance of action and
Group embraces “glocalisation,” which involves thinking glob- change from within, such as using the example of young em-
ally and acting locally, and endeavors to develop human capital ployees who developed a wider perspective through experience
that can have an impact in a borderless world, by sending em- in different workplaces and employees who are continuing to
ployees to business schools in and outside Japan and providing tackle challenges in their work.
opportunities for overseas education. Otsuka Foods has issued a “Declaration to Facilitate Working
Conditions for Women,” based on feedback gathered from all
Group Training and Workshops its female employees. The company organized a Diversity 2011
Diversity at the Otsuka Group is aimed at building a company workshop to encourage a vital role for women to energize the
that offers a vital working environment for every employee. Com- company, in which employees discussed ways to incorporate
mittees, project teams, and diversity managers at Group com- women’s perspectives in work and to encourage the promotion
panies spearhead efforts to promote diversity. A Group council of women in different parts of the company. The workshop is
meets regularly to share information on diversity initiatives, con- anticipated to serve as a springboard for further contributions.
duct joint workshops, discusse ways to enhance diversity initia-
tives and promote a better understanding of these initiatives. Percentage of Female Managers
The Group also publishes a regular diversity column in the
As of March 31, 2011 As of March 31, 2012
employee newsletter, to raise awareness of diversity among
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 5.42% 6.28%
employees. The column chronicles the contributions of a variety
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 1.92% 2.11%
of employees, including women, Japanese employees outside Factory
Japan, and foreign nationals, and describes the Group’s initia- Taiho Pharmaceutical 1.80% 1.83%
tives to promote diversity. Otsuka Chemical 7.14% 7.80%
Otsuka Foods 2.24% 2.27%
Diversity Forum 2011(Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
31 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Social
Report
Work-Life Balance
Obtained Kurumin Mark Certifi cation The daycare offers a safe and secure daycare environment
The Otsuka Group has been certifi ed to display the Kurumin mark designed to foster the talents, creativity, and individuality of
for Group companies, signifying that the companies strongly children. The Group is currently planning to build a second on-
support parenting. Group companies support employees who site daycare facility that will eventually form part of a network of
balance work with parenting or care of relatives, and encourage such daycare centers both in and outside Japan.
employees to take parenting leave
and use paid holiday leave. Otsuka VOICE
Pharmaceutical goes above and be-
yond its legal requirements in areas
such as providing shorter working
hours for parents, flexibility for par-
ents in choosing work hours, and
offering extended caregiving leave.
No. of employees taking parenting leave
FY2010 FY2011
On-Site Daycare a Strong Asset
Male Female Male Female
Masaaki Fukuda
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 1 80 2 93
Central R&D,
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory 0 5 0 15 Corporate R&D Headquarters
Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd.
Taiho Pharmaceutical 13 16 16 12
Otsuka Chemical 0 3 0 2 Our two-year old son attends the onsite daycare center,
Otsuka Foods 0 1 0 2 since both my wife and I work. The daycare staff are
Total 14 105 18 124
very attentive to how my son is doing from day to day
and notice small details, which lets us know how he is
doing during the day and enables us to concentrate on
BeanStalk Kids Center Tokushima On-Site Daycare
our work knowing that he is in good hands. The daycare
Facility
center is a great asset in juggling our work and home
In April 2011, the Otsuka Group opened its fi rst on-site daycare
life. Thanks to the center, I can continue to contribute in
facility, called the BeanStalk Kids Center Tokushima. The facil-
my work.
ity, which is located in Tokushima City, was established to help
employees juggle work and parenting.
Normalization
Encouraging Hiring of Persons with Disabilities established Heartful Kawauchi Co., Ltd. in Tokushima City, as
The Otsuka Group embraces normalization to enable per- a special subsidiary company that employs persons with dis-
sons with disabilities to live on equal terms with others, and abilities by performing work for Group companies and outside
encourages the hiring of persons with disabilities. The Group companies. As of June 2012, the company employed 12 persons
with disabilities and is striving to expand its hiring in the future.
Employees with disabilities
As of March 31, 2011 As of March 31, 2012
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 1.73% 2.07%
Otsuka Pharmaceutical 2.03% 1.90%
Factory
Taiho Pharmaceutical 1.62% 1.75%
Otsuka Chemical 2.65% 2.68%
Otsuka Foods 1.40% 1.59%
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 32Social Report
Development of Human Capital
In executing its business across the globe, the Otsuka Group recognizes the need to welcome diversity and
leverage the unique talents of employees to achieve continued growth and innovation, endeavoring to develop
creative human talent to lead its corporate activities.
Human Resource Development Institute Workshops on Otsuka Corporate Culture
The Human Resource Development Institute was founded in The Otsuka Group conducts workshops on Otsuka corporate
March 1988. Located in Tokushima City, the institute is dedi- culture, to teach employees about the Group’s corporate prin-
cated to fostering open-minded and creative human capital, and ciples, values, and decision-making criteria. The workshops are
pursues research on creativity, future manager development, designed to change employee perspectives and behavior for the
and the Otsuka corporate culture. The results of this research future growth of the Group by enhancing employee understand-
are leveraged for employee training programs. ing of the Group’s vision through examining quotes from past
The institute offers a wide variety of training programs includ- and present senior management.
ing workshops to trigger a mindset change through exposure to In 2011, the Group conducted concentrated versions of the
broader perspectives, and workshops on diversity management workshops for Otsuka Pharmaceutical managers, and later
to encourage the creativity of organizations. These programs conducted extended versions for employees who expressed
aim to draw out the creative talents of each employee and foster an interest. The Group has also started to conduct the work-
the development of management skills that are needed by lead- shops for employees outside Japan, and will be expanding the
ers to run organizations. international program.
The facility features three monuments that embody the
change in mindset that is needed for creativity and to break from
tradition. The giant tomato trees, bent giant cedar, and fl oating
stones serve as reminders of this philosophy to employees and
customers who visit the institute.(See page 10)
The adjoining Vega Hall was named in the spirit of encounter-
ing new worlds, and serves as an assembly hall and place of
communication for employees and the community. In addition to
hosting corporate conferences and events, the venue is rented
out to the general public for lectures and music concerts, in sup-
port of the arts and culture.
VOICE
Teaching the Otsuka Corporate
Culture and Principles
Ryosuke Fukase
Associate Director,
Human Resource Development Institute
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Employees who have taken the workshop say that it has re-
minded them of the meaning of the corporate principles that
they have become accustomed to seeing every day, such as
the importance of creativity, innovation, diversity, and global
business development. Others say that it awakened them to
Human Resource Development Institute
the fact that they had been making decisions from a short-term
perspective under the pressures of everyday work. The institute
will continue working to teach the Otsuka corporate culture and
principles to employees, in order to develop creative human
capital to bring growth to the Otsuka Group.
33 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Social
Report
Employee Health
As a global healthcare company, the Otsuka Group believes that it is important for employees to be involved
in their own health and strives to maintain and enhance their wellbeing. The Group facilitates this through
physical activity programs and education concerning health matters.
Fitness for Better Health Pocari/efresh Employee Exercise Program
The Otsuka Group offers a company-operated fi tness facility to The Otsuka Group operates the Pocari/efresh exercise program,
promote better employee health. The facility, which is located where instructors go from workplace to workplace and lead em-
in Tokushima City where many of the Group’s plants and labo- ployees through a weekly eight-minute program of invigorating
ratories are located, was extensively renovated in 2011 with the exercises. Employees fi nd that the exercises help them to tackle
addition of state-of-the-art fitness equipment and expanded their work. The program, now in its fi fth year, has gradually been
services and facilities. Employees can follow a program accord- expanded to become an integral program to encourage physical
ing to their individual fitness goals or current fitness level, and activity among employees.
receive comprehensive support from a team of industrial physi-
cians, public health nurses, nutritionists, and exercise instruc-
tors. This support is aimed at making employees both happier
and healthier.
Pocari/efresh (Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
Better Health for Shift Workers
Company-operated fi tness facility in New fi tness equipment
Tokushima The Otsuka Group is implementing a program to improve health
for shift workers at plants, in light of the diffi culties they face in
Emergency Aid and Lifesaving Training maintaining a normal lifestyle while engaged in shift work. The
The Otsuka Group provides an emergency and lifesaving train- program asks workers to reexamine their lifestyle habits and
ing course that teaches employees to recognize and report a to set goals, as well as participate in monthly health seminars
heart attack, to perform CPR and use an automated external and weigh-ins under the direction of public health nurses. The
defi brillator (AED) until emergency personnel arrive. Participants program has helped change employees’ own attitudes toward
also learn fi rst aid skills to treat injuries and assist colleagues in health, and many employees have lost weight and are enjoying
the workplace. These emergency aid skills can also be applied improved health through better menu choices at plant and dor-
to public settings, which is benefi cial to the wider community. mitory cafeterias and with the advice of public health nurses.
Employees learn emergency aid and lifesaving techniques A public health nurse measures Taiho Pharmaceutical employees under a
health program
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 34While respecting the autonomy of each group company, the
corporate members of the Otsuka Group actively exchange
Environmental Report
information and work together to address today’s increasingly
complex and globalized environmental problems.
Biotope at Okayama Factory of Taiho Pharmaceutical
35 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Environmental
Report
Otsuka Group Environmental Policy
As a global healthcare company and a responsible corporate citizen, the Otsuka Group will always take account of
the global environment when it pursues its business activities. The Group will work on environmental issues with its
trademark qualities of independence, proactiveness and creativity.
Guidelines
１ Provide products and services that are friendly to the environment
At all stages, from product research, development and production through to distribution, sales, and disposal, the
Group will assess environmental impacts, and formulate and implement eco-friendly measures.
2 Contribute to a low-carbon society
Recognizing that there are limited global resources, the Group will contribute to the realization of a carbon-neutral
society by restricting emissions of greenhouse gases and conserving resources. The Group will reduce carbon dioxide
emissions through energy conservation and by improving the productivity of resource use.
3 Contribute to a sound material-cycle society
Natural resources have fi nite availability, so the Group will minimize their consumption by reducing waste discharge
and by recycling resources through reuse, material recycling and thermal recycling, along with suitable disposal.
4 Conserve biodiversity
The Group will continue to pursue initiatives for the promotion of biodiversity in order to maintain diversity of
ecosystems, species, and genetic materials.
5 Compliance
The Group will comply with environmental legislation and observe social norms. In addition, the Group will respond to
society’s expectations and independently set itself further, stricter voluntary standards and rules, with which the Group
will then work hard to comply.
6 Actively engage in social initiatives
The Group will engage in broad social communication, and as a good corporate citizen, it will actively pursue ongoing
social initiatives. The Group will focus on the three key themes of “health,” “the natural environment,” and “local
communities” to pursue initiatives for the general betterment of human health and well-being.
7 Enhance risk management
The Group will work to minimize potential risk to the environment from sudden accidents and emergencies, through
preparation of crisis management plans and implementation of risk management programs.
Otsuka Group Environmental Promotion Council Organizational Structure of the Otsuka Group Environmental
Promotion Council (Fiscal 2012)
Environmental initiatives at the Otsuka Group are advanced by
the Otsuka Group Environmental Promotion Council, with the Otsuka Holdings
Managing company
participation of environment managers from the Group compa- (Otsuka Warehouse) Otsuka Pharmaceutical
nies. An initiative was launched in 2003 to enhance information
Deputy managing company Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
sharing among environment and ISO managers at Group com- (Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
Taiho Pharmaceutical
panies in the Tokushima area. This has now evolved to become
the Group Council, with the participation of thirteen Group com- Otsuka Warehouse
Secretariat
panies throughout Japan. The Council serves as a platform for
(Otsuka Warehouse) Otsuka Chemical
information exchange on topics ranging from technology trends
JIMRO
to environmental compliance and is a forum for discussing the
overall direction of environmental initiatives. EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical
In 2011, the Council conducted two plenary meetings and Otsuka Electronics
six executive meetings. The main themes were the setting of
Otsuka Techno
medium- and long-term goals for reducing energy consumption
Otsuka Packaging Industries
and waste discharge by Group companies in order to lessen
their impact on the environment. There was also discussion of Otsuka Foods
the response to the March 2011 earthquake/tsunami disaster in
Earth Chemical
Japan. In addition, the Council launched a web-based system
for sharing environmental data within the Otsuka Group to facili-
tate accurate data collection, improve information sharing, and
enhance the effectiveness of environmental initiatives.
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 36Environmental Report
Environmental Performance Data
Combating Climate Change and Conserving Energy
In 2011, the 11 Group companies used the energy equivalent of 152,605 kiloliters of crude oil through their business activities, equivalent
to 270,415 tons of CO2 emissions. A large proportion of this energy use is from the extensive use of heat for sterilization processes in
pharmaceuticals (I.V. solutions) and beverage production.
In 2011, Group companies reduced their energy consumption from the previous year by actively adopting energy-effi cient equipment
and conserving energy to cope with electricity shortages in Japan. In the area of logistics, energy consumption per ton-kilometer*1 was
reduced by 3.8% year-on-year through the implementation of transportation modal shifts and improvements in delivery effi ciency.
*1: Energy consumption per ton-kilometer = Energy consumption (kiloliters) / ton-kilometers
A ton-kilometer is a unit that expresses freight volume. For example, one ton of cargo transported one kilometer equals one ton-kilometer.
Total CO2 Emissions (Energy-related) CO2 Emissions by Company in FY2011
(t-CO2) Otsuka Packaging Industries Otsuka Foods
300,000 278,102 285,728 270,415 2% 10%
Otsuka Techno Otsuka Pharmaceutical
250,000 2% 24%
Otsuka Electronics Total
200,000 0.2%
emissions:
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical
150,000 270,415
3%
tons
100,000 JIMRO
0.4%
50,000 Otsuka Chemical
14%
0 Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
Otsuka Warehouse
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 29%
2%
Taiho Pharmaceutical
13%
Energy Usage Ratio Energy Consumption per Ton-Kilometer
(Crude-oil equivalent) by Five Specified Consigners of the Otsuka Group *2
Thousands ton-kilometers
(kL) (Thousands ton-kilometers) (Kiloliter/thousand ton-kilometers)
Kiloliter/thousand ton-kilometers
200,000 1,000,000 0.05
0.04010
150,520 158,895 152,605 800,000 0.03628 0.04
150,000 0.03396 0.03268
600,000 0.03
100,000 538,213 572,009
501,197 499,656
400,000 0.02
50,000
200,000 0.01
0 0 0.00
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2006 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
*2: Five Specifi ed Consigners of Otsuka Group companies (as defi ned by Japanese Law): Otsuka Pharmaceutical,
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods.
Reducing Waste
In 2011, the 11 Group companies discharged 33,617 tons of waste from business activities, an increase of 8% year-on-year due to pro-
duction increases and to disruption caused by the March 2011 earthquake/tsunami in Japan. The recycling rate was 97.4% as a result of
reuse and recycling initiatives, and the volume of landfi lled waste was just 762 tons, down 21% year-on-year.
Recycling rate (%) =
Total Waste Discharge and Recycling Recycling Rate and Final Disposal Amount (Amount of waste recycled +
Amount of saleable resources) /
Total amount of Amount of saleable Amount of Final disposal Recycling (Final disposal amount +
(Tons) waste discharged resources other waste (Tons) amount rate (%) Amount recycled + Amount of
35,000 33,617 recycled 1,500 100 saleable resources) ×100
31,163
30,000 28,739 1,200 1,262 97.4 98
25,000 96.5
11,413
20,000 10,325 10,420 900 95.0 960 96
15,000 600 762 94
17,284
10,000
13,471 15,695 300 92
5,000
0 0 90
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
37 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Environmental
Report
Proper Management of Chemical Substances
In 2011, the 11 Group companies handled 3,692 tons of materials requiring Pollutant Release and Transfer Registration (PRTR).*1 The
year-on-year decrease was due to the halt of operations at one chemical plant and other business reorganization measures.
*1: Pollutant release and transfer registers (PRTRs) are inventory tracking
Handling, Release, and Transfer of PRTR Substances
systems to record, collate, and disseminate data on transfers of toxic
chemicals, and their release to the environment. There are presently 462
(Tons) Handling Release in atmosphere and water Transfer (as waste) substances designated under Japan’s PRTR system.
6,000 5,552
5,000
4,491
4,000 3,692
3,000
2,000
1,050
1,000 864 580
98 21 18
0
2009 2010 2011 (FY)
Reducing Emissions into Air and Water
Preventing Air Pollution
The volume of emissions into the atmosphere increased in 2011 due to an increase in the sulfur content of certain fuel purchased on the
market. Moving forward, the Group will continue to consolidate boiler facilities, switch to cleaner fuels, and continue to improve its energy
effi ciency in an effort to minimize emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) into the air.
NOx Emissions SOx Emissions Dust and Soot Emissions
(Tons) (Tons) (Tons)
250 250 8.0 7.3
206 6.9 6.9
197
200 200
6.0
154 138 145
150 131 150
4.0
100 100
2.0
50 50
0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
Preventing Water Pollution
The total volume of wastewater was 17,189,000 cubic meters in 2011. The potential impact on the environment is represented by total
emissions of chemical oxygen demand (COD), which was 94 tons, and suspended solids (SS), at 54 tons.
Total Wastewater Chemical Oxygen Demand Suspended Solid Emissions
(Thousand m3) (Tons) (Tons)
20,000 120 113 80
17,551 17,189 105
16,217 100 94
15,000 60 54 54
80
41
10,000 60 40
40
5,000 20
20
0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 38Environmental Report
Energy and Resource Conservation
Recognizing that the earth’s natural resources are finite, the Group will contribute to the realization of a
carbon-neutral society by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and conserving resources. The Group will
reduce CO2 emissions through energy conservation measures and by improving material resource productivity.
Group-wide Initiatives
Cogeneration Systems to Reduce CO2 Emissions Green Energy
Otsuka Group plants in the Tokushima area employ cogenera- The Otsuka Group encourages the installation of solar power
tion systems that produce steam from waste heat generated generation systems at Group companies to reduce CO2 emis-
during gas turbine electricity generation. The cogeneration sys- sions through use of natural energy sources.
tems provide an effi cient supply of electricity and steam energy
Installations Capacity (kW)
CO2 emissions
to nearby Group companies. reduced
Naruto Factory and
Information Center for Infusion
Reducing Electricity Consumption Therapy and Products, 20kw 8t-CO2/year
In response to electricity shortages in the summer of 2011 Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
triggered by the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Group Osaka Head Offi ce and Osaka
55kw 22t-CO2/year
Branch, Otsuka Warehouse
strengthened its initiatives to reduce electricity consumption and
Imagire No. 5 Warehouse,
implemented large-scale energy-saving measures, which have
Shikoku Branch, 70kw 28t-CO2/year
continued on an ongoing basis. Otsuka Warehouse
● ‘Reverse Summer Time’ to Reduce Peak Demand Tokushima Factory,
30kw - *1
Otsuka Pharmaceutical shifts its summer working hours from Otsuka Chemical
July through September at seven business locations in Japan. Hanamaki Plant, 12.5kw 2t-CO2/year
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Employees start work one hour later, enabling a reduction in
Otsuka Head Offi ce 30kw 12t-CO2/year
electricity consumption during the daily peak demand time of
Techno Molding Center 30kw 12t-CO2/year
1:00 to 2:00 p.m. The company is continuing to use the ad- Wajiki No. 4 Factory 20kw 7t-CO2/year
justed working hours in 2012. *1: Qualifi es as solar energy buying project under a program of Japan’s Ministry of the
● Other Initiatives Environment to encourage the use of solar power generation and other sustainable
energy sources.
Workplace Weekly “No Overtime Days,” promotion of lightweight
business casual wear in the office, and “Reverse
Summer Time.”
Electrical Reduced use of offi ce equipment, turning off of idle
Equipment equipment, installation of more convenient on/off
switches, reduction of standby electricity consump-
tion, and removal of powered hand dryers
Heating/ Implemented room temperature settings of 28°C in
Cooling summer and 20°C in winter, and installed energy-
effi cient heating/cooling systems
Lighting Extinguishing of lighting in low-use areas or use of Imagire No. 5 Warehouse, Otsuka EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical
fewer fl uorescent tubes; installation of LED and other Warehouse
high-effi ciency lighting; and extinguishing of outdoor
advertising billboards, signage, and street lighting
Eco-Cars and Eco-Driving Practices
Production Installation of high-efficiency compressors and The Group uses eco-cars for corporate fleets and actively en-
Equipment enhanced rationalized control of multi-compressor
and Systems units; installation of inverter-type wastewater pumps,
courages eco-friendly driving practices to reduce CO2 emissions.
demand monitoring devices, private power genera- Taiho Pharmaceutical now has 339 hybrid vehicles, repre-
tion equipment, and solar power generation systems
senting 55% of its corporate sales fl eet. The fuel consumption
Other Growing shade-giving plants close to buildings of the hybrids is approximately 30% better, so the shift has
reduced annual CO2 emissions from the fleet as a whole by
around 10%. Otsuka Pharmaceutical has converted 32% of its
corporate sales fl eet to hybrid vehicles, which has reduced an-
nual CO2 emissions from those vehicles by 24.4%. The compa-
ny also operates three electric vehicles and conducts e-learning
courses for employees who use vehicles in their work, to teach
eco-driving techniques.
Window shading provided by plants (EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical)
39 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Environmental
Report
Pharmaceutical Business
Energy Conservation Low-Waste, Quad-Chamber Injection Bags
Heat is required extensively in manufacturing processes for Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory developed low-waste, quad-
I.V. solutions, but the Group uses high-effi ciency equipment to chamber injection bags for ELNEOPA No. 1 and ELNEOPA No.
reduce energy consumption and CO2 emissions. For example, 2 injection solutions. The I.V. solution bags are the first-ever
Group plants have upgraded from water-tube boilers to high- quad-chamber kit formulation with two center chambers and
effi ciency through-fl ow boilers, and these are being switched to smaller chambers containing vitamins and trace elements, with
more efficient fuels. In the Matsushige area in Tokushima, the chambers that easily open when the I.V. solutions are to be
Group adopted a liquefi ed natural gas (LNG) cogeneration sys- used. The kit formulation eliminates the need for multiple bags,
tem in 2010 to improve effi ciency. Other plants are aggressively which signifi cantly reduces waste otherwise created from using
implementing energy conservation and fuel-switching (heavy oil additional needles and solution containers.
to LNG) measures to reduce CO2 emissions. The Group understands the importance of reducing waste and
conserving the environment for future generations and is committed
to the continuing development of eco-friendly products.
Matsushige Plant of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory
ELNEOPA No. 1 injection solutions in 1-liter, 1.5-liter, and 2.0-liter bags
Nutraceutical Business
Initiatives for Lightweight PET Bottles Lighter Tiovita Bottles
Otsuka Pharmaceutical adopted new packaging for 500 ml Taiho Pharmaceutical has been working to reduce the weight
plastic bottles of Pocari Sweat, reducing the bottle weight from of the 100 ml glass bottles used for Tiovita drinks, targeting a
27 grams to just 18.3 grams. The 30% decrease in weight made weight under 100 grams per bottle. In 2010, the company began
them the lightest plastic bottles in Japan when they were intro- producing a 99-gram bottle, 8% lighter than the previous bottle
duced in 2007. that weighed 107 grams. To ensure that breakage rates during
In addition, the company introduced a method called “posi- transport did not increase, the inner structure
tive pressure aseptic fi lling” to its manufacturing lines, a fi rst for of the bottles was redesigned to offer the same
Japan. The method enables the fi lling of bottles at room temper- strength despite the reduction in weight. The
ature and eliminates the need for bottles with suffi cient hardness new bottle saves the equivalent of some 1,000
and thickness to withstand high temperatures. The reduction in tons of CO2 emissions at the manufacturing
plastic used to make these lighter plastic bottles has enabled stage and a further 300 tons of CO2 emissions
the company to save 2,700 tons of polyethylene terephthalate from transport, for a cumulative reduction of
(PET) resins annually (based on annual production output of 300 1,300 tons of CO2 emissions.
million bottles), which is equivalent to reducing CO2 emissions
by 8,300 tons. ● Reducing the Weight of Tiovita Bottles
（Grams per Bottle） Weight
The company also produces PET resin preforms*1 in-house
130
for 900ml Pocari Sweat bottles. The production of preforms on- 125
125
site at high temperature immediately before drink fi lling eliminates
120
the need to wash and sterilize plastic bottles and significantly
115
reduces energy and fuel consumption. It also reduces transpor-
tation requirements, as more compact PET resin is delivered to 110 107 107 107
the factory instead of the 105 102 102
99
lighter preforms. 100
*1: Preforms are test tube-shaped 0
plastics that are expanded in a Before 1981- 1992- 1995- 1996- 2000- 2011(Year)
mold and formed into PET bottles. 1976
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 40Environmental Report
Energy and Resource Conservation
Consumer Products Business
Using Waste Syrups as a Biomass Energy Source Recycling Wastewater Sludge
The Otsuka Foods’ Kushiro Plant generates a quantity of waste The Kushiro and Tokushima plants of Otsuka Foods recycle
syrup from its manufacturing processes. Formerly, this syrup wastewater sludge instead of disposing the sludge as landfill
was destroyed in an incinerator, generating CO2 emissions. waste. Since 2010, both plants have achieved a 100% recycling
However the plant has now installed a methane fermentation rate and sell the processed wastewater sludge.
system for the waste syrup, which produces biogas that is then The Kushiro Plant dries its wastewater sludge in sunlight so
used for power generation. The new system enables the plant to that it can be used as mulch for soil conditioning. The Tokushima
convert waste syrup into an energy source, while also reducing Plant processes wastewater sludge into a valuable fertilizer
CO2 emissions associated with the incineration process. through microbe-assisted fermentation.
Other Businesses
Transportation Modal Shift Reducing Heavy Fuel Oil Consumption in
Under revisions to the Law on the Rational Use of Energy that Incinerators
were enacted in April 2006, specifi ed consigners that transport Otsuka Chemical sorts and recycles waste and pursues
30 million ton-kilometers or more of freight in a given business comprehensive waste reduction initiatives. For example,
year are required to formulate energy-conservation plans and thermal energy generated from incinerating some of its waste
submit energy consumption reports. As a specified consigner, is converted to steam by means of waste heat boilers and then
the Otsuka Group endeavors to reduce the environmental im- used within the plant.
pact of its logistics activities. The plant previously treated waste alcohol through controlled
The Group is actively implementing a transportation modal disposal, but now it uses some of the waste alcohol as a fuel
shift from land transport using trucks and trailers, to sea and rail source. As a result, the plant has reduced the consumption
transport options such as Japan Railway’s new energy-effi cient of heavy oil by more than half, producing less waste and
Eco Liner container. Distribution efficiency is also being im- consuming less fuel.
proved by utilizing joint deliveries and larger transport vehicles.
Shifting to sea transport options
Reducing the Weight of Cardboard Packaging
The Group is reducing the weight of cardboard used in prod-
uct packaging as well as reducing cardboard consumption in
order to reduce packaging waste and lessen its environmental
impact. EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical switched to a lighter card- Multiuse Counter Display Unit
board material for packaging medical enteral nutrient products, Otsuka Packaging Industries developed a product display unit
saving the equivalent of 149 tons of CO2 emissions in 2011. that can be changed to display multiple products by simply
Otsuka Pharmaceutical modifi ed the corrugation in its packag- adjusting the internal partitions. The partitions can be reused
ing cardboard to reduce the cardboard weight yet maintain the in different configurations, eliminating the need to dispose of
same rigidity. customized counter displays each time a new product type or
version is introduced.
41 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Environmental
Report
Environmental Report
Zero-Emissions Initiatives
In aiming to contribute to a resource recycling society, the Otsuka Group actively pursues initiatives to achieve zero
emissions*1 of waste by reducing waste discharge and recycling as much of the waste discharged as possible.
Otsuka Five out of seven plants in Japan have achieved and continue to
Pharmaceutical record zero emissions of waste. Organic liquid waste from the Sec-
ond Tokushima Factory is now treated by thermal recycling.*2 This
enables productive use of some 250 tons per annum of waste.
Otsuka All four plants in Japan have achieved and continue to record zero
Pharmaceutical emissions of waste. In 2010 the Naruto Factory was cited by the En-
Factory vironmental Minister for 3R excellence (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle)
and for contributing to a resource recycling society. The Kushiro Plant
was cited for an award of excellence for zero-emissions performance
in Hokkaido in 2011.
Taiho In 2011, the Tokushima and Okayama Plants achieved “zero emissions Kushiro plant of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory cited for
Pharmaceutical of waste” status for the fi rst time, having stepped up their recycling of an award of excellence for zero-emissions performance in
resources and other recycling initiatives. They join the Saitama Plant, Hokkaido in fi scal 2011
which achieved the same status previously.
Otsuka Techno The company recorded zero emissions of waste in 2010 as a result of
comprehensive recycling initiatives for waste plastics and by raising
the percentage of recycled materials used in products to reduce raw
material consumption. In 2011, the Naruto Head Offi ce, Naruto Factory,
and Wajiki Factory were designated as 3R business locations under a
certifi cation system operated by Tokushima Prefecture.
Otsuka Packaging The company reduced 16 tons of waste annually by reducing raw
Industries materials consumption and limiting waste discharged from manu-
facturing. The company also invested in equipment that reduces the
amount of developer waste in the printing process, thereby reducing
the volume of alkaline waste liquids by 74.1% year-on-year in 2011.
Waste separation at Taiho Pharmaceutical
Otsuka Foods All four plants in Japan achieved zero emissions of waste in 2011.
The Gunma Factory recorded a 70% recycling rate for waste that
had previously been incinerated, through better separation of mixed
waste from manufacturing. This enabled the plant to significantly
reduce the volume of waste destined for landfi lls.
*1: Recycling rate (The zero-emissions goal is a rate of 99% or more) = (recycled amount + amount of valuable
resources) / (fi nal disposal amount + recycled waste + amount of valuable resources) x 100
*2: Using the heat generated by incinerating waste as energy.
Plastics Recycling
In an effort to help Group companies achieve zero emissions of waste, Otsuka Warehouse re-
cycles high-quality polyethylene scrap*3 generated from manufacturing processes at Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Factory’s four plants in Japan. The scrap is used to produce recycled pellets,
which were certified in 2010 by Tokushima Prefecture as a high-quality recycled material.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical uses the recycled pellets to manufacture reusable squeeze bottles,
illustrating how Group companies are cooperating to recycle resources.
*3: Excess plastic shaved from the edges of products during manufacturing.
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 42Environmental Report
Coexistence with Nature
As a company that is committed to the betterment of life, the Otsuka Group comprehensively pursues
initiatives to preserve biodiversity through the conservation of ecosystem diversity, maintaining the number
of species, and genetic diversity. As part of these efforts, the Group constructs biotopes*1 that provide a
harmonious natural living environment for wild organisms.
Biotope Ponds
As part of its initiative to be friendly to the human and natural en-
vironment, the Tokushima Itano Factory of Otsuka Pharmaceutical
installed a biotope pond on its grounds, offering a natural habitat CCoommmmoonn JJaappaanneessee JJaappaanneessee
KKiinnggfifi sshheerr wwhhiittee--eeyyee bbrroowwnn ffrroogg WWaatteerr ssccoorrppiioonn
for wildlife.
The plant is situated on a 27.3-hectare site with greenery
covering 70% of the grounds. The landscaping follows the
undulations of the terrain and features areas of natural forest, LLeesssseerr eemmppeerroorr
ddrraaggoonnffllyy RRhhiinnoocceerrooss
with its two main plant buildings nestled among the greenery. DDrraaggoonnflfl yy aanndd wwaatteerr lliillyy bbeeeettllee WWiilldd rraabbbbiitt
Natural Organisms Found at Tokushima Itano Factory of Otsuka Pharmaceutical
There is a lushly forested area that features various deciduous
and evergreen oak trees and is home to different species of
*1 Biotopes
birds depending on the time of year. The grounds serve as a
Biotope is derived from the Greek bios (life) and topos (place) and
quiet enclave for employees and members of the community. refers to a natural living environment for wild organisms. Forests,
To promote further greening, employees at the plant raise acorn grasslands, rivers, ponds, and marshes are all biotopes that pro-
vide a home to organisms. The concept of biotopes has gained
seedlings and plant them in open grass areas to increase the
visibility as environmental destruction threatens the survival of
number of trees. wild organisms.
The biotope pond at the Tokushima Itano Factory is fed by
purified cooling water from the plant and provides a natural
environment for diverse aquatic organisms, including pupfish, Leaves from deciduous trees on the plant grounds are col-
dragonfly larvae, water scorpions, and water lilies. An endan- lected to raise 300 rhinoceros beetles every year in order to
gered species of cyprinid fi sh*2 has been released into the bio- foster a population of the species on the plant grounds. Children
tope pond under an initiative by Tokushima Prefecture to help who come to visit enjoy watching the rhinoceros beetles emerge
restore the fi sh’s population. from the ground nearby the pond.
Biotope pond at Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Tokushima Itano Factory
43 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Environmental
Report
In 2010, Otsuka Pharmaceutical was chosen as one of the in a nutrient-rich state. The use of the biotope to treat the waste-
top 100 green companies for biodiversity conservation by the water has reduced the equivalent of 13 tons of CO2 emissions
Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure, annually that was previously generated from sewage treatment.
in recognition of its nature conservation efforts. The Itano Fac- The biotope stream is home to a rich ecosystem with organ-
tory was also cited by the Minister of the Shikoku Bureau of isms such as pupfish and water striders, and it replicates the
Economy, Trade and Industry in 2010 for its outstanding efforts region’s traditional natural environment. In addition to providing
as a green factory. a pleasing sight for visitors to the plant, the stream also serves
as a reminder of the need for environmental conservation.
*2 Cyprinid fi sh In January 2012, the plant received an award from the chair-
The hemigrammocypris rasborella is man of the Japan Greenery Research and Development Center
a species of cyprinid fish that lives in
in recognition of developing a nature-friendly environment and
freshwater and is designated as an
endangered species in the Red Data promoting initiatives for community exchange.
Book published by the Japan’s Ministry
of Environment. Once thought to have
been extinct in Tokushima Prefecture,
the species was rediscovered in Naruto City in 2004, marking the
fi rst positive identifi cation in 58 years. A program to protect and
breed the endangered species has been initiated between com-
munities and the government, working together with universities
and corporations.
Eco-Friendly Wastewater Treatment
The Okayama Factory of Taiho Pharmaceutical employs eco- Elementary school students visiting the biotope stream
friendly wastewater treatment methods to purify cooling water
and cleaning water generated from manufacturing, so that the Maintaining Green Areas for the Community
treated water can be discharged into the sea in a condition that and Environment
is closer to its natural state. The Fukuroi Factory of Otsuka Pharmaceutical is situated on
an 11.4-hectare site, with greenery covering 36.6% of the
grounds. The plant’s expansive lawns can be seen from Tokaido
Shinkansen trains that pass through the area. The lawns are
maintained with minimal use of chemicals, and employees peri-
odically perform weeding as part of the eco-friendly landscaping
practices at the plant.
The plant also pursues initiatives to beautify the community
and partners with the community on environmental conservation
initiatives, such as maintaining street planters and regenerating
municipal pine woodland. The facility welcomes some 10,000
visitors each year for plant tours and briefs visitors on the plant’s
Biotope at Okayama Factory of Taiho Pharmaceutical environmental initiatives, working to raise public awareness
about environmental issues.
Until recently, the plant sent cooling water and cleaning water These greening and environmental conservation efforts in
from its manufacturing processes to a sewage treatment plant, partnership with the community earned the plant an award of
because of its high temperature (around 40°C) and excessively recognition from the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry for
high purity. The plant could not discharge the wastewater into outstanding performance as a “green plant” in 2011.
the sea due to the potential harm to the ecosystem. Despite
generating clean wastewater, all of the wastewater had to be
treated at a sewage treatment plant, which generated CO2
emissions through the operation of the treatment equipment.
Based on a comprehensive environmental assessment, the
plant decided to install a biotope stream in April 2011 on the
plant grounds. The wastewater is released into the stream and
gradually cools as it travels the length of the 230-meter long
stream, being enriched with organic plankton from the soil and
the action of organisms, to eventually be discharged into the sea Fukuroi Factory of Ostuka Pharmaceutical
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 44Environmental Report
Clean-Up Activities
Otsuka Group companies are involved in clean-up activities in partnership with communities. Such activities
are carried out at our manufacturing operations, R&D centers, and sales offi ces. Employees and their families
are actively involved in these efforts, which help to raise environmental awareness and build community
dialogue while beautifyingg the looccaall eennvviirroonnmmeenntt..
E p Imm ar ip zti ul co i Cy pe ia te t yes i nio n f T aO on yt as au mnk n aa u PaP rlh eca fo erm m cta m uc ru ee n ,u i ht ti y ec la c pl l i e nF a ga n c t- ot uo p cry lee’s aff noT o r uty poa m r thga ea nP si hzla e on d rt e b s y haTtE esr ha lm pe is t i p h na pl gco ro o ty n ti vv oe ia ie dt c ys em l edwo o a f a a nu D s n h u o t v e pan e ai g n r tly ht- h tA epr y a o e O i tl p ni mt o vus n iu l e ra o k B r o na a uu m s m tk dp eh o o ne a n on tn .g rt s s at e h wn mr e hM pe illo e oh u y ao n e lu setar oss i ,n c . ollecting
of Ebina Beach. Korea
Imizu City, Toyama Prefecture
Every spring, the entire workforce of Korea
Otsuka Pharmaceutical participates in a
community clean-up effort to remove trash from
national parks and rivers. In 2011, Employees of King Car Otsuka Co., Ltd. are involved in beach and community clean-up efforts.
the employees helped to clean up the In 2011, King Car Otsuka employees and customers joined forces to remove trash from Kenting
Yangjechon River. Korea National Park in the south of Taiwan. Attracting 438 participants, the initiative helped raise the public
pprroofifi llee ooff cclleeaann--uupp eefforts, even prompting bystanders to help collect and pick up trash.
Taiwan
VOICE
Working with Customers to
Clean up Communities
Shen Wen Hsun
Marketing and Planning Department
King Car Otsuka Co., Ltd.
Many of our customers showed an interest in our clean-up ef-
E d d b t m lm r ho oeu en a cap m ra aul 1 ko s t lt 0 ei iy ro fi 0a ed e n c -n s e a d b id ts dto r y i u eomo S am nnf a u t cP sed k w eT fe a if r. nao e btA sr mh hu ttm e es em o.m le p b ni T r i yiPt nnhi ,a n r gse a otI , on f v tc ta o d i eop n n ra m cu c d h w lb e e p t,l hO ahi ac i nin in ct s s w y h usu o a pu s ek ps p ea me tt tp h e r r pu a eoe b lt prc o siti o y n y eo nc es af l e se wf c so hd o a r o jm s os r et inmo .er ua dng iee tyy Indonesia f t T ao u fh trr e et ns re P fida o nn ci ind sat hrow i i n So a gwr mk tee ha ad ej to cs wr li ed ee a e f df n- o rb -ar uy t n p- a ks n ti o ad d n se w t t ew ha dei st eh br s e eu pa as el c l cyt ho i ar wec llw yil te ha ga r oon d ot i hu n dep g .r t t ph o ae o r ts r icgh iao pnr ae i nz. e tI st .
45 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012E cm ompl moy ue ne its y o cf l eT aa nih -o u pP eh fa form rta s c ae tu tt hic ea irl pa lr ae n i tn sv ao nlv de d in
R&D
centers.
Inuyama City, Aichi
Prefecture
ewS ne a vv r iee rohra nol mu t si em e nse t s a a n la sd oy ie n ha epr l, p uO sb t l ts ic ou k s bpa u a iW lc dea ssr oe . lh W ido aou rrs ik te yin o wgr g iw ta hin t chiz o re mes s mc idl ue e na n in t ts i- e u stop . bac et aiv ui tt ii fe ys t ha ero lu on cd a l its
Naruto City, Tokushima Prefecture
O t r fh o ot e as
r
du MImk s aa a a
y
gP n 3i dh r 0e a t
.
r h im Tn ed
h
a s euc u se crt ru lr eoit a auic l
n
na p -dl a u, i nr pO k g , et s ca ffu on ok d m ra
t s
meC v tu ah e n ke ry i em t y y pi .c e lT aa a h cl r, e etO h e oet fs nfir ou ae rk t a m w i sW p e u eloa ksr y u ee e nah e l do ls y u a p hs nae e dr, lt d a i fc an oi mpd na i lO Zt iee et s s ri onu o k fa T a r e c a mF l seo h pao ln D od - yas u ey pa e, l swl e h f ahfa o li scv r ohte o pif sa f i tc n d ci e e hli at s i ir ie ngbs n ty oi a n t ed
help with the efforts. Tokushima City, Tokushima Prefecture
Employees of Otsuka Electronics regularly
conduct clean-up activities around the plant,
for the beautifi cation of the local community.
Hirakata City, Osaka Prefecture
VOICE
Bringing Employees
Closer Together
Tsutomu Nagao
General Manager, Operations Department
Otsuka Packaging Industries Co., Ltd.
This year marked the fourth year that we conducted a clean-up
tcE hlv e ee a sr ny t- a uy dpe iua e mr, f f e o am r nt dp o l f io t sty h e see u s n r reo oaf u rO nb dyts inPu gk o sa c a pP r ra i e Sc sk w ea neg ta ain t b g S le tI .an dd iu us mtr ,i e hs e lp pa inrt gic ti op a kt ee e i pn a e of ufo r r et m o pf t loh ye e P eo sc aa rr ei S inw ve oa lvt eS dta , d wiu itm h . a E bv oe ur ty 1 y 0e 0a r p, em oo pr le e t ih na an l l5 p0 a o r-f
ticipating. The amount of trash that we pick up has decreased
every year, which shows that stadium visitors are becoming
Naruto City, Tokushima Prefecture more environmentally aware.
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 46
Environmental
ReportThe Otsuka Group strives to achieve a sound management
framework with excellent transparency, in order to secure the
Management
confi dence of stakeholders for the stability of corporate activities
and for sustainable growth.
Compliance Forum of Otsuka Pharmaceutical
47 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Management
Otsuka Group Code of Conduct
Ⅰ Code of Conduct for Employees
1 Recognizing that we work for a company that is striving to contribute to the health and prosperity of people worldwide,
we behave with honesty and integrity, and always seek to fulfi ll our role as responsible members of the community.
2 Respecting the diversity, personality, and individuality of each person, we creatively strive to improve ourselves as
employees and to raise the quality of the company’s business operations.
3 We comply with all laws and regulations, including internal rules, and always strive to raise our own ethical awareness.
4 Engaging in open and fair business competition, we maintain appropriate and ethical relationships with politicians,
government administrators, health care professionals, and client representatives.
Ⅱ Code of Conduct for the Enterprise
1 The Otsuka Group communicates with its shareholders and with the broader society, and actively and fairly discloses
information related to its business and performance to the public.
2 The Otsuka Group recognizes its responsibility to address environmental issues as an integral part of its mission, and
voluntarily and proactively pursues such efforts.
3 The Otsuka Group conducts itself as a good corporate citizen, actively contributing to society.
4 The Otsuka Group resolutely avoids any dealings with anti-social organizations and infl uences that threaten the safety
and order of civil society.
5 In its business operations outside Japan, the Otsuka Group complies with international rules and national and local laws,
shows respect for local cultures and customs, and uses management practices that contribute to local development.
Risk Management and Compliance Otsuka Holdings Risk Management Framework
Otsuka Holdings operates a Risk Management Committee that
is headed by the president and which oversees risk manage- Risk management
Use compiled risk infomation to examine ways of preventing
ment and compliance for Otsuka Group companies. Group
and minimizing risks; secure the continuity and stable growth
companies also operate their own risk management organiza- of business
tions headed by their presidents. These organizations work Crisis management
Minimizing losses in the event of a crisis, while also
together to implement risk management across the Group.
minimizing the impacts on society and business operations
Senior management of Group companies consult directly
with departments that manage compliance, and also focus on
Otsuka Holdings
advancing their internal compliance programs. Risk Management Committee
(Crisis Response Headquarters)
The Otsuka Group Compliance Task Force meets twice a year
Committee Chairperson:
to report on compliance initiatives at Group companies, and to President & CEO
Information
discuss and consider Group-wide matters related to compli- Committee Vice Chairperson: disclosure
Managing Director Responsible for
ance. Most recently, the task force discussed topics such as Administrative Affairs
compliance for employees of international subsidiaries, legal Members:
Internal Control Manager
network meetings, and the implementation of training for insider
trading prevention.
Collaboration
Main operating companies
Subsidiaries
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 48Management
Corporate Governance
Basic Approach to Corporate Governance
As a global healthcare company that conducts business world- In addition, the Group operates a set of Affi liated Companies
wide, the Otsuka Group operates under a pure holding company Management Rules that sets out the decision-making pro-
structure that separates Group management and supervision cesses within the Group and provides a suitable framework
from business execution, in order to practice sound manage- for governance. The rules strengthen coordination within the
ment with a high degree of transparency. At the same time, the Group by clarifying the reporting to Otsuka Holdings and items
Group endeavors to strengthen corporate governance and to needing approval.
operate systems for internal control.
Corporate Governance System
Board of Directors Corporate Auditors
Otsuka Holdings uses a system of corporate offi cers that clearly Otsuka Holdings employs a Board of Corporate Auditors com-
separates the roles of directors—who make management deci- prising four auditors, of whom three are outside auditors (as of Au-
sions and supervise their execution—and corporate officers gust 1, 2012). The Corporate Auditors meet once a month at the
responsible for executing the business. This system ensures Board of Corporate Auditors, attend important meetings including
the effi ciency and transparency of management together with Board of Directors meetings, and serve in an auditing capacity by
rapid business execution. The Board of Directors, consisting reviewing important documents and information provided from
of seven directors (as of August 1, 2012), meets once a month relevant departments as the need arises, and by conducting fi eld
to decide on matters stipulated under the Companies Act, and audits. The Corporate Auditors audit the business execution by
to decide on important matters concerning business direction the directors in accordance with the auditing direction and audit-
and strategy. ing plans determined by the Board of Corporate Auditors.
Shareholders’ Meeting
Elects/dismisses
Elects/dismisses Elects/dismisses
Board of Directors Operational audits
Accounting audits Board of Corporate Auditors
(seven directors)
(3 external corporate auditors of 4)
Appoints/dismisses
(Cooperates with)
President (Cooperates with)
Instructs Reports Accounting audits
Audit Firm
Internal Audit Department (Cooperates with)
Approval of Meetings of the Prior
material matters Group's boards consultation
Management of corporate Ex post
guidance auditors facto reports
Subsidiaries (Shareholders’ Meeting, Board of Directors, Board of Corporate Auditors, etc.)
Internal Control
Internal Control System Internal Controls for Financial Reporting
The Otsuka Holdings Board of Directors has passed a resolution Internal control managers spearheaded an effort to ensure the
regarding a system for ensuring the appropriateness of busi- reliability of fi nancial reporting for the 80 consolidated compa-
ness activities, calling for the development of the type of internal nies (including equity-method affi liates) of the Otsuka Group in
control system required by Japan’s Companies Act and related 2011. Otsuka Holdings issued an internal control report on June
regulations, to cover the entire Otsuka Group. 29, 2012, which found that the internal controls for fi nancial re-
Group companies designate internal managers who are re- porting were effective.
sponsible for establishing and operating internal control system
for their companies.
49 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Management
Risk Management
Risk Management Approach
The Otsuka Group practices risk management in order to secure prevent losses and minimize the impact on the business and
business continuity and stable growth, and for crisis manage- to stakeholders. The companies implement plan-do-check-act
ment to enable rapid response to emergencies. (PDCA) cycles for BCP to identify Group-wide issues, and in turn
Group companies engage in business continuity planning to examine and enhance the Group-wide risk management to
(BCP) to forecast damages that could arise from emergen- secure a framework for crisis management.
cies such as large-scale disasters and epidemics, in aiming to
Risk Management
Risk Management Simulation Exercises earthquake that is projected to occur at some point in the Tokai,
For the last three years, the Group has conducted risk manage- Tonankai, and Nankai regions, and which would impact the
ment training for presidents and directors of major Group com- Group’s manufacturing operations in these areas. The Group
panies, focusing on risk management simulation exercises. The is strengthening the infrastructure and logistical aspects of the
training is designed to enhance risk management and facilitate BCP to refl ect issues that were identifi ed in the risk management
greater collaboration within the Group. simulation exercise.
In 2012, presidents and directors of major Group companies These changes are designed to minimize the impact on prod-
heard briefi ngs from representatives of various companies on their uct supply in the event of such a disaster. The enhancements
risk management efforts drawing from experiences during the Great include distributing the pharmaceutical warehousing and order
East Japan Earthquake, and they conducted a panel discussion. management points, and reviewing the inventory balance to
They also conducted a simulation exercise on BCP for a worst-case secure supply capabilities in a disaster.
scenario of a chain of four major earthquakes occurring in the
Tokai, Tonankai, and Nankai areas as well as one additional epi- Acquisition of ISO 22301 Certifi cation for Business
center. The exercise led to active discussions on issues that would Continuity Management Systems
arise if the business continuity Otsuka Pharmaceutical has acquired ISO 22301 certification
plan were to be triggered, and the for business continuity management systems, “The Manufac-
ways in which the Group compa- ture and Stable Supply of Products for Medical Related Busi-
nies will need to collaborate to ness.” Otsuka has become the fi rst pharmaceutical company
effectively execute the plan. in Japan to have achieved the ISO 22301 certification. The
Risk management simulation
exercise certification signifies that the company is fully prepared to
Business Continuity Planning for Projected Tokai, ensure business continuity should a disruptive incident arise,
Tonankai, and Nankai Earthquake for manufacturing and supply of medicines needed by medical
Otsuka Group companies are involved in ongoing review facilities and patients.
and improvement of BCP, for scenarios that include a major
Security Measures
PrivacyMark and Information Security for all business divisions and departments, to stress the need for
Management System Certifi cation personal information protection. PrivacyMark certifi cation requires
Otsuka Pharmaceutical and Otsuka Warehouse have acquired renewal every two years. Otsuka Warehouse renewed its certifi ca-
the right to display the PrivacyMark*1, signifying that they take tion in June 2012, while Otsuka Pharmaceutical is moving forward
measures to protect the personal information of customers. The with preparations to renew its certifi cation for the fourth time.
companies operate management systems for personal informa- Otsuka Warehouse has also acquired information security
tion protection and have designated managers and supervisors management system (ISMS) certification*2 for data centers,
responsible for personal information protection. Employees which requires the company to implement annual management
conduct checks each month and use personal information pro- reviews of the ISMS.
tection logs to confi rm the proper handling of IT equipment and *1: PrivacyMark: This certification is issued by the Japan Information Processing
Development Corporation (JIPDEC) and gives businesses the right to display
precautions such as keeping confi dential data locked away.
the PrivacyMark designating that they meet certain requirements for personal
In terms of training, new employees are required to take an e- information protection.
*2: ISMS certifi cation: The certifi cation is a program to certify that organizations meet
learning course and an annual Compliance Forum is conducted
certain standards for information systems security.
for employees and directors. This is supplemented with training
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 50Management
Compliance
Approach to Compliance
In offering products for the betterment of life, Otsuka Group aiming for sustainable growth. The Otsuka Group Code of Con-
expects each employee to behave in a highly ethical manner, duct guides the conduct and scope of organizational activities,
including by practicing regulatory compliance and observing so that each employee understands and embraces his or her
bioethics. The Group furthermore recognizes that it is critical to social responsibilities and the need for ethical behavior. These
secure the confi dence of stakeholders beyond supplying prod- principles are carried out through the compliance program im-
ucts and services, for the stability of corporate activities and in plemented by the Group.
Forums, Training, and Education
Compliance Forum and Training Additionally, the company offered e-learning courses and divi-
The Otsuka Group conducts compliance training for all em- sional training on corporate ethics, personal information protec-
ployees including directors and divisional managers. In 2011, tion, and information security.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical organized a compliance forum with a The Otsuka Group also conducts compliance training for
focus on change and compliance, to stress the importance of employees of international subsidiaries, through the implemen-
compliance management as the company grows through merg- tation of a compliance program that refl ects differences in leg-
ers with other Group companies, and from the standpoint of islation and language, as part of comprehensive efforts to foster
being part of a public-listed corporate group. employees who possess a strong ethical compass.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory organized an ethics forum
featuring speakers and presentations as well as ethical case Insider Trading Prevention Training
studies, broadcasting the forum to employees by satellite. The Group conducts training for insider trading prevention, to
These forums are used as a launch pad to conduct training ensure compliance for stock trading, including information man-
for all employees to stress the importance of compliance. agement. In 2011, the Group strengthened the training program
in order to meet its responsibilities as a company listed on the
First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
For the training program, the Legal Affairs Department and
Administration Department of Otsuka Holdings prepared train-
ing materials that draw on case studies. The materials were dis-
tributed to Group companies and a workshop was conducted
in each company. Attorneys were invited to present the content
to directors, with a focus on emphasizing the importance of
implementing initiatives in connection with regulations against
insider trading.
Internal Reporting System
Otsuka Holdings operates an internal reporting system to rap-
idly identify and address compliance violations and unethical
behavior. In addition to reporting such violations through normal
channels, employees can report violations to the Internal Report
Consultation Office by email or in writing. The hotline is also
available to contract workers and temporary staff. Persons who
report violations and the information they provide are treated
with the strictest confi dentially to prevent repercussions.
51 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Management
Third-Party Opinion
Feedback on
the Otsuka Group CSR Report 2012 Eriko Nashioka
Certifi ed Public Accountant / Director,
Outlining the Otsuka Group’s Approach to Institute for Environmental
Management Accounting
Social Responsibility
Profi le
Starting from 2012, this publication has evolved into a CSR
Completed a master’s degree in enviromental management at the Graduate School of Policy
report for the entire Otsuka Group that outlines the Group’s ap- and Management of Doshisha University, and taught at the Faculty of Commerce of the
University of Doshisha.
proach to social responsibility. Joined Showa Ota & Co. (now Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC), engaging in consulting
on environmental accounting and reporting. Served as a lead researcher for a project on
In reading this report, it is clear that the Otsuka Group is corporations and the environment by the Kansai Research Center of the Institute for Global
Environmental Strategies (IGES), and was a member of the Committie of Environmental
driven by its corporate commitment to “Otsuka-people creat- Accounting of the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (JICPA), as well as
serving on committees for Japan’s Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of Economy,
ing new products for better health worldwide,” as it endeavors
Trade and Industries. Joined the management team of the Institute for Environmental Man-
to have a positive social impact in its four main business seg- agement Accounting in April 2004, and has authored books on environmental accounting
and environmental reports.
ments, centering on pharmaceuticals for treating illness and
nutraceuticals for a healthier life. It is evident from this report Group-wide Perspective and Company-Specifi c Data
that the Otsuka Group is acutely aware of its social purpose as The report also describes information regarding the Group and
a corporation that is involved in the pharmaceuticals business, information specifi c to Group companies. Overall, the informa-
and strongly emphasizes social responsibility in its core busi- tion that is provided on social and environmental initiatives
ness. The global community has strong social expectations for ranges from Group-wide topics, to information that is organized
corporations in the health and pharmaceuticals sectors to meet by business segment depending on the subject. However the
their responsibilities. environmental performance data centers on numerical data for
the 11 Group companies in Japan. In the future, the reporting
Provide More Performance Data scope should be expanded globally.
The report outlines the Otsuka Group’s approach to social From the perspective of the importance of the overall Group,
responsibility and describes the actions it is taking to fulfill the information needs to be organized so as to distinguish in-
this commitment. The report provides various examples of formation that is to be provided in the Group CSR report. I think
initiatives that the Group is taking in different areas, and these that the company should disclose that information by business
initiatives themselves are to be praised. However, I suggest segment and major Group companies, this should provide a
that disclosing numerical information such as targets and per- clear and consistent picture for readers.
formance results in the report would do a better job of describ- The Otsuka Group is engaged in highly meaningful social ini-
ing to stakeholders how the initiatives were carried out through tiatives, and I hope that it will utilize the CSR report and websites
the year. of Group companies to further raise the level of dialogue with
stakeholders.
Editorial Postscript
The Otsuka Group CSR Report 2012 was assembled through The report also summa-
numerous meetings of the editorial committee, which com- rizes the initiatives that
prises employees from Otsuka Holdings and Group compa- the Group is pursuing
nies. Until 2011, the main Group companies published their through Group-wide col-
own reports in addition to the Group report, but starting in laboration, together with
2012, these reports have been consolidated into a single initiatives that Group
expanded CSR report for the Group. In this report, we have companies are pursuing
made an effort to communicate Otsuka’s unique assets and independently. The front cover design symbolizes the ties and
skills to help readers better understand the Otsuka Group. trust that exists between the Otsuka Group and its stakeholders,
and the desire to further strengthen the ties.
In April 2011, Otsuka was named for inclusion in the FTSE4Good
Index Series, a leading global index for socially responsible
investment. The listing is a testament to the progress that the
Group has made in its global initiatives. On behalf of the Otsuka
Group, we will continue working to help build a solid base of
trust between the Group and its stakeholders.
Editorial Committee
Otsuka Group CSR Report 2012
CSR project meeting
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 52Environmental Performance Data
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Head Offi ce: Business description : ISO 14001 certifi cations acquired
2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi, Chiyoda-ku, Manufacturing, distributing, exporting, and importing February 2000 Saga Factory
Tokyo, Japan of pharmaceuticals, clinical testing equipment, medical March 2000 Tokushima Itano Factory
March 2001 Tokushima Wajiki Factory
device and equipment, food products, cosmetics and
Established: August 10, 1964 other related products N ovember 2001 STo ek cu os nh dim Toa k F ua sc ht io mry a, Factory
October 2003 Takasaki Factory
Number of employees: 5,701 Website: www.otsuka.co.jp/en November 2004 Fukuroi Factory
October 2008 Integration of EMS for
seven business sites
Environmental and
Environmental data social activities
Energy usage ratio (crude-oil equivalent) CO2 emissions (energy-related) Electricity consumption Heat stroke prevention education
(kL) (t-CO2) (1,000 kWh) The company conducts education for heat
50,000 100,000 120,000 119,426 117,814 stroke prevention, centering on seminars
42,837 41,430 105,215 taught by employees that are conducted
40,000 38,271 80,000 100,000 at corporations and schools including ex-
61,215 67,964 64,280 80,000 tracurricular groups. In the last 12 years,
30,000 60,000 the company has conducted seminars at
60,000 2,574 schools for half a million students.
20,000 40,000
40,000
10,000 20,000 20,000
0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
Total waste discharged and amount recycled Recycling rate and final disposal amount Food waste generated and percentage recycled
(t) T o do f is t w ca a hl sa atm re g o eu dnt A o refm ss oo a uu le rn cat eb sle A o refm co yo t chu len ert d waste (t) F amina ol u d ni tsposal R rae tecycling (%) (t) F go eno ed r w ata es dte R rae tecycling (%) S Thc eh i cz oo mph pr ae nn yi a c a on nd du c ca tsn c me er de id a u ac na dt io pn ublic
8,000 7,771 7,574 800 100 8,000 98.1 97.9 100 seminars for education about schizophre-
98.3 98.5 97.8
6,449 nia and cancer, to reach out to a broad
6,000 1,283 600 75 6,000 95 spectrum of people in addition to the af-
1,674 5,235
fl icted and their families.
4,000 5,624 1,666 400 50 4,000 90.6 3,600 90
4,787
1,880
2,000 200 25 2,000 85
2,921 116 97 101
0 0 0 0 80
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc.
Head Offi ce: Business description : ISO 14001 certifi cations acquired
115 Kuguhara, Tateiwa, Muya-cho, Naruto, Manufacturing and sales of pharmaceutical and April 1999 Toyama Factory
Tokushima, Japan nutritional products September 2002 Kushiro Factory
May 2003 Naruto Factory
Established: 1921 Website: www.otsukakj.jp/en August 2003 Matsushige Factory
September 2010 Integration of EMS for
four business sites
Number of employees: 2,373
Environmental and
Environmental data social activities
Energy usage ratio (crude-oil equivalent) CO2 emissions (energy-related) Electricity consumption Oral rehydration therapy education
(kL) (t-CO2) (1,000 kWh) The company is actively involved in medical
50,000 100,000 120,000 circles and consumer education for dehy-
40,000 42,235 42,679 43,021 80,000 83,117 79,785 78,790 100,000 103,801 105,637 107,529 d onra gt oio inn g p rere liev fe en ft fi oo rn ts ,e td hu ec ca oti mon p. a nA ys dp oa nr at t eo sf
oral rehydration solution for areas affected
80,000
30,000 60,000 by the Great East Japan Earthquake.
60,000
20,000 40,000
40,000
10,000 20,000 20,000
0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
Zero waste emissions and awards
Total waste discharged and amount recycled Recycling rate and final disposal amount Water consumption
The Naruto Factory was cited by the
(t) T o do f is t w ca a hl sa atm re g o eu dnt A o refm ss oo a uu le rn cat eb sle A o refm co yo t chu len ert d waste (t) F amina ol u d ni tsposal R rae tecycling (%) (1,000 m3) Environmental Minister for 3R (reduce,
reuse, and recycle) excellence in fiscal
8,000 125 100 6,000
98.6 99.8 99.8 5,194 2010 in contributing to a recycling society.
100 80 5,000 The Kushiro plant was cited for an award
6,000 5,552 4,256 4,196 of excellence for zero-emissions perfor-
4,000
1,481 75 60 mance in Hokkaido in fi scal 2011.
4,000 3,915 3,654 55 3,000
1,562 1,484 4,061 50 40 2,000
2,000
2,298 2,160 25 9 10 20 1,000
0 0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
53 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Environmental
Performance
Data
Note: Number of employees refers to full-time employees (as of March 31, 2012)
Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Head Offi ce: Business description : ISO 14001 certifi cations acquired
1-27 Kandanishiki-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Manufacturing, marketing, and import/export of November 2001 Saitama Factory
pharmaceutical products August 2003 Tokushima Factory
Established: 1963 November 2006 Okayama Factory,
Okayama Taiho Pharmaceutical
December 2009 Certifi cation expanded to R&D
Number of employees: 2,557 Website: www.taiho.co.jp/english/index.html
in Tokushima and Saitama areas
October 2011 Integration of EMS for
three business sites
Environmental and
Environmental data social activities
Energy usage ratio (crude-oil equivalent) CO2 emissions (energy-related) Electricity consumption Involvement in citizens’ seminar
(kL) (t-CO2) (1,000 kWh) The company was involved in a citizens’
seminar in Tokushima on reducing toxic
50,000 100,000 120,000
substances, which was jointly organized
40,000 80,000 100,000 by the non-profi t Toxic Watch Network and
citizens’ groups in Tokushima Prefecture.
80,000
30,000 60,000 The company provided information on
20,000 18,525 21,720 20,803 40,000 32,467 35,040 35,120 60,000 48,041 54,360 50,266 i imnit pia at civ t e os f cf ho er mre icd au lc s.ing the environmental
40,000
10,000 20,000 20,000
0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
Total waste discharged and amount recycled Recycling rate and final disposal amount Energy consumption per ton-kilometer declared
under Act on the Rational Use of Energy
(t) T o do f is t w ca a hl sa atm re g o eu dnt A o refm ss oo a uu le rn cat eb sle A o refm co yo t chu len ert d waste (t) F amina ol u d ni tsposal R rae tecycling (%) (%)(YoY change) C all le ea mn- pu lop y a ec et sivities with participation of
8,000 800 94.5 96.7 98.6 100 11 020 0 109.7 97.9 A cell ue tm icap ll ’o sy Oee ks a ya at mO ak a Fy aa cm toa r yT a pih ao rt iP cih pa ar tm e a in-
6,000 600 75 clean-up activities around the factory and
80 dormitory area, four times a year.
4,000 400 50 60
40
2,000 1,607 1,718 1,763 200 25
2 83 94 1 12 ,13 01 1 12 ,19 05 4 65 46 20 20
0 0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2010 2011 (FY)
Note: Including only confi dential documents to total waste generated and amount of recycled waste at branch offi ces.
Otsuka Warehouse Co., Ltd.
Head Offi ce: Business description : ISO 14001 certifi cations acquired
1-3-16 Ishida, Minato-ku, Osaka, Japan Warehousing, land transportation, consigned freight September 2006 Head Offi ce and Osaka Branch
forwarding, real estate business, casualty insurance, September 2006 Aizumi Logistics Center
Established: 1961 accident insurance agent, life insurance sales
Number of employees: 389 Website: www.otsukawh.co.jp/english
Environmental and
Environmental data social activities
Energy usage ratio (crude-oil equivalent) CO2 emissions (energy-related) Electricity consumption Community clean-up
(kL) (t-CO2) (1,000 kWh) Several times a year, employees help
5,000 10,000 120,000 clean up the community by removing
trash from around company facilities and
4,000 3,771 8,000 100,000 nearby public spaces, helping to build ties
3,491
3,281 with communities.
80,000
3,000 6,000 4,931 5,587 5,252
60,000
2,000 4,000
40,000
1,000 2,000 20,000 10,847 12,436 11,405
0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
Ecocap movement
Total waste discharged and amount recycled Recycling rate and final disposal amount Water consumption
The company collects plastic bottle caps
(t) T o do f is t w ca a hl sa atm re g o eu dnt A o refm ss oo a uu le rn cat eb sle A o refm co yo t chu len ert d waste (t) F amina ol u d ni tsposal R rae tecycling (%) (1,000 m3) for donation to non-profit organizations,
helping to raise funds to purchase polio
8,000 800 100 50
vaccines for impoverished children.
92.8 91.3
40
6,000 600 83.6 75 35
30
4,000 400 50 23
20 16
2,000 200 179 25
1,093 14 1,100 14 1,089 42 80 95 10
900 1,006 951
0 0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 54Environmental Performance Data
Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd.
Head Offi ce: Business description : ISO 14001 certifi cations acquired
3-2-27 Ote-Dori, Chuo-ku, Osaka, Japan Manufacturing and sales of chemicals and September 1999 Tokushima Factory
Oronamin C September 2005 Naruto Factory
Established: 1950 September 2005 Matsushige Factory
September 2005 Integration of EMS for
three business sites
Number of employees: 553 Website: www.otsukac.co.jp/en
Environmental and
Environmental data social activities
Energy usage ratio (crude-oil equivalent) CO2 emissions (energy-related) Electricity consumption Oronamin C Awa Odori Sound Festival
(kL) (t-CO2) (1,000 kWh) The company started the Oronamin C
50,000 100,000 120,000 Awa Odori Sound Festival in 1990 to
support local culture in Tokushima. The
40,000 80,000 100,000 free concert event, which is held on the
night before the main Awa Odori Festival,
80,000
30,000 60,000 celebrated its 23rd anniversary in 2012.
20,717 45,655 44,590 60,000 52,128 53,045 Although a downpour delayed the start
20,000 18,277 14,642 40,000 36,271 40,000 44,020 of the concert, some 1,500 spectators
enjoyed the summer concert event.
10,000 20,000 20,000
0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
Total waste discharged and amount recycled Recycling rate and final disposal amount NOx and SOx emissions
(t) T o do f is t w ca a hl sa atm re g o eu dnt A o refm ss oo a uu le rn cat eb sle A o refm co yo t chu len ert d waste (t) F amina ol u d ni tsposal R rae tecycling (%) (t) NOx SOx
8,000 800 100 350 327
6,000 5,841 5,634 600 656 86 05 .2 5 87.4 75 3 20 50 0
477
65.3 200
4,000 3,819 400 50
150
729
2,000 513 200 25 100 77 76
4 749 20 2,169 2,579 50 48 14 15
0 0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Baseline year 2010 2011 (FY)
2005
Otsuka Electronics Co., Ltd.
Head Offi ce: Business description :
3-26-3 Shodai-Tajika, Hirakata, Osaka, Japan R&D, manufacturing, and sales of equipment
concentrating on optical evaluation and inspection
Established: 1970 ranging from materials for LED lighting and LCD
panels to fi nished products, in addition to analytical
Number of employees: 185 equipment, medical equipment, clinical diagnosis
equipment, and related software
Website: www.photal.co.jp/global/index.html
Environmental and
Environmental data social activities
Energy usage ratio (crude-oil equivalent) CO2 emissions (energy-related) Electricity consumption Clean-up activities with communities
(kL) (t-CO2) (1,000 kWh) The company helps clean up the commu-
5,000 10,000 10,000 nity around company facilities under the
promotion of environmental administration
4,000 8,000 8,000 in Shiga Prefecture, a “Zero Waste Day”
and “Environment Day” organized by the
3,000 6,000 6,000 industrial park.
2,000 4,000 4,000
1,000 475 575 550 2,000 582 633 629 2,000 1,746 2,114 2,048
0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
Total waste discharged and amount recycled Recycling rate and final disposal amount Water consumption
(t) T o do f is t w ca a hl sa atm re g o eu dnt A o refm ss oo a uu le rn cat eb sle A o refm co yo t chu len ert d waste (t) F amina ol u d ni tsposal R rae tecycling (%) (1,000 m3)
50 125 100 50
85.5
41
40 100 80 40
0
30 75 60 30
20 18 17 35 50 40 20
10 0 0 25 15 15 6 20 10 7 3 4.7
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
55 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Environmental
Performance
Data
Note: Number of employees refers to full-time employees (as of March 31, 2012)
JIMRO Co., Ltd.
Head Offi ce: Business description :
351-1 Nishiyokote-machi, Takasaki, Manufacturing, sales, leasing, import, export,
Gunma, Japan and R&D of medical equipment
Established: 1977 Website: www.jimro.com
Number of employees: 123
Environmental and
Environmental data social activities
Energy usage ratio (crude-oil equivalent) CO2 emissions (energy-related) Electricity consumption Ecocap movement
(kL) (t-CO2) (1,000 kWh) The company is involved in the Ecocap
5,000 10,000 10,000 movement, through the collection of plas-
tic bottle caps, including caps from the
4,000 8,000 8,000 manufacturing of saline solution bottles.
Through April 2012, the company collected
3,000 6,000 6,000 enough bottle caps to buy polio vaccines
for 275 needy children.
2,000 4,000 4,000
1,000 770 784 628 2,000 1,280 1,300 1,030 2,000 1,739 1,826 1,560
0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
Total waste discharged and amount recycled Recycling rate and final disposal amount Water consumption
(t) T o do f is t w ca a hl sa atm re g o eu dnt A o refm ss oo a uu le rn cat eb sle A o refm co yo t chu len ert d waste (t) F amina ol u d ni tsposal R rae tecycling (%) (1,000 m3)
50 125 100 50
Community clean-up in Takasaki City
40 35 100 80 40 Employees participate in an annual clean-up
79.6
30 22 25 75 55.3 67.8 60 30 24 i bn yit i ta ht eiv Te a a kt a sa an k ie Cnv iti yro gn om vee rn nt mal ef na tir . To arg kaa sn aiz ke i’d s
20 50 40 20 role as a transport hub for Gunma Prefecture
13 12 is increasing with continued urbaniza-
10 25 20 10 tion. The clean-up efforts help to remind
0 2 30 2 2 2 1 1 citizens of the need to keep areas around
0 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 0 2009 2010 2011 (FY)0 0 2009 2010 2011 (FY) train stations trash-free.
EN Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Head Offi ce: Business description : ISO 14001 certifi cations acquired
4-3-5 Nimaibashi, Hanamaki, R&D, manufacturing, sales, import, April 2005 Hanamaki Plant
Iwate, Japan and export of enteral nutrients, foods for medical use,
foods for the elderly, and foods for specifi c ailments
Established: 2002
Number of employees: 271 Website: www.enotsuka.co.jp/index_e.html
Environmental and
Environmental data social activities
Energy usage ratio (crude-oil equivalent) CO2 emissions (energy-related) Electricity consumption With its head offi ces located in Hanamaki
(kL) (t-CO2) (1,000 kWh) City, Iwate Prefecture, the company is
5,000 4,694 10,000 120,000 involved in diverse community events and
4,327 4,469 8,843 initiatives, including the Hanamaki Festi-
4,000 8,000 8,116 8,220 100,000 val, Challenge 100 traffi c safety campaign,
and municipal clean-up activities.
80,000
3,000 6,000
60,000
2,000 4,000
40,000
1,000 2,000 20,000 10,454 10,722 10,809
0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
The company procured an electric gen-
Total waste discharged and amount recycled Recycling rate and final disposal amount Water consumption
erator set from abroad in response to the
(t) T o do f is t w ca a hl sa atm re g o eu dnt A o refm ss oo a uu le rn cat eb sle A o refm co yo t chu len ert d waste (t) F amina ol u d ni tsposal R rae tecycling (%) (1,000 m3) shutdown of power plants on the Sanriku
coast, due to the March 2011 tsunami.
8,000 125 100 6,000
99.1 99.7 98.1 Additionally, the company conserved
100 80 5,000 power by implementing other measures
6,000 such as growing window shading plants.
4,000
75 60
4,000 3,000
50 40
2,000
2,000 921 77 70 3 698 57 89 7 1,053 99 04 1 25 8 2 20 20 1,000 242 274 244
0 0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 56Environmental Performance Data
Otsuka Techno Corporation
Head Offi ce: Business description : ISO 14001 certifi cations acquired
120-1 Itayashima, Setocho Akinokami, Naruto, Manufacture and sales of synthetic resin molded February 2002 Wajiki Factory
Tokushima, Japan products November 2008 Head Offi ce, Naruto Factory
Established: 1985 Website: www.otsuka-techno.co.jp (Japanese only)
Number of employees: 308
Environmental and
Environmental data social activities
Energy usage ratio (crude-oil equivalent) CO2 emissions (energy-related) Electricity consumption Zero waste emissions
(kL) (t-CO2) (1,000 kWh) The company’s plants have achieved zero
5,000 10,000 120,000 waste emissions by recycling at least 99%
4,195 4,256 of waste, through the operation of envi-
4,000 3,882 8,000 100,000 ronmental management systems. In March
2011, the plants were designated as 3R
5,966 80,000
3,000 6,000 5,544 (reduce, reuse, recycle) business locations
5,058
60,000 under a certification system operated by
2,000 4,000 Tokushima Prefecture.
40,000
1,000 2,000 20,000 15,474 16,760 17,002
0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
Total waste discharged and amount recycled Recycling rate and final disposal amount Water consumption
(t) T o do f is t w ca a hl sa atm re g o eu dnt A o refm ss oo a uu le rn cat eb sle A o refm co yo t chu len ert d waste (t) F amina ol u d ni tsposal R rae tecycling (%) (1,000 m3)
8,000 125 100 50
97.4 98.6 99.7 40 40 40
100 80 40
6,000
75 60 30
4,000
50 40 20
2,000
586 447 944 569 1,102 748 25 15 13 20 10
124 362 351 3
0 0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
Otsuka Packaging Industries Co., Ltd.
Head Offi ce: Business description : ISO 14001 certifi cations acquired
1 Higashi Tatsumi, Kizuno, Otsucho, Naruto, Manufacturing and sales of paper-based containers/ June 2005 Head offi ce plant
Tokushima, Japan packaging and molded plastic packaging June 2008 Saga Factory
June 2010 Kitajima Factory
Established: 1954 Website: www.otsuka-houso.co.jp (Japanese only)
Number of employees: 327
Environmental and
Environmental data social activities
Energy usage ratio (crude-oil equivalent) CO2 emissions (energy-related) Electricity consumption Pocari Sweat Stadium clean-up efforts
(kL) (t-CO2) (1,000 kWh) Every year, employees participate in clean-
5,000 10,000 120,000 up efforts for the Pocari Sweat Stadium
and Vortis Road. Employees join members
4,000 8,000 100,000 of the community to clean up these areas,
3,048 3,173 3,148 80,000 building ties with the community and as a
3,000 6,000 reminder to keep areas trash-free.
4,210 4,683 4,372 60,000
2,000 4,000
40,000
1,000 2,000 20,000 11,556 12,042 11,905
0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
Total waste discharged and amount recycled Recycling rate and final disposal amount Water consumption
(t) T o do f is t w ca a hl sa atm re g o eu dnt A o refm ss oo a uu le rn cat eb sle A o refm co yo t chu len ert d waste (t) F amina ol u d ni tsposal R rae tecycling (%) (1,000 m3)
8,000 125 100 50
6,644 6,782 99.4 99.5 99.7
6,263 100 80 40
6,000
75 60 30
4,000 5,671 5,227 5,701 50 40 40 20 22 16 17
31
2,000 25 22 20 10
768 871 932
0 0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
57 OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012Environmental
Performance
Data
Note: Number of employees refers to full-time employees (as of March 31, 2012)
Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd.
Head Offi ce: Business description : ISO 14001 certifi cations acquired
3-2-27 Ote-Dori, Chuo-ku, Osaka, Japan Manufacturing, sales, and import of foods and September 1999 Tokushima Factory
beverages September 2008 Kushiro Factory
Established: 1955 September 2008 Shiga Factory
September 2011 Gunma Factory
Number of employees: 765 Website: www.otsukafoods.co.jp (Japanese only)
Environmental and
Environmental data social activities
Energy usage ratio (crude-oil equivalent) CO2 emissions (energy-related) Electricity consumption Reducing and recycling waste
(kL) (t-CO2) (1,000 kWh) All of the company’s plants are involved
50,000 100,000 120,000 in diverse initiatives to achieve zero waste
emissions through efforts to reduce and
40,000 80,000 100,000 recycle waste. All of the plants achieved
the zero waste emissions goal in 2011.
80,000
30,000 60,000
60,000 Eco-friendly products
20,000 14,940 16,415 15,942 40,000 27,900 28,600 28,204 40,000 25,342 31,319 30,830 T roh ne m c eo nm tap la in my p e an cd tse a av to ers v eto ry re sd tau gc ee , e frn ov mi-
10,000 20,000 20,000 manufacturing of products to their use
and disposal. These diverse initiatives in-
0 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 0 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 0 2009 2010 2011 (FY) clude redesigning products to make them
friendlier to the environment.
Total waste discharged and amount recycled Recycling rate and final disposal amount Percentage of food waste recycled Reducing the weight of cardboard boxes
(t) T o do f is t w ca a hl sa atm re g o eu dnt A o refm ss oo a uu le rn cat eb sle A o refm co yo t chu len ert d waste (t) F amina ol u d ni tsposal R rae tecycling (%) (%) T boh xe e c s o bm y p rea dn uy c r ine gd e ths eig cn ae rd d bc oa ar rd db oo va er rd -
8,000 125 94.5 100 100 lap from 50mm to 35mm. This makes
99.5 99.9
111 75.5 93.0 the boxes 3% lighter without sacrifi cing
6,000 100 80 80 structural integrity.
73.5
4,129 75 60 60
4,000 3,331 655
2,332 629 50 40 40
2,000 553 2,648 3,455 25 16 20 20 8.6 31.3
1,352 5
0 0 0 0
2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY)
Redesigned cardboard box (at right)
Corporate Social Responsibility and Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd.
Environmental Reports by Group
Companies
Web
Each group company publishes information about its
Environmental and safety initiatives
activities on its website.
http://www.otsukac.co.jp/company/society
(Japanese only)
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc.
Web Web
Social and Environmental Activities Environmental initiatives
http://www.otsuka.co.jp/en/csr http://www.otsukakj.jp/1about/08enviroment
(Japanese only)
Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Warehouse Co., Ltd.
Web Web
Environmental initiatives Environmental Activities
http://www.taiho.co.jp/csr http://www.otsukawh.co.jp/english/env
(Japanese only)
OTSUKA GROUP CSR REPORT 2012 58Head Office: 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi,
Chiyoda-ku Tokyo 101-0048, Japan
Tokyo headquarters: Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Konan,
Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan The report is printed using Non-VOC ink, made 100% from aroma-free vegetable oil that
does not contain volatile organic solvents. The report is printed on FSCTM certified paper,
Publication date of this report: October 2012 using a waterless printing method that minimises generation of harmful liquid waste.
Contact information for inquiries
PR, Investor Relations Department, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Tel : +81 (0)3-6717-1410 (switchboard) Fax : +81 (0)3-6717-1409
This report is also available online.
http://www.otsuka.com/en