INTEGRATED
REPORT
2019
For the year ended December 31, 2019Corporate Philosophy Essence CONTENTS
of Management
Providing Value through Our Businesses 2
(Our Corporate Culture)
Otsuka’s History of Addressing 4
Social Issues
Otsuka’s Strengths 6
Ryukan-godo Value Creation Process That 7
Generates Originality
In keeping with this corporate philosophy and the Otsuka values of Ryukan-godo (by sweat we (by sweat we
Value Creation Model 8
recognize the way), Jissho (actualization) and Sozosei (creativity), we strive to do what only Otsuka recognize the way)
Materiality 10
can do. The Otsuka group supports the lives of people worldwide through a wide range of innovative
The process of discovering Initiatives for Sustainability 12
and creative products including pharmaceuticals, functional beverages, and functional foods.
the core substance of Message from the President 14
We are dedicated to cultivating a dynamic corporate culture and workplaces that reflect our vision something through
Message from the CFO 18
as a healthcare company, to finding ways to live in harmony with local communities and the natural hard work and practice
Feature 20
environment, and to contributing to richer and healthier lives.
Realizing Better Health for People
Worldwide through Fluids and
Electrolytes Essential to Life
—A 40-Year History and the Future
of POCARI SWEAT—
Business Strategy Section
Positioning of the Third Medium-Term 24
Management Plan
Jissho
Progress of the Third Medium-Term 26
(actualization) Management Plan
What only Otsuka can do
Looking ahead to the Fourth 32
Self-actualization through
Medium-Term Management Plan
achievement, completion
Beyond 2030 36
and the discovery of truth
The Otsuka Group’s CSR 37
(Corporate Social Responsibility)
—Toward Realizing a Sustainable Society—
Materiality 39
Society
Otsuka’s Goal Health 40
People 43
Quality in All We Do 46
To become an indispensable contributor
Environment 50
Sozosei
to people’s health worldwide Governance
(creativity)
Corporate Governance 54
Pursuing that which only Directors and Audit & Supervisory 60
The Otsuka group aims to be an indispensable contributor to people’s health worldwide, fulfilling Otsuka is capable Board Members
its corporate philosophy in every aspect of its operations. This commitment to improving people’s of delivering
Messages from the Outside Directors 62
health worldwide is part of the unchanging value we will continue to provide society. Our operations
Compliance 64
encompass two core businesses: the Pharmaceutical Business, which provides comprehensive health
Tax Compliance 66
support from diagnosis to treatment of diseases, and the Nutraceutical Business,* which helps people
Risk Management 67
maintain and improve day-to-day health.
Financial and Non-Financial Highlights 68
* Nutraceuticals = nutrition + pharmaceuticals
Main Data 70
Corporate Information, Global Network 72
Group Structure and Overview of 73
Main Operating Companies
Disclosure by the Otsuka Group 74
Shareholder Information 75
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 1Providing Value through Our Businesses
The Otsuka group of companies contributes to people’s health worldwide by creating
innovative products in its two core businesses: the Pharmaceutical Business, which aims
to address unmet medical needs, and the Nutraceutical Business, which seeks to fulfill
the yet-to-be-imagined needs of consumers.
Unmet medical needs
From diagnosis to treatment
Providing value
Pharmaceutical Business
Bringing health to
people worldwide
Total Healthcare
*
Physical Mental
well-being well-being
What only Otsuka can do
Social
well-being
Yet-to-be-imagined needs
Maintaining and improving
day-to-day health
Nutraceutical Business
* The state of health, as defined in the constitution of
the World Health Organization (WHO)
2 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 3Otsuka’s History of Addressing Social Issues
Since its founding in 1921 as a chemical raw materials manufacturer, the Otsuka group has worked to
address social issues by providing products that help realize healthcare that is aligned with society’s
expectations, while responding to the changing times and business environment. The group has
2014
continued to grow while contributing to health in the three areas of physical, mental and social
well-being. The year 2021 will be the centennial of our founding. Consistent with the aspirations of the
company founders, we aim to offer products and services for the coming 100 years and into perpetuity,
2002
while helping to address future social needs. Combating
tuberculosis—
1974 an old disease
A new option for
1946 with a new face
antipsychotic
medications DELTYBA
Improving QOL for
The evolving cancer patients ABILIFY Tuberculosis is an infectious disease that mankind has long fought
IV solutions to eradicate, and it remains a serious global health issue. As it is
Futraful
Diseases of the central nervous system (CNS) include numerous our duty to persevere where others have not, we have continued
business
disorders. The underlying causes of these diseases have yet to be our research in this area. The culmination of more than 30 years of
Intravenous Solutions Launched by subsidiary Taiho Pharmaceutical as an oral anti- precisely elucidated, making the research and development of research, DELTYBA was approved as one of the world’s first new
cancer agent at a time when such medicine was not widely used treatments extremely challenging. Antipsychotic agent ABILIFY tuberculosis drugs in about half a century. It has now become an
Otsuka’s intravenous solutions business began in Japan during anywhere in the world. Unlike conventional anti-cancer agents was launched by Otsuka Pharmaceutical in the U.S. as the first essential treatment for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
at the time, Futraful enabled outpatient treatment, making
the post-WW II period, when nutrition was a major issue for the therapeutic agent for the CNS developed through in-house drug
hospitalization unnecessary. Since then, Taiho Pharmaceutical
nation. Otsuka pushed forward with technological innovations that discovery. On the basis of its unique characteristics, it has been
has launched oral anti-cancer agents UFT, TS-1, and Lonsurf, and
met the needs of medical institutions, such as the development of well received by physicians and patients. Pharmaceutical Business
contributed to improved quality of life (QOL) for cancer patients.
Japan’s first plastic bottle for intravenous solutions. From the 1970s,
using local production, we expanded the business to countries in
Asia that were seeking to advance sanitary practices.
Changes in the Concept of Health Social well-being 2019
Mental well-being Announcement of the
Third Medium-Term
Physical well-being Management Plan
1980
Nutraceutical Business
1983
The importance
of hydration
Solving issues 1989*
becomes apparent
relating to irregular
POCARI SWEAT eating habits and 2014
unbalanced diets Supplementing nutrient
Inspired by the idea of a drinkable intravenous solution, POCARI
deficiencies in food
SWEAT was developed as a beverage that could easily replenish Calorie Mate
Solutions to support
fluids and electrolytes (ions) lost through perspiration. R&D
Nature Made
progressed with the target of creating a health drink for everyday women’s health
Leveraging expertise in high-density liquid diets from our clinical
life, and in 1980, POCARI SWEAT was launched in Japan.
nutrition business, we created Calorie Mate, which provides In modern times, changes in lifestyles or eating habits can cause EQUELLE
nutrition for healthy consumers. It supports healthy eating habits people to struggle at maintaining balanced diets. Even with
in busy modern lifestyles, and was a pioneer in nutritionally careful meal planning, it can be difficult to obtain sufficient
EQUELLE supports women’s health and beauty. It contains equol, a
balanced foods in Japan. As the top-selling brand,* it continues amounts of many nutrients. Supplementing meals with Nature
metabolite produced when soy isoflavone is fermented by unique
to lead the field. Made products enables consumers to take in recommended
lactic acid bacteria. Sold as a dietary supplement to support
* Source: Intage SRI, nutritionally balanced food product market (category: cookies, biscuits, amounts of such nutrients. women’s health, it relieves the symptoms of physical and mental
cereals and cakes), January–December 2019
* Acquired Pharmavite of the U.S. in 1989, launched sales in Japan in 1993 changes experienced by women in their 40s and older.
Establishment of Major Group Companies
1921 1950 1961 1964 1974 1982 1989 2008 2021
Otsuka Seiyaku Otsuka Chemical Otsuka Warehouse Otsuka Pharmaceutical Otsuka Indonesia Korea Otsuka Otsuka America Otsuka Holdings 100th
Kogyobu Taiwan Otsuka Pharmaceutical Otsuka America Pharmaceutical anniversary of
(now Otsuka 1955 1963 1973 Pharmaceutical 2010 founding
Pharmaceutical Otsuka Foods Taiho Pharmaceutical Thai Otsuka 1988 1998 Stock publicly listed on
Factory) Pharmaceutical 1981 Otsuka Pakistan Otsuka Pharmaceutical Europe Tokyo Stock Exchange
China Otsuka
Pharmaceutical 2011
Otsuka Medical Devices
4 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 5Otsuka’s Strengths Value Creation Process That Generates Originality
What we can achieve Taking on the challenge of doing
because we are Otsuka what only Otsuka can do
People are the source of our strengths. Since Otsuka’s establishment in 1921, employees everywhere At the heart of the Otsuka group’s value creation process is an approach that is always looking to the
have pursued business guided by our enduring corporate philosophy in order to bring health to people future in order to anticipate the various needs of healthcare aligned with society’s expectations. We
worldwide. Through the determination of these employees, we have developed many strengths. try to anticipate the diversifying needs that arise from the changing times, environment, and ways that
The six strengths described below are a representative sample, and more continue to evolve each people think about health. Then, leveraging our group strength of unique, wide-ranging businesses,
day. Making the best possible use of these strengths, employees take on new challenges to fulfill our and our people, who have extensive knowledge and experience, we construct hypotheses and combine
potential, all in order to contribute to better health worldwide. new technologies and scientific developments with existing ones to create new value.
While working to resolve social issues we maximize the value we create (products and services).
An enduring corporate philosophy and In that process, we capture new needs that emerge, which we harness in turn to create more new value.
a managerial essence, passed down and A business model centered on total healthcare Sustainable growth of the Otsuka group through this value creation process leads to steady
practiced throughout the group
enhancement of corporate value, while also making it possible for us to continue applying our original
approach to the challenge of new healthcare needs.
31 Contributing to three aspects of health
countries/regions
Physical, mental and
Our corporate philosophy is displayed prominently
in offices in every country where we do business social well-being
New value creation Future health issues,
anticipated medical needs
We engage our employees to think and act creatively without We provide a variety of science-based products and services Health maintenance in the
preconceived notions. We also support their development, so that meet the specific healthcare needs of the times in each fourth industrial revolution
that they can embody our unique capabilities and potential. community. We conceive products and services that will contribute
We believe that this, as well as engagement with our corporate in 10 or 20 years’ time in the three areas of physical, mental, and Chemicals Signs of Self-medication
philosophy and managerial essence (reflected in our corporate social well-being. Derivation unwellness
culture) has brought us to where we are today, and will build the Niche Big data
IoT
Otsuka of tomorrow.
A global reach incorporating solutions to
An unwavering quest for originality
social issues through our core business processes Chain of 5G
IV solutions business 153 Synergy creativity Chemicals nC ul tin rii tc ia ol n AI Robotics
In-house drug discovery 89 1 overseas companies:
percentage: % Countries/Regions where 20
More than OTC
POCARI SWEAT is available:
Development projects 232
for unmet needs: Countries/Regions where Created value
tuberculosis drug DELTYBA is 100
More than
available:
We pursue the creativity implicit in our corporate philosophy
across our entire value chain, from R&D through marketing. In the We are extending our global reach by addressing social issues (e.g.,
Value creation Diversifying needs
ongoing challenge to create innovative products and services, we fluid/electrolyte replenishment, infectious diseases) that differ in
Pharma-
are always thinking about how to generate the kind of innovation each country/region depending on culture, customs and the times. (products and services) ceuticals
that defines Otsuka, targeting unmet medical needs as well as the Going forward, we will provide products and services that lead to Nutra-
Chemicals
yet-to-be-imagined needs of consumers. solutions for social issues in many more countries/regions. ceuticals
1. Ratio of in-house drug discovery projects among late-phase development projects 3. Number of companies engaged in the intravenous solutions business. Many of these
2. As of December 2019; unmet needs areas defined by Otsuka based on companies also export products to neighboring countries, thereby making a
PatientsMap2019JP and PatientsMap2018US, M3 & SSRI meaningful contribution to medical care in those countries.
Cos-
OTC
medics*
New concepts and
A solid financial foundation and strong earnings
An ability to nurture enduring brands hypotheses arising
power, which drive sustainable growth
from wide-ranging
Top-share products by Clinical businesses and
Consumer
nutrition
pharmaceutical category4: human resources with
AA−6
8 3 Rating: Diag- Medical extensive knowledge
in Japan, outside Japan nostics devices and experience
Business profit margin of
Percentage of consumers 12.7 7
in Japan who have tried 88.3 5 Nutraceutical Business: % sN ce iew n tt ie fic ch dn eo vlo elg oi pca ml ea nn td s * Cosmedics = cosmetics + medicine
%
POCARI SWEAT: +
We have developed our brands through unceasing efforts to We are cultivating a solid financial foundation and strong
demonstrate the health value of innovative products born from earnings power whereby nutraceuticals and intravenous solutions
creative R&D. Our ability to nurture brands leads to sustainable generate stable earnings and act as a base, while therapeutic Wealth of technological New concepts and
growth and enhanced corporate value, enabling us to take on the agents, which are a driver of growth, fund ongoing investment and scientific assets hypotheses
challenge of finding original approaches to new healthcare needs. in creative new areas befitting Otsuka. This will form the basis for
sustained investment in areas that create new value in the face of
4. Copyright © 2020 IQVIA. Created based on annual category totals for the past 10
years, including IQVIA MIDAS 2009 to 2019 and Otsuka research. Categories defined a changing business environment.
by Otsuka. Reprinted with permission. 6. Rating and Investment Information, Inc.
5. November 2019 survey in Japan conducted by Otsuka 7. Average for the previous three years (For reference: Average operating profit margin
of S&P Food & Beverage Select Industry Index constituents for the previous three
years: 8.5%)
6 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 7Otsuka’s Strengths■
Resource
Quality in Climate Water
Social Issues Health People Recycling and Governance
All We Do Change Conservation
Conservation
▲ Page 6 Value Creation Process That Generates Originality■
What we can achieve
▲
VVaalluuee CCrreeaattiioonn MMooddeell
RReeaalliizziinngg aa SSuuss ttaaiinnaabbllee SSoocciieettyy
Business Strategy Page 7
Mediu m-Term
What only Otsuka can do
Manage ment Plan
Progress of the Third Medium-Term Essence of Management
Management Plan■ (Our Corporate Culture)
Ryukan-godo
Jis sho
(by sweat we Sozosei
(actual ization)
recognize the way) (creativity)
Self-actualiza tion through
The process of discovering achievement, completion Pursuing that
the core substance of and the discovery which only Otsuka is
something through of t ruth capable of delivering
hard work
and practice
Management Resources
Supporting the Otsuka Group
Human Capital Relationship and Manufactured Capital Intellectual Capital Financial Capital Natural Capital
Social Capital
Employees: 47,000* Manufacturing sites: 173 Research sites: 49 Total assets:¥2,581.3 billion
Japan: 18,000 Total Group companies: 195 Japan: 53 Japan: 24
Outside Japan: 29,000 Japan: 50 Outside Japan: 120 Outside Japan: 25
Outside Japan: 145
Locations: 31 countries/regions
* Data for 195 companies including Otsuka Holdings and its subsidiaries and affiliated companies (as of December 31, 2019)
People, Environment, Corporate Govern ance, Compliance, Risk Management
Corporate Philosophy
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 8 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 9
▲
Implementation of Sustainability
Page 24 Initiatives■ ▲ Page 12High 3.00
2.50
2.00
1.50
1.00
0.50
0
0 0.50 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00
High
ytilibaniatsus
ot
drager
htiw
ecnatropmI
Increasing aging issues
Nutritional needs
Global warming Spread of
infectious diseases
Unmet medical and
health needs
Social change risk
Unprepared for
Consumption and production diversification
that impairs sustainability
Environmental
load increase Fragile Reducing freshwater
governance system availability
Presenteeism3
Degree of impact on business activities
2. Our nine highly important material issues are indicated in bold■ ▲
Materiality
In 2019, the Otsuka group determined material issues based on their importance to society and to Materiality
the group’s businesses.
Based on the process described on the preceding page, the material issues of the Otsuka group were determined to be:
Society (Health, People, Quality in All We Do), Environment (Climate Change, Resource Recycling and Conservation, Water
Process for Determining Material Issues
Conservation), and Governance.
To determine the Otsuka group’s material issues, we first compiled a list of social issues, referencing a range of international
guidelines and frameworks, including ISO 26000, GRI, and the U.N. SDGs. We narrowed down the list of issues by evaluating
Materiality Social Issues Our Goals Our Activities Related SDGs
them in terms of their importance, taking into account our ability to contribute to a solution, their impact on business, and
our strengths. Issues were then discussed by the CSR Promotion Committee1 and approved at the Otsuka Holdings Board of
Directors meeting. As a result, the material issues of the Otsuka group were determined to be: Society (Health, People, Quality in • Unmet medical and • Contribute to unmet needs • Promotion of R&D for unmet
health needs solutions needs
All We Do), Environment (Climate Change, Resource Recycling and Conservation, Water Conservation), and Governance.
• Spread of infectious • Eradication of tuberculosis • R&D of antituberculosis drugs
1. T a oh c ffte ii cv C eit riS seR s o .P fT r eo h am e c hOo t t ci so oun mk aC p ao H nm o ylm .d ii ntt ge se d p irr eo cm too rt e ins cC hS aR r gth e r oo fu Cgh So Ru pt r t oh me oO tit os nu k sa e rg vr eo su ap s. tT hh ee c c oo mm mm itit tt ee ee c’s h r ae is r.p Con os mib mili it ti te es e i n mc elu md be e d rsis c cu os msi pn rg is ea n red g d ioe nci ad l in gg ro o un p t mhe a nd air ge ec rt si o inn v a on lvd e dp l ia nn Cs Sfo Rr aC nS dR t he CSR • d Ni use tra its ie os nal needs • C rer ae la izt aio tin o no f o a f asy hst ee am lth f fo ur l t lh ifee a an ccd e sim sprovement of drug
Health • Increasing aging issues • Healthy life extension • S au ctp ivp ito iert s a fn od r pa ew oa pr le en ’se hss e alth
maintenance/improvement
mainly on exercise and
1 Identification of social issues with reference to respective international guidelines nutrition etc.
• Promotion of problem solving
by strengthening partnerships
Assessment of social issues that our business activities
2
can contribute to solving and their importance
• Presenteeism3 • Creation of a corporate • Human resource development
S (Ho ec aie ltt hy ier People • U din vep rr se ip fia cr ae td io nfor c cu relt au tir ve i tt yhat stimulates • Diversity promotion
3 Determination of material issues by the CSR Promotion Committee from Society) • Enhance employee • Health management
the viewpoint of their impact on both society and the Otsuka group engagement
4 Approval at the Otsuka Holdings Board of Directors meeting • Consumption and • Gaining stakeholder trust • Sustainable procurement and
production that • Pursuing sustainability at all product design
impairs sustainability levels of the value chain • Thorough quality control and
• Establishing a quality stable supply
Map of Social Issues2
Quality assurance system for safety • Responsible promotional
and security activities and information
in All We Do
provision
• Deepening communication
with stakeholders
• Promotion of “customer-
centric management”
Climate • Global warming • FY 2030 Goal: 30% reduction • Reduce CO2 emissions
Change
in CO2 emissions compared throughout the value chain
to FY 2017
• Environmental load • FY 2030 Goal: 50% reduction • Reduce environmental
increase in simple incineration and impact by improving
Resource landfill compared to FY 2019 resource efficiency
Environment Recycling • FY 2030 Goal: 50% or higher • Promotion of business activities
(Healthier and content of recycled and aimed at a sustainable state in
Planet) Conservation plant-based materials in our both society and the earth
PET bottles
• Reducing freshwater • FY 2030 Goal: Improvement • Understanding water resources
Water availability of water use efficiency by risk
Conservation 15% compared to FY 2017 • Management and effective use
of water resources
• Fragile governance • Long-term improvement of • Strengthening corporate
system corporate value governance
Governance • Social change risk • Thorough compliance
• Risk identification, evaluation
and management
Page 12, Initiatives for Sustainability
3. The situation where productivity does not go up due to the poor condition of the mind and body despite coming to work
10 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 11Materiality Social Issues Our Goals FY 2023 Goals FY 2019 Progress
Society
■ ▲
• Unmet medical and health needs • Contribute to unmet needs solutions • Promotion of R&D for unmet needs • Maintained ratio of R&D expenses to revenue in Pharmaceutical Business of at
• In areas with unmet needs1 least 20% for three consecutive years
• New development projects: ■
10 or more
• Late-phase development projects advancing to the next phase:
30 or more
Health
Page 40
▲ Page 68, Financial and Non-Financial Highlights
• In areas with unmet needs1
• New development projects: 1
• Late-phase development projects advancing to the next phase: 6
■ ▲ Page 24, Business Strategy Section
• Spread of infectious diseases • Eradication of tuberculosis • Provide DELTYBA (generic name: delamanid) for a cumulative total of • Provided DELTYBA for approximately 20,000 cases
60,000 cases • Expanded countries/regions where DELTYBA is available to over 100
• Supply DELTYBA for pediatric patients • U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) launched a large-scale clinical trial to
• Launch clinical trial for new treatment regimen confirm the preventive efficacy of delamanid for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis
• Increase access to DELTYBA by collaborating with partners • Continued participation in the Global Health Innovative Technology Fund
(GHIT Fund)
• Nutritional needs • Creation of a system for the realization of a • Create new systems and reinforce existing systems for realizing • Executed cooperation agreements with all 47 prefectures and promoted
healthful life healthy lifestyles collaboration in health and other fields
• Create new concepts and products keeping an eye on changes in • Continued to hold Women’s Health Seminar■
environments
• Challenge new categories and new areas
▲ Page 31, Women’s Health
• Continued providing dietary education app SketchCook and Nature Made
Supplement Check
• 30th anniversary of the Otsuka Health Comic Library
• Cumulative total OATHAS2 registrants: Approximately 18,000
• Established new company in the health drink business in Myanmar
• Unprepared for diversification • Creation of a corporate culture that • Further instill the corporate culture and philosophy • Cumulative total participants in executive human resource development
stimulates creativity • Build systems for ongoing human resource development aligned with programs of Otsuka Global Academy: 141
People changes in society and in the times • Introduced Family Smile Support System and Work Interval System
• Enhance employee engagement
• Further promote and instill diversity as a source of innovation • Cumulative total participants in Health Seminars: 1,050
• Build new systems to maintain more comfortable working environments
• Consumption and production that • Pursue sustainability at all levels of the • Companies implementing SAQ3: 200 • Cumulative total of companies implementing SAQ: 34
impairs sustainability value chain • Carry out CSR procurement • Held global production meetings and environmental management information
Quality Supplier briefings: Over 30 times/companies (commencing in FY 2021) exchange meetings
in All We Do • Held global product quality meetings
• Improved products based on customer feedback
• Carried out initiatives to reduce food waste
Environment
■ ▲
• Global warming • FY 2030 Goal: • Introduce renewable energy and raise usage rate of CO2-free electricity • Set group environmental goals
Climate 30% reduction in CO2 emissions compared • Introduced CO2-free electricity
Change to FY 2017 • Obtained Science Based Targets (SBT) Initiative certification
(Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical)
• Environmental load increase • FY 2030 Goal: • Strengthen cooperation for reducing simple incineration and landfill • Standardized and tracked global data on waste recycling volume
50% reduction in simple incineration and volume
Resource
landfill compared to FY 2019 • Build an internal group system for improving the usage rate of recycled
Page 50 Recycling and and plant-based materials Conservation • FY 2030 Goal:
50% or higher content of recycled and
plant-based materials in our PET bottles
• Reducing freshwater availability • FY 2030 Goal: • Improve water use efficiency in accordance with water risk, which is • Carried out water risk assessments using Aqueduct4
Water
Improvement of water use efficiency by 15% unevenly distributed by country/region • Conducted water use questionnaires and clarified issues at each production site
Conservation
compared to FY 2017
Governance
■ ▲
Initiatives for Sustainability
From among the 12 social issues we determined to be the Otsuka group’s materialities, we selected 9 that we currently regard as
highly important, and set goals related to them for fiscal 2023.
• Social change risk • Long-term improvement of corporate value • Strengthen corporate governance to further raise effectiveness • Introduced restricted stock compensation plan
• Build a governance system capable of global business development and • Began full-scale activities by the Global Business Support Department to
response to various changes strengthen oversight of overseas subsidiaries
Page 54 • Build a system to strengthen compliance within the group • Carried out activities for directors to raise effectiveness
• Board of Directors meeting attendance rate: 100%
• Established Global Anti-Corruption Policy and Global Conflict of Interest Policy
1. Unmet needs areas defined by Otsuka based on PatientsMap2019JP, PatientsMap2018US, M3 & SSRI
2. Otsuka Advanced Training for Healthy Aging Supporters: A program that supports pharmacies as health information hubs with strong connections to local communities
3. CSR procurement self-assessment questionnaire
4. Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas: A water risk mapping tool developed by the World Resources Institute
12 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 13Message from the President
The Otsuka group of companies will contribute
Q1. What is the Otsuka group’s long-term vision?
to society while achieving sustained growth by
We create and provide a comprehensive portfolio of companies around the world have mainly taken the
doing what only Otsuka can do.
products and services that meet the specific healthcare form of philanthropy.
needs of the times in each community. Factors that Simultaneously, maintaining and improving health
influence these needs include the emergence of new is an integral part of our Nutraceutical Business. Otsuka
disease trends, and demographic trends such as aging continues to invest in research that clarifies how people
populations and rates of population growth that are can maintain a healthy lifestyle and thereby avoid
uneven around the world. Simultaneously, factors illness. A fundamental demand driver for nutraceutical
that influence the ability to address these needs products is people’s greater proactivity in managing
include the evolution of gene therapies, an area that their heath across their entire lifespans. This includes,
Otsuka is investing in; artificial intelligence; and other for example, women who balance professional and
technologies. Becoming an indispensable contributor family demands, athletically minded people aiming to
to people’s health worldwide requires us to anticipate improve their overall fitness and stamina, and older
society’s expectations in 10 and 20 years’ time. people seeking extended quality-of-life benefits. Our
What kind of contributions can our Pharmaceutical contribution in nutraceuticals also takes a research-
Business make? As populations continue to age, based approach. Here the aim is to create products
treatments, or better yet, preventions are needed for that offer tangible, health-supportive benefits in
diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease and various forms areas such as immune function, quality of sleep, and
of cancer. At the same time, infectious diseases such special dietary needs, and even intangible benefits
as tuberculosis will become even more pressing global that support individual lifestyles and work styles. Given
challenges. At the other extreme, many hereditary, the time required for product development, we must
orphan diseases lack any treatments. Otsuka is construct hypotheses that look 10 and 20 years into
contributing through research in many of these disease the future, and start developing products now.
areas. For COVID-19, contributions by our group
Q2. What business risks and opportunities do you see in the long term?
Changes in human needs, and in business and managing but not being overwhelmed by risks, is the
other landscapes are the largest sources of risk and right approach for Otsuka.
Tatsuo Higuchi
opportunity. Risks that our management factors As a total healthcare company, our operations
President and Representative Director, CEO into decision making include macroeconomic and encompass products and services for the diagnosis
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
geopolitical climates; the physical climate, with and treatment of diseases, as well as for the
increasingly frequent natural disasters caused in part by maintenance and improvement of health. Medical cost
global warming; and demographic changes. In order to inflation due to aging populations and the increasing
devise optimal responses or solutions, we must identify sophistication of medical treatment is a serious global
root causes. On the opportunity side, this involves issue. As a provider of total healthcare solutions, we
evolution of product development and technologies, recognize these developments as responsibilities and
expansion of our presence in new regions, and the opportunities. Our diverse portfolio enables us to turn
forging of new research and commercial collaborations. risks into opportunities.
Focusing our energies on opportunities, while
Under our enduring corporate philosophy “Otsuka-people creating new products for better
health worldwide,” the Otsuka group of companies creates innovative products that fulfill a
universal human desire to be healthy. Q3. What does Otsuka need to do to improve corporate value while achieving sustainable growth?
The core of our management approach is to leverage our strengths and capabilities described
In keeping with our corporate philosophy and our long- in three categories: Society (Health, People, Quality in
on the following pages that enable us to do what only Otsuka can do. In doing so, we are also
standing ESG-informed commitment to contributing to All We Do), Environment (Climate Change, Resource
contributing to, and advancing, a sustainable society. As we stand at a juncture of ever-larger
human health, we set forth our CSR Mission when we Recycling and Conservation, Water Conservation),
social change, our philosophy serves as a solid foundation, guiding us amidst the trends and announced the Third Medium-Term Management Plan and Governance. Within each category, we carry out
tides of the times, and from which we take on new challenges and opportunities. in May 2019. The CSR Mission defines material issues initiatives under related themes.
14 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 15For Society, we focus on human resources. In order subsequent pollution, we issued the Otsuka Group We leverage these together with other advantages of
to achieve sustainable growth, continuous improvement Plastic Policy, which defines goals for achievement by our wide-ranging businesses—such as a diverse wealth
of capabilities as individuals, teams, and organizations 2030, and are undertaking group-wide initiatives. of technological and scientific assets—to create novel
is required in addition to management principles and For Governance, we have built a framework in ideas and ultimately new value.
corporate culture. We recognize employee growth as which four of 13 directors are outside directors, and In this way, the Otsuka group is able to help society
an important management issue. To that end, Otsuka three of four Audit & Supervisory Board members achieve sustainable growth, increase corporate value
Holdings launched the executive human resource are outside auditors (as of April 2020). Our outside over the medium to long term, and ultimately make
development programs of the Otsuka Global Academy in directors are: Yukio Matsutani, who has extensive its vision a reality—to become an indispensable
2016 to foster human resources capable of driving future experience in, and deep insights into, the medical contributor to people’s health worldwide.
growth. Three programs are offered to group employees. welfare field; Ko Sekiguchi, who has extensive
The Senior Leadership Program and Middle Leadership management experience and high-level expertise in
Program are designed to nurture management the pharmaceutical industry; Yoshihisa Aoki, who has
Q5. What will be essential to Otsuka’s further development?
candidates, while the Global Leadership Program, extensive management experience and deep expertise
launched in 2019, is fostering a global managerial in the food industry; and, starting this year, Mayo
In order to better recognize where we stand and what Companies with a solid philosophical foundation
cadre comprised of employees from around the world. Mita, who is highly knowledgeable regarding finance
we strive for, we must continually question ourselves from are the strongest in turbulent times. Our ability
Each group company is also actively involved in and markets. The diverse experience and expertise of
the perspectives of Strategy, Culture, and Capabilities. to embrace change and continually take on new
human resource development. For instance, Otsuka these outside directors complements the knowledge
Strategy is closely tied to our corporate philosophy, challenges is not down to individual leaders acting
Pharmaceutical has operated WING, a voluntary and skills of the nine inside directors, and together
which guides our thinking because it is the very alone, but to generations of employees who have
leadership study group, since 2009. Participants they form an effective governance body, capable of
foundation of our business strategy, and is an been inspired by our founders.
identify internal and external issues, and work in vigorous discussion.
expression of our determination to constantly take on Upholding this strategy and culture takes
teams to discuss potential solutions before formulating The sheer number of companies in the Otsuka
new challenges and generate innovation. formidable Capabilities, and each individual must
a proposal for consideration. At Taiho Pharmaceutical, group means that effectively managing our subsidiaries
Culture is best defined by the words of our constantly review what he or she is capable of and
“Global One Academy” was established in 2016. in Japan and around the world necessitates a
founders, Ryukan-godo, Jissho and Sozosei. swiftly address deficiencies.
In addition to individual growth, we believe that different approach from a single-purpose company.
diversity is vital. The variety of innate qualities that Such management requires oversight with detailed
individuals bring to our teams is important to us, and knowledge of each company’s business. We are
we actively welcome people of all nationalities, races, also working to solidify the management platform
ages, genders, and abilities, in the belief that breaking underpinning our global operations through Ryukan-godo Jissho
Sozosei
down barriers to inclusion is the key to sparking standardization and better efficiencies, including
The process of discovering the Self-actualization through
innovation and furthering our globalization. expansion of shared services and optimization of Pursuing that which only
core substance of something achievement, completion
Otsuka is capable
For Environment, our initiatives focus on procurement. In addition, we are strengthening through hard work and the discovery
of delivering
and practice of truth
sustainability throughout the supply chain. We internal control functions to ensure disciplined
have been steadily implementing various measures, management. Enhancing management functions can
which in 2019 included the introduction of CO2-free have an impact that amplifies across the organization
electricity and co-generation systems. Moreover, in to boost corporate value.
response to the pressing issue of plastic usage and
Q6. How do you ensure engagement with Otsuka’s philosophy and approach among
employees around the world?
Q4. Can you describe the Otsuka group’s value creation model and its contribution to a
sustainable society? We believe that an effective way to instill our global brand sales exceeding one billion U.S. dollars
philosophy is to share stories of our successes, and in 2019. A concrete example like this inspires a better
Guided by our corporate philosophy “Otsuka-people unwavering quest for originality; 4) a global reach failures along the way. Stories, in other words, understanding of how Otsuka’s innovation contributes
creating new products for better health worldwide,” incorporating solutions to social issues with our core through communication grounded in experience to people’s health. Generating engagement with
and our essence of management—Ryukan-godo, business processes; 5) an ability to nurture enduring and fact. Philosophies and approaches cannot be Otsuka’s philosophy and culture through our successes
Jissho and Sozosei—we seek to demonstrate our brands; and 6) a solid financial foundation and strong shared properly in the abstract alone; they must be has brought us to where we are today, and will build
unique capabilities and achieve our unique potential, earnings power, which drive sustainable growth. accompanied by concrete examples. Take, for instance, the Otsuka of tomorrow.
thereby contributing to the realization of a sustainable Also, our value creation process enables Otsuka the development of Samsca/JINARC1/JYNARQUE,2 Otsuka will celebrate its 100th anniversary in 2021.
society and stable growth. to do things that other companies cannot. First, we the first-in-the world therapy for ADPKD.3 It took This is an ideal opportunity for group companies in
Six strengths underlie our success: 1) An enduring seek to anticipate emerging needs from the broad more than ten years to conduct phase III trials Japan and around the world to deepen employee
corporate philosophy and a managerial essence, consumer and patient populations who use our in the U.S., but it has since grown into our next understanding of Otsuka’s philosophy and approach as
passed down and practiced throughout the group; products, as well as needs arising from the evolving blockbuster product following ABILIFY, with overall we prepare to embark on another century of success.
2) a business model centered on total healthcare; 3) an environments around the world where we do business.
1. Brand name for ADPKD treatment in multiple regions outside Japan 2. Brand name for ADPKD treatment in the U.S. 3. Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease
16 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 17Message from the CFO
Targeting sustainable growth Maximizing Existing Business Value and Creating New Value
Returns in excess of cost of capital
and increased corporate value,
Consider both growth potential (future earning power) and capital
efficiency
we will enhance our cash Improving quality of profit ROIC1 WACC2 • I lm onp gr o tv ee rm ROIC in the medium to Reinvestment
flow generation and capital Cash flow allocation
Cash flow generation
Carry out disciplined growth investments that consider cost of
Secure cash returns in excess of cost of capital capital and secure funds for shareholder returns
efficiency through optimal
• Achieve organic growth of • Make investments that have
mainstay pharmaceutical, Business Growth synergy with existing management
resource allocation. nutraceutical products and profit Operating investments assets to generate greater value
brands (CAGR of 10% or more) cash flows Reinvestment
• Create new value
• I em ffip cr io ev ne c yworking capital CCC3 expC ea np dit ia tul re • Increase investment efficiency
• Divest idle assets Reduction in non-operating assets Dividends • Maintain a basic policy of stable
Shareholder dividends
• Take debt capacity into account Debt financing returns Share buybacks • P rero tuv rid ne s da ed pd eit nio dn ina gl s oh na r pe rh oo fil td ger r owth
1. Return on invested capital
2. Weighted average cost of capital Optimal capital structure
3. Cash conversion cycle
Control invested capital with consideration for financial soundness
Debt capacity • Financial leverage appropriate for
maintaining AA− rating
Business Management with a Corporate-wide A Financial Framework Conducive to Improving
Awareness of Capital Cost Medium-to-Long-Term Corporate Value
The Third Medium-Term Management Plan is positioned as a Securing Cash Returns in Excess of Cost of Capital
period for adopting business management with a corporate- Achieving true improvement in corporate value means more
wide awareness of capital cost under a strategy of maximizing than simply generating profit; we must enhance free cash flow
existing business value and creating new value. We will generation. We will therefore focus more strongly on improving
promote this approach throughout the group as we target our profit structure.
sustainable growth. We will secure operating cash flows through organic
While we already consider cost of capital in deciding on business growth, reinvest in growth areas and distribute returns
individual investments or recognizing impairment losses, we to shareholders, while maintaining an appropriate level of
included “business management with a corporate-wide financial leverage. Furthermore, we will establish a framework
awareness of capital cost” in the Third Medium-Term that achieves returns from reinvested capital in excess of the
Management Plan so as to instill a broad awareness of cost of cost of capital, which will drive profit growth, and in turn
capital throughout the group, not just as it relates to individual enable us to make further growth investments and enhance
investments. This will lead to sustainable, shareholder returns.
more effective cash flow generation and
Invested Capital (Operating Approach)
greater investment efficiency. Cash Flow Allocation Policy
Under the Second Medium-Term We will balance the allocation of cash flows between
Operating liabilities
Management Plan, we pursued a policy of (Working capital, etc.) Invested Capital prioritizing growth investments aimed at generating ongoing
active strategic investment using revenues (Financing Approach) increases in medium-to-long-term returns in excess of cost of
from growing global sales of ABILIFY, and Operating assets capital, and delivering stable shareholder returns.
(Working capital, Financing
succeeded in diversifying our revenue fixed assets, etc.) Interest-bearing debt For growth investments, we will consider investments that have
structure. Furthermore, given that looming (Borrowings, bonds) synergy with existing management assets to generate greater value.
Cost of debt
patent expirations were a major management In the Pharmaceutical Business, our main investments will be
(Interest payments)
issue, we executed this diversification with a aimed at enhancing our products and pipeline in the psychiatry
focus on restructuring our revenue base from Investments and neurology, oncology, and cardiovascular and renal areas.
Shareholders’ equity
the perspective of our income statement. In the Nutraceutical Business, we will actively invest in new
Non-operating assets
Our plan is to further strengthen Cost of equity businesses that meet society’s future needs.
(Expected returns)
investment as a driver for medium-to-long- Our basic policy for shareholder returns is to maintain
term growth during the period of the Third stable dividends. While emphasizing the continuity and
Medium-Term Management Plan and beyond. Returns in excess of stability of dividends, we will consider additional shareholder
Optimal capital structure
cost of capital
This will require us to not only look at returns depending on profit growth, applying a comprehensive
revenues in the income statement, but to approach by securing sufficient cash returns, to pursue
adopt a more pronounced group-wide focus growth investments, a solid financial standing and the optimal
Increased medium-to-long-term corporate value
on balance sheet management. capital structure.
Creditors
Investors
Yuko Makino
Executive Director, CFO
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
We are applying ROIC to maximize investment efficiency, Capital Structure Optimization Policy
with a group-wide target of at least 1.0% above the cost of When considering the optimal capital structure, as the basis we
capital (5.5%). On the other hand, contributing to society use the debt capacity level needed to maintain our currentAA−
through ongoing innovation is important to us, so if investments rating, taking into account factors such as the required level of
that include a certain amount of risk are aligned with the group’s shareholders’ equity given our credit rating and business risks,
corporate philosophy or are conducive to sustainable growth, as well as the rate of return expected by investors.
then we will continue to take on these challenges. At the same time, we will appropriately control the scale of
To implement this stance, we believe a comprehensive invested capital in accordance with our debt capacity, and
group-wide financial framework is essential. It must be based maintain financial discipline in our growth investments.
on steady cash flow generation from existing assets, and other
measures that include issuing bonds and commercial paper or Tax Policy
borrowing from financial institutions when necessary. As a multinational enterprise, the Otsuka group recognizes
that the appropriate payment of taxes in adherence with
applicable laws and regulations in each country and region
contributes to local economies. Among increased calls for tax
transparency worldwide, we are committed to making
improvements in this regard. In accordance with the Otsuka
Group Global Code of Business Ethics, the Otsuka group works
to ensure appropriate payment of taxes under a principle of
compliance that is shared by all employees, including those at
departments outside the purview of the CFO.
Moreover, we strive to build constructive relationships
with relevant tax authorities by maintaining and providing
reliable data.
In accordance with its tax compliance policy (see page 66),
the Otsuka group will implement effective management,
strengthen governance, build constructive and positive
relationships with respective tax authorities and fulfill its tax
obligations in all countries and regions.
18 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 19Realizing Better Health Worldwide through
Feature:
Fluids and Electrolytes Essential to Life
—A 40-Year History and the Future of POCARI SWEAT—
History
Raising Awareness of Heat Disorders and the
Importance of Replenishing Fluids and Electrolytes
Founded as a chemical raw material manufacturer electrolyte replenishment in various aspects of life.
in 1921, the Otsuka group launched its intravenous This brings us to the present day. The pathology of heat
solutions business in 1946. Leveraging expertise cultivated disorders, which was not well known in those early days,
in the intravenous solutions business, we developed and the concept of supplying electrolytes together with
POCARI SWEAT as a beverage that replenishes the body’s fluids as a countermeasure, are now widely understood and
fluids and electrolytes, which are important for maintaining recognized throughout society. POCARI SWEAT has become
and improving day-to-day physical health. Later, in 1992, a popular staple in all kinds of situations where people
we participated in the Japan Amateur Sports Association sweat, including sports, commuting, outdoor work, and
(now Japan Sport Association (JSPO)) Study Group for after a bath or waking up. Today, we continue to promote
Prevention of Heat Disorders in Sports Activities, and began awareness of the importance of replenishing fluids and
full-fledged activities to raise awareness of heat disorders electrolytes in various contexts, including children’s sports
and their prevention. Since then, we have used scientific activities, occupational safety and hygiene, and hydration
evidence to raise awareness of the importance of fluid and for the elderly.
1980 1982 1987 1993 1998 2008 2020
Launched in First overseas Cumulative Cumulative Cumulative Cumulative 40
th
Japan market entry units sold: units sold: units sold: units sold:
anniversary
3 billion1 10 billion1 20 billion1 30 billion1
Supplying quality fluids and electrolytes to people all around the world
1. One unit equals 340 ml; units sold includes overseas sales
1992
2016
Began cooperation with 2007 Received Best Communicator
Japan Amateur Sports
Began cosponsoring production and Top Runner Award at
Association2 Study Group for 2012
of a guidebook on heat the Heatstroke Prevention
Prevention of Heat Disorders disorder prevention, based on Co-sponsored production of Communication Project
in Sports Activities the Guidelines for Prevention of the Heat Disorders Prevention Hitosuzumi Awards 2016
2. Now Japan Sport Association (JSPO) Heat Disorders in Everyday Life website (NPO Weather Caster
(Ver. 1) published by the Japan Network)
1993
Society of Biometeorology
Began cosponsoring JSPO
2017
heat disorder prevention
POCARI SWEAT is a health beverage that awareness activities and 2012 Participated in the reprinting of
easily replenishes the body with fluids cosponsored production of A Began Live On Seminar as a the Ministry of the Environment’s
and electrolytes lost due to perspiration. Guidebook for the Prevention lecture for industrial physicians Environmental Health Manual
When people sweat to regulate their of Heat Disorder in Sports 2010 and public health nurses, nurses, on Heat Disorders
body temperature, they lose electrolytes Activities (First Edition) Commenced activities at nutritionists, and health and
public and other health safety staff working at business
along with fluids. Just drinking water may
centers across Japan to raise offices in Japan
upset the balance between fluids and
heat disorder awareness
electrolytes, which can negatively affect among seniors
physical condition and performance. Proper
2007
hydration is necessary. As a beverage that
Conducted lectures on
is similar to fluids already present in the
hydration for 500,000
human body, POCARI SWEAT enables members of junior sports clubs
efficient fluid replenishment. nationwide as part of the
Sports Activities Campaign
20 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 21Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute gathers various kinds of
evidence through clinical trials on the replenishment of fluids and electrolytes under
various conditions.
In 2018, leveraging our expertise from research into heat disorders, we launched
POCARI SWEAT ICE SLURRY. We developed this product using proprietary technology for
creating a formulation that freezes in the form of ice slurry (in which solid particles are
dispersed in a liquid), which is known for its high cooling properties. This “drinkable ice”
efficiently cools the body from its core, and offers people a new option for combating
heat disorders when active in hot environments.
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Ion Supply Drink Research Lab
▲
Future
The World POCARI SWEAT Aims to Create
Global warming is having a major worldwide impact on
climate and the natural environment, as well as people’s lives.
Should global warming continue, as many as 1.2 billion
people could be at risk of heat disorders every year by the
year 2100. Also, it is estimated that due to the expansion
of habitats conducive to the propagation of organisms that
carry tropical diseases, including Zika fever and dengue
fever, the number of people at risk of infection could
increase by 383–725 million by 2050.* Meanwhile, the
importance of and proper methods for fluid and electrolyte
Present
replenishment as “first aid” for heat disorders and tropical
Why POCARI SWEAT Continues to Create New Value disease infection have not yet become globally recognized.
We explore and identify underlying issues in each
country, consider solutions, convey the scientific grounds
Situations in which the body becomes dehydrated are
and encourage consumers to try POCARI SWEAT. Through
various, and are not limited to any particular time or place.
simple measures such as these, we contribute to the health
Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s marketing of POCARI SWEAT
of people worldwide.
includes activities to raise awareness of the importance of
Fluids and electrolytes are essential to life. Our vision
hydration in more than 20 countries/regions around the world.
is to use our enduring spirit of inquiry and our ability to
POCARI SWEAT continues to create new value—meeting
flexibly address the needs of a diversifying society to make
the challenge of changes in the environment and people’s
POCARI SWEAT a health beverage like no other.
values, and social diversification. This is because POCARI
Around the world, there are many people who have
SWEAT continues to be closely intertwined with people’s
difficulty maintaining their health because they lack access
lives, and to uncover and address underlying issues. As a
to a quality source of hydration. POCARI SWEAT aims
science-based solution for universal needs, it generates
to change the world by being an industry leader and
value that leads to better health and better lifestyles.
contributing to solving social issues.
* Daniel Li et al., Environ Res Lett 2020
Sales countries/regions Production countries/regions
More than 20 6 sites
Replenishing fluids and electrolytes lost
through perspiration around the world
Two years after its launch in Japan, POCARI SWEAT
made its overseas debut in 1982. At present, it is
https://www.otsuka.co.jp/en/nutraceutical/about/rehydration/researchlab/
sold in more than 20 countries/regions.
22 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 23Business Strategy Section
Positioning of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan Linking Investments and Results
Across our entire value chain, we are investing in anticipation of changes and issues five to ten years in the future,
Advance in the Global Market
and working to steadily generate results from those investments.
as a Unique Total Healthcare Company
—Five-Year Growth Phase (2019–2023)—
Existing Business Value Maximization and New Value Creation
Performance Target: Business Profit CAGR of 10% or More
• Organic growth of mainstay products and brands in Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Businesses
• Actively invest in R&D to continue creating new drugs that will drive revenue during and beyond the next medium-term
management plan
Business Strategy: Existing Business Value Maximization and New Value Creation
Strategic initiatives for mainstay products and brands to accelerate growth
• Strengthen strategic initiatives for growth drivers—4 Global Products in the Pharmaceutical Business; 3 Major Brands and
3 Nurture Brands in the Nutraceutical Business
Initiatives for next-generation businesses and products
• Launch and nurture new drivers for sustainable growth in Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Businesses
Business profit CAGR: 10% or more
Revenue and business profit before R&D expenses: All-time highs
Third Medium-Term
Management Plan Targets
ROE: 8.0% or higher
R&D ratio in the Pharmaceutical Business: 20% or higher (versus revenue)
Social Issues Relating to Strategies, and KPIs
Social Issue Strategic Theme KPIs in the Third Medium-Term Management Plan
Existing Business Value
Revenue from 4 Global Products: Increase by ¥200 billion
Maximization
Revenue from New Products: Increase by ¥90 billion
Address unmet needs in the psychiatry and neurology area
Projects to be filed for regulatory approval First Medium-Term Second Medium-Term Third Medium-Term
Challenge New Frontiers: Management Plan Management Plan Management Plan
• REXULTI and AVP-786: Agitation associated with dementia
Do what only Otsuka can do of the Alzheimer’s type
• REXULTI: PTSD • centanafadine: ADHD Pharmaceutical Unmet medical and • fremanezumab: Migraine
Business health needs
Create first-in-class products in the oncology area
Projects to be filed for regulatory approval
• TAS-116: Gastrointestinal stromal tumor • TBI-1301: Synovial sarcoma Generate Innovation From • TAS-120: Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma Creative and Diverse Research Platforms Create first-in-class products in the cardiovascular and renal area
Projects to be filed for regulatory approval
• vadadustat: Renal anemia
• Ultrasound-based renal denervation system: Refractory
hypertension
Revenue from 3 Major Brands: Increase by ¥40 billion
Challenge New Categories Revenue from 3 Nurture Brands: Increase by ¥40 billion
Nutraceutical and New Areas POCARI SWEAT overseas revenue CAGR: 9.4%
Nutritional needs
Business Daiya Foods revenue CAGR: 25%
Continuous High Profit Fiscal 2023 business profit margin of Nutraceutical Business:
Structure 14.4%
seitivitca
tnemtsevni
rof
yaw
eht
evaP
hcraeseR
Generating innovation from creative and diverse
research platforms • Acquired Astex Pharmaceuticals—B, C • Acquired Visterra, including rights to its antibody platform technology • Established Taiho Innovations • Acquired Tsukuba Research Institute from and kidney disease-related pipeline—C • Executed a joint research agreement with PhoreMost—C Banyu Pharmaceutical (now MSD)—B, C • Established Taiho Ventures • Executed a comprehensive cooperation agreement with the Japan
Kidney Association for ADPKD and a business agreement for the
commercialization of basic research in the field of renal science
tnempoleveD
• Acquired Avanir Pharmaceuticals
• Acquired Neurovance, including rights to centanafadine • • E w M E d thx s ei A t ee t vah c I e UbNu lL l o .Tt i Sue s pE .hnd —mN ed Aa e Adb n eg a T tcl an o k aid hb ni ona R dl E Ot ma h X nl e U ali c ra L oC kn T lN eoIc ) tSe g— i nyaa A g rg ae r n sae td re ( u Am a c B tce uI ln L i rnIt eF i cY ia n l • • • • • L E A A A A rei x k c c cc ce q q qe e ec u u un b pu i i is i tr r rt ae oe e ee d rT d d dd h i aV R dn a e
n
e e erjf to C va rr ay ee i p o gn a lm e r oot n u M npa d t M in me i sece tv e d es z e fd i nu rcl i t oo acm a mp l aa l nm b Ade rf n m cr to ua m sa r n k
B
T ed ioe t s iv sna ca igl eeP ns rh i ca ga eg hr sm r te sa e ic nme Au ent si itc a a f fol oI rn r v d aau nds a atr d di ue es s n t( oaJ sta i p nwa ein th) T • • • a E C A f E Tr ax slk c oi t ie qci hamkcn u b ou g if l Art i Po ee s r hr ho dd c aeuan da rd s md e c d si vh ag te e r civa alt eoe al t ul l p eloe tgmt ipn r ciem c aeg a ln c ,ee t ot An ms lat l saei n tan bn edn xot n d m ra
P
ae pc ha tw o p r aiokm
r
e n ma m t r i ai nnee
c
r g ea tc h us i ra e tig il ci ohz ana t ls st c i of ao o l nn or
d
ga A y Mg B ar 1 Se r D2 ee 2 —am i we n Bn iA tt h sw i ai t h
• Executed a joint development and exclusive sales agreement with Takara
Bio for gene-modified T cell therapy—C
selaS
Strengthening infrastructure for group collaborations • Executed a license agreement for development and commercialization in the oncology area
with Servier for Lonsurf in Europe and other regions—A • Transfer of North American marketing rights for Astex products • Executed a co-promotion agreement with MSD for KEYTRUDA (Japan)* to Taiho Oncology—B
• Acquired Jasmine Strengthening products and pipeline for business
• Acquired Nutrition & Santé SAS (N&S) • Acquired FoodState and entered the natural food-based supplement operations in Japan
business
• Acquired BIOCENTURY • Started co-promotion of LCZ696 in Japan
• Acquired BC BIO Taking on challenges in new regions
• Acquired Daiya Foods • Established a new health beverage subsidiary in Myanmar
• Established a new health beverage subsidiary in Mexico
noitcudorP
A. 4 Global Products driving the group’s growth
To maximize the value of our 4 Global Products—ABILIFY MAINTENA, REXULTI, Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE, and Lonsurf—
we continued to invest for growth, including signing a joint development and sales agreement with Lundbeck for ABILIFY
MAINTENA and REXULTI, establishing an in-house development and sales system in the U.S. oncology business, and signing a
European licensing contract with Servier for Lonsurf. As a result, these products are now driving the group’s growth.
B. Accelerating collaborations among Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical and Astex Pharmaceuticals
We are sharing proprietary cutting-edge technologies cultivated by each operating company.
C. Diversification of drug discovery modalities
With a focus on generating innovation from creative and diverse research platforms, we plan to diversify drug discovery
modalities and strengthen our in-house drug discovery platforms mainly by collaborating with and acquiring organizations
with innovative and highly original drug discovery technologies.
Second Medium-Term Management Plan Third Medium-Term Management Plan Fourth Medium-Term Management Plan
Beyond
2014–2018 2019–2023 2024–2028
Aim to become a top-class player in Expand into new core
the psychiatry and neurology area therapeutic areas in
the cardiovascular
and renal area
Plan to launch a treatment for agitation
Plan to launch fremanezumab,
a treatment for migraines Accelerate global
Plan to launch centanafadine, development in
a treatment for ADHD
the oncology area
Plan to launch ultrasound-based
renal denervation system
Launched ABILIFY MAINTENA and
REXULTI in Japan, the U.S. and Diversification of drug discovery modalities—C
Europe—A Accelerating collaborations among Otsuka
Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical and Astex
Pharmaceuticals—B
Launched JYNARQUE in the U.S. Nutraceutical Business:
and JINARC in Europe Grow revenue to
Added indications for Samsca in
Japan—A ¥500 billion or more,
Achieve business profit
Launched Lonsurf in Japan, margin of 10% or higher
the U.S. and Europe—A
• Established a new factory for POCARI
• S CW omEA pT le i tn e dC h ai n na ew production base for • Established a new factory for N&S gluten-free products E ms ata nb ul fi ash cte ud r it nh ge fT ao ck ilu its yhima Mima Factory, a new pharmaceutical
Nature Made in the U.S.
* Agreement terminated in 2019
24 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 25Progress of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan REXULTI
brexpiprazole | Atypical antipsychotic
Overview of Fiscal 2019
Marketed as an adjuvant treatment for major depressive disorder and as a treatment for schizophrenia in the U.S., this drug is
In fiscal 2019, the first year of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan, we steadily executed priority measures highly evaluated for its efficacy and safety as a new treatment option for both diseases. In Japan, where the drug is marketed
aimed at maximizing existing business value. As a result, revenue was 1,396.2 billion yen, an increase of 8.1% from as a treatment for schizophrenia, prescriptions have grown significantly following the lifting of restrictions on maximum
the previous year, indicating solid growth. Furthermore, business profit was 187.2 billion yen, a substantial increase prescription period in May 2019. In Europe, sales began from April 2019.
of 54.8% from the previous year, outperforming the Third Medium-Term Management Plan forecast for the year. At present, several clinical trials are under way with the aim of further contributing to treating unmet needs in the
(¥ billion) psychiatry and neurology area.
Third Medium-Term Management Plan
Progress to date
Announced May 2019 Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE Global Use as an ADPKD Treatment
2018A 2019A 2020E 2021E 2023E
CAGR tolvaptan | V2-receptor antagonist
2018–2023
Samsca is highly evaluated in various guidelines in Japan,
Revenue 1,292.0 1,396.2 1,445.0 1,500.0 1,700.0 5.6%
and prescriptions are increasing for the treatment of
Business profit before cardiac edema and hepatic edema. Prescriptions for the
313.8 403.0 415.0 390.0 460.0 7.9%
R&D expenses
treatment of the intractable disease ADPKD are increasing
Launched in Contributed to
R&D expenses 192.9 215.8 220.0 230.0 260.0 6.1% due to the promotion of proper use guidelines and approx. 20 approx. 4,800 patients
countries
disease awareness activities.
Business profit 120.9 187.2 195.0 160.0 200.0 10.6%
In May 2018, JYNARQUE was launched in the U.S. as Contributed to approx. 5,800 patients
ROE 4.7% 7.3% 8.0% 6.0% or higher 8.0% or higher —
a treatment for ADPKD. Efforts to raise disease awareness
and make clinical trial data available have helped spread
Pharmaceutical Business Revenue Plan for the 4 Global Products recognition of both the disease and the drug, resulting in Estimated number of ADPKD patients
and New Products a steady increase in prescriptions. In Europe also, JINARC U.S.: 140,000, Europe: 205,000, Japan: 31,000
The Third Medium-Term Management Plan calls on us to is sold in approx. 20 countries and the number of patients (As of March 31, 2020, in-house survey)
(¥ billion) 4 Global Products New Products
maximize existing business value and create new value, to 1,000 receiving treatment through the drug is on the increase.
challenge new frontiers by doing what only Otsuka can do, 2018A 2023E
800 +¥290 billion Lonsurf
and to generate innovation from creative and diverse research
platforms. We will take advantage of this strategic framework 600 b¥ il5 li7 o0 n trifluridine/tipiracil | Anti-cancer agent
to position our 4 Global Products—ABILIFY MAINTENA, Lonsurf is growing as a treatment option for advanced colorectal cancer with the help of enhanced promotion activities. Lonsurf
REXULTI, Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE and Lonsurf—as growth 400 Ap ¥2p 8ro 0x. has also received marketing authorization for the additional indication of previously treated metastatic gastric cancer in the U.S.
billion
drivers. We will further accelerate growth, targeting 200 billion 200 (February 2019), Japan (August 2019), and Europe (September 2019). Further clinical studies are currently ongoing or being
yen in revenue, an increase of 90 billion yen, on the back of planned with business partners and academia to maximize the value of Lonsurf.
0
New Products scheduled to be launched during the current
2018A2019A 2020E 2021E 2022E 2023E 2024E 2025E 2026E 2027E 2028E
Medium-Term Management Plan. Treatment line Regimen Country/Region Development status
Third Medium-Term Management Plan Fourth Medium-Term Management Plan
Study in combination with bevacizumab for patients who are not
First-line Europe Phase III
Progress of 4 Global Products (¥ billion) Colorectal candidates for intensive therapy (SOLSTICE study)*
cancer
The 4 Global Products made smooth progress Fi rs ec va el n2 u0 e19 Year-on-year Achie rav te ement reF vis ec na ul e2 0 p2 la0 n Second-line Study in combination with bevacizumab (Specified Clinical Study) Japan Phase II/III
overseas, expanding regions and adding indications. ABILIFY MAINTENA 101.8 +15.7% 102% 110.5 Second-line/
Gastric cancer Study in combination with ramucirumab Japan Phase II
Revenue in fiscal 2019 rose 34.9% from the Third-line
REXULTI 89.8 +29.3% 101% 106.0
previous year, outperforming plan targets and * Trial sponsored by Servier (As of March 31, 2020)
Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE 149.1 +65.1% 102% 160.5
making a considerable contribution to growth in
Lonsurf 34.5 +13.6% 101% 38.0
consolidated performance.
Total 375.1 +34.9% 102% 415.0
ABILIFY MAINTENA Initiatives to Maximize the Value of Global Products
aripiprazole | Antipsychotic long-acting injectable Atypical Antipsychotic Long-Acting Injectables Market In 2019, our North American prescription Pharmaceutical Business contributed to an impressive
start of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan.
As a global treatment for schizophrenia, there is increased (US$ million) (%)
awareness of this drug’s efficacy claims and convenient 5,000 C2 A0 G15 R– :2 101 89 % 18.2 20 We continued to see strong revenue growth across our CNS and nephrology franchises.
Established products like REXULTI, ABILIFY MAINTENA, and our newest, JYNARQUE, continued
dosage formulation. Following U.S. approval in 2017 for an
4,000
additional indication for the treatment of bipolar I disorder, 14.7 15 to perform well and exceeded sales forecasts.
12.8
prescriptions are increasing. In September 2019, we also 3,000 11.9 Kabir Nath This not only speaks to the efficacy and clinical value that these products are bringing to
Target 10 patients and healthcare professionals, but it is also a direct result of the hard work and
filed for an additional indication for bipolar disorder in 2,000 7.4 market share: President and
Japan. 30% CEO, Otsuka dedication of Otsuka people across the organization.
5 North America The whole leadership team of the North American Pharmaceutical Business is committed to
The global market for atypical antipsychotic long-acting 1,000 Pharmaceutical
injectables continues to grow as they can address the issue Business maximizing the value of our entire portfolio of global products. Concurrently, we seek out new
0 0 business opportunities to drive future growth and ensure that we continue to operate from a
of medication adherence in schizophrenia and bipolar
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
position of strength and innovation.
disorder. We will continue to contribute to patients around
U.S. (left) Others (left) ABILIFY MAINTENA global share (right)
the world and aim to achieve a 30% global market share for Source: Otsuka, Lundbeck, Johnson & Johnson, and Alkermes reports
ABILIFY MAINTENA.
26 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 27Nutraceutical Business Revenue Plan for 3 Major Brands and 3 Nurture Brands Nature Made
Pharmavite is a leading company in the U.S. supplement Self-medication is increasingly prevalent in the U.S., and
The Third Medium-Term Management Plan calls for revenue (¥ billion) 3 Major Brands 3 Nurture Brands
600 industry. Under the Nature Made supplement brand, in recent years, related demand has continued to increase,
growth of 40 billion yen in the 3 Major Brands—POCARI 2018A 2023E
+¥80 billion Pharmavite develops and markets products free from driven by factors that include medical cost inflation. The U.S.
SWEAT, Nature Made, and N&S—and 40 billion yen in the
¥310 flavorings, colorings and preservatives. With a lineup of supplement market continues to grow at a CAGR of 3.7%.
3 Nurture Brands—BODYMAINTÉ, EQUELLE and Daiya. 400 Approx. billion high-quality supplements, key items of which have been We aim to turn Nature Made into a 100-billion-yen brand by
¥230
Furthermore, we are working to maintain a high-profit billion verified as meeting the strict quality criteria set by the United developing products that incorporate cutting-edge science
structure capable of a sustained business profit margin of 200
States Pharmacopeia (USP), Nature Made is the leading and by taking on challenges in new categories.
10% or higher by creating new product concepts in
choice of U.S. pharmacists in nine product categories.
anticipation of changes in business and other landscapes
0
and by expanding into new categories and new regions.
2018A2019A 2020E 2021E 2022E 2023E 2024E 2025E 2026E 2027E 2028E
Third Medium-Term Management Plan Fourth Medium-Term Management Plan
U.S. retail
11
Multi-
12
Leading
13
sales share vitamin sales choice
in Japan of U.S.
Business Profit Plan pharmacists
Third Medium-Term Management Plan
No. No. No.
65.0
(¥ billion) Business profit (left)
New Products Global Operations New Businesses 60 Business profit margin
1. Based on total U.S. retail sales aggregate data reported through the Scantrack® service
50.0 in the supplement vitamin category for the 52-week period ended December 29,
2019. ©2020 Information Resources Inc.
Business profit margin: 43.0 42.9 2. INTAGE SRI Health Food Multivitamin Market, cumulative market share by brand for
40
January–December 2019
Maintain at 10% or higher
14.4%
3. US News & World Report and Pharmacy Times 2019 survey: Product categories: Letter
12.7% 12.8% 12.7% Vitamins (A–E), Coenzyme Q10, Omega-3/Fish Oil, Flax Seed Oil, Herbal Supplements,
Mood Health Supplements, Diabetic Multivitamins, Cholesterol Management—
Natural, Garlic Supplements
Build a resilient business foundation
20 3 Nurture Brands
Second Medium-Term Management Plan 3 Major Brands
Review management assets that
Nutrition & Santé (N&S)
underpin the value chain 0
The organic food market in Europe has grown in recent standard for auditing food manufactures, and conducts
2018A 2019A 2021E 2023E
years as more health-conscious consumers demand safer production with concern for the environment and a high
and more trustworthy foods. Trends such as “free-from” level of quality management. In 2017, N&S built a new
foods and alternative products are attracting the attention factory for gluten-free products in France and strengthened
Progress of 3 Major Brands
of the millennial generation. In fiscal 2019, the European the development of free-from products to meet evolving
POCARI SWEAT
meat-free food market was worth approximately 1.8 billion consumer needs.
Overseas, mainly in Asia, sales volume for POCARI SWEAT, Furthermore, given higher levels of health consciousness,
U.S. dollars, having grown rapidly over the past five years at
a beverage for replenishing fluids and electrolytes, is we are strengthening our global sales structure to expand
a CAGR of 11.9%, while the gluten-free food market was
increasing due to awareness activities tailored to the into new regions where we expect growth in demand for
worth around 2.5 billion U.S. dollars after expanding at a
characteristics and needs of each region. The CAGR of the health beverages.
CAGR of 12.3%.4
Asia-Pacific sports beverage market was 4.9% for the In the future, we aim to grow POCARI SWEAT into a
N&S, a health and nutritional food company, provides
period 2015 to 2019. We intend to outpace recent market 100-billion-yen brand by further enhancing brand strength
health foods and other products in more than 40 countries
growth, forecasting a CAGR of 9.4% in overseas revenue through original marketing that thoroughly communicates
around the world, centered on Europe. At each of its
for POCARI SWEAT during the period of the Third Medium- the product concept.
factories, N&S has obtained ISO 14000 and ISO 12000, as
Term Management Plan.
well as IFS Food Standard certification, the international
Sports Beverage Market (Asia-Pacific*) 4. Euromonitor International of the U.K. (Retail Value RSP)
(US$ million) POCARI SWEAT
5,000 Sports beverage market overseas revenue plan
CAGR (2015–2019)
4.9%
CAGR
2,500
(2018–2023)
0 9.4
%
2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020E 2022E
China Indonesia Thailand Philippines Vietnam Hong Kong
Myanmar Other
Euromonitor International of the U.K. * Excluding Japan
28 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 29Social Issues Targeted by the Nutraceutical Business
Today, pressing social issues include extended healthy life expectancy, declining birthrates, aging
Progress of 3 Nurture Brands populations, and soaring medical costs. The Otsuka group engages in product development and
BODYMAINTÉ awareness activities aimed at solving a variety of social and health issues.
BODYMAINTÉ was commercialized based on research
Social Issues Targeted by Otsuka
conducted by Otsuka Pharmaceutical on the themes of
“intestines and nutrition” and “exercise and nutrition.” 1. Irregular and Unbalanced Diets
Focusing on health management for athletes exposed to risks
While there is seemingly an abundance of food in the a nutritional food for use during sports, when there is no
related to intense training, we developed BODYMAINTÉ Jelly, developed world, diversification in daily routines and an time for breakfast or other meals, and during work or study,
a conditioning food that has won the support of many increase in single-person households contribute to eating and can also be kept as a disaster provision.
athletes and sports trainers. Its main ingredients include lactic alone, skipped meals, and unbalanced diets. This can lead * Intage SRI, Nutritionally Balanced Food Product Market (category: cookies, biscuits,
acid bacteria B240, a proprietary ingredient, as well as BCAA, to poor physical and mental well-being. The Otsuka group cereals and cakes), January–December 2019
is tackling various social issues related to nutrition by
arginine and whey protein. In addition, we developed
Plant-Derived Lactic Acid Bacteria B240
developing nutritional products and implementing dietary
BODYMAINTÉ Drink, a conditioning beverage containing Lactic acid bacteria B240 is a plant-derived lactic acid bacteria
education activities.
isolated through the fermentation of a type of tea leaf, traditionally
lactic acid bacteria B240, to help replenish fluids and
consumed in northern Thailand. It was isolated by Sanae Okada, Leveraging expertise in concentrated liquid diets from
electrolytes that support proper hydration. BODYMAINTÉ Professor Emeritus of Tokyo University of Agriculture* and its our clinical nutrition business, we created Calorie Mate,
efficacy was confirmed by Otsuka Pharmaceutical.
Drink expands the value of this product line by supporting which provides nutrition for general consumers. It supports
* J Gen Appl Microbiol. 1986; 32:57-65
the health management of more consumers. healthy dietary life in busy modern lifestyles, and is a
pioneer in nutritionally balanced foods in Japan. As the
top-selling brand,* it continues to lead the field. Compact
EQUELLE
and with a long shelf life, Calorie Mate is convenient as
EQUELLE originated from research conducted at Otsuka
Pharmaceuticals’ Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute, Female hormone
(estrogen) 2. Women’s Health
where women’s health is a research theme. EQUELLE, which
contains equol, is sold in Japan and the U.S. as a food Women experience mental and physical changes
product that supports women’s health and beauty at a time Equol throughout their lives. The effects of rapid hormonal
changes are felt by women in their 40s and 50s in
when aging brings physical and mental changes. In Japan,
we have deployed dedicated staff with expert knowledge Equol particular, which can impact their social life.
Equol is an ingredient produced when daidzein, a soybean The Otsuka group has identified women’s health as one
of women’s health nationwide. With the cooperation of
isoflavone, is metabolized by intestinal bacteria. One aspect of of the priority areas of its Nutraceutical Business. We are
physicians, pharmacists and other healthcare professionals Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s many years of soybean research was a disseminating information to promote better understanding of
focus on the properties of equol. The Saga Nutraceuticals Research
we convey the importance of personal care to women who Institute succeeded in isolating the lactococcus 20-92 strain, a physical changes in women and developing related products.
are experiencing physical and mental changes, among other lactic acid bacteria that produces equol. We publicize the progress Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Saga Nutraceuticals Research
results of a variety of research and continue to be a leader in global
activities aimed at maintaining and improving the health of research in this field. Institute conducts research on total health maintenance
for women in their 40s and older, including research into
women and enhancing quality of life.
symptoms of menopause, bone and skin issues, and blood
vessel health, and continues to generate evidence on active
Daiya ingredients. In addition, our experts in women’s health carry
Daiya Foods develops, manufactures, and sells high-quality, The U.S. plant-based alternatives market continues to out activities across Japan to spread accurate understanding
creative plant-based food products such as cheese grow. Daiya Foods is expanding its sales channels and of the mental and physical changes experienced by women
and related health issues, as well as solutions to those issues.
alternatives, yogurt alternatives, dressings, and desserts. Its product lineup, mainly in the area of cheese alternatives,
brand, Daiya, is enjoyed not only by vegetarians and people which are a core product. Under the Third Medium-Term
with food allergies, but also by the health-conscious Management Plan, we plan to achieve a revenue CAGR
millennial generation. of 25%. 3. Environmental Issues
Given that global warming is a major social issue, public SOYJOY, SOYSH and SoyCarat. Soybeans directly consumed
attention is focused on CO2 emissions from food production by people around the world account for a mere 6% of total
U.S. Plant-Based as part of realizing a carbon-free society. The plant-based soybean production. Beef is one source of protein, but to
Alternative Food Market foods that Daiya Foods develops, manufactures and sells produce 1 kilogram of beef, it is said to take 10 kilograms
have a low carbon footprint, reduce environmental load, of grain, such as soybeans. There is data suggesting that the
Others Daiya Foods and are more sustainable. Daiya Foods was founded on the production of soybeans requires one-fiftieth of the water and
14% Revenue Plan belief that plant-based living is better for people’s health one-twentieth the amount of energy needed to produce the
20191 Milk CAGR and better for the planet. Its range of plant-based foods same volume of beef. Based on the concept of “Soylution”
US$5.0 40% resonates with many people and as a category leader it is (soy + solution), Otsuka Pharmaceutical provides solutions
Dairy2 billion (2018–2023) evolving into a high-growth company. for both human health and environmental issues through a
27% +11%
year-on-year Soybeans are a part of Japan’s traditional food culture and range of soy products.
25
% contain quality dietary proteins, and have been referred to
Meat
19% as “the meat of the fields.” Focusing on the high nutritional
value and potential of soybeans, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
1. PBFA-commissioned data from Nielsen has developed and commercialized soy-derived nutritional
(52 weeks U.S. dollar sales ending December 2019)
2. Ice cream, yogurt, cheese, creamer, butter and dressing foods under three brands at its in-house research center—
30 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 31Initiatives in the Pharmaceutical Business
Looking ahead to the Fourth Medium-Term Management Plan
Opportunities and Risks Psychiatry and Neurology
As a total healthcare company, the Otsuka group conducts activities not only related to diagnosis and medication, but
Aiming to become a top-class global player in the psychiatry and neurology area,
also to contribute to maintaining and improving the health of healthy people. Medical cost inflation due to aging with a high-potential pipeline and product portfolio
populations and the increasing sophistication of medical treatment are a serious issue for Japan and the rest of the
world, and in particular pose a risk to the Pharmaceutical Business. However, from the perspective of the Nutraceutical Psychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, We have a high-potential pipeline and product lineup,
Business, we regard increased awareness of self-medication, prevention and daily health as an opportunity. and major depressive disorder can develop at any age and and aim to become a top-class global player in this area.
affect a person’s social life, career, and studies. Moreover,
Aiming to become a
concerns are growing about the increasing frequency of
top-class global player
Pharmaceutical Business Alzheimer’s-related dementia as populations worldwide in the psychiatry and
neurology area
continue to age. These diseases affect not just the patient’s
• Providing total healthcare solutions, from diagnosis to treatment. • Global operations in the oncology business quality of life; they also place a strain on family members High-potential pipeline
and product lineup
• Global R&D and marketing assets in the psychiatry and neurology • Management personnel for diversifying businesses and caregivers, as well as on the healthcare economy. There
• • a P Str r ae e ba se l, e na c pn e rd oi nt fih tte h i neca tor hd n ei co o iv nloa trs g ac yu v eala nrr e o aa u n i snd s oJr ae lupn taa ionl na sr e bSa usintessrength • Patent expiration of mainstay produc Wts eakness a w Tr hhe
is
ics it h sil l s
b
am et cia s an f uay sc ep to s ty r hyc
e
h t irria e ct a ar ti umc
s
a een sn d t as
n
n h de a u mvr eo
e
l y co e hg t ai c ntoa isl mbd ei ss ee asa rt es ae b ns l
o
if s to h fr e
u
d ll.
y
fA reB mIL aIF nc Y ee z2n u-t MR a mnE o aX a n bfU tO a hL dP T i LC I n A - L eX IAX IX lonS g-ol au ct t Pi i so n yn cg s i
h
inb j au tes rci it cn ae dbs ils s, e es a( sL eA sI)
AVP-786
understood, which makes the discovery of new drugs Neurological diseases
• Advances in science and technology, progress of basic research • Global drug price control policies and promotion of generic drug use REXULTI
related to diseases due to medical cost inflation extremely difficult. The Otsuka group entered the psychiatry
• Promotion of personalized medicine • Intensifying competition in core areas and neurology area in the 1970s and has continued to take Revenues in the psychiatry and
neurology area (illustrative diagram)
• Restrictions on sales promotion activities due to stricter regulations
on the challenge of new drug discovery with the goal of
O T 2nd MTM Plan 3rd MTM Plan 4th MTM Plan
pportunity hreat
contributing to medical needs. 2014 2019 2024
Agitation Associated with Dementia of the Alzheimer’s Type
Nutraceutical Business
It is estimated that approximately 3.4 million people* in the U.S. have Alzheimer’s disease, and it is thought that a large number of those
patients exhibit some form of behavioral disorder (agitation), such as excessive motor activity, and verbal or physical aggression. This kind of
disorder places a burden on patients and caregivers, impacting quality of life. The Otsuka group aims to market the world’s first treatment for
• Creative products and marketing backed by scientific evidence • Management personnel for diversifying businesses
agitation associated with dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. Clinical trials are under way on two drugs with different mechanisms of action,
• Ability to nurture brands • Cultural differences regarding raw materials and taste preferences
brexpiprazole (REXULTI) and AVP-786.
• Overseas businesses that incorporate solutions to social issues with
* ©2020 DR/Decision Resources, LLC. All rights reserved. Reproduction, distribution, transmission or publication is prohibited. Reprinted with permission.
their core business processes
S W
• Steady earnings power trength eakness
(As of March 31, 2020)
Pipeline Features Indication Country/Region Development status
• Rising consumer awareness of self-medication, prevention and daily • Sluggish overall beverage market due to unseasonal weather
aripiprazole
health in tandem with medical cost inflation • Intensification of competition in core areas due to entry of new (long-acting injectable) Dopamine partial agonist Bipolar disorder Japan Filed ●
• Diversification of diet competitors
Major depressive disorder Japan/Europe/China Phase III
O T
pportunity hreat Agitation associated with dementia of
Japan/U.S./Europe Phase III
the Alzheimer’s type
brexpiprazole Dopamine partial agonist Post-traumatic stress disorder U.S. Phase III ●
Our Approach to Issues Borderline personality disorder U.S. Phase II ●
In recent years, Taiho Pharmaceutical, a pioneer in oral oncology products Schizophrenia; long-acting injectable U.S. Phase I
in Japan, has been actively promoting further globalization, mainly by
Serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine
Global operations in establishing its own marketing structure in the U.S. and expanding its sales Page 34 OPC-64005 reuptake inhibitor Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder U.S. Phase II
networks in other regions. In addition, group companies, including Otsuka Maximizing business value by
the oncology business
Pharmaceutical, Astex Pharmaceuticals and Taiho Pharmaceutical, are combining group strengths Agitation associated with dementia of
U.S./Europe Phase III
combining their assets to strengthen group-wide global operations, as well the Alzheimer’s type
as promoting strategic alliances with external partners. NMDA receptor antagonist; serotonin and Negative symptoms of schizophrenia U.S. Phase II/III ●
AVP-786 norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor; sigma-1
Management personnel Otsuka Holdings plans and implements executive human resource receptor agonist Traumatic brain injury U.S. Phase II
development programs, and collaborates with external organizations to train Page 43
for diversifying
managers capable of leading the next generation. In addition, individual People Intermittent explosive disorder U.S. Phase II
businesses
group companies are vigorously promoting human resource development.
centanafadine Norepinephrine, dopamine and serotonin Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder U.S. Phase III ●
reuptake inhibitor
Page 6
What we can achieve because TAS-205 PGD synthase inhibitor Duchenne muscular dystrophy Japan Phase II
Based on our unique and diverse businesses, we will continue to create
Intensifying competition we are Otsuka
in core areas new value by taking on challenges, applying an original approach that Page 7 fremanezumab Anti-CGRP antibody Migraine Japan Phase II/III ●
addresses the health needs of people, always looking to the future.
Taking on the challenge of doing
OPC-214870 — Epilepsy U.S. Phase I ●
what only Otsuka can do
■ Development project in an unmet needs area (defined by Otsuka based on data from PatientsMap) ● Project that has advanced in or after fiscal 2019
32 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 33Oncology Cardiovascular and Renal System
Maximizing business value by combining group strengths Creating first-in-class products through new drug discovery technologies, and medical devices
Taiho Pharmaceutical engages in drug discovery, leveraging Meanwhile, centering on external collaborations, Otsuka In the cardiovascular and renal area, in addition to pharmaceutical areas too. We are advancing development
its long-standing proprietary platform focused on biochemical Pharmaceutical is taking on the challenge of establishing strengthening our proprietary drug discovery platforms, we of unique medical devices, drawing on our innovative
modulation, as well as drug discovery based on its research therapies with a focus on the future. This includes creating also plan to actively make growth investments, examples technology and our strengths in drugs and clinical research.
platform, such as the newly established Cysteinomix and synergies with new modalities, in areas such as gene- of which have included our business alliance with Akebia Examples include a device for ultrasound renal denervation
kinase target drug discovery. Furthermore, through its modified T cell therapies and oncolytic virus therapies. Therapeutics for vadadustat, and the acquisition of treatment and a peripheral artery stent system. We aim
collaboration with relation to Astex Pharmaceuticals’ fragment- Individual group companies are combining their Visterra, a company with a renal disease-related pipeline. to create first-in-class products leveraging these new drug
based drug discovery technology, Taiho Pharmaceutical drug discovery technologies and assets to bolster global We also strive to find solutions to unmet needs in non- discovery technologies and medical devices.
continues to discover new molecular targeting drugs. operations and enhance business value.
(As of March 31, 2020)
Development
Pipeline Features Indication Country/Region
status
Strengths in Drug Discovery at Taiho Pharmaceutical
Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic
As a specialty pharmaceutical company in the oncology area, Taiho Pharmaceutical is utilizing its
tolvaptan V2-receptor antagonist
hormone secretion
Japan Filed ●
proprietary drug discovery platforms and developing highly-effective, novel anti-cancer agents that
contribute to the diversification of cancer treatment. In addition to further developing and enhancing
OPC-61815 V2-receptor antagonist Cardiac edema Japan Phase III ●
our platform technologies for drug discovery, we are accelerating our R&D by complementing our vadadustat HIF-prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor Renal anemia U.S./Europe Phase III
proprietary technologies through collaborations with research organizations both in and outside ● Project that has advanced in or after fiscal 2019
Japan. Furthermore, through our corporate venture capital, we have built a proprietary network
that gives us access to creative and innovative technologies and drug discovery seeds outside the
Teruhiro Utsugi
company. Through research and development of promising new drugs, Taiho Pharmaceutical will
Managing Director,
Taiho Pharmaceutical contribute to a society enriched by smiles, and pursue the realization of a sustainable society. Initiatives in the Nutraceutical Business
Our two research institutes of the Nutraceutical Business Pharmaceutical Business. Their goal is to develop and provide
Strengths in Drug Discovery at Astex Pharmaceuticals
investigate themes such as nutrition and exercise from the world with creative products that maintain and improve
As an established world leader in fragment-based drug discovery, Astex celebrated its 20th original viewpoints that utilize expertise honed in our people’s health and are backed by scientific evidence.
anniversary in 2019. In that time we have created a broad portfolio of programs in oncology
and CNS and a successful track record of strategic alliances with pharmaceutical collaborators
Saga Nutraceuticals
resulting in two approved anti-cancer agents within the last three years. Our innovative culture
and collaborative spirit have continued to flourish as part of the Otsuka group as we have Research Institute
established new collaborations and further developed our technology that we hope will result
in many new product approvals in the future.
Harren Jhoti Since its establishment in 1984 as Japan’s first private
CEO, research institute for clinical exercise and nutrition, the
Astex Pharmaceuticals
Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute has conducted R&D
(As of March 31, 2020) in various fields related to exercise and nutrition, women’s
Pipeline Features Indication Country/Region Development status health, and other health issues. In 2014, one of the largest
TAS-118 Anti-metabolite Gastric cancer Japan Phase III controlled-environment rooms in Japan was completed at the
Ovarian cancer U.S./Europe Phase II
institute, enabling the recreation of hypoxic environments
guadecitabine DNA methyltransferase inhibitor Acute myeloid leukemia Japan/U.S./Europe Phase III
Myelodysplastic syndromes Japan/U.S./Europe Phase III equivalent to those found at up to an altitude of 5,000
U.S. Filed ● meters, which were previously difficult to recreate, as well as
Myelodysplastic syndromes
ASTX727 DNA methyltransferase inhibitor Japan Phase I ●
high-temperature/high-humidity and low-temperature/low-
Acute myeloid leukemia Europe Phase III ●
ASTX660 IAP inhibitor Solid tumors, lymphomas U.S. Phase II humidity conditions. This facility helps advance research into
ASTX029 ERK1/2 inhibitor Solid tumors U.S. Phase I/II sports nutrition, such as by verifying the effects of fluid and
ASTX295 MDM2 inhibitor Solid tumors U.S. Phase I/II ●
nutritional intake in such environments.
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma Japan Phase I ●
OPB-111077 —
Hematological cancer U.S. Phase I
Otsu Nutraceuticals
TAS-114 dUTPase inhibitor Non-small cell lung cancer Japan/U.S./Europe Phase II
TAS-115 Multi-kinase inhibitor Prostate cancer Japan Phase II
Research Institute
Gastrointestinal stromal tumor Japan Phase III
TAS-116 HSP90 inhibitor
Solid tumors U.S./Europe Phase I
The Otsu Nutraceuticals Research Institute was established
TAS-117 — Solid tumors Japan Phase I
TAS-119 — Solid tumors U.S./Europe Phase I in 2000 to advance research on intestinal immunity, with
futibatinib FGFR inhibitor Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma Japan/U.S./Europe Phase II a particular focus on the intestines, which play a key role
TAS0313 Peptide vaccine Urothelial cancer Japan Phase II ● in overall health. One example of the institute’s research
TAS3681 — Prostate cancer U.S./Europe Phase I
is related to enhancing the body’s biological barrier by
TAS0728 — Solid tumors U.S./Europe Phase I/II
increasing the secretion of immunoglobulin A (IgA), an
trabectedin — Ovarian cancer Japan Phase I
canerpaturev Oncolytic virus Pancreatic cancer Japan Phase I antibody that plays a crucial role in mucosal immunity.
TBI-1301 NY-ESO-1 siTCR™ gene therapies Synovial sarcoma Japan Phase I/II Exploratory R&D demonstrated that lactic acid bacteria
TBI-1501 CD19 CAR gene therapies Acute lymphoblastic leukemia Japan Phase I/II B240 heightens the function of mucosal immunity and
fosnetupitant NK1 receptor antagonist Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting Japan Phase III ●
lowers the probability of catching the common cold.
■ Development project in an unmet needs area (defined by Otsuka based on data from PatientsMap) ● Project that has advanced in or after fiscal 2019
34 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 35Beyond 2030
The Otsuka Group’s CSR
Envisaging a variety of changes, including an increase in aging populations, rapid climate change,
and advances in precision medicine* associated with the spread of preventive medicine and genetic
(Corporate Social Responsibility)
testing, the Otsuka group aims to be an indispensable provider of products and services that meet the
healthcare needs of the times.
—Toward Realizing a Sustainable Society—
* Therapeutic approaches that achieve greater precision by applying detailed genetic and other information about each patient
The Otsuka group recognizes CSR is integrated into our businesses
Pharmaceutical Business
and proactively promotes CSR based on its corporate philosophy.
Driven by the corporate philosophy “Otsuka-people creating fragment-based drug discovery technology of Astex
new products for better health worldwide,” the Otsuka Pharmaceuticals, the unique antibody manufacturing
group aims to achieve highly innovative drug discovery to platform technology from Visterra, and the cysteinomix
Corporate Philosophy
find solutions for unmet medical needs. With this goal in drug discovery platform of Taiho Pharmaceutical, as well as
mind, we engage in drug discovery research through building a network with and providing research support to
multiple approaches. We will strengthen our proprietary academia and bio-ventures that possess advanced research
drug discovery platform to be capable of generating new technologies and drug discovery seeds.
strengths and innovation. This will include utilizing the
Initiatives for Innovation in Research and Development Areas
● Generate innovation through collaboration and integration of
proprietary R&D platforms and technologies in core areas
Otsuka’s Goal
● Generate results from innovation seeds through various collaborations
To become an indispensable contributor
Promote group-wide research collaborations
to people’s health worldwide
Collaborations with external institutions
Otsuka’s CSR Mission
CSR is integrated into our businesses across the Otsuka group of companies,
which aims to grow while contributing to the creation of a healthy and
*
sustainable society. We pursue these objectives supported by
a comprehensive governance system.
Contribution to a Sustainable Society
Cancer immunity, Gene therapy,
Dementia,
cancer-related novel technologies exploration of
Alzheimer’s disease
new drug targets
* Consortium members: Alzheimer’s Research UK, AbbVie, Astex, CRL, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Evotec, MSD, JPNV, and Takeda
Nutraceutical Business
Otsuka’s business activities = Solving social issues = CSR
Awareness of health issues is rising, including issues related challenge of creating new value and expanding into new
to aging populations, medical costs, and the spread of categories and regions by combining cutting-edge scientific
Healthier Society (Society) Healthier Planet (Environment)
infectious diseases. Our goal in the Nutraceutical Business is and technological developments with our unique business
Health, People, Quality in All We Do Climate Change, Resource Recycling and Conservation, Water Conservation
to support the maintenance and improvement of people’s model. Going forward, we will respond to various health-
Governance
health worldwide, and thereby contribute to longer healthy related social issues by continuing to implement health
Corporate Governance, Compliance, Risk Management
life expectancy. To this end, we will utilize the expertise we awareness activities that bring those issues to the forefront
have cultivated in the Pharmaceutical Business while and offering solutions from each brand. Furthermore, we
proposing solutions based on new concepts that address will promote these activities by strengthening collaborations
yet-to-emerge needs and social issues. With an eye on with external institutions.
changes in the global landscape, we will take on the
36 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 37The Otsuka Group’s Approach to CSR
Toward Realizing a Sustainable Society
Support for the United Nations Global Compact
Otsuka Holdings became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact
(UNGC) in 2016. While supporting the UNGC’s 10 principles, we also consider the
UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in contributing to the realization of a
sustainable society through our business activities.
38 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 39
RSC
evitcaorP
RSC
evisnefeD
Materiality
Process for Determining Material Issues Page 10
In 2019, the Otsuka group determined material issues based on their importance to society and to the
group’s businesses. These material issues were determined to be: Society (Health, People, Quality in
All We Do), Environment (Climate Change, Resource Recycling and Conservation, Water Conservation),
and Governance.
Examples of Our Activities
Materiality Social Issues Our Goals Our Activities Related SDGs
CSR Connected with • Promotion of R&D for unmet needs Health • Support and awareness activities for people’s health
Business Activities • R&D of antituberculosis drugs and improvement maintenance/improvement mainly on exercise and
(through our of drug access Health nutrition etc. Health
businesses) • Promotion of problem solving by strengthening • Unmet medical and • Contribute to unmet needs • Promotion of R&D for
partnerships Health health needs solutions unmet needs
• Spread of infectious • Eradication of tuberculosis • R&D of antituberculosis
• Sustainable procurement and product design • Deepening communication with stakeholders diseases • Creation of a system for the drugs and improvement of
Quality in All We Do Quality in All We Do • Nutritional needs realization of a healthful life drug access
• Thorough quality control and stable supply • Promotion of “Customer-centric management” Health • Increasing aging issues • Healthy life extension • Support and awareness
Quality in All We Do Quality in All We Do activities for people’s health
• Responsible promotional activities and maintenance/improvement
information provision Quality in All We Do mainly on exercise and
nutrition etc.
• Activities to explain the importance of hydration • Dietary education app SketchCook Health Page 42
• P br yo sm tro et nio gn
th
o ef
n
p inr go b pl ae rm
tn
s eo rslv hin ipg
s
Health Page 42 • SATU HATI (“One Heart”) programs* Health People
CSR through Social
• Otsuka Health Comic Library Health Page 42 Environment
Contribution
(together with our
• Presenteeism • Creation of a corporate culture • Human resource development
businesses)
Society • Unprepared for that stimulates creativity • Diversity promotion
(Healthier diversification • Enhance employee engagement • Health management
Society) People
• Human resource development People • Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the value chain
Basic CSR • Diversity promotion People Environment
• Health management People • Reduce environmental impact by improving
resource efficiency Environment • Consumption and • Gaining stakeholder trust • Sustainable procurement and
• Promotion of business activities aimed at a production that • Pursuing sustainability at all product design
sustainable state in both society and the earth impairs sustainability levels of the value chain • Thorough quality control and
Environment • Establishing a quality assurance stable supply
•• TSt hr oe rn og ut gh he n ci on mg pc lo iarp no cera t Ge
o
vg ero nv ane cr enance Governance •
•
U Mn ad ne ar gst ea mn ed nin
t
g
a
nw da t ee ffr
e
r ce ts io veu r uc se
e
r ois fk
w
E anv ti ero rn rm ee sn ot
urces
Q Alu
l
a Wlit ey
D
in
o
system for safety and security • R ace ts ip vio tin es si b al ne
d
p ir no fm oro mti ao tn ioa nl
• Risk identification, evaluation and management Environment provision
Governance • Deepening communication
with stakeholders
• Promotion of “customer-
centric management”
* To give back to the local community in Indonesia, POCARI SWEAT manufacturer and distributor P.T. Amerta Indah Otsuka has implemented a social action program based on three core
pillars: SATU HATI Cerdaskan Bangsa (“One Heart for Education”), SATU HATI Peduli Lingkungan (“One Heart for Environment”), and SATU HATI Sehatkan Bangsa (“One Heart
for Health”). Climate • Global warming • FY 2030 Goal: 30% reduction in • Reduce CO2 emissions
Change
CO2 emissions compared to throughout the value chain
Based on our belief that CSR is integrated into our Also, we recognize that “CSR through social contribution” FY 2017
businesses across the Otsuka group, we aim to contribute (which includes donation activities) and “basic CSR” (which
to the realization of a sustainable society by solving social includes governance and risk management as the foundation • Environmental load • FY 2030 Goal: 50% reduction in • Reduce environmental
issues through our businesses. Therefore, we are focusing of our business) are indispensable parts of corporate social Resource increase simple incineration and landfill impact by improving
compared to FY 2019 resource efficiency
on “CSR connected with business activities” in pursuing responsibility. We define CSR broadly as responsible efforts E (Hn ev air lto hn iem r ent R anec dy cling • FY 2030 Goal: 50% or higher • Promotion of business activities
content of recycled and plant- aimed at a sustainable state in
sustainable growth and the realization of a healthy and that companies should make to coexist with society and the Planet) Conservation
based materials in our PET both society and the earth
sustainable society, or in other words, the creation of social environment. We are actively advancing those CSR initiatives. bottles
value, including financial value and ESG aspects.
• Reducing freshwater • FY 2030 Goal: Improvement of • Understanding water resources
Water availability water use efficiency by 15% risk
Conservation compared to FY 2017 • Management and effective use
of water resources
• Fragile governance • Long-term improvement of • Strengthening corporate
system corporate value governance
Governance • Social change risk • Thorough compliance
• Risk identification, evaluation
and managementSociety Partnerships One example is Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory’s
1. Eradicating Tuberculosis approach to IV solutions, which are defined as basic drugs (a
The Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (GHIT Fund) drug with high clinical necessity whose manufacturing and
is a public interest incorporated association and international sales will continue to be required without interruption).*
public-private partnership involving the Japanese Group companies manufacture IV solutions locally, which
government, private corporations, the Bill & Melinda Gates contributes to local communities, such as through the
Health Foundation, the Welcome Trust, and the United Nations supply of products at fair prices and the creation of
Development Program (UNDP). It funds drug, vaccine, employment opportunities.
diagnostic and other R&D in order to leverage Japan’s high * Vision for the Pharmaceutical Industry 2013, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare
level of technology and innovation in the fight against the
Under its corporate philosophy “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide,” the Otsuka group actively
world’s three major infectious diseases and neglected tropical 2. Expanding Access to Medicine
implements CSR initiatives based on the recognition that CSR is an integral part of our business. The desire to be healthy is
diseases, which mainly affect developing countries. Since There are patients who cannot expect satisfactory outcomes
universal. Every day, the Otsuka group carries out activities to prevent and treat diseases and to contribute to the maintenance and
June 2016, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has contributed to the from existing treatments, and also are not eligible to
improvement of people’s health worldwide. The world continues to face a host of healthcare issues, such as the spread of infectious
GHIT Fund as an associate partner. participate in clinical trials with critical, life-threatening
diseases, inadequate medical care facilities, and lack of effective therapies.
Also, in line with the goal of eradicating tuberculosis, diseases. Such patients are unable to access investigational
In aiming to solve these issues, we constantly ask ourselves if it is something that only Otsuka can do, and work to find solutions
we have participated in the planning of the Project to drugs that might be a potential treatment option. Through
for unmet medical needs that the majority of other companies have yet to address.
Accelerate New Treatments for Tuberculosis (PAN-TB its Expanded Access Program, Otsuka group provides
Moreover, issues such as medical cost inflation mean that maintaining and improving health is now an issue that society as a whole,
collaboration) since February 2020. This world-first global patients that are ineligible to participate in clinical trials with
not just individuals, must face head on. In addition to initiatives that raise awareness of health among individuals, the Otsuka group
cross-industry collaboration between charitable and non- access to investigational drugs based on application by their
undertakes initiatives for maintaining and improving health in society at large, including through collaboration with local communities. profit organizations and the drug industry aims to satisfy physician and if they meet pre-specified conditions.
the Target Regimen Profiles (TRP) proposed by the World
Health Organization (WHO) for tuberculosis by speeding up
Nutraceutical Business
Pharmaceutical Business Page 24, the development of a new pan-TB regimen suitable for all
Business Strategy chemotherapy and molecular targeting drugs used to treat
The Challenge of Addressing Section specific organs, we are taking on challenges in the new tuberculosis patients. Initiatives for Yet-To-Be-Imagined Needs
Unmet Medical Needs fields of gene therapy and cell therapy in order to keep pace To be healthy is a desire of people worldwide. Advances
2. Initiatives in Kidney Disease in medical technology and improvements in public health
1. Psychiatry and Neurology with the shift toward genomic medicine and personalized
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) have extended life expectancy globally, but have also given
Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has defined medicine tailored to the characteristics of the cancer in
is a hereditary, intractable orphan disease. It involves rise to new health issues. The Otsuka group’s Nutraceutical
psychiatric disorders as one of the five major disease areas. each individual patient. Going forward, we will continue to
the progressive development and enlargement of a Business is centered on functional beverages and functional
The rising number of patients with such disorders poses a advance our R&D to deliver innovative therapeutic drugs to
large number of fluid-filled cysts in both kidneys due to foods that support the maintenance and improvement of
pressing global issue. However, while the list of psychiatric patients with greater speed.
gene mutations. The kidneys grow to many times their day-to-day health. Our activities enable people worldwide
and neurological diseases is long, including schizophrenia,
original size, resulting in the gradual deterioration of to live healthy and independent lifestyles. Our contribution
depression, bipolar disorder, and Alzheimer’s-related 3. Infectious Diseases
kidney function. Otsuka Pharmaceutical has signed a to health is not only helping to treat diseases, but also
dementia, R&D in this area is challenging. The underlying Tuberculosis is one of the world’s three major infectious
comprehensive partnership agreement on ADPKD with the helping healthy people stay healthy through nutrition.
causes of these diseases have yet to be precisely elucidated, diseases, the others being AIDS and malaria. It is the single
Japan Kidney Association, and is working to raise awareness Current social issues include extending healthy life
and satisfaction with current treatment methods is low. infectious disease that accounts for the largest number of
about ADPKD and improve the level of medical care. expectancy, responding to decreasing birthrates and aging
However, patients and their families are in immediate deaths. Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis is difficult to treat
Otsuka Pharmaceutical has signed a collaborative populations, and controlling medical costs. We have set
need of new therapies. Psychiatry and neurology is a key because it is resistant to a number of existing therapeutic
agreement—also with the Japan Kidney Association—aimed “the essence of life” as a theme for contributing to health.
focus area in which the Otsuka group has been making drugs, and poses a serious public health hazard. Otsuka’s
at the practical application of basic research by young Under this theme, we are engaged in product development
headway, namely with the development of antipsychotic long period of research and development into a tuberculosis
researchers in the kidney field. We are openly soliciting and information provision activities that are backed by
drugs ABILIFY MAINTENA and REXULTI, as well as Selincro, treatment culminated in the 2014 approval of tuberculosis
drug discovery research themes from academia through scientific evidence based on applied expertise from the
a drug that helps in the reduction of alcohol consumption drug DELTYBA. We are expanding access and bringing
the Kidney Research Initiative-Japan (KRI-J)—a platform for Pharmaceutical Business.
in patients with alcohol dependency. We are also taking on DELTYBA to more patients by obtaining regulatory approval
collaboration between academia, industry and government
the challenge of developing therapeutic drugs for diseases in each country/region, and through programs developed
established by the Japan Kidney Association. The signing of
with no effective medicines. by governments and international organizations, the Global 1. Health Maintenance and Improvement Initiatives
joint research agreements between the research institutions
Drug Facility launched by the Stop TB Partnership and by in Coordination with All 47 Prefectures of Japan
and Otsuka Pharmaceutical will enable us to carry out
2. Oncology working with alliance partners. As of December 2019, The Otsuka group is promoting community-based health
research on the selected themes.
As medical science advances, year by year progress is DELTYBA is available in more than 100 countries/regions. maintenance and improvement initiatives, as well as disaster
being made in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer. Furthermore, we are responding to unmet medical needs prevention and relief activities. As an example, Otsuka
Nevertheless, there are still many diseases for which by expanding indications for pediatric care and cooperating Supplying Pharmaceuticals to More Patients Pharmaceutical has concluded health-related partnership
effective treatments have yet to be found, cancer remaining in a U.S. NIH-led prevention trial for multidrug-resistant 1. Fair Pricing and Improved Healthcare Infrastructure agreements with all 47 prefectures of Japan. We are
to be one of the leading causes of death. The oncology tuberculosis. Moreover, in order to eradicate tuberculosis, With the aim of contributing to improved access to cooperating with local governments to find solutions to the
area, where there are still many unmet needs, is another there is need of a new therapeutic drug that is effective pharmaceuticals, the Otsuka group researches, develops health issues of people living in each region, which includes
of the Otsuka group’s key focus areas. This stems from our for all forms of tuberculosis, including multidrug-resistant and extends therapeutic drugs and IV solutions that applying our knowledge and expertise on topics such as
track record since the 1970s as a pioneer in developing tuberculosis. Given this need, we are advancing R&D for address unmet medical needs. We also work to provide dietary education, prevention of lifestyle-related diseases,
oral anti-cancer agents, which at that time were not widely OPC-167832, a new therapeutic drug to follow DELTYBA. pharmaceuticals at fair prices to support improved prevention of heat disorders, sports promotion, women’s
used anywhere in the world. In addition to conventional healthcare infrastructure. health and disaster countermeasures.
40 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 41The Otsuka Group’s CSR: Society
2. Raising Awareness of Proper Hydration Our activities are aimed at all generations. For children,
Since the launch of POCARI SWEAT, Otsuka Pharmaceutical our app SketchCook helps teach proper dietary habits and People
has been promoting the importance of hydration in various knowledge of nutrition in a world where such information can
contexts. Spurred by the establishment of the Japan be difficult to acquire.
Amateur Sports Association (now Japan Sport Association For busy modern adults,
(JSPO)) Study Group for Prevention of Heat Disorders in we provide, in Japan, The Otsuka group believes that the active participation of a diverse range of employees in a free and open-minded workplace
Sports Activities, our cooperation in efforts to prevent heat Nature Made Supplement environment generates innovation and sustainable corporate growth. To this end, we aim to foster a corporate culture that
disorders through awareness activities began in 1992. Since Check, an app that allows encourages creativity, invest in the development of human resources, and actively promote diversity among our personnel.
then, we have provided information on such themes as users to easily analyze We have a safe workplace environment and strive for fair hiring, evaluation, and promotion processes that respect human rights.
children’s sports activities, occupational safety and hygiene, the nutritional content
and hydration for the elderly. Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s of a meal by taking a
Dietary education app
website includes an information section titled Protect smartphone picture. SketchCook
Yourself From Heat Disorders and a section presenting
Group-wide Activities Development of Participants in executive human Employees interviewed by
content based on JSPO’s A Guidebook for the Prevention of
Human Resources resource development programs of the Human Resources Department
Heat Disorder During Sports Activities (First Edition). Another 1. 30 Years of the Otsuka Health Comic Library Otsuka Global Academy: (Otsuka Pharmaceutical):
initiative is the Heat Disorders Prevention website, which We began publishing
140 1,500
was created in collaboration with weather forecasters. the Otsuka Health More than More than
Through these and other activities, we are further raising Comic Library in
awareness of the topic. In addition, Otsuka Pharmaceutical 1989 to promote
Factory, which sells OS-1, an oral rehydration solution, sound growth and Basic Policy one-year program, selected participants learn about
provides operational support for Oshiete! “Kakure Dassui” development of health Throughout history, innovation has always been generated the corporate DNA, and acquire leadership, task-setting
Iinkai, an organization that raises awareness of ways to habits among children of the next generation. Produced with by people. At the Otsuka group, we strive to attract and problem-solving skills. Recognizing that good input
prevent and treat dehydration before it becomes critical. editorial supervision from the Japan Medical Association and talented personnel, develop their individual abilities on an produces good output, Otsuka Warehouse conducts various
Page 20, Feature the Japan Society of School Health, and endorsed by the ongoing basis, and enable them to fulfill their potential. programs intended to inspire participants to generate
Japan Pediatric Society, the library seeks to convey basic health This enables us to continuously generate innovation. unique new ideas. Programs offer ambitious employees a
3. Raising Awareness of Women’s Health knowledge to children, covering topics such as the makeup of variety of opportunities, including the opportunity to attend
Approach
The Japanese average life expectancy is over 80 years for both the human body and nutrition, in a broad, easy-to-understand business school courses, or to go on overseas tours of
men and women. Healthy life expectancy is defined as the manner through the medium of comics. Every year we choose In addition to medium-to-long-term business investments, cutting-edge technology facilities in order to improve their
period in which a person can live without being bedridden a different theme and publish a new volume. The comics the development of next-generation executive human IT literacy.
and without limitation to daily activities due to health issues. are donated* to elementary schools, special needs schools, resources is essential if we are to constantly achieve creative, The Otsuka group is building an educational framework
The difference between average life expectancy and healthy Japanese schools overseas, and public libraries. innovative, and sustained growth in the medium and long that enables each member of its diverse workforce to
life expectancy is about 9 years for men and 12 for women Each year’s theme is decided based on requests from term, as well as significant growth in corporate value. continue developing and displaying his or her individual
in Japan. Therefore, extending healthy life expectancy is a schools and the opinions of organizations involved in school In 2016, we launched the Otsuka Global Academy potential and reflects the characteristics of each group
central issue under the Health Japan 21 (the second term) plan health. With the cooperation of experts in various fields, (OGA), human resource development program, with the company’s business.
established by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. we are finding ways to deliver factual, accurate health aim of early identifying and nurturing talented personnel We have also established an open recruitment system1
With greater participation in the workforce, women are faced information to children in a fun way. We are also working that will underpin the development of the next generation. and self-assessment system2 for the purpose of enhancing
with the issues of balancing work with childcare, nursing care, to make the comics a more useful part of school health Executive human resource development programs are the capabilities of employees at each company.
and personal health. The effects of rapid hormonal changes education. Since 2015, together with the Japan Society of produced and run in-house across the Otsuka group, At Otsuka Pharmaceutical, the Human Resources
are felt by women in their 40s and 50s in particular, which can School Health, we cosponsored lectures by health experts while also aiming to realize effective HR development Department holds individual interviews with every
impact their everyday work and private lives. Furthermore, care and usage demonstrations of the library at schools. We are through collaboration with external agencies. The programs employee, and follows up on the issues they raise.
taken during this period may impact their future healthy life continuing to evolve 30 years after the first volume, and emphasize the handing down of corporate culture and Interviews are conducted with more than 1,500 employees
expectancy. In response, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has developed deepening our ability to communicate the value of health. seek to identify the kind of candidates required to lead every year.
a product containing equol, a soy-derived ingredient. It can help * Approx. 23,000 books each year the Otsuka group in the future. As of December 31, 2019, 1. Under this system, the Otsuka group internally discloses requirements of a certain
maintain and improve the health of women at a time when they a total of 141 employees from across the group had position or job and then fills it from among those who apply. Employees that satisfy
the requirements can apply directly to the company offering the position and be
can experience a range of mental and physical changes. Based 2. Disaster Relief and Other Support participated in the programs. In April 2020, we launched transferred if expectations of both parties are in agreement. The open recruitment
on expertise obtained during the R&D process, we conduct In light of our obligation as a company that handles items the Global E-learning Platform in cooperation with Harvard system can be utilized by employees working at group companies in Japan, and is
aimed at boosting employee capabilities and motivation, as well as invigorating
activities to spread accurate understanding of the mental and needed during emergencies, such as IV solutions, therapeutic Business School Publishing. Approximately 1,000 Otsuka
exchange within the group.
physical changes experienced by women and related health drugs, foods and beverages, we actively engage in disaster group employees in Japan and overseas use this global 2. Under this system, employees can submit opinions and suggestions regarding their
current work duties and workplace, as well as career plan aspirations, to the Human
issues, as well as solutions to those issues and evidence for relief activities and disaster victim assistance. platform to improve their business literacy and skills.
Resources Department. The self-assessment system is implemented on a once yearly
the efficacy of equol. A wide range of other information on Our support for measures to counteract COVID-19 is In addition, individual group companies are vigorously cycle, with the goals of further developing employee potential, ensuring assignment to
nutrition in relation to women’s health and other topics can be one such example. In Japan, we supplied products such promoting human resource development. For instance, appropriate jobs, and improving the workplace environment.
found on the Otsuka Pharmaceutical website. as beverages as well as masks and protective clothing for Otsuka Pharmaceutical has operated WING, a voluntary
Page 30, Progress of 3 Nurture Brands medical use. Overseas, we donated group products such leadership study group, since 2009. Participants identify
4. Conveying the Importance of Nutrition as beverages and medical products to local healthcare internal and external issues, and work in teams to discuss
We continue to conduct dietary education activities that facilities and chapters of the Red Cross Society, in addition potential solutions before formulating a proposal for
explain the importance of nutrition, based on expertise to making monetary donations to such organizations. consideration. Taiho Pharmaceutical established “Global
gained through product development of nutritional products. One Academy,” a corporate university, in 2016. In the
42 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 43The Otsuka Group’s CSR: Society
Diversity & Inclusion Health & Safety
Female manager ratio:1 Employees taking parental leave Participants in Health Seminars held by the Participants in Anzen Dojo
(of whom male employees):1 group for employees and family members: programs (Otsuka Chemical):
10.3
% 513 (210) 1,050 658
(Cumulative) (Fiscal 2019)
Basic Policy productivity, and work-life balance. We also regularly hold Basic Policy to relevant education and training. These activities are reported
The Otsuka group actively promotes diversity based on group-wide training on women’s empowerment. In order to The Otsuka group recognizes that the mental and physical at health and safety committee meetings and form the basis
the belief that active participation by a wide range of support our diverse employees in pursuing career continuity, well-being of each and every employee is indispensable for improvements to the workplace environment. Furthermore,
employees further advances innovation and globalization. we have enhanced childcare, nursing care, and other to realizing the group’s shared corporate philosophy. To major group companies hold a joint meeting every year to share
Accordingly, as a corporate group constantly in pursuit of systems at each group company and have opened daycare this end, we are committed to creating a safe workplace reports on workplace accidents and recurrence prevention
innovation, we are endeavoring to establish a richly diverse centers at three of our business premises (in Tokushima, environment and are continuously implementing initiatives measures.
workplace environment. Osaka, and Tsukuba) to help employees balance childcare to help employees maintain and improve their health. Otsuka Chemical, which handles chemical substances,
and work. conducts various workplace safety initiatives. Major initiatives
Approach Approach
Moreover, we are actively conducting diversity promotion include a system for swift information sharing on issues
Since the 1980s, a time when the concept of diversity initiatives such as group-wide seminars with the theme of The major Otsuka group companies have issued a declaration related to factory operations among all domestic and overseas
had yet to gain wide acceptance, our top management LGBT, with the aim of achieving a more inclusive workplace. on health under which they strive to create a workplace locations, as well as regular reporting of group safety at Board
has actively promoted diversity in the belief that active As a company developing and supplying anti-cancer environment conducive to employee health maintenance of Directors meetings. Another key initiative is Anzen Dojo,
contributions from personnel with diverse nationalities, agents, Taiho Pharmaceutical has a team to realize and improvement. As part of efforts led by Otsuka Holdings, an experience-based safety training center which opened in
races, ages, genders, disabilities, sexual orientations and “Workplace support for employees with cancer.” This team, officers in charge of health management at each group 2012 as part of measures to prevent occupational accidents.
other characteristics are essential in creating innovative mainly composed of the Human Resources Department company cooperate with the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Health The center runs training programs aimed at improving safety
products and ideas that drive corporate growth. and occupational nursing staff, aims to create a workplace Insurance Association and medical professionals in activities awareness for group employees, employees of overseas
The Otsuka group has stated its commitment to promoting where employees with cancer or other diseases can receive aimed at improving the health of employees. One such activity affiliates, and third parties. Through classroom instruction and
diversity in the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics. treatment while continuing to work. Taiho Pharmaceutical is the hosting of Health Seminars for group employees and simulations of past accidents, the center reinforces lessons
Furthermore, in 2017 the group became a signatory to the has been recognized with an Excellence Award from their families. Held in major cities across Japan, these seminars from failures and safety knowledge, sharpens awareness of
Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs), a set of corporate the Tokyo Metropolitan Government for its outstanding are aimed at communicating the group’s initiatives on health, danger, and develops the ability to identify potential risks.
principles jointly developed by the United Nations Global initiatives under this support framework that helps cancer introducing the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Health Insurance In recognition of its activities to improve health and safety
Compact (UNGC) and UN Women2 that offers guidance on patients balance treatment and work. Association, and disseminating information relevant to education and establish a safety culture through Anzen Dojo,
how to empower women in the workplace. Furthermore, Otsuka Pharmaceutical established Heartful improving the health of employees and their families. Another Otsuka Chemical received an RC Outstanding Award from
To demonstrate our commitment as a signatory to the Kawauchi in Tokushima City in 2011 as a special purpose activity is the group-wide Tokushima Health Project, known as the Japan Chemical Industry Association at the 8th Annual
WEPs, we have introduced a number of systems that meet subsidiary. This subsidiary enables people with disabilities to TOK-J, launched in 2017 under the theme of creating lively and Responsible Care Awards in 2014.
WEPs at group companies in Japan. Notable examples fully realize their potential. cheerful workplaces by lowering the risk of lifestyle diseases.
are the Work Interval System, which mandates minimum 1. Scope: Figures for 2019 at nine companies (Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka This project targets the Tokushima region—where the greatest
rest periods for workers, and the Family Smile Support Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical, concentration of group employees live and work—and focuses
Otsuka Foods, Otsuka Pharmaceutical D&C, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, and
System,3 which encourages employees to work from home on raising awareness of health issues in the region as a whole.
Pharmavite)
if necessary to deal with childbirth, childcare, childrearing, 2. United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women The project promotes walking, exercise and a healthy diet.
3. Revised telework system for increased flexibility
and nursing care, thus achieving better work efficiency,
Improving Workplace Health and Safety
For the purpose of creating a safe and secure workplace, at
factories and other business sites of each group company in
External Recognition Japan we have established safety and health committees, as
defined in the Industrial Safety and Health Act. We actively
carry out workplace health and safety inspections, as well as
the necessary activities to ensure appropriate management of
health, operations and the workplace environment, in addition
Anzen Dojo
External Recognition
Nadeshiko Brand Platinum Kurumin Eruboshi Diversity Management
System for selecting companies that and Kurumin Certification system based on the Selection 100
actively promote the employment Certification system based on the Act on Promotion of Women’s System recognizing companies that
and advancement of women. Act on Advancement of Measures Participation and Advancement have improved corporate value
(Ministry of Economy, Trade and to Support Raising Next-Generation in the Workplace. Companies are through diversity management.
Industry; Tokyo Stock Exchange) Children. Platinum Kurumin is a recognized for excellent efforts to (Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Selected in 2020: Otsuka Holdings* certification for Kurumin-certified empower women in the workplace. Industry)
companies that have carried out (Ministry of Health, Labour and 2014 Award: Otsuka Pharmaceutical
* Scope of survey: Otsuka Holdings and higher-level initiatives. Welfare)
Otsuka Pharmaceutical (Ministry of Health, Labour and Eruboshi (highest grade): Health & Productivity Management Health & Productivity Health & Productivity Management
Welfare) Otsuka Chemical Outstanding Organization* (White 500) Management Outstanding Outstanding Organization*
Platinum Kurumin: (large enterprise category) Organization* (SME category)
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Otsuka Holdings, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, (large enterprise category) Otsuka Electronics, JIMRO,
Taiho Pharmaceutical Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Techno Otsuka Wellness Vending
Kurumin:
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, and others * The Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organization Recognition Program examines organizations working to overcome health-related challenges in local communities or to
promote health-conscious activities led by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi, and recognizes organizations for outstanding efforts in health and productivity management.
44 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 45The Otsuka Group’s CSR: Society
2. Joint Business Partner Audit by
Pharmaceutical Companies For details on the Otsuka Group
Quality in All We Do Sourcing/Procurement Vision & Policy,
In the Otsuka group, four pharmaceutical companies conduct
please visit our website:
joint business partner audits for shared suppliers of raw
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/society/
materials. We began these audits in 2016, applying proprietary
quality/procurement.html
To help build a sustainable society, the Otsuka group seeks to achieve sustainability by addressing environmental and social issues methodologies and including an auditor skills training program.
and by establishing a quality assurance structure that ensures safety and reliability at every stage of the value chain.
Production, Quality
R&D Procurement Control and Patient/ Logistics Sales and Marketing
Customer Safety
Production, Quality Control and Patient/Customer Safety
R&D Basic Policy 2. Quality Control and Patient/Consumer Safety
The Otsuka group always puts its customers first. In seeking to The Otsuka group always puts its customers first. To this
1. Ethical Considerations Concerning replacement of animal use, Reduction/minimization in the make products that gain their trust, we promote collaboration end, it has built and maintains safety control and operation
Appropriate R&D number of animals used, and Refinement/minimization of and joint activities among group companies, taking into account systems that take into account the characteristics of each
The use of experimental animals to verify efficacy and safety in animal suffering. Based on these, we conduct researcher the characteristics of each of our businesses, which include of its businesses, which include pharmaceuticals, foods and
R&D is at times necessary. The Otsuka group complies with all education and internal inspections and evaluations of the pharmaceuticals, foods and beverages, chemicals, and cosmetics. beverages, chemicals, and cosmetics. Proper assurance of
related laws, ordinances, and guidelines while striving to uphold implementation of experiments involving animals. quality is the foundation for the efficacy and safety that enable
Approach
scientifically valid methodologies and ethical considerations from pharmaceutical products to be used in medical care.
the viewpoints of animal protection and welfare, including the 2. Ethics in Development The Otsuka group is strongly committed to quality. This In addition, while complying with the laws and regulations
lives of the animals; preservation of the environment; and the In the development of pharmaceuticals, we confirm the safety commitment began with the words of Busaburo Otsuka, the in each country, for example the Pharmaceutical and Medical
safety of experimenters. and effectiveness of candidate compounds by conducting founder of the Otsuka group: “Quality is vital in a factory and Devices Act in Japan, we engage in quality control and post-
As an in-house management system, we have developed clinical trials with the cooperation of healthy individuals and so is packaging. We have to manufacture and market, putting marketing surveillance to ensure safety in accordance with
and implemented rules on experiments that involve animals, patients. Recognizing the importance of ethical considerations ourselves in the consumer’s position.” This commitment has GQP1 and GVP2 standards. We also make reports, as well as
have established an Animal Experiment Committee, and regarding human rights and personal information, the Otsuka been passed down by employees ever since. We believe that compile and revise various documentation, for submission to
properly carry out animal experiments and breeding. The group implements clinical trials in compliance with ethical ensuring a stable supply of high-quality products contributes the relevant regulatory authorities. We have also established a
Animal Experiment Committee evaluates whether each principles and standards, including ICH-GCP, an international to a sustainable society. As such, we believe we should focus system for constant global pharmacovigilance that collects and
proposed animal experiment plan is appropriate based on standard for the implementation of clinical trials for active efforts on ensuring quality through human resource assesses product safety information, including on side effects.
the 3Rs principles. These are Replacement/avoidance or pharmaceutical products. development and by building appropriate systems. We continue to promptly provide the results of our monitoring
The Otsuka group’s production, quality, and safety control to medical institutions and other relevant parties.
systems comply with legal and regulatory requirements, 1. GQP: Good Quality Practice
and with governmental and industry standards, including 2. GVP: Good Vigilance Practice
Partners surveyed through the the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Act and the Food
self-assessment questionnaire: 3. Global Product Quality Team Activities for
Procurement 34 Sanitation Act. Group companies also work to acquire the Pharmaceutical Business
(Cumulative) international certifications such as ISO 9001 for quality, and
Since 2016, Otsuka Pharmaceutical and its group companies
Basic Policy Guidelines to provide more specific descriptions of the ISO 22000 and FSSC 22000 for food safety. have conducted activities to enhance compliance with GxPs*
The Otsuka group, together with its business partners, aims to provisions of the above vision and policy. In order to ensure for a range of processes from development through to
1. Production
contribute to the building of a sustainable society by promoting a stable supply of products, we perform advance risk the finished product. Among initiatives to improve quality
CSR procurement that takes into consideration factors such assessments on key raw materials to identify potential risks Production departments at the Otsuka group employ a control systems, we hold meetings attended by management
as legal and regulatory compliance, the environment, and the so that we can take countermeasures. We also make sure to traceability system covering all stages of the value chain, from personnel, as well as group-wide meetings.
protection of human rights. source raw materials from multiple companies, in principle. For raw material procurement to production, distribution, and The Pharmaceutical Business established global product
products that use palm oil, for example, Otsuka Pharmaceutical sales, thereby enabling thorough management throughout the quality policies in 2017. Activities are carried out globally, and
Approach confirms that its business partners are RSPO* members before entire value chain. include ensuring the reliability of quality data and compiling
Across the entire value chain, the Otsuka group engages in purchasing raw materials. Moreover, for over 30 years, production departments procedural manuals.
business activities that are safe, reliable, socially acceptable, and * Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil have held a global production meeting aimed at group- * GxP: Umbrella term for GCP, GVP, GMP, GDP, etc.
in compliance with laws and regulations. When commencing wide improvements by sharing techniques and information.
transactions with a supplier, we perform screening and checks 1. Collaboration with Business Partners In 2019, the meeting was attended by approximately 100 4. Quality Control Activities for
to ensure the quality of raw materials and to guarantee stable We conduct surveys of business partners using the CSR employees involved in production at group companies in 13 the Nutraceutical Business
procurement. We also conclude a basic transaction agreement. procurement self-assessment questionnaire* published by UN countries/regions. In addition, failure case study meetings and In 2018, Otsuka Pharmaceutical established the Quality Division
In the case of a new supplier, transactions are determined only Global Compact Network Japan. In 2018, we asked 26 companies environmental management information exchange meetings for the purpose of further facilitating quality improvement
after we have carried out due diligence. to complete the survey, and received responses from 25. In began in 2017 and 2018, respectively. At these meetings, and safety control for products in the Nutraceutical Business.
We aim for mutually sustainable development through fair, 2019, nine companies were selected, all of whom responded. participants share presentations and opinions on case studies Furthermore, with the establishment of the Quality Assurance
equitable and transparent procurement and the establishment We assess our business partners not only with respect to of collaborative measures and technological development Office, we have implemented a system based on GMP for
of healthy relationships with business partners. To achieve this, legal and regulatory compliance but also with respect to their to address quality, safety, cost and environmental issues, the pharmaceuticals. The system enables centralized management
we have formulated and share with all business partners the activities regarding human rights, labor, the environment, and future outlook, and overseas development. of all processes from identifying and verifying risks arising
Otsuka Group Sourcing/Procurement Vision & Policy, which anti-corruption measures. Results of the survey are provided to At the global production meeting, we also present awards from changes, to investigating causes and taking remedial
takes into account factors such as human rights, labor issues, partners as feedback to further promote CSR procurement. to employees who have made significant contributions action when risks manifest. As of May 2020, all our factories
the environment and anti-corruption measures. Going forward, we will hold briefing sessions for our partners. to production activities, lay the foundations for further in Japan that manufacture nutraceuticals are certified for the
We have also formulated the Sourcing/Procurement * Questionnaires are sent to business partners that meet predefined criteria. improvements in productivity, and conduct personnel training. FSSC 22000 food safety standard.
46 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 47The Otsuka Group’s CSR: Society
5. Collaboration between Pharmaceutical The meeting is an opportunity for participants to review the consumers. To develop personnel who can help resolve social 2. Reducing Food Loss
and Nutraceutical Departments preceding year’s quality control performance and to work on issues, we hold monthly training programs in three formats: The Otsuka group seeks to address food loss issues by
Product quality departments of the Pharmaceutical Business improving quality control and developing personnel by sharing group seminars, e-learning and satellite broadcasting. producing foods and beverages with longer shelf lives and with
and Nutraceutical Business jointly hold an annual global product reports that illustrate the need for predictive risk management In a similar fashion to the Pharmaceutical Business, we have expiration dates that are indicated by the month rather than
quality meeting. The 2019 meeting was attended by around in production activities, based on the importance of learning established a dedicated unit comprising multiple departments day. Some products are unsuitable for the consumer market
100 managers and quality supervisors for pharmaceuticals from examples of issues as well as successes. to review marketing plans and sales promotion materials for due to being short-dated, in poor condition external packaging
and nutraceuticals from 22 companies in nine countries. nutraceutical and consumer products. This ensures that our or other reasons. From 2019, to further reduce food loss,
marketing and sales promotion activities are appropriate and we began selling these products to group employees. These
comply with laws and regulations. initiatives helped us eliminate approximately 131 tons of food
loss in 2019.
Logistics
Basic Policy
Specifically, we are improving logistics quality by introducing
The Otsuka group handles products that relate directly to IT systems for truck dispatch and vehicle monitoring, which
Promotion of Customer-centric Management
human life, including pharmaceuticals, foods and beverages. enable better tracking of transport and delivery status.
As such, we ensure the rigorous control and maintenance Other initiatives
of product quality throughout distribution, and actively take include computerizing Basic Policy
treatment, those in need of nursing care and others who said
measures to ensure stable supply in the event of a natural warehouse operations
In October 2018, the Otsuka group announced its Declaration that they had difficulty opening the cap because of muscular
disaster or other emergency situation. The group also promotes to reduce incorrect
of Customer-centric Commitment, as a way of putting the strength issues. Based on this feedback, we redesigned the
environmentally friendly logistics operations through measures shipments and mispicks,
corporate philosophy into practice. Promotion of customer- container to be easier to open. We have also created websites
such as reducing CO2 emissions. thereby helping quality
centric management has been targeted in activities for material that provide product information in Japanese, English, Chinese
improvement through
issues. In conducting business, we recognize that respecting and Spanish, and added QR codes to product labelling that link
Approach Warehouse navigation system
higher efficiency.
consumer rights is an important human rights issue. Our with these websites.
The Otsuka group delivers products throughout Japan, mainly The diverse assortment of shipping forms has been standardized
Declaration of Customer-centric Commitment establishes basic * OS-1 is approved as a food for persons with medical conditions and is intended to
via group company Otsuka Warehouse. To ensure the control and digitalized, with benefits that include lower mishandling rates policies stating our commitment to our social responsibilities provide water and electrolytes in order to maintain the proper water and electrolyte
and maintenance of product quality, Otsuka Warehouse has set when orders are changed. balance in persons with mild-to-moderate dehydration (Approved by the Consumer
as a corporation, which we fulfill by pursuing customer-centric
Affairs Agency)
up the GDP* Promotion Office to facilitate appropriate logistics Otsuka Warehouse is working to ensure stable supply
management and making appropriate decisions that are based
in accordance with the GDP guidelines for pharmaceuticals. by establishing distributed storage facilities across Japan
on dialogue with all stakeholders.
We disseminate the principles of the GDP guidelines among to maintain adequate product stocks that reflect product
personnel engaged in the manufacture and distribution characteristics. Furthermore, for pharmaceuticals, a framework 1. Inculcating a Customer-centric Example of Improved Product: OS-1 Jelly
of pharmaceuticals through training and drills on quality for business continuity planning (BCP) has been established Mindset in Employees Enlarged cap diameter by 5 millimeters.
management systems, document control, administration of that ensures essential products can be delivered to where they
Customer-facing employees from group companies in Japan Previous design New design
outsourced processes, facility and equipment maintenance, are needed. In addition to securing stock, measures include
meet twice yearly to share best practices for customer service Larger cap
storage and transport operations, assessment of supplier and developing an emergency response system for transporting makes the
and product improvements. This helps foster a customer-centric product easier
customer eligibility, among others. In addition, we conduct products, for example registering vehicles for authorized to open.
corporate culture.
regular training to ensure compliance with internal standards access to restricted areas and exchanging MOUs with shippers,
and procedures. warehouse owners and other partners for cooperation in the
2. Enhancing Information Exchange
We also strive to standardize data management system transport of emergency relief supplies. with Customers and Mechanisms
specifications in order to facilitate collaboration and for Reflecting Customer Feedback
cooperation between shippers and logistics operators.
Each group company establishes dedicated customer contact
* GDP: Good Distribution Practice points for patients, healthcare professionals and general
consumers, and provides appropriate training for the employees For packaging produced by group companies in Japan,
who work there. For example, the assignment of specially with the exception of certain products such as those with
trained female operators enables us to better answer inquiries space limitations, we ensure the understandability of labelling.
Sales and Marketing about products designed for women. This approach helps us In addition to information required by law, the following
deepen communication with customers, provide appropriate information is presented: instructions for storage after opening,
Basic Policy
Given that society demands transparency in relationships information and reflect customer requests and suggestions in precautions for use, an easy-to-read list of allergens contained
The Otsuka group believes that it has a responsibility to deliver between pharmaceutical companies and healthcare product improvements. (mandatory and recommended items), and a clear indication of
higher-value products and services to customers. To do so, we organizations, we are striving to ensure code adherence in One such product improvement was for OS-1* and OS-1 packaging materials. Based on customer feedback, we continue
will engage in suitable promotion and advertising activities order to fulfill our duty as a pharmaceutical company and Jelly,* produced by Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory. These to make further improvements. For example, Otsuka Foods
that comply with laws and regulations, and communicate with ensure the practice of ethical, patient-oriented medical care. products are foods for persons with medical conditions. We has redesigned allergen labelling by adding a list of allergens
customers in an appropriate manner. received feedback from elderly individuals, customers receiving on the package in a separate location from the comprehensive
1. Approach in the Nutraceutical and list of instructions and precautions. For Bon Curry for Children,
Approach Consumer Products Businesses illustrations have been
Previous design New design
The Otsuka group has expanded on the JPMA Promotion The Nutraceutical Business contributes to solutions for social added to make the
Code for Prescription Drugs—a code of behavior for issues by providing creative products directed at maintaining For details on the Declaration of information easier to
healthcare professionals issued by the Japan Pharmaceutical and improving people’s health while offering useful health Customer-centric Commitment, understand, so that
please visit our website:
Manufacturers Association (JPMA)—to formulate its own information. Otsuka Pharmaceutical has established the Scientific consumers can purchase
https://www.otsuka.com/en/company/
Code of Practice covering each group company in an effort to Affairs Department to gather and disseminate information it with peace of mind.
customer/
engage in appropriate collaboration based on relationships of about products, related knowledge and the latest academic
trust with all stakeholders, including medical practitioners. information in order to provide appropriate information to
48 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 49Environment
Climate Change
FY 2030 Goal: 30% reduction in CO2 emissions compared to FY 2017
Otsuka Group Global Environmental Council Climate change due to global warming is causing serious environmental issues on a worldwide scale, such as by
Otsuka Group’s Environmental Policy severely impacting biological and water resources. We recognize it as a major risk to our global operations. The Otsuka
As a global group that contributes to the health of people
The Otsuka group of companies strives to advance group is committed to creating a decarbonized society, and thereby a sustainable society. We are aiming to reduce
worldwide, the Otsuka group works sincerely to reduce the
as an essential company that contributes to the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across the entire value chain in order to help achieve the Paris Agreement goal of
impact its businesses have on the global environment, and
health of people worldwide. We will help to realize holding the global average temperature increase below 2°C above pre-industrial levels.
seeks to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society
a sustainable society by always taking account of the
that can protect nature and the future of the earth.
global environment in the value chain as we pursue our
The Otsuka Group Global Environmental Council 1. Initiatives for Efficient Energy Use Taiho Pharmaceutical have been validated under the Science
business activities based on our trademark qualities of
comprises the group-wide coordinator at Otsuka Holdings, and CO2 Reduction Based Targets (SBT) Initiative.
autonomy, proactiveness and creativity.
executive officers at each group company who are
In Tokushima Prefecture, where a number of Otsuka In order to achieve these new goals, we will optimize
Guidelines responsible for and have jurisdiction over matters related group production sites are concentrated, we have installed energy use and introduce renewable energy, and continue
to the environment, and a secretariat. Matters deliberated
1. Climate Change cogeneration systems at Otsuka Chemical and Otsuka to promote reduction of GHG emissions throughout the
on by the council are approved by the Board of Directors
Play a part in controlling global warming by reducing Pharmaceutical Factory. These systems generate electric value chain.
of Otsuka Holdings, and shared as the environmental
CO2 emissions. power from natural gas, while converting waste heat into
management policies of the Otsuka group. The council
steam and hot water, which are then supplied to nearby 2030 Goals
2. Resource Recycling and Conservation
promotes initiatives that contribute to solutions to global
Continue to improve resource efficiency and help group companies. Furthermore, the cogeneration system • Reduction of greenhouse gas
social issues related to the earth’s environment. introduced in February 2020 at Otsuka Pharmaceutical emissions (Scope 12 and 23)
create a zero-waste society.
Factory’s Toyama Factory supports our business continuity by 30% compared to 2017
3. Water Conservation
Promote sustainable use of water through conservation,
■ Otsuka Group Global Environmental Council Organization plan, reduces annual CO2 emissions by approximately • Reduction of greenhouse gas
1,800 tons, and contributes to energy efficiency and stable emissions (Scope 34) by 20% compared to 2017
recycling and clean return.
Group-wide coordinator
drug supply. 1. An international initiative led by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), World
4. Environmental Compliance Otsuka Holdings director Resources Institute (WRI), and World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). Validates
Continue to improve our environmental management
We are working to reduce CO2 emissions by switching
companies’ CO2 emission reduction targets that align with scientifically-based
to renewable energy. In July 2019, we started introducing reduction scenarios, in order to achieve the Paris Agreement goal of holding the global
system, increase effectiveness of compliance, and average temperature increase below 2°C above pre-industrial levels.
CO2-free electricity, which is derived from renewable energy 2. Scope 1: Direct emissions
reduce risks. Secretariat
sources and does not emit CO2, at Otsuka group factories 3. Scope 2: Indirect emissions from energy sources
4. Scope 3: Other indirect emissions
Otsuka Holdings and research centers in Tokushima Prefecture and at Otsuka
Otsuka Pharmaceutical
The Otsuka group has determined the materialities of its Pharmaceutical’s Fukuroi Factory. In November 2019, we 3. Third-Party Verification of GHG Emissions
environmental initiatives to be climate change, resource expanded its introduction to Otsuka Foods’ Shiga Factory, In order to improve the transparency and reliability of
recycling and conservation and water conservation. We have and overseas to Nutrition & Santé’s Spain Factory. its environmental data, the Otsuka group has its GHG
Council members
set goals for 2030, and are carrying out activities aimed
Otsuka ■ Total CO2 Emissions
emissions Scopes 1 and 2 (CO2 emissions from energy
at achieving them. As part of these initiatives, the Otsuka Otsuka Pharma- Taiho Otsuka Otsuka Otsuka sources, including energy consumption), and Scope 3
Pharma- ceutical Pharma- Chemical Warehouse Foods (Thousand tons-CO2) (Tons/¥ million)
group’s five major companies in Japan1 are working to ceutical Factory ceutical 900 1.00 (Category 1) verified by third-party organizations. This helps
acquire integrated ISO 14001 certification, the international 882211 Japan 34.4% us identify emissions trends and implement improvements.
standard for environmental management systems, as part Indonesia 21.2% We will continue to expand the scope of verification and
of efforts to promote activities that are more efficient and 600 India 18.5% further enhance the reliability of our data.
00..5599
highly effective.2 South Korea 7.5%
■ GHG Emissions throughout the Value Chain
Going forward, the group will work together toward North America 7.6% 0.50
Scope 12
the realization of a decarbonized society, and ultimately a 300 China 5.9% 10.5%
sustainable society, raising awareness and understanding Europe 2.1% Scope 23
of environmental issues by conducting environmental Others 2.9%
7.0%
Other
training for employees and generating synergy through categories
0 0
collaborations between group companies. 2017 2018 2019
27.2% 1,320
thousand tons-CO2 Scope 34
1. Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Total CO2 emissions (left) CO2 emissions per sales (right) 82.5%
Chemical, and Otsuka Foods
Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group
2. As of December 31, 2019, 20 Otsuka group companies in Japan and overseas are ISO
14001-certified. To accelerate efforts to achieve group goals, we are working to Category 15
acquire integrated ISO 14001 certification for the group. 2. Validation of Otsuka Pharmaceutical 55.3%
and Taiho Pharmaceutical Goals
under the SBT Initiative1 5. Purchased goods and services
Scope: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical,
GHG reduction goals set by Otsuka Pharmaceutical and Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods
50 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 51The Otsuka Group’s CSR: Environment
Resource Recycling and Conservation Water Conservation
FY 2030 Goals: 50% reduction in simple incineration and landfill compared to FY 2019 FY 2030 Goal: Improvement of water use efficiency by 15% compared to FY 2017
50% or higher content of recycled and plant-based materials in our
Since its establishment, the Otsuka group’s operations have had a deep connection to water, a resource essential
PET bottles
to life. Through products that use water as a raw material, we have actively contributed not only to the treatment
In order to realize both a sustainable society and ongoing corporate growth, a global shift to sustainable business and prevention of diseases, but also the maintenance and promotion of health. We therefore recognize water as an
models that grow without impacting the environment is necessary. To continue providing products that contribute to important resource, and consider its conservation to be a critical global issue. Moreover, water resources are unevenly
the health of people worldwide, the Otsuka group will raise resource efficiency throughout the value chain and build distributed across different countries and regions, each of which faces different risks. The Otsuka group therefore
a sustainable system for recycling and conservation of resources, including biological resources. cooperates with all stakeholders, and conducts ongoing water conservation initiatives from intake to discharge
(including cultivation of water resources, conscientious use and clean return), in the aim of sustainable water use.
1. Initiatives to Achieve Zero Waste1 Otsuka Group Plastic Policy Evaluating Water Risk at Production Sites ■ Water Usage and Water Use Efficiency
In fiscal 2019, the Otsuka group’s total global waste volume Considering environmental risk in each region is also (Thousand m3) (m3/¥ million)
■ Fundamental Concept 25,000 30
was 97,000 tons. The effective use amount including important to sustainable growth in the diverse business
PET bottles comprise the majority of plastic containers and
material recycling,2 composting, and heat recovery3 was models of the Otsuka group operating around the world. 20,000
packaging used for consumer products by our group companies. 1188,,775566
74,000 tons, or about 76% of the total. Since 2017, the Otsuka group has conducted water risk 20
For this reason, we believe that by promoting PET bottle recycling,
15,000 6,482
Furthermore, the simple incineration volume was 5,000 assessments at all production sites using the water risk
we can reduce our reliance on fossil fuel and thereby contribute
tons (mainly in Japan) and the landfill volume was 11,000 to environmental conservation. Our plan is to use PET bottles assessment tool “Aqueduct,” developed by the World 10,000
1133..44 10
tons (mainly overseas). Going forward, we will promote manufactured from recycled and plant-based materials and increase Resources Institute (WRI), so as to understand and minimize
5,000
activities to reduce waste and disposal volumes together the percentage of such sustainable resource use in our production the impact of such risk on water-related business activities. 12,274
with group companies in Japan and overseas. processes globally to 50 percent by 2030 and 100 percent by 2050. Going forward, we will conduct more specific assessments 0 0
1. Approach seeking to reduce waste generation and wasted resources to zero Moreover, to advance PET material recycling, it is essential to recycle and promote activities tailored to each region that target 2017 2018 2019
2. Reuse of recycled materials as raw materials PET bottles for use as raw material. Together with our various the effective management and use of water, with the aim of Outside Japan (left) Japan (left) Water use efficiency (right)
3. Generation and use of heat energy from incineration (in accordance with EU or SSccooppee: :A All pllr opdruocdtiounc stiitoesn o sf itthees c oonfs otlhidea tcedo nOtssoukliad gartoeudp Otsuka group
Japanese standards); includes use as fuel and solid fuel conversion stakeholders, we will advance our global efforts on proper collection conservation and sustainable use of water resources.
and recycling of used PET bottles.
■ Total Waste Volume
■ Our Vision for 2050 Environmentally Friendly Products of the Otsuka Group
7.2%
For our entire line of consumer products, we will endeavor to use
7,000 tons Going beyond making our products themselves low impact, in development, we consider environmental impact throughout
packaging that supports a sustainable society:
5.2% the value chain, from raw material procurement to disposal, as well as the needs of the times resulting from changes in
5,000 tons Material recycling
• No use of plastics made from petroleum-based materials society. In this way, we contribute to solutions to global environmental issues and increasingly diverse social issues.
11.3% Composting, conversion to
11,000 tons feed, reuse, etc. • Promote use of recycled, plant-based, and biodegradable
43.3% Power generation, heat use, materials A unique formulation allows POCARI SWEAT ICE SLURRY to be stored at room temperature
12.4% 42,000 tons fuel conversion
12,000 tons Landfills • Promote use of reusable packaging We developed POCARI SWEAT ICE SLURRY with a focus on core body temperature regulation to
20.6% Simple incineration support active people in hot environments. The unique formulation of this drinkable ice product allows
20,000 tons
Others ■ Our Goal for 2030 it to be stored at room temperature and conveniently frozen before use. Even if it melts, the liquid
• Achieve a 50 percent or higher content of recycled and plant- can be returned to a slurry state by refreezing. This also enables energy savings when transporting or
Total waste volume based materials in our PET bottles. storing the product.
97,000 tons
• Introduce alternative packaging (e.g., paper) and increase use of
Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group cans for our drink products. Bon Curry can be warmed in the microwave while still in the box
• Step up promotion of drink bottle recycling by introducing Launched in 1968, Bon Curry was the world’s first commercial retort pouch food product and can be
reusable packaging through a zero-waste sales and circular heated in the microwave while still in the box. It saves consumers the time and trouble of boiling water
2. Initiatives Targeting the Issue of Plastic Waste distribution model, which also includes the use of sports
bottles for our powder products. or putting the curry on a plate to warm it. This product is environmentally friendly because it does not
As an initiative aimed at solving the issue of plastic waste, require open flame or water for preparation.*
We will promote the use of alternative packaging and concurrently
we have formulated the Otsuka Group Plastic Policy to
pursue using more recyclable materials for drink containers. * Does not apply to Okinawa limited Bon Curry products
contribute to the sustainable recycling of resources. As a
The world’s first quad-chamber infusion bag
group that provides products that contribute to people’s
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory develops products under its management vision of being “The Best
health, the Otsuka group will continue measures to assure
Partner in Clinical Nutrition.” It is focusing above all on the development of kit products that are easy
the safety and quality of containers and packaging.
for healthcare workers to use, and which also reduce medical errors and the risk of infection. Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Factory was behind the development of the first-ever quad-chamber bag, which is used for
ELNEOPA, a high-calorie infusion vitamin mixture containing glucose, electrolytes, amino acid, multivitamin,
and trace elements. Its groundbreaking design makes it possible to aseptically prepare the mixture with a
single push. It also saves resources, enables efficient transportation and reduces disposal waste.
52 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 53Governance 2. Board of Directors Meetings candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board members, the
The Board of Directors convenes regularly once a month and committee obtains approval from the Audit & Supervisory
holds extraordinary meetings as necessary to make important Board prior to reporting to the Board of Directors.
business decisions and supervise the execution of operations. Candidates are those put forward by the representative
director(s).
3. Director Selection Criteria (2) Remuneration
Corporate Governance
The Company aims to become “an indispensable contributor The Corporate Governance Committee discusses matters
to people’s health worldwide” by targeting sustainable related to the remuneration system and standards for
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (“the Company”) is committed to promoting sustainable increase of its corporate value over the medium
growth and enhanced corporate value over the medium to directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, and
to long term by realizing its corporate philosophy, “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide.” To meet this
long term. Toward this aim, the Company works to ensure reports to the Board of Directors.
commitment, it adopts a basic policy of making transparent, fair and timely decisions, and fulfilling its corporate social responsibility
the overall diversity of directors, and appoints people with (3) Corporate Governance Structure
by living up to the expectations of all stakeholders, including customers, business partners, employees, local communities, and
the insight, expertise, and experience needed to realize and In addition, the Committee deliberates on matters related
shareholders, through ongoing dialogue.
maintain appropriate and effective corporate governance. For to the enhancement of the corporate governance structure,
internal directors in particular, we comprehensively evaluate and reports to the Board of Directors as necessary.
the experience, expertise, insight, and other attributes of
Board of Directors meeting attendance: Outside directors: Female directors:
candidates to ensure that they have the qualities needed 5. Audit & Supervisory Board and Its Members
100 30.8 23.1
to implement the group’s corporate philosophy, Code of Audit & Supervisory Board members attend and express
% % %
Business Ethics, and management strategies. opinions at meetings of the Board of Directors, and
monitor the performance of duties of directors in terms of
Initiatives to Strengthen Corporate Governance 4. Corporate Governance Committee legal compliance and soundness of management through
The Company discloses its basic approach to corporate governance
in its Corporate Governance Guidelines, available on the corporate 2008 • Establishment of Otsuka Holdings In February 2017, the Company established the Corporate audits. In striving to improve the effectiveness of audits,
website. • Term of directors set at one year Governance Committee with the aim of increasing Audit & Supervisory Board members also share information
• Decision not to adopt a directors’ retirement benefits system
Corporate Governance Guidelines • Corporate officer system adopted transparency and objectivity in management. As an advisory and exchange opinions as appropriate with relevant
https://www.otsuka.com/en/company/ • Two outside Audit & Supervisory Board members body to the Board of Directors, the committee discusses departments, including the Internal Audit Department,
governance/pdf/guideline.pdf 2010 • Three outside Audit & Supervisory Board members matters relating to corporate governance, including the Internal Control Department, Administration Department,
• Stock options as performance-linked remuneration introduced
Corporate Governance Report • Stock publicly listed in December nomination of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board and Finance and Accounting Department, as well as the
https://www.otsuka.com/jp/company/governance/ 2011 • First Medium-Term Management Plan announced members, and the remuneration system and standards for accounting auditor.
pdf/report.pdf (available only in Japanese) 2013 • Two outside directors; three outside Audit & Supervisory Board directors, and reports the results of its deliberations to the
members
2014 • Second Medium-Term Management Plan announced Board of Directors. The committee consists of the president, 6. Evaluation of Effectiveness of Board of Directors
• Three outside directors; two outside Audit & Supervisory Board the director in charge of administration, and all four outside From January through February every year, the Company
members
Overview of Corporate Governance Structure • Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics established directors. The president serves as the chair of the committee. conducts a questionnaire survey of all directors and Audit
The Board of Directors, which also includes outside 2015 • Corporate Governance Guidelines established & Supervisory Board members. Results of the survey are
directors, advances the execution of management plans, • Internal whistleblowing system (for Otsuka Holdings and major Content of Deliberations reviewed by a company attorney, and then reviewed and
group companies) established, with reporting to an independent
supervises the Company’s management, and also assumes body outside the Company (1) Nomination evaluated at the Board of Directors meeting in March.
roles and responsibilities to enhance the profitability and 2016 • Three outside directors; three outside Audit & Supervisory Board The Corporate Governance Committee discusses the Questionnaire items are as follows.
members
capital investment efficiency in order to promote the • Effectiveness of Board of Directors evaluated validity and fairness of matters related to the appointment (1) Composition of the Board of Directors
sustainable growth of the Company and the increase • System for granting stock options conditional on progress with and dismissal of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board (2) Each director’s understanding and knowledge of business
the medium-term management plan introduced
of corporate value over the medium to long term. The members, and reports to the Board of Directors. Regarding fields and specific management strategies and plans
2017 • Corporate Governance Guidelines revised
Company secures its soundness and establishes the • Corporate Governance Committee established
solid corporate governance structure living up to social • Started to evaluate the effectiveness of the Board of Directors
based on questionnaires completed by all directors and Audit & Shareholders’ Meeting
expectations by ensuring that the Audit & Supervisory Supervisory Board members
Board and its members, which are independent from the • Started to hold reporting meetings for outside directors and Elects/Dismisses Elects/Dismisses Elects/Dismisses
outside Audit & Supervisory Board members to improve their
Board of Directors, can audit the Directors’ performance of understanding of the group’s management and business
their duties in collaboration with the Accounting Auditor, as 2018 • Two female directors Corporate Consults Board of Directors O Ap cce ora ut nio tin na gl aa uu dd ii tt ss Audit & Supervisory Board
well as the Internal Audit Department. • Corporate Governance Guidelines revised Governance Recommends (13 directors; 4 of whom are outside directors) Boa(4 rd A mud ei mt & be S ru s;p 3e r ov fi s wor hy o m
2019 • • T Rh ei sr td ri cM tee dd i su tm oc- kT -e brm as eM d a cn oa mg pem ene sn at t iP ol na n p la an nn io nu trn oc de ud ced Committee Appoints/Dismisses are outside members)
1. Corporate Organization • Otsuka Group Global Conflict of Interest Policy established President and
As a company with an audit and supervisory board 2020 • Four outside directors; three female directors Representative Director, CEO (Cooperates with) (Cooperates with)
as defined by the Companies Act, the Company has Governance Structure (As of March 27, 2020) Instructs Reports Accounting audits Accounting Auditor
established a Board of Directors and an Audit & Supervisory
Company with an Audit & Internal Audit Department
Board, and also engages an accounting auditor. The Articles Form of organization
Supervisory Board (Cooperates with)
of Incorporation stipulate that the number of directors shall Directors [Outside directors] 13 [4 (independent directors)]
not exceed 18, and that the number of Audit & Supervisory Term of directors 1 year maA tep rp iaro l mva al to tf ers/ M Gre oe uti pn ’g s s b o of a rt dh se consP ur li to ar tion/
Board members shall not exceed five. Audit & Supervisory Board members Management of corporate Ex post
[Outside Audit & Supervisory Board 4 [3 (independent auditors)] guidance auditors facto reports
members]
Accounting auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC Subsidiaries (Shareholders’ Meeting, Board of Directors, Audit and Supervisory Board Members, etc.)
54 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 55(3) Cooperation with outside directors companies. Furthermore, given that all outside directors Skill Matrix for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members
(4) Cooperation with the Audit & Supervisory Board and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members satisfy In order to establish an effective corporate governance structure that supports sustainable growth, the Company appoints
(5) Operation of Board of Directors meetings requirements of independent directors/auditors prescribed individuals with wide-ranging business experience, advanced expertise in broad fields, and extensive knowledge, as directors
(6) Governance-related matters by the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE), the Company has and Audit & Supervisory Board members. The table below summarizes areas of experience and expertise of directors and
i. Function of the Board of Directors in determining the registered them as such with the TSE. Audit & Supervisory Board members.
direction of management strategy
ii. Monitoring of each business with respect to the 8. Internal Audit Department Global Technology, R&D, Strategic Finance, Legal, Company Healthcare Major
planning, compliance, risk administration, qualifications,
business production accounting analysis
execution of management strategy The Company’s Internal Audit Department reports directly marketing, sales management public health etc.
iii. Understanding of the perspectives of major investors to the president. The department regularly conducts audits
and stakeholders based on the Internal Audit Rules to verify that operations
iv. Risk management are being executed appropriately and efficiently with
v. Cooperation and information sharing with each regard to the assets and business of the Company and
operating company its affiliated companies. The department submits audit
(7) Support system for outside directors reports to the president, directors, and Audit & Supervisory
(8) Overall functioning of the Board of Directors from Board members. Where there is need for improvement,
the perspective of effectiveness the department recommends remedial actions and later
confirms their implementation, thereby contributing to the
optimization of business execution. The department also
shares information and cooperates in audits by Audit &
Supervisory Board members and the accounting auditor.
9. Internal Control Department
The Company’s Internal Control Department handles
internal controls regarding financial reporting by the
Company and its affiliated companies. The department
formulates rules and manuals pertaining to internal controls,
provides training, and ensures that employees thoroughly
understand operational rules. The department also works
in cooperation with the Internal Audit Department to
continuously monitor the status of operations. This is
Rationale for Selection of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members
the basis of an internal control system under which
management personnel can be reliably evaluated. Attendance rate
Our basic approach to the internal control system and its Audit &
Rationale for selection1 Board of Supervisory current status are described in the Corporate Governance Directors
Board
meeting Report that we submit to the TSE (available only in meeting
Japanese). Outside Yukio Matsutani Mr. Matsutani has provided appropriate suggestions and advice to the Company’s management 100% directors from an independent standpoint as an outside director, and from an objective and expert (16/16 —
viewpoint based on his abundant experience and extensive knowledge in the healthcare and 10. Accounting Audit welfare fields and high level of expertise in overall healthcare. times)
The Company has signed an auditing agreement with Ko Sekiguchi Mr. Sekiguchi has provided appropriate suggestions and advice to the Company’s management 100%
from an independent standpoint as an outside director, and from an objective and expert
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC as the accounting auditor to viewpoint based on his abundant experience and extensive knowledge as a corporate manager (16/16 —
and high level of expertise in Pharmaceutical Business. times)
audit its accounts from a fair and impartial standpoint. The
certified public accountants that audited the Company’s Yoshihisa Aoki Mr. Aoki has provided appropriate suggestions and advice to the Company’s management from 100%
an independent standpoint as an outside director, and from an objective and expert viewpoint
(13/13 —
7. Independence Criteria for Independent Officers accounts were Yukitaka Maruchi, Koichi Niki, and Hirofumi based on his abundant experience, track record, and extensive knowledge as a corporate
manager and abundant experience, expertise and network in the food industry. times)
When selecting outside directors and outside Audit & Otani. They were assisted by eight other certified public
Mayo Mita Ms. Mita, as a securities analyst, has abundant experience in corporate analysis and based on
Supervisory Board members, the Company looks for accountants and six other individuals. All of the certified that, a high level of insight in objectively observing and analyzing companies. She is expected to
individuals with a wealth of knowledge and extensive public accountants that audited the Company’s accounts provide appropriate suggestions and advice to the Company’s management from an —2 —
independent standpoint as an outside director, and from an objective and expert viewpoint.
experience in various fields. The Company requires have done so for less than seven consecutive years,
Outside Audit Hiroshi Mr. Sugawara has specialized knowledge as a certified public accountant, as well as abundant 100% 100%
that candidates have the ability to adequately exercise therefore that description is omitted. & Supervisory Sugawara business experience, and the Company has determined that he will be able to use such (16/16 (17/17
Board experience and expertise in audits of the Company. times) times)
management oversight functions through fair and objective
members
monitoring, supervision, and auditing of management 11. Succession Plan Yoko Wachi As an attorney, Ms. Wachi is well-versed in corporate legal affairs, and the Company has 100% 100%
determined that she will be able to use such experience and expertise in audits of the Company. (16/16 (17/17
from a neutral and objective viewpoint. The Independence The Company continues to develop and implement executive times) times)
Standards for Outside Directors are defined in our human resource development programs to identify talented
Kazuo Takahashi Mr. Takahashi has held major positions in IT and internal control departments for many years 100% 100%
Corporate Governance Guidelines, and form the basis for personnel early and systematically nurture next-generation and has abundant experience in corporate management, and the Company has determined that (16/16 (17/17
judgements on the independence of outside directors. In management candidates equipped with the qualities and skills he will be able to use such experience and expertise in audits of the Company. times) times)
addition, we require that they have not previously been called on by the corporate philosophy. The status of these 1. For all outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members, given no risk of conflict of interest with general shareholders, the Company believes each outside officer
qualifies as an independent director/auditor.
engaged in the execution of operations at any of our group programs is regularly reported to the Board of Directors. 2. Attendance for Board of Directors meetings and Audit & Supervisory Board meetings by Mayo Mita is not listed because she was newly appointed as an outside director at the 12th
General Meeting of Shareholders held on March 27, 2020.
56 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 57
srotceriD
Ichiro Otsuka ● ● ●
Tatsuo Higuchi ● ● ● ●
Yoshiro Matsuo ●
Yuko Makino ●
Shuichi Takagi ● ● ●
Sadanobu Tobe ●
Masayuki Kobayashi ● ● ●
Noriko Tojo ● ● ●
Makoto Inoue ● ● ●
Yukio Matsutani ● MD
Ko Sekiguchi ● ●
Yoshihisa Aoki ●
Mayo Mita ●
&
tiduA
yrosivrepuS
draoB srebmem
Summary of Evaluation in Fiscal 2019
The results of the analysis and evaluation of the overall
effectiveness of the Board of Directors in fiscal 2019 are
summarized below.
There was an increase in opinions stating improvement from
the previous year regarding the 12 items in the questionnaire. The
opinions noted particular improvement in (3) Cooperation with Yozo Toba ● ●
outside directors, (4) Cooperation with the Audit & Supervisory Hiroshi Sugawara ● CPA
Board, (6) i. Function of the Board of Directors in determining the
Yoko Wachi ● Attorney
direction of management strategy and (6) ii. Monitoring of each
business with respect to the execution of management strategy. Kazuo Takahashi ● ●
With regard to (5) Operation of Board of Directors meetings,
there was agreement that deliberations have improved. However,
issues were identified, such as criteria for whether items should
be deliberated by subsidiaries or be deliberated and subject to
resolution of the Board of Directors, appropriate allocation of
deliberation time, and early provision of reference materials. This
confirms the need to further review matters relating to this item.
On the basis of this evaluation, we believe that the Company’s
Board of Directors is functioning appropriately from the perspective
of effectiveness. Nonetheless, we will strive to make further
improvements on issues that have been identified through evaluation
and review. In addition, we will work to strengthen corporate
governance by discussing best practices in our role as a holding
company, and in cooperating with and monitoring subsidiaries.Remuneration for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Content of Remuneration to Directors
The Company’s remuneration plan for directors and Audit In addition, following extensive study by the Board of
Fixed • Fixed remuneration for directors of the holding company is determined based on their duties and responsibilities including
& Supervisory Board members is designed to achieve Directors and the Corporate Governance Committee, the remuneration formulation of group strategies, monitoring group operations, and strengthening corporate governance.
sustainable growth and enhanced corporate value over the decision was made to design and implement a restricted • Remuneration for Directors who serve concurrently as Directors of subsidiaries that are operating companies is determined based on
their duties and responsibilities including execution of business based on group strategies formulated by Otsuka Holdings,
medium to long term for the group while also ensuring stock-based compensation system starting fiscal 2019. formulation of strategies for the operating company, and strengthening corporate governance. (Remuneration shall not to exceed
that functions such as business execution and management the upper limit of remuneration resolved at the shareholders meeting.)
supervision are exercised appropriately, maintaining
4. Composition of Remuneration
Performance- • Remuneration is determined based on (1) rate of achievement of the fiscal year’s targets for consolidated revenue, consolidated
transparency and fairness. The Company’s basic approach
a) Remuneration for directors of Otsuka Holdings linked bonus operating profit, and consolidated business profit before R&D expenses; (2) progress with respect to medium-to-long-term
to remuneration for directors and Audit & Supervisory Board (holding company of the Otsuka group) consolidated performance targets; and (3) appropriate business management in compliance with corporate governance, along with
the individual’s personal performance.
members is as follows. Remuneration for directors (excluding outside directors)
• The Corporate Governance Committee deliberates upon the above items and reports the results of its deliberations to the directors.
of the Company consists of fixed remuneration according Decisions are then made by the Board of Directors.
1. Remuneration Levels to title or position, bonuses linked to results of operations
Considering the need to acquire and motivate outstanding (short-term incentive), as well as stock-based compensation Share-based At a meeting of the Board of Directors held on February 13, 2019, the Company resolved to introduce a restricted stock remuneration
payment plan as an incentive plan to sustainably improve the medium-to-long-term performance and corporate value of the Company.
personnel who will take responsibility for the Company’s (medium-to-long-term incentive). Remuneration for outside
• The plan is designed to provide an effective remuneration system by combining multiple release conditions for the transfer
global business activities, the Company sets remuneration directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members consists restrictions, including a set performance evaluation period and performance achievement, and by in principle granting shares with
transfer restrictions requiring evaluation of performance over several fiscal years simultaneously in the first fiscal year.
levels fully commensurate with the roles and responsibilities only of fixed remuneration.
• The shares with transfer restrictions issued under this plan are intended to comprise a remuneration system that reflects progress in
expected of such personnel. achieving the medium-term management plan. To this end, the remuneration plan combines multiple performance achievement
requirements based on performance indicators in the Third Medium-Term Management Plan announced on May 30, 2019.
b) Composition of remuneration for directors
2. Remuneration System (excluding outside directors)
With regard to remuneration for directors responsible Performance-linked remuneration as a percentage of
for business execution, the Company has formulated a total remuneration varies according to the Company’s Total Remuneration by Officer Category and by Type, and Number of Applicable Officers
remuneration system that is closely linked to performance single-year and medium-to-long-term consolidated results
Total remuneration, etc. by type (¥ million)
in individual fiscal years, as well as over the medium to of operations. The system emphasizes medium-to-long- Total remuneration, etc.
Eligible officers
(¥ million) Fixed Stock
long term, while emphasizing sustainable enhancement term enhancement of corporate value. Performance- remuneration compensation Bonus
of corporate value. In addition to cash remuneration, the linked bonuses are designed to be variable over the
Directors
Company also provides share-based payments more closely range of 0–100% of fixed remuneration, and stock- 544 296 104 144 9
(excluding outside directors)
linked to shareholder value. Outside directors and Audit & based compensation over the range of 0–100% of fixed
Supervisory Board Members are paid fixed remuneration; remuneration. Maximum performance-linked remuneration Audit & Supervisory Board
members
they are not paid any remuneration that varies according to as a percentage of total remuneration is 66% (200% of (excluding outside Audit & 24 24 — — 1
performance. 300% total). Supervisory Board members)
Outside directors and Audit &
54 54 — — 7
c) Remuneration for directors of subsidiaries Supervisory Board members
3. Governance of Remuneration-related Decisions
(operating companies of the Otsuka group)
(Activities of the Remuneration Committee and
the Board of Directors) Remuneration for directors of subsidiaries that are
Decisions related to remuneration for directors and Audit operating companies is determined based on their duties
& Supervisory Board members are made by the Board of and responsibilities (including execution of business of
Directors based on a report from the Corporate Governance operating companies based on group strategies formulated Regarding Directors’ Conflict of Interest
Committee, an advisory body to the Board of Directors. by the Company, formulation of strategies for operating All operational judgements and decisions are not to be made in relation to the interests of individuals, but in the
The committee deliberates on matters including the companies, and strengthening corporate governance) and best interests of the Otsuka group. The Otsuka group has established the Otsuka Group Global Conflict of Interest
remuneration system and levels of remuneration. When is not to exceed the cap on director remuneration resolved Policy to prevent such conflicts of interest. It also applies to directors. Page 64, Compliance
deciding on remuneration, efforts are made to enhance at the General Meeting of Shareholders.
objectivity through such means as utilizing external data. It should be noted that the restricted stock-based
In determining remuneration for directors and Audit & compensation system newly implemented in fiscal 2019
Supervisory Board members in the current term, the Board will also apply to about 40 directors (excluding outside
of Directors and the Corporate Governance Committee directors) of some of the group’s major subsidiaries.
deliberate a number of times. The Board of Directors makes
final decisions after receiving the Corporate Governance
Committee’s report that those decisions are appropriate.
58 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 59Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members
(As of March 27, 2020)
Directors Outside Directors
I Och tsir uo ka T Ha igts uu co hi Y Mo as th si uro o Y Mu ak ti so u tani K Seo kiguchi Y Ao os kh iihisa
C R Dh e irpa ei r cr e tm s oea rnn t aa tn ivd e P R Dr e ie rp es ri ced ts oe en rn ,t Ct a a En t Oid v e S De irn eio ctr o M ranaging Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director
Profile Profile Profile Profile Profile Profile
Apr. 1987 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Mar. 1977 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1985 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1975 Intern, Pediatric Department, St. Luke’s International Hospital Apr. 1973 Joined Mitsubishi Corporation Apr. 1974 Joined Itochu Corporation
Jun. 1997 Executive Director, Director of Consumer Products Development Jun. 1998 Senior Managing Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Jan. 2003 Vice President, Associate General Manager of the General Affairs Oct. 1981 Joined Ministry of Health and Welfare (now Ministry of Health, May 1990 Joined The Boston Consulting Group Jun. 2003 Executive Officer, Itochu Corporation
Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Pharmavite) Department, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Labour and Welfare) Jan. 1996 General Manager of Sterrad Business Division, Johnson & Johnson Apr. 2009 Managing Executive Officer, President, Food Company, Itochu
Jun. 1998 Managing Director, responsible for Consumer Products, Publicity, Nov. 1998 Executive Deputy President and Executive Director, Otsuka Jun. 2006 Vice President, General Manager of the General Affairs Aug. 2005 Director-General, Health Policy Bureau, Ministry of Health, Labour Medical K. K. (now Johnson & Johnson K. K. Medical Company) Corporation
P Cr oo .m , Lo tt dio .n and Development Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Jun. 1999 P Eh xea cr um ta ivc ee u Dt ii rc ea cl t oC ro , . r, e L st pd o. nsible for U.S. Business, Otsuka Nov. 2007 D See np ia or rt m Vie cn e t P, rO est is du ek na t ,P Gha er nm ea rac le Mut aic na al gC eo r . o, fL t td h. e General Affairs Aug. 2007 a Dn ird e cW toe r,lf Nar ae tional Sanatorium Tama Zenshoen Nov. 1998 P (nre os wid Je an nt s a sen nd PR he ap rr mes ae cn et ua tt ii cv ae l D Ki .r Ke .c )tor, Janssen Kyowa Co., Ltd. Apr. 2010 M Pree sm idb ee nr t ,o Ff oth oe d B Co oa mrd p, a S ne yn , i Io tor cM hua n Ca og ri pn og r E ax tie oc nutive Officer,
D M D De e eac c cy. . . 2 2 2 20 0 0 00 0 0 01 2 3 4 E P R E P Px h x h re ee ea p a sc cr rr iu um m dest t ea ai ie nv vc cne e te e t au uaD D ntt ti eii ir dvc cpe ea a c u R l lt D t eo F Fy pia ar r, P rc ce eR rt tc eo o se t esor rs iy y nde r, ,, t a e I I aOn nr n tc c ct ith vs . .a eu a n k Dn dad i rP R eD h e ce a p tov r rm e re ,s lo a Oecp n te sm tu a ue tt kiin v ac eat P, l D hO F aiat r rcs e mu t cok t aora cy r , e, uI On tc t ics. u alk a J J Ju u un n l. . . 2 2 20 0 00 0 080 8 P P C E P Ch xr ro oe eea . .s sc, ,r i i um d dL Lte t e ta id dvn nc . e .t te (u a D a cnt n uii rdc d re ra c eR Rl t ne oC e tp pro ),r r. Oe e, s stL e est n ud nt k. ta aat t i iPv vhe e a D Drmi ir re eac c ct e to our r, t , i O c Cat Els Ou Ck ,o a O., P tL sh t uda kr .m a Hac oe ldu it nic ga sl J Mul a. r. 2 20 00 18 6 D E M C S Hx ee o oat np . le n d, ia r o a iLnr nrg tt a gdm Mil n s. Re g a Cn e n D olt aa .iw gt r , i e io Li nct tnh gt dos .,a Dr ,d O iC rd et osi ct u r tio p okn oa r,a rP Cal h tr oee a r s r pAmp odo ra mn ac ts e i ei nub i Ati sl i ti c dt ray a m l t f i iCo o nr o n i s.L , t, e r O aLg t tta d is ol u. nA k ,af f O a H ti or ss ul d ka i an n d g s A D M Jup e a ncr r .. . . 2 2 2 20 0 0 01 1 1 12 5 6 9 P V ( O Pcr ri u ue ec r tes sr si i d e diP dne er een t n )st tDi, ,d iN Jre e ana c pt t t ai , oo nI rn n , Pa t Oe ul r t bI snn lu ias ckt t i i a Ht ou en Ht aae o ll tl o d hUf i n n AP i gvu ss seb or Cl si cc i o it ay .H t, ioe oLa f t n dl Ht . (h ce ( uca u rlt rrh er nea n tn )td ) Welfare J O J Au a pc nl. t r . .. 2 2 2 20 0 0 00 0 1 19 9 1 2 C S R O (cu eh u up pa t rs rr ri ee er idm nm s ee ta e )n Dn tA a ia rd t en i cvvd teis o oD D r,ri , ir r N e J eac .c It n .to Cosr s .r, , e CJ Dna o In K A rs py s J ooe a rwn p a a taK in oy C no (o n w (. o n,a w oL C t w d So . H S., o DL lat IAd st. oJa Cp oan rp) oration) M J Mua n ar r.. . 2 2 20 0 01 1 17 7 9 A O Od u um t ts si ii d dn e eis t D Dra i ir rt e eiv c ce t to o O r r, ,f A Ofic r tae sutr, a k I at Co o Hc rh opu lo d C r inao gtir sop n Co r o(a c .t u , io r Lr tn e d n .( c t ()u curr re rn ent) t)
Factory, Inc. Dec. 2011 Executive Director, Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. Jan. 2017 Executive Director, Otsuka Medical Devices Co., Ltd. (current) Mar. 2014 Outside Director, Kenedix, Inc.
Jul. 2008 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Feb. 2015 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Mar. 2019 Senior Managing Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Mar. 2018 Outside Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current)
Jun. 2010 Executive Deputy President and Executive Director, Otsuka Co., Ltd.
Holdings Co., Ltd. Mar. 2020 Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Jun. 2014 Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Co., Ltd. (current)
Vice Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Holdings
Co., Ltd.
Mar. 2015 Executive Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (current)
Chairman, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. (current)
Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
(current)
Outside Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Members
Y Mu ak ko
ino
S Tah ku aic gh ii S Toa bd eanobu
E Cx Fe Ocutive Director, E B Mx u ae s nic nu aet gi s ev s me P D o er nir t te foct lio or , Executive Director Mayo Y Too bz ao H Suir go as whi a ra
Mita
Standing Audit & Outside Audit &
Outside Director Supervisory Board Supervisory Board
Member Member
Profile Profile Profile
Apr. 1982 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1989 Joined Tobishima Corporation Apr. 1976 Senior Managing Director and Representative Director, Shinko
Apr. 1996 Joined Baxter Limited Sep. 1995 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Foods Co., Ltd. (now Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd.) Profile Profile Profile
A M Sep a pr r. .. 2 2 20 0 00 1 10 5 6 J D O V D V Po hi ii et c ci r s an pe e eu re c a mk P Ptd ro a tr r a e em O r cH s so eet i io d ds uf nu l e e td ttk n n i,h ci a n t tOe a, , g lP t C D Ds Csh uo i iCa r r oke err .op am c c , .o t t L, Ho oa r tLac r r dot e t .d o ole du . f f it F nt Ai ic h gn ca e sa cl n oCCC c uooo e n.r. ,, p t& iLL no tt A gr dd a c .. t D c eo e F pu i an n rt a ti nn mcg ee nD & te , p A Oa c tr c st o um u ke ann tt in, g A J M Muu l a a.g r y.. 22 2 20 0 0 00 0 1 13 5 52 F C C P V P Ci h hio Eon ca a Or.a e, p r rn m m ,PL o c Ct rr a ae d ea lc c as. tD e eie rdu u ie seFp t t ni ii Oc ca n ta a tr a st rl ln m ueC Fc s kae e o p acn . o t& , Pt o n L ro rA s it y vif d ,bc a .O c Il tneo eI cA u f L.onA imrt iD In in tgi edv dii D as i (eo B npn u oa, s w r iO t n m Ot es se tu s sn ,k u ta O k, aO tP s h Pt usa hkur aam k r a ma c ae cu et uic tia cl a l J N M Ju uol a l. .v y . 1 2 2 29 0 0 09 0 0 03 4 6 8 E F E C P C Eox x r xh oee e eo e .sc c c,d im u u ud Lst t te tii i icC dnv v va .e e eo tl . aD D DH, nLe e io rdtp p eld d cu u R. i tnt t e oy y g p r ,P P s r er r OCe e s tes s o si i n.d d u, t e e kaLn n at t d it t v H .a a e o(n n n D ld d do i ir nwR R e ge e c Op p sto r r Cte e rs , os s u Oe e .k ,n n t a Lst t a a u tC dt t khi i .v v aee e m C D D hici i er r ae e mlc c C it t co o o ar r ., , l , H O O L ott t ds s ldu u .) ik k na a g s A J D Dap e en c cr .. . . 1 1 2 29 9 0 08 8 0 13 9 0 3 J U E S M So q e eFi ac nun J n u iie M ot ard y i rgto iR AM ier neg s dgo s a vCe r n iDg a so oira S . rc , ren t , ha cL I S n tt nD odt l vea i r. ev ,yn i s Msl tSe i moey onc erJ u ga n(r H ap ti t na e Bie n a aSs l ntt S ahC ke nc ioc na lu . e gr,r y e Li Bt ) Jt ,i a ude M ps s.) ia nC o n ero g sS. sa, e nL Uct u nSd rt i. i ta t ( in (n e Hl so e e w y C a lo J tM a h.,p c it La as tn ru d e b . ),i shi A J J Ma ap n n ar . . y. 1 1 2 29 9 0 07 9 0 09 5 6 9 J C D C O Co o i F hpi rn Oe. ee,e c mr ,L atd Tot it crd iO r o n a,. ) c g lt I s n e H u Of ll ook e f la r n f dm i c iC G neah grmt ,ie s o Ib m n Cn H f i ooc C .a r ,e ml n LH a tt do e ti .rl o ,d ( n nOin oStg s wys u s k tC Oeao m t s. C, u h DL ket e ad m p . Ca i( c hrn a t eo ml m w H e i o n cO al td , lt s i O Cnu g otk ss .a u , C kC La toh d .e , . )m Lti dc .al O O F Juec c nbt t .. . . 1 2 2 29 0 0 09 0 0 17 0 6 0 J J L V O Co o L i oucCi in n .e t ,) se e iP Ld d d tr e deC D s .Ah e id (lu u co e uo di nt r it tA t re , e &u nWTd o tS )i iut l ul c C pCh eo ae rr p vp T iioo sta ohr la rm yMti ao Batn os nu aa r g( dn e o Mmw e e n mD t be Cl eo o ri ,t . ,t O e L t t sT do u.u k ( ac ch u He rr o eT lo dnh it n)m ga s tsu
Apr. 2017 V C V Oi io tc c s.e e u, kLP P atr rde e Ps s. i i hd d ae e rn n mt t, , a D D cei ir r ue e tc c ict to o alr r Co o of f .t t ,h h Le e t dT Fa .inx a D nce ep a &r t Am ce cn ot u, nO tt insu gk Da eH po al rd tmin eg ns t, Jan. 2019 I S Cn e od n .i ,a io LP r t r dViv .ica ete P L reim sidit ee nd t) , President’s Office, Otsuka Holdings J Ju un n. . 2 20 00 19 1 V C Ci o hc . ae , i rLC mth d aa . nir m ana dn Ra en pd r eR se ep nr te as te ivn et a Dti iv ree c D toir re , c Oto tsr u, kO at s Cu hk ea m Fo ico ad l s C o., Ltd. Mar. 2020 M Ouit ts su idb eis h Di i rU ecF tJ o M r, o Or tg sa un k aS t Ha on ll dey in S ge sc Cur oit .,ie Ls t dC .o (. c, u L rt rd e. nt) J Du en c. . 2 20 00 19 1 C D Exo e epr cp a uo r ttr im va et ee Dn O t ir,f ef O cic tte osur r, , k D Cai or He rpoct oldo rir an to g ef s A I CT d, o mC .,o i nLr tp isdo t. rr aa tt ie o nF ,in Aa cn cc oe u & n tA inc gc o au nn dt i In T,g J Ou cn t. . 2 20 01 12 3 O P Ohu uat trs smi id dae ec A Deuu irt ed i ccit ta o& l rC , S o Nu . ip , p e L ptr odv ni .s o Pr ay r kB io na gr d D eM vee lm opb mer e, nO tt s Cu ok .a , Ltd.
M Ma ar r. . 2 20 01 18 9 E Ex xe ec cu ut ti iv ve e D Di ir re ec ct to or r, , C Co FOrp , o Ora tst ue kF ain Han oc lde i, n O gst s Cu oka ., H Lto dl .d (in cug rs r eC no t. ), Ltd. Mar. 2019 E O E Hx x ote es lc u c du uk int tai i gv v P se e h CD Da ori ir rm .e e , c ca Lt tc to o der r .u, , (tF B cii c u un a s ra l i r n n eCc e noe s t. s ) ,a Pn L otd d r t.B f ( ou c ls u ioin r re Mes ns at n)P ao grt ef moli eo n M t, Oan tsa ug ke am ent, J Ju un n. . 2 20 01 12 3 V S Cti oac .e n , d LC i tnh dga . ir Am ua dn it, &O t Ss uu pk ea r vF io so od rys BC oo a. r, dL t Md. ember, Otsuka Holdings Mar. 2015 O E Cx ot es ru c puk ota riv aC e te h V e Sim c ee ri v c P ia crl ee C s Dio d e. e p, n aL tt r,d t C m. o er np to , r Oat te su F kin a a Hn oc le d i& n gA sc Cco ou .,n Lt tin dg . and Mar. 2016 A Cu od .,i t L t& d .S (u cp ue rrr ev nis to )ry Board Member, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Nov. 2013 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Mar. 2018 Standing Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Holdings
Jun. 2014 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Co., Ltd. (current)
Mar. 2018 Chairman, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Mar. 2019 A (cu ud rri et n& t )Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd.
Mar. 2019 Executive Director, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. (current)
Yoko Kazuo
Masayuki Noriko Makoto Wachi Takahashi
Kobayashi Tojo Inoue
Outside Audit & Outside Audit &
Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Supervisory Board Supervisory Board
Member Member
Profile Profile Profile Profile Profile
Oct. 1993 Joined Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1987 Joined Goldman Sachs (Japan) Corporation Apr. 1983 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1989 Registered as an attorney at law (Dai-Ichi Tokyo Bar Association) Apr. 1975 Joined Ebara-Udylite Co., Ltd. (now JCU Corporation)
Aug. 2002 President, Taiho Pharma USA, Inc. (now Taiho Oncology, Inc.) Aug. 1991 Joined Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Jun. 2008 Vice President, General Manager of Diagnostic Division, Otsuka Joined Kajitani Law Offices (current) Mar. 1986 Executive Director, Strategic Planning, RA Institute Co., Ltd.
Sep. 2003 Executive Director, Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Jul. 2002 Engagement Manager, McKinsey & Company, Japan Office Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Jun. 2015 Corporate Auditor, Nichias Corporation Nov. 1992 Executive Director, General Manager of the System Division,
A A Ap p pr r r. . . 2 2 20 0 01 1 10 2 4 P P C E Cr r xo he e e. as s c,i i i ud d rL mte e t idn n v a. et t n (a a ,Dc n n u Tir ad d r er i he cC R tn oe oE t pO Or) , r , ne T asO ce i oht n ls o otu a gk Pt ya hi ,v ae IA nr m mD c.i e ar (er cUi c uc t Sa ro rA, e r,I , nn T I tc na ). cih .o Pharmaceutical J A F Au eu pn bg r. .. . 2 2 2 20 0 0 00 0 1 11 26 8 D M C E Px ri o er a ee . sn c,c i u da Lt tgo et id nvir n, . e t gI n aD t nD ie r di el r e cC Ctca o Etp o Or,i r t ,, O a OCl t s toJ u sa r ukp p kaa o a n r M a, A t eI e mn d t D eie c rl e a icC v l ae Do ,l r o e Ip nvpo i cm cr .ea e st n i Co t,n o O ., t Ls tu dk .a Holdings J M Au pn a rr. .. 2 2 20 0 00 1 19 5 5 S B C E N Exe xu uo e en s t. c ci , ri no u a uLer ct tt i is edV v vs u. e e ic D t D i De civ i a iP r ri les er sie c c o Bts tn o oi ud , r rs ,e ,O i nEn Pt x et hs, e s au scD rk u mDe a tp i i avvPu vieh st i i tay V o e r niG m c L,ee L a O Cn Pc te e r ser u ua st kil i d c aM ea Pnla ht n , a a G rg mee anr c eo erf a u lP t iMh caa a lr nm Ca oa g .c e ,e r Lu tot di fc . al M Jua nr .. 2 20 01 16 9 O C Oo uu . tt , ss ii L dd t ee d . DA ( iu c ru ed crit r te o& n r, t S ) Nu ip che ir av sis Cor oy r pB oo ra ar td io M n e (cm urb re er n, tO )tsuka Holdings O Mc at y. 2 20 00 04 6 S E K E C &u x x u Se e En suc c nk tu un o vu t t ik m rs i i ov vu e& e e ns r m D DCA &i io es r r s Fe e n.o , rc c t ac L at t no oi t la d cr r Mt , ,. h e H C ais s, ne h e aI ai en ed g fc R e . o o e mf f la et t th h nioe e tn OI M sn ff Oa fo in cfr f em a ic ,g a e Cet ,m i io ra ce nn ln ed S t Ky tS hs t St ere u am I nnte kt D g e uryi sv n Oi Casi lf oo f C .in ,c o , e L n,C t dtti rhr .oc e ll e
Mar. 2017 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Aug. 2015 Executive Director and CEO, Pharmavite LLC Mar. 2017 Managing Director, Nutraceuticals Business, Otsuka May 2008 Executive Director, Head of Area Franchise, Circle K Sunkus
Jan. 2017 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Medical Devices Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd.
Co., Ltd. (current) Sep. 2017 Executive Director, Daiya Foods Inc. May 2010 Executive Director, Head of Information Systems Division, Circle K
May 2017 Executive Director, Otsuka America, Inc. Mar. 2018 Senior Managing Director, Nutraceuticals Business, Otsuka Sunkus Co., Ltd.
A Mu ag r.. 2 20 01 187 C Exh ea ci urm tiva en , D P irh ea cr tm ora , v Oit te s uL kL aC Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Oct. 2018 P Ch ha ar im rma ac neu , t Nic aa rdl C obo e., l L St Ad S. Mar. 2018 O Cou .t ,s i Ld te d .A (u cud rit re & n tS )upervisory Board Member, Otsuka Holdings
Mar. 2019 Executive Deputy President and Executive Director, Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Mar. 2020 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Co., Ltd. (current)
Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current)
60 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 61Messages from Outside Directors
Enhancement and Expansion of Businesses Critical High Expectations for Otsuka’s Contributions
to Life through Stronger Governance to a 100-Year Lifespan through Preventive Medicine
Each year, members of the Board of Directors are asked to evaluate the Board’s The chairman has ensured that Board meetings are a forum where members
effectiveness and give a detailed account of the roles of the Board and each of its can discuss matters freely, which fosters meaningful discussions. Furthermore, I
members. It is a robust assessment. As a medical doctor, I am expected to contribute believe that the appointment of a new president at Otsuka Pharmaceutical has
opinions based on my broad expertise from many years of involvement in clinical strengthened the governance framework.
medicine, public health, and healthcare administration, and I have strived to live up In China, it has been a long-held belief that herbal medicines and a proper
to those expectations. diet share similar principles, and today it is widely accepted everywhere that a
Healthcare is an essential aspect of social infrastructure and everybody needs balanced diet is the basis of good health. The Otsuka group’s strong footing in
healthcare. Given that healthcare is critical to life, the level of quality must be food and nutrition may be attributable to its belief in this philosophy. Otsuka is
paramount, while other requirements and demands are also significant. Healthcare doing good work with respect to safety and security, and consumers appreciate
costs rise year after year. It is therefore essential to make the most effective use that. We are approaching an age when it will be common for people to live to
of finite resources. In Otsuka’s Pharmaceutical Business, this entails the efficient 100, and preventive medicine will play a vital role in that. Not many companies are
creation of drugs, medical devices, and diagnostic agents that in turn supports able to offer solutions in both treatment and prevention solutions. Indeed, many
their efficient provision to patients. In the Nutraceutical Business, it means creating businesses give up if they are unable to make a quick profit, but the Otsuka group
products that help people to maintain or improve their well-being. Going forward, is ready for the long haul; even if a product does not sell well initially, Otsuka
Otsuka Holdings must continue to offer value to society in both of these areas. has the patience and determination to go the distance. I hope that Otsuka will
continue in this vein, because it will benefit society.
Yukio Matsutani
Outside Director Yoshihisa Aoki
Outside Director
Meeting the Expectations of Stakeholders Sharing Otsuka’s Unique Corporate Story
Worldwide Based on Sincerity Will Build Broad Stakeholder Loyalty
The provision of information prior to Board meetings has been enhanced, including My first impression of the Otsuka group was its uniqueness. Operating for many
its timing. Important information is shared at individual briefings, and explanations years in pharmaceuticals and healthcare, as well as food and nutrition, I expect it to
are provided regarding the status of group companies and other operational data. sustain its operations long into the future. Indeed, with its centenary approaching
I feel that one of the strengths of Otsuka’s corporate culture is its embodiment in 2021, I look forward to seeing how Otsuka advances into its second century.
of integrity and humility. This goes a long way to earning the trust of customers I see my role as a bridge between company management, and analysts,
and business partners. Otsuka is committed to providing consumers and patients shareholders, and investors. As an outside director, I hope to support Otsuka’s
with the solid value that generates revenues and profits. development by pointing out opportunities to management and diligently raising
Results in the Pharmaceutical Business have been excellent, but from a medium- concerns as necessary.
to-long-term perspective, a look at the drug pipeline indicates there is no room When an enterprise comprises such a broad range of businesses as Otsuka, I
for complacency. It is also vital that Otsuka becomes a truly global company, and believe it is important to identify the common threads that unite them all. The key
evolves to the next stage rather than simply operating as a collection of companies. is how to effectively convey that story not only to shareholders and the investment
Only by adopting this approach can Otsuka develop a clear roadmap for the future. market, but also to customers, consumers, and employees. If Otsuka is able to
convey the story of its passion, it is sure to acquire many more long-term fans.
Ko Sekiguchi
Outside Director Mayo Mita
Outside Director
62 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 632. Otsuka Group Global Conflict of Interest Policy In addition, an Internal Audit Department under the
The Otsuka group recognizes conflicts of interest between direct authority of the president has been established. It
Compliance
the group and individual employees as a matter that could conducts regular audits based on the Internal Audit Rules
impact the integrity of the organization, and one that has a to verify that operations are being executed appropriately
Legal compliance is the cornerstone of all our business activities. The Otsuka group maintains high ethical standards and conducts its
great bearing on the group’s future. Based on this thinking, and efficiently with regard to the assets and business in
business activities with integrity in order to secure the trust of all stakeholders and achieve sustainable growth.
we formulated the Otsuka Group Global Conflict of Interest general of Otsuka Holdings and its affiliated companies.
Policy to prevent such conflicts and we are working to instill The department submits its audit reports to the president,
the policy at a global level. directors, and Audit & Supervisory Board members. In cases
where it finds the need for improvements, the department
Universal compliance training participation rate:
3. Otsuka Group Global Privacy Policy issues improvement advisories. It then follows up to check
98.4
% In recent years, many countries have enacted privacy the implementation status of measures and ascertain that
protection legislation, such as the European Union’s General the execution of duties has been suitably improved. In
Approach 1. Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) implemented in May 2018. addition, the department shares information with Audit &
We have established the Otsuka Group Global Code of The Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy embodies The Otsuka group is working to strengthen privacy protection. Supervisory Board members and the accounting auditor and
Business Ethics and we openly convey information about and reiterates our steadfast commitment to conducting In addition to formulating the Otsuka Group Global Privacy coordinates a unified stance.
our stance on related initiatives on our website in the business with integrity and in compliance with all relevant Policy to define our stance and guiding principles on privacy
form of a message from the president of Otsuka Holdings. anti-corruption laws. This Policy outlines how to prevent, protection, we establish related rules and review management 6. Whistleblowing Hotline
Furthermore, we have formulated the Otsuka Group Global detect and deter violations of anti-corruption laws. It systems in accordance with the laws and regulations related a) Internal Whistleblowing Hotline
Anti-Corruption Policy, which expresses our stance against sets forth our global minimum standards regarding the to privacy protection in each country. At Otsuka Holdings and domestic and overseas group
corruption at all sites worldwide; the Otsuka Group Global prevention of corruption and applies to all our worldwide companies, we have established an internal whistleblowing
Conflict of Interest Policy, aimed at maintaining objectivity business operations. 4. Training System hotline within the group and at the offices of an attorney
in business; and the Otsuka Group Global Privacy Policy, The Otsuka group conducts universal compliance training that can be accessed safely and anonymously. Through
which defines our stance and guiding principles on privacy at least once annually based on the content of the Global this hotline, we work to ensure that any improper acts,
protection. These policies form the basis for conducting our Code of Business Ethics, the Global Anti-Corruption Policy, including acts of bribery, as well as violations of policies,
business with high ethical standards. and the Global Conflict of Interest Policy. Employees at laws and regulations, can be quickly uncovered and
subsidiaries attend training, and materials are available in corrected. Rules for accepting reports extend beyond full-
Japanese, English, Chinese, and Indonesian. Furthermore, time employees to include contract, dispatched, and part-
Guiding Principles: Synopsis the implementation status of training is regularly reported time employees. Information about whistleblowers and
to the Board of Directors of Otsuka Holdings. their reports is strictly managed in order to prevent any
Adhering to Anti-Corruption We respect and uphold the letter and the spirit of all applicable anti-corruption laws, domestic and
Laws and Policies foreign. negative repercussions. Information on the operational
5. Monitoring status of the internal whistleblowing hotline at major group
We never give or accept, directly or indirectly, “anything of value” (e.g., bribes, kickbacks, gifts or As a holding company whose role is to maximize the Otsuka companies is regularly reported at meetings of the Board of
Prohibiting Bribery entertainment) to improperly influence any person to obtain or retain a financial, business or other
group’s corporate value, Otsuka Holdings has established a Directors of Otsuka Holdings.
advantage.
system to ensure appropriate business operations from the
Working with Third-Party We require third-party suppliers to ensure compliance with this policy as well as relevant anti-corruption perspective of the group as a whole. We have established b) External Inquiries and External
Suppliers laws and regulations.
a system for facilitating cooperation in the Otsuka group. Whistleblowing Hotline
We perform due diligence to obtain an informed assessment of the nature and extent of potential Under this system, affiliated companies report to Otsuka Otsuka Holdings and its major group companies have
Conducting Due Diligence
corruption risks associated with the retention of all third-party suppliers working on Otsuka’s behalf. Holdings as necessary regarding items specified in the established a whistleblowing hotline that accepts inquiries and
Affiliated Company Management Regulations, and obtain opinions from external stakeholders and general customers.
Refusing to Make Facilitating
Payments We will not make facilitating payments of any kind. approval on relevant important items. Furthermore, certain channels of the hotline also accept
Examples of overseas initiatives include the appointment anonymous consultations and reports.
We provide annual training regarding this Policy and anti-corruption laws, incorporating them into
Providing Training of compliance officers at each group company in Asia
Otsuka’s global compliance program.
and the holding of regular meetings for sharing the status 7. Due Diligence
We keep complete books and records in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly documenting and of progress in each country. The director in charge of Each group company has established a due diligence policy
Recording
reflecting all transactions including expenses, disbursements, receipts and the disposition of assets.
compliance also visits companies to gather information and and conducts due diligence for new business partners as
offer suggestions on how improvements may be made. needed to evaluate corruption-related risk.
Monitoring We maintain internal controls focused on detecting and deterring improper business practices.
We promptly report instances or activities that may violate or appear to violate this policy to our internal
Reporting Concerns Legal/Compliance Department. We will not tolerate any form of retaliation against anyone for making a
good faith report of a potential violation.
64 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 65(Excerpt from the Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy)
Risk Management
Working with Third-Party Suppliers Anti-Corruption Due Diligence
Conducting our business according to rigorous legal, ethical and Due diligence includes investigations into the third-party supplier’s
The Otsuka group carries out risk management under the supervision of top management based on the recognition that pursuing
professional standards, we require the same standards from all third- background, reputation, financial records, codes of conduct and
management efficiency and controlling the risks inherent in business activities is important to enhancing corporate value.
party suppliers who perform services on Otsuka’s behalf. Otsuka can be training, and business conduct as well as written agreements and
held liable for the actions of the third parties who act as intermediaries monitoring controls. The following circumstances typically necessitate
for and on behalf of Otsuka in the conduct of business dealings. anti-corruption due diligence: (a) Engaging the services of a third-
Prohibitions that apply to our employees apply equally to all individuals party supplier; (b) Entering into a joint venture with another entity; and
and entities acting on our behalf. Accordingly, our commitment to anti- (c) Merging with or acquiring another entity. We perform due diligence Risk Management System is fully equipped and prepared from a BCM standpoint.
corruption activities includes use of special care in our business dealings before and after proceeding with the proposed business transaction, In establishing a risk management system for the Otsuka Through collaboration mainly between Otsuka
through third-party suppliers or intermediaries. continuously evaluating the third-party suppliers’ adherence to relevant group, we have put in place the Risk Management Policy Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho
anti-corruption laws.
At the outset of our relationship with third-party suppliers, we should and set up a Risk Management Committee. The committee Pharmaceutical, and Otsuka Warehouse, the Otsuka group
clearly articulate and effectively communicate our policy against We conduct risk-tailored and risk-based due diligence. The due diligence comprises the President and Representative Director as the is making every effort to strengthen its countermeasures
corruption as well as our commitment to transparent and responsible process must be a fact-based inquiry closely tailored to the specific chair, the director in charge of administration as the vice and systems so that the group as a whole can effectively
business conduct. We expect third-party suppliers to share and uphold business operations of the third-party suppliers. We define the proper chair, as well as the information disclosure officer and the continue its business activities and thereby ensure stable
this dedication. level of due diligence for each third-party supplier, depending on key internal control officer. Leveraging the controls operated by product supply even during times of disaster. In 2018, major
We will reevaluate our business relationship with third-party suppliers risk factors (e.g., the industry, geographic location, reputation, beneficial each risk management department, the Risk Management group companies jointly conducted a desktop simulation
ownership, professional capability, experience, financial standing and
who fail to ensure compliance with the relevant laws and regulations Committee assesses and comprehensively manages risks drill for the scenario of an earthquake with an epicenter
credibility of the third-party supplier and the history of that third-
and this policy. Upon any indication of misconduct, we all have a duty to that could jeopardize the sustainable enhancement of directly below Tokyo. Then in 2019, they jointly conducted
party supplier’s compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws and
report the misconduct to our internal Legal/Compliance Department. group value. another desktop simulation drill, this time for the scenario
regulations, the scope of the services performed).
of a typhoon passing directly over western Japan. These
Not intended to be a one-time event, due diligence should be considered Responsibilities of the drills provided opportunities for testing cooperation systems
an ongoing process. We must periodically re-examine our relationship Risk Management Committee under close-to-realistic conditions, with a focus on ensuring
with third-party suppliers. The frequency of the re-examination may
The Risk Management Committee examines group stable product supply.
depend on the level or risk presented by the party as well as the context
risk management policies, coordinates between all
in which they are engaged.
companies and departments and issues instructions 2. Risk Management Training
when a risk manifests, reports risk information to the Risk management training is held annually for directors,
Board of Directors, issues instructions to all companies, Audit & Supervisory Board members, executive officers,
and promotes compliance. and department heads of major group companies. Training
includes simulation drills and lectures by outside experts,
Tax Compliance Approach and involves discussions and reviews on the subject of
The Otsuka group individually assesses risks in each of domestic and overseas risk, referencing serious incidents
The Otsuka group complies with the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics, the group’s tax policy, country-specific laws, its businesses. Risk management officers are responsible and other matters. Topics include initial response and
regulations and tax treaties, as well as international taxation rules, and does not engage in transactions designed to evade the for analyzing and evaluating risk, and formulating and coordination of information among the group when a
executing action plans so that each organization can meet crisis occurs, measures to ensure business continuity, and
payment of taxes, but carries out the appropriate filing and payment of taxes in each country. We endeavor to appropriately disclose
its objectives and targets. We also periodically implement corporate social responsibility.
information and ensure a degree of transparency and trust when dealing with tax authorities in each country. The complexity of tax
employee training with reference to events that could pose
oversight increases as our businesses become more global. By continuously updating information and engaging in prior consultations
a risk within the organization. Training related to topics 3. Information Security
with tax experts where necessary, we are appropriately responding in order to minimize tax risk.
such as corruption prevention and the protection of human The Otsuka group has established the Otsuka Group Global
rights based on the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Security Policy as its basic policy on information security.
Ethics is another part of this approach. Furthermore, we We endeavor to ensure shared awareness of the policy
1. Correspondence with Tax Authorities relevant authorities. Also, when necessary, we make use of regularly hold drills to prepare for unexpected events such at all group companies, including overseas subsidiaries.
The Otsuka group engages in constructive relationships advance pricing agreements (APAs) to obtain ahead-of-time as disasters. In striving to raise the level of, and constantly improve,
comprehensive security across the group, we set up the
with tax authorities in the 31 countries/regions in which it consensus from tax authorities.
1. Business Continuity Planning and Management Otsuka Group Information Security Committee to examine
operates. We will continue to improve the reliability of tax
The Otsuka group has business continuity plans (BCPs) specific measures and to share up-to-date information
data and establish systems to provide it promptly. 3. Governance
in place to ensure that the group continues to operate with regard to information security based on the policy. In
We work to maintain and improve tax-related governance, as effectively as possible in order to maintain the stable order to counter the risk of cyberattacks, the Otsuka group
2. Transfer Pricing Policy recognizing that this contributes to the enhancement of supply of products, even when large-scale earthquakes and employs a number of measures, such as arranging system
The Otsuka group calculates transfer prices based on the corporate value. To this end, under the active involvement disasters strike. security audits by external specialists, diagnosing website
From the perspective of business continuity management vulnerabilities, conducting drills related to targeted email
OECD guidelines that were created for the prevention of of the CFO, we are strengthening cooperation between
(BCM), Otsuka Holdings and its group companies are attacks, and monitoring posts on social media. The group
double taxation and fair application of the transfer price tax departments and operating companies as well as securing
cooperating to construct a group-wide business continuity also conducts regular emergency drills with a focus on the
system, as well as each country’s transfer price tax system, and training capable human resources, thereby maintaining framework. In August 2012, we acquired ISO 22301 core systems that construct data. In addition, we have built
and makes efforts to ensure proper transactions between an appropriate system that enhances tax compliance certification for the production and stable supply of capabilities for responding to cybersecurity emergency
related parties. In recent years, the OECD has issued an and reduces tax risks. Furthermore, we have established pharmaceutical products, beverages, and foods, and we situations, including the establishment of the Computer
have since gradually expanded the scope of certification. Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT), which preempts
action plan on base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS), in reporting obligations to the Board of Directors and the
We acquired additional certification for the stable supply the occurrence of damage from cyberattacks targeting
which multinational corporations engage in international Audit and Supervisory Committee regarding the above-
of intravenous solutions in April 2015, and for the stable personal information and trade secrets held by respective
transactions that lead to double non-taxation. We will mentioned policies and processes, as well as their ongoing
supply of anticancer agents in May 2016. The acquisition of group companies.
properly execute our obligations to make submissions to implementation and maintenance. ISO 22301 certification demonstrates that our organization
66 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 67Financial and Non-Financial Highlights
Visit the Otsuka Holdings website for major CSR data:
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/hd_activity/
download/MajorCSRData_en.pdf
Revenue, Overseas Revenue Ratio Business Profit, Business Profit Margin Number of Employees Number of Female Managers, Female Manager Ratio
(¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (%) (%)
2,000 60 250 15 35,000 400 15
1133..44 13.5 3322,,999922 337744
5500..66 51.6 30,000
200 195.0
1,500 11,,339966..221,445.0 118877..22 25,000 300
40 10 10
150 59.5%
20,000 1100..33
1,000 200
15,000
100
20 5 5
10,000
500 100
50
5,000 40.5%
0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019
(Plan) (Plan)
Revenue (left) Overseas revenue ratio (right) Business profit (left) Business profit margin (right) Outside Japan Japan Number of female managers (left) Female manager ratio (right)
Scope: 167 companies including Otsuka Holdings and its subsidiaries Scope: (Fiscal 2016–2018) Six major companies: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods
(Fiscal 2019–) Nine companies: six companies listed above, plus Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Development & Commercialization, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, and Pharmavite
Profit Attributable to Owners of the Company, Return
on Equity Attributable to Owners of the Company (ROE) R&D Expenses (in Pharmaceutical Business), R&D Ratio Number of Employees Taking Parental Leave Total CO2 Emissions
(¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (%) (Thousand tons-CO2) (Tons/¥ million)
200 9 250 30 600 900 1.00
8.0 882211 Japan 34.4%
77..33 200 220055..11 207.0 551133 Indonesia 21.2%
150 145.0
India 18.5%
112277..22 6 150 2222..22 22.0 20 400 600 00..5599 South Korea 7.5%
303
100 0.50
North America 7.6%
100
China 5.9%
3 10 200 300
50 Europe 2.1%
50
210 Others 2.9%
0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019
(Plan) (Plan)
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (left) R&D expenses (in Pharmaceutical Business) (left) Female Male Total CO2 emissions (left) CO2 emissions per sales (right)
Return on equity attributable to owners of the Company (ROE) (right) R&D ratio (right)
Scope: (Fiscal 2016–2018) Six major companies: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group
Note: Excluding impairment losses Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods
(Fiscal 2019–) Nine companies: six companies listed above, plus Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Development & Commercialization, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, and Pharmavite
Total Assets, Ratio of Equity Attributable to
Owners of the Company to Total Assets Annual Dividend per Share, Dividend Payout Ratio Water Usage, Water Use Efficiency Total Waste Volume
(¥ billion) (%) (¥) (%) (Thousand m3) (m3/¥ million)
7.2%
3,500 80 100 110000 100 80 25,000 30 7,000 tons
3,000 68.8 6688..44 5.2%
20,000 5,000 tons Material recycling
22,,558811..33 60 75 60 1188,,775566
2,500 2,477.4 11.3% Composting, conversion to
20 11,000 tons feed, reuse, etc.
2,000 15,000 6,482 12.4% 4 43 2. ,3 0% 00 tons P fuo ew l e cor ng ve en re sr ioa ntion, heat use,
40 50 40 12,000 tons Landfills
1,500 4422..66 10,000
37.4 1133..44 10 2 20 0. ,6 0% 00 tons Simple incineration
1,000
20 25 20 Others
5,000
12,274
500
Total waste volume
0 0 0 0 0 0 97,000 tons
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2017 2018 2019
(Plan) Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group
Total assets (left) Annual dividend per share (left) Outside Japan (left) Japan (left) Water use efficiency (right)
Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the Company to total assets (right) Dividend payout ratio (right)
Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group
68 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 69Main Data
With effect from fiscal 2016 (ended December 31, 2016), Otsuka adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
Information for fiscal 2015 (ended December 31, 2015) is also presented in line with IFRS.
J-GAAP IFRS IFRS
Item1 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2014/125 2015/12 2016/12 2017/12 2018/126 2019/12 2019/127
Results of Revenue (¥ billion) ¥1,154.6 ¥1,218.1 ¥1,452.8 ¥1,224.3 ¥1,427.4 ¥1,195.5 ¥1,240.0 ¥1,292.0 ¥1,396.2 (US$ million) $12,744
Operations
Selling, general and administrative (¥ billion) 457.4 462.2 563.4 508.6 617.5 519.5 531.4 552.8 557.6 (US$ million) 5,090
expenses2,3
Business profit before R&D expenses (¥ billion) 369.8 285.7 305.4 313.8 403.0 (US$ million) 3,678
Ratio of business profit before R&D expenses (%) 25.9 23.9 24.6 24.3 28.9 (%) 28.9
to revenue
R&D expenses3 (¥ billion) 159.2 192.4 249.0 172.9 199.6 152.6 174.0 192.9 215.8 (US$ million) 1,970
R&D ratio (%) 13.8 15.8 17.1 14.1 14.0 12.8 14.0 14.9 15.5 (%) 15.5
Business profit4 (¥ billion) 170.2 133.1 131.4 120.9 187.2 (US$ million) 1,708
Business profit margin (%) 11.9 11.1 10.6 9.4 13.4 (%) 13.4
Operating profit (¥ billion) 148.7 169.7 198.7 196.5 148.9 101.1 104.2 108.3 176.6 (US$ million) 1,612
Operating profit margin (%) 12.9 13.9 13.7 16.1 10.4 8.5 8.4 8.4 12.6 (%) 12.6
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (¥ billion) 92.2 122.4 151.0 143.1 102.0 92.6 112.5 82.5 127.2 (US$ million) 1,161
Financial Total assets (¥ billion) ¥1,666.8 ¥1,779.2 ¥2,028.4 ¥2,178.2 ¥2,575.3 ¥2,478.3 ¥2,480.3 ¥2,477.4 ¥2,581.3 (US$ million) $23,561
Position
Total equity (¥ billion) 1,222.8 1,325.1 1,510.8 1,658.6 1,727.4 1,738.4 1,822.0 1,732.3 1,795.4 (US$ million) 16,388
Ratio of equity attributable to owners of (%) 72.5 73.7 73.2 74.7 66.0 69.0 72.3 68.8 68.4 (%) 68.4
the Company to total assets
ROE (%) 7.8 9.7 10.8 9.2 6.1 5.4 6.4 4.7 7.3 (%) 7.3
Cash Flows Net cash flows from operating activities (¥ billion) ¥ 147.6 ¥ 119.3 ¥ 226.5 ¥ 88.5 ¥ 257.9 ¥ 142.0 ¥ 102.8 ¥ 135.8 ¥ 192.6 (US$ million) $ 1,758
Net cash flows from (used in) investing (¥ billion) (107.6) (91.2) (108.5) (28.7) (422.6) (135.1) (40.1) (93.3) (52.3) (US$ million) (477)
activities
Free cash flows (¥ billion) 40.0 28.1 117.9 59.9 (164.7) 6.9 62.8 42.5 140.4 (US$ million) 1,281
Dividends Annual dividend per share (¥) ¥ 45 ¥ 58 ¥ 65 ¥ 75 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 (US$) $ 0.91
Dividend payout ratio (%) 27.2 26.1 23.4 28.4 53.1 58.5 48.2 65.7 42.6 (%) 42.6
Common Number of shares outstanding at year-end (Thousand 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 (Thousand 557,836
Stock, shares) shares)
Stock Price
Stock price at year-end (¥) ¥ 2,450 ¥ 3,300 ¥ 3,087 ¥ 3,617 ¥ 4,317 ¥ 5,093 ¥ 4,948 ¥ 4,493 ¥ 4,883 (US$) $ 44.57
Number of Total (Persons) 24,595 25,330 28,288 29,482 31,940 31,787 32,817 32,935 32,992
Employees8
Japan (Persons) 13,808 13,732 14,116 14,285 14,082 13,909 13,880 13,757 13,356
Outside Japan (Persons) 10,787 11,598 14,172 15,197 17,858 17,878 18,937 19,178 19,636
1. Line items are based on IFRS.
2. SG&A expenses under J-GAAP are presented as total expenses less R&D expenses. The Company believes that this information is useful to investors in comparing the Company’s financial
results under J-GAAP with those under IFRS.
3. Excluding impairment losses.
4. Business profit = Revenue − Cost of sales − Selling, general and administrative expenses + Share of profit of associates − R&D expenses
5. Due to a change in the consolidated fiscal year, fiscal 2014 (ended December 31, 2014) was a transitional period covering the nine months from April 1 to December 31, 2014.
6. As of December 31, 2019, the Company finalized provisional accounting treatments for business combinations. This is reflected in the presentation of figures for the year ended
December 31, 2018.
7. Calculated at ¥109.56 = US$1.
8. Number of employees at 167 companies including Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (as of December 31, 2019).
70 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 71Corporate Information, Global Network
Corporate Profile Company Organization
(As of December 31, 2019) (As of April 1, 2020)
Company
Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd.
Name
Established July 8, 2008
Capital ¥81.69 billion
Head Office 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
101-0048, Japan
Tokyo Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Konan,
Headquarters Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan
Telephone +81-3-6717-1410
Number of
104 (Consolidated: 32,992)
Employees
Business Control, management and related activities with
Description respect to the Company’s subsidiaries and affiliates
operating in pharmaceutical, nutraceutical, consumer
product, and other businesses.
Europe
39
companies
North
Japan
America 50
Otsuka operates in 33
31 Asia, companies
Middle East companies
68
countries/regions
South and
companies Central America
Oceania 2
3
companies
companies
72 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 73
gniteeM
’sredloherahS
srotceriD
fo
draoB
namriahC tnediserP
Group Structure and Overview of Main Operating Companies
Otsuka Group Corporate Philosophy
Internal Control Department
Internal Audit Department
Nutraceutical Business Global Strategy Overview
and Planning Headquarters
The Otsuka group of companies, whose origins date back to 1921, aims to contribute to the health of people around the world. It aims to do Corporate Planning Department
so through two main pillars: the pharmaceutical business for the diagnosis and treatment of diseases and the nutraceutical*1 business to
Global Business Support Department support the maintenance and promotion of everyday health.
Finance and Accounting Department The company’s culture, summarized in a few words as, “Ryukan-godo” (by sweat we recognize the way), “Jissho” (actualization) and
Project Office “Sozosei” (creativity), have been fostered by successive Otsuka leaders. These are emphasized by our 47,000*2 employees across 195 group
companies in 31 countries and regions who strive to create and market unique products and services.
Tax Department
*1. Nutraceuticals: nutrition+pharmaceuticals *2. As of end of December, 2019. Otsuka Holdings and subsidiaries and affiliates.
Corporate Service Department
Business Development Department
Investor Relations Department
Organizational Structure Administration Department
Otsuka Holdings
President Office
Public Relations Department
Sustainability Promotion Department Otsuka Pharmaceutical Otsuka Pharmaceutical Taiho Pharmaceutical Otsuka Warehouse Otsuka Chemical Otsuka Foods Otsuka Medical
Factory Devices
Human Resources Department
Human Resource Planning Department
IT Planning Department
Legal Affairs Department Statutory Auditors/
Board of Statutory Statutory Auditor’s Office
Auditors
Otsuka Pharmaceutical A total healthcare company supporting well-being for the whole body,
Co., Ltd. from the treatment of diseases to the promotion of everyday health
Under the corporate philosophy “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide,” Otsuka Pharmaceutical operates in two core
businesses: the Pharmaceutical Business, which provides breakthrough treatments for patients around the world, and the Nutraceutical Business, which
helps healthy people maintain good health.
Global Network Otsuka Pharmaceutical Original company of the Otsuka group, and a leader in IV solutions
(As of December 31, 2019) Factory, Inc. in Japan with more than 70 years of experience in the field
Based on its management vision of being “The Best Partner in Clinical Nutrition,” Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory creates innovative products that
meet a variety of needs, including pharmaceuticals, medical devices, oral rehydration solutions and other medical foods, and OTC pharmaceuticals.
The company operates globally, with a focus on Japan and the rest of Asia.
Taiho Pharmaceutical A pioneer of oral anticancer agents in Japan for half a century
Co., Ltd. “We strive to improve human health and contribute to a society enriched by smiles.”—This is the corporate philosophy of Taiho Pharmaceutical, an R&D-
driven specialty pharmaceutical company focusing in the fields of oncology, allergy and immunology, and urology. In the oncology field in particular, Taiho
Pharmaceutical is recognized as one of Japan’s leading companies and is actively expanding its global presence. In the consumer healthcare business, it
seeks insights into people, and focuses on creating new products better attuned to their lifestyles.
Otsuka Warehouse Contributing to people’s health worldwide in the field of logistics
Co., Ltd. Since its founding, Otsuka Warehouse has operated businesses with an emphasis on pharmaceutical and food product logistics. This includes building
a common distribution platform for the Otsuka group’s three core categories: pharmaceuticals, foods and beverages, and daily necessities. In recent
years, Otsuka Warehouse has been working to extend its logistics solutions to outside the group.
Otsuka Chemical Creatively giving shape to the power of materials for the future, together with customers
Co., Ltd. With materials at the core of its operations, Otsuka Chemical aims for continuous technological innovation that leads to the creation of products that
enable higher standards of living. Otsuka Chemical provides products to global markets in automotive, electrical and electronic equipment, housing,
and healthcare areas through its main segments of the hydrazine business, the inorganic and composite materials business, and the pharmaceutical
intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) business.
Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Creating high-value-added products that offer new dietary lifestyles since 1955
Otsuka Foods operates under the motto “the company begins with people and food begins with spirit,” with “deliciousness, safety, peace of mind, and
better health” at the heart of the “spirit of food” shared by all employees. Today, the aging of societies is among the many issues relating to health, the
environment and demographic change that are transforming the social landscape. Otsuka Foods will continue to pursue solutions that address this kind of
social change by creating and providing the products that customers need, and be a company that contributes to people of the world.
Otsuka Medical Devices Introducing new technologies that make Otsuka’s medical devices business unique
Co., Ltd. Otsuka Medical Devices seeks to grow the medical devices business, which operates mainly in Japan, China, and other Asian countries, into a core
business for the Otsuka group. Otsuka Medical Devices is achieving further growth by bringing together the group’s experience and know-how in medical
devices in order to integrate the latest technology into new devices that meet emerging healthcare needs.Disclosure by the Otsuka Group Shareholder Information
(As of December 31, 2019)
The Otsuka group provides an overview of financial and non-financial information through this integrated
report. Visit the Otsuka Holdings website for additional information, including consolidated financial
Number of shares authorized 1,600,000,000 shares Principal Shareholders (Top 10)
statements, financial results presentations and supplementary documents, and information about research
and development. Number of shares issued 557,835,617 shares Number of
Shareholding
Name of shareholder shares held
Number of shareholders 62,219 ratio (%)
(thousand)
Website Investor Relations The Nomura Trust and Banking Co., Ltd.
57,815 10.66
Otsuka Founders Shareholding Fund Trust Account
https://www.otsuka.com/en/ https://www.otsuka.com/en/ir/
The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 40,246 7.42
Stock Distribution Otsuka Estate Co., Ltd. 23,296 4.29
Treasury shares Securities
Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 22,991 4.23
2.79% companies
2.94% Otsuka Group Employee Shareholding Fund 12,998 2.39
Other corporations
The Awa Bank, Ltd. 10,970 2.02
17.25% Financial
institutions
Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 5) 7,728 1.42
35.23%
Otsuka Asset Co., Ltd. 7,380 1.36
Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 9) 6,920 1.27
The Otsuka group’s CSR JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385151 6,755 1.24
https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/ Individuals and others Overseas Number of shares held rounded down to the nearest thousand.
19.91% corporations Excluding treasury stock held by the Company (15,564,187 shares).
21.88% Shareholding ratio is calculated excluding treasury stock.
Maximum/Minimum Stock Price and Volatility by Year Total Shareholders’ Return
Maximum Minimum Volatility (%) Fiscal 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Fiscal
stock price (¥) stock price (¥) (standard deviation)
(%) 122.1 146.3 145.1 135.3 148.8
2019 5,072 3,434 27.61%
(Comparison:
(112) (112) (137) (116) (136)
2018 5,832 4,331 29.07% TOPIX Total Return Index)
2017 5,895 4,290 14.20%
2016 5,139 3,467 17.69%
2015 4,774 3,433 20.22%
2014 4,019 2,773 19.24%
2013 3,630 2,454 27.09%
■ About the Integrated Report ■ Cautions Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 2012 2,512 2,100 9.89%
Beginning with the fiscal 2017 edition, Otsuka Holdings has combined its This integrated report summarizes the operating and financial results of
2011 2,252 1,737 13.77%
Annual Report and CSR Report into a single integrated report that brings Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries for fiscal 2019 (January 1,
together financial information and non-financial information. We hope it 2019 to December 31, 2019). It also includes information regarding select
deepens stakeholders’ understanding of the group in its aim to become material events that occurred between January 1, 2020 and the date of
an indispensable contributor to people’s health worldwide. publication. The report contains forward-looking statements pertaining to
Stock Performance
plans, projections, strategies, and prospects for the Otsuka group of
■ Reporting Period companies. These statements are based upon current analysis and beliefs
(¥) Stock price (left) Trading volume (right) (Thousand shares)
Fiscal 2019 (January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019). in light of the information available on the issuing date of the report.
6,000 150,000
Note that certain information from January 2020 onward is also included. Actual results may therefore differ due to the risks and uncertainties that
may affect Otsuka group operations.
■ Scope of Reporting 120,000
In principle, this report covers Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. and its ■ Medical information
subsidiaries (“the Otsuka group”). Where the scope of activities or data is In this integrated report, for the sake of readability a unified brand name 4,000
narrower, details are noted. is used when a product has different brand names in different countries 90,000
or regions. Therefore, these products may not be available in all countries,
■ Guidelines Referenced or may be available under different brand names, for different indications,
• International Integrated Reporting Framework, in different dosages and strengths. 60,000
International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Please note that the information regarding pharmaceutical products 2,000
• GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, (including products under development) is not intended for advertising or
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) promotional purposes, or as medical advice. 30,000
• ISO 26000
• Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2018,
0 0
Ministry of the Environment
• Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation, 2010/12 2011/12 2012/12 2013/12 2014/12 2015/12 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry
• Other guidelines
74 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 75Significance of the Corporate Symbol
A symbolic representation of the Otsuka group’s corporate philosophy,
the corporate symbol adopts the initial ‘O’ of the corporate name as its
motif. Representing the sky above, the large ‘O’ is rendered in gradations
of Otsuka Blue and the small ‘O’ in Otsuka Red represents the focused
energy of Otsuka, the wellspring of these tenets. Offsetting the two Os,
the Otsuka name is spelled out in an open and friendly typeface. The
corporate symbol conveys the Otsuka group’s energetic commitment to
human happiness through good health.